Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Pathmark Stores, Inc. and United Food and Commercial Workers Union (UFCW), AFL-CIO, Local 464A (2003)
K#: 6370
Employer Name: Pathmark Stores, Inc.
Location: NY, NJ
Union: United Food and Commercial Workers Union (UFCW), AFL-CIO
Local: 464A
SIC: 5411	NAICS: 445110
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1600
Effective Date: 04/20/03	Expiration Date: 08/18/07
Number of Pages: 20	Other Years Available: No
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
^6 -ejK.
* AGREEMENT *
BY and BETWEEN 3 7^
and
UNITED FOOD and COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
L0CAL464A
245 PATERSON AVENUE • LITTLE FALLS, N.J. 07424
AFFILIATED WITH AFL-CIO
EFFECTIVE: 4/20/03	EXPIRES: 8/18/07
INDEX
PATHMARK STORES. INC,
Page
ARTICLE 1.	-	RECOGNITION .............................. 1
ARTICLE 2.	-	REPRESENTATION ............................. 1
ARTICLE 3.	-	EMPLOYMENT ................................. 1
ARTICLE 4.	-	UNION SHOP................................   1
ARTICLE 5	-	-	DUES DEDUCTIONS..........................  2
ARTICLE 6.	-	RIGHT TO VISIT STORES..................... 2
ARTICLE 7.	-	PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR	NEW EMPLOYEES..... 2
ARTICLE 8.	- SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS.......................	.	2
ARTICLE 9.	-	DISMISSALS................................ 4
ARTICLE 10.	-	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND	ARBITRATION...... 4
ARTICLE 11.	-	TRANSFERS.................................... 5
ARTICLE 12.	-	GOVERNMENT ENACTMENT OF	MAXIMUM HOURS..... 6
ARTICLE 13.	-	PARTNERSHIP AND SEPARATE AGREEMENTS.......... 6
ARTICLE 14.	-	UNION SUPPORT................................ 6
ARTICLE 15.	-	GRANTING INFORMATION ON	WAGES AND HOURS...	6
ARTICLE 16.	-	UNION SIGNS.................................. 6
ARTICLE 17.	-	HOLIDAYS..........*.......................... 7
ARTICLE IS.	-	REGULAR WORK WEEK AND MAXIMUM HOURS.......... 9
ARTICLE 19.	-	LUNCH PERIOD...............................  12
ARTICLE 20.	-	REST PERIOD................................. 13
ARTICLE 21.	-	VACATIONS................................... 13
ARTICLE 22.	-	SCALE OF WAGES............................   15
ARTICLE 23.	-	MILITARY	LEAVE	OF ABSENCE................... 15
ARTICLE 24.	-	NATIONAL	GUARD	SERVICE RESERVES............. 15
ARTICLE 25.	- BETTER CONDITIONS............................ 15
ARTICLE 26.	-	LAUNDRY,	TOOLS	AND EQUIPMENT................ 16
ARTICLE 27.	-	ENFORCEABILITY	OF ANY PART OP	AGREEMENT..... 16
ARTICLE 28.	-	NO DISCRIMINATION.......................... 16
ARTICLE 29.	-	SUCCESSORS t ASSIGNS....................... 16
ARTICLE 30.	-	LIABILITY CLAUSE........................... 16
ARTICLE 31.	-	WORKERS' COMPENSATION t UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE. 17
ARTICLE 32.	-	SICK LEAVE................................. 17
Page
ARTICLE 33.	-	JURY DUTY................................... IS
ARTICLE 34.	-	DEATH IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY............... IB
ARTICLE 35.	-	MOBILE MEDICAL UNIT......................... 19
ARTICLE 36.	-	GENERAL PROVISIONS.........................  19
ARTICLE 37.	-	DESIGNATED CHOPPED MEAT/SAUSAGE MAKER CLERK... 20
ARTICLE 38.	-	DEPARTMENT HEADS............................ 20
ARTICLE 39.	-	SAFETY....................................   20
ARTICLE 40.	-	RELIEF DEPARTMENT HEADS..................... 21
ARTICLE 41.	-	BOXPERSONS.................................. 21
ARTICLE 42.	-	DESIGNATED SECOND PERSON .................. 21
ARTICLE 43.	-	BULLETIN BOARDS............................. 21
ARTICLE 44.	-	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES...................... 21
ARTICLE 45.	-	SHOP STEWARDS............................... 22
ARTICLE 46.	-	PENSION FUND............................... 22
ARTICLE 47.	-	WELFARE SERVICE BENEFIT FUND................ 23
ARTICLE 48.	-	LEGAL SERVICE FUND.........................  24
ARTICLE 49.	-	EDUCATIONAL BENEFIT FUND.................... 25
ARTICLE 50.	-	LEAVE OF ABSENCE........................... 25
ARTICLE 51.	-	APPRENTICE MEAT CUTTERS...................   25
ARTICLE 52.	-	CASE WORKERS............................... 26
ARTICLE 53.	-	MANAGEMENT................................. 26
ARTICLE 54.	-	LEGISLATIVE CLAUSE......................... 26
ARTICLE 55.	-	NO STRKE - NO LOCKOUT. .................... 26
ARTICLE 56.	-	REPLACEMENT CLAUSE. ....................... 27
ARTICLE 57.	-	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES......................... 27
ARTICLE 50.	-	POLICY AND PROCEDURE CHANGES............... 28
ARTICLE 59.	-	TRAINING.................................... 20
ARTICLE 60.	-	DELINQUENT CONTRIBUTIONS.................... 28
ARTICLE 61.	-	TIME WORKED................................. 29
ARTICLE 62.	- EXPIRATION....................■.............. 29
AGREEMENT made as of APRIL 20, 2003, by and betwee PATHMARK STORES, INC., hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and the UNITED FOOD '& COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL #464J affiliated with AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Unior for and on behalf of its members now employed and who may t hereafter employed by the Employer, hereinafter referred to e "employees'1.
ARTICLE 1.	- RECOGNITION
The Employer hereby recognizes the United Food & Cotnmercie Workers Union, Local #464A, affiliated with AFL-CIO, as tt exclusive representative of its meat, poultry, fish, appetize and delicatessen department employees, both full-time and part time, in the present and future stores of the Employer locate within the present and future jurisdictional area of the sai Union within the States of New Jersey and New York.
ARTICLE 2.	- REPRESENTATION
It is further agreed that the accredited official of tl Union will; constitute the Union representative in al negotiationstbetween the Employer and the Union.
ARTICLE 3,	-_ EMPLOYMENT
The Employer, on requiring additional or new help, wil secure the same from the Employment Office of the Union provided however, such individuals qualify. The Union agrees that it Employment Office will not discriminate against non-unic applicants. - All new employees will secure a work card from tt Union office or from a Union official prior to commencing work.
ARTICLE 4.	- UNION SHOP
A.	All employees covered by this Agreement shall, as condition of employment, become members of the Union on or afte the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of sue employment or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever i the later, and shall thereafter maintain their membership in tt Union in good standing,
B.	Any employee who is expelled or suspended from th Union because of non-payment of initiation fees and due (including such other obligations to the Union, failure to pe which would make an employee subject to discharge under tt Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947) shall be subject t
J
dismissal after notification in writing to the Employer by the Union provided, however, that the employee may have a reasonable time within which to make such payments of. initiation fees or dues.
ARTICLE 5.	- DOES DEDUCTIONS
The Employer will deduct weekly from each employee dues and initiation fees that may be due the Union, provided the employee has authorized the deduction in writing. The deductions will start with the first (1st) week following thirty (30) days of employment and each succeeding week thereafter. Such deductions will be forwarded monthly to the Secretary-Treasurer, together with a list setting forth the name and social security number of each employee and the amount of money remitted on his or her behalf.
ARTICLE 6.	- RIGHT TO VISIT STORES ,
It is mutually agreed that the authorized representatives of the Union have the right to visit the Employer's Stores at any time to check working conditions, examine payrolls and otherwise insure proper compliance with this contract. . The Union's representative will make a good faith effort to notify the Employer prior to the store visit.
ARTICLE 7,	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR NEW EMPLOYEES
The probationary period for new employees shall.be the first (1st) sixty (60) days of employment. During this’ period an employee may be terminated without cause.
ARTICLE 8.	- SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS
A.	The Employer recognizes the principles of seniority and shall be governed by these principles in the matters of layoffs and recalls as provided in paragraph E below.
B.	Seniority is defined as the employee's continuous length of employment with the Employer. An employee's seniority shall be considered broken in the event of any of the following:
1.	The employee quits or resigns.
2.	The employee is discharged for cause.
3.	The employee's rights of recall have expired.
4.	The employee fails to return to work in accordance
with the terms of a leave of absence without prior approval by the Employer.
2
C.	The Employer shall furnish the Union quarterly with seniority list containing the names, store identifications social security number, job classifications, dates of hire, date of birth and rates of pay of all its employees subject to thi Agreement. In addition, the Employer will supply bi-weekly th names, job titles, locations and pay of all new employees and al terminations.
D.	Full-time employees will' not be laid off before part time employees in the same classification within a tnutuall agreed upon geographical area, provided such full-time employee are available on a part-time basis for the hours'- required to t worked within the classification. It is not the Employer' intent to replace the full-time work force with a part-time woi force, nor is it the intent of the Union to eliminate the part time work force.
E.	Employees shall be laid off within classification onl after one (1) week's notice in writing to the Union and th employee; however, in the event that unusual circumstances beyon the control of the Employer, including but not limited t emergencies or acts of God, consumer boycotts and leafletting reduce the need for employees on a short-term basis, th foregoing notice provision shall be reduced from one (1) week t eight (8) hours. All laid off employees will retain rights o recall for one (1} year. No new employee shall be hired unti all laid off employees have been recalled. Notice of any recal will be by certified mail sent to the home of the employee with copy to the Union. The employee must return to work within seve (7) days of receipt of letter or forfeit all rights to recall All recalls will be on a seniority basis. The provisions of thi subsection E shall be applicable only after six (6) months o continuous service with the Employer.
P. An employee absent because of illness (includin' maternity} or accident, and including workers' compensation shall retain seniority rights for eighteen (18) months. Th provisions of this subsection F shall be applicable only afte: six (6) months of continuous service with the Errployer. Absence, of sixty (60) days, or less shall not adversely affect wag' progressions, personal holidays or sick leave entitlements. Th Employer may require physical examinations by a Medical Doctor Such examinations will be solely at the expense of the Employer.
G.	Full-time employees with one (1) year or more o: continuous service who are laid off through no fault of their owi shall be given preference for part-time employment and guarantee a.minimum of twenty (20) hours and a maximum of twenty-nine (29: hours of work per week by classification at his or her full-time hourly rate of pay.
H.	In a store where a full-time employee is laid off, ne part-time employee shall be hired in the store within the same classification where the layoff took place until such time as the
3
1
employee last laid off shall be returned to full employment, unless the employee's rights of recall has expired, or unless the last laid off full-time employee has declined such part-time employment as is made available by the Employer.
I.	Employees of acquired stores who are hired and retained after the completion of their probationary period shall have seniority for layoff purposes only among themselves in the acquired stores, but not over, other employees employed by the Employer prior to any such acquisition.
ARTICLE 9.	- DISMISSALS
A.	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged except for just cause including, but not limited to intoxication, dishonesty, incompetency or inability to perform the job. An employee has the legal right to be represented by a Shop-Steward or Business Representative during any investigatory interview with the Employer which could lead to discipline.
B.	If the Union and the Employer cannot agree as to the justification of the discipline or the discharge, the dispute shall be submitted to arbitration.
ARTICLE 10,	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
A.	Any disputes, differences or grievances arising out of the interpretation, application, breach or claim of breach of the provisions of this Agreement shall be settled solely and exclusively in the following manner:
1.	. By conference with the duly authorized officials of the Union and a representative of the Employer designated by the executive in charge of the Employer's unit.
2.	In the event that such dispute, difference or grievance shall not have been satisfactorily adjusted between the parties in the manner provided above, then such dispute, difference or grievance arising out of the interpretation, application, breach or claim of breach of the provisions of this Agreement shall be submitted to arbitration at the request of either party to the respective New York or New Jersey Board of Mediation.
B.	The Employer shall submit written notice of an employee's discharge from employment to the Union by certified mail within seven (7} days from the date of such discharge. If the Union decides to proceed to arbitration concerning an employee’s discharge, it shall notify the Employer by certified mail of its intention to proceed to arbitration within sixty (60) days of receipt of the Employer's notice of discharge.
4
C.	If the arbitration concerns discharge, the matter aha: be expedited. It is mutually agreed that a hearing will 1 scheduled within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision ■ arbitrate was made.
D.	The decision of the arbitrator designated by t] Mediation Board shall be final and binding upon the parties. T1 parties agree that the expenses of arbitration shall be bon equally between them.
E.	The arbitrator shall not have the power to arbitral provisions of a new Agreement, or to arbitrate away in whole i in part any provisions of this Agreement, nor shall he have tl power to add to, delete from or modify the provisions of th: Agreement.
F.	Any employee of the Employer who shall, at t) discretion of the arbitrator, be required to testify at or attei r any hearings or arbitration, mediation or settlement of a; question of violation of this Agreement shall not suffer any lot in wages by reason thereof.
G.	Any and all rights applicable to an employee shall 1: asserted, discussed and adjusted solely and exclusively by tl duly authorized officials of the Union and not by an individuf member acting on his or her own behalf.
ARTICLE 11.	- TRANSFERS
A.	The Employer shall consider seniority at store level 1 classification as well as sound business reasons in makir transfers.
B.	If an employee is temporarily or permanent] transferred more than twenty-five (25) miles beyond the mileac from hie or her home store, he or she shall receive twenty ($. 2( cents per mile for each such additional mile traveled. The hon store is defined as the store to which the employee ws permanently assigned as of February 9, 1991.
C.	No travel pay shall be due in the event of a transfe caused by a store closing, a promotion or a lack of seniority t retain a job at store level.
D.	The Employer shall notify the Union and the employee i writing seven (7) days in advance of a permanent transfer.
E.	Temporary transfers shall be limited to a maximum c two (2) weeks.
F.	The seniority of an employee shall not be affected by transfer.
5
G.	There will be no reduction in nor elimination of travel pay being paid at the beginning of thia Agreement because of an interpretation of this Article.
H.	Unreasonable or punitive transfers shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
I.	No employee shall suffer a reduction in pay solely as the result of a transfer.
ARTICLE 12.	- GOVERNMENT ENACTMENT OF MAXIMUM HOPES
Should any law be enacted by the United States Government or State Government which will fix a maximum hours work week for retail food markets at a point lower than that specified herein, then such work week shall become the maximum work week for the employees affected by this Agreement for the unexpired term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13.	- PARTNERSHIP AMD SEPARATE AGREEMENTS
The Employer agrees that it will not enter into individual contracts or partnerships with its employees during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 14.	- UNION SUPPORT
The Union agrees to do everything within its power to enforce the rules and regulations and, through advice, instruction and example, maintain the standard of work. The Union agrees to take the necessary disciplinary measures where justified complaints are made by the Employer against an employee or employees.
ARTICLE 15.	- GRANTING INFORMATION ON WAGES AND HOURS
A.	It is, agreed between the Union and the Employer that the Employer will furnish to the Union detailed information as to ■ wages paid to any Union member.
B.	Any employee will be permitted to promptly examine his or her own time card or payroll record upon request at store level.
ARTICLE 16.	- UNION SIGNS
The Union agrees to furnish the Employer at least one (1) Union store card for each of the Employer's stores, to be hung
6
and displayed in the Meat Department and to be visible to all Such cards remain the property of and shall be surrendered to th Union on demand.
ARTICLE 17.	- HOLIDAYS
A.	The following holidays shall be observed based o eligibility as set forth in paragraphs C, D and G below.
New Year's Day	Election Day (November)
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Independence Day	Christmas Day
Labor Day	Five (5) Personal	Days
B.	In addition, if Christmas or New Year's Eves fall o the full-time employee's regularly scheduled work day, one-hal (1/2) of the employees working shall be scheduled off Chriatma Eve one (1) hour earlier with pay and the remaining half (1/2 scheduled off New Year's Eve one (1) hour earlier with pay.
C.	Employees shall be eligible to receive the foliowin holidays after six (6) months of continuous service:
New Year’s Day	Thanksgiving Day
Memorial Day	Christmas Day
independence Day	Two (2) Personal	Daya
' Labor Day
D.	Employees shall be eligible to receive the following additional holidays after thirty-six (36) months of continuoui service.
Election Day
Three (3) personal days
E.	Personal days shall be earned beginning with eaci contract year and may be taken by the employee giving ten (10) days notice to the General Store Manager. Personal days shall bt selected by employees with the mutual agreement of the General Store Manager. Personal days for employees hired after February 9,	1991, shall be earned and may be taken pursuant to tht
schedule set forth in section F.
F.	Employees entitled to two (2) personal days during th< first thirty-six (36) months of employment shall be entitled t< take one (1) personal day during each six (6) months of th< contract year. Employees entitled to five (5) personal dayi shall be entitled to use one (1) personal day per calendai quarter of each contract year. The fifth (5th) personal daj shall be taken during the first (1st) half of the calendar year,
G.	1. Part-time employees with six (6) months or more ol continuous service shall receive the same paid holidays as full-time I employees in Section C of this Article above including twc
I
I
(2) personal days. Employees hired on or before February 9, 1991 shall receive holiday pay on a pro rata basis and shall be guaranteed a minimuni of four (4) hours as holiday pay. Employees hired after February 9, 1991, shall receive four (4) hours as holiday pay.
G.	2. Part-time employees shall be eligible to receive the additional holidays set forth in Section D of this Article above after thirty-six (36) months of continuous service.
H.	1. In the event any employee is required to work any of the above holidays, he or she shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time rate for all hours worked in addition to holiday pay. Employees hired after February 9, 1991 must be eligible to receive holiday pay in order to be eligible to receive premium pay for work on the holiday. Any employee who works on a holiday shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours of work.
H.	2. All part-time Prepared Food/Service Clerks (new to the industry) hired on or after January 5, 1999 and before April 20, 2003, working in all departments except the Meat Department, shall receive a premium of $1.50 per hour in addition to their hourly rate of pay for each hour worked when eligible for the holiday during the first thirty (30) months of service. Thereafter, they shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) their straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on holidays. Eti^loyees working in the industry on January 5, 1999 who are employed by the Company shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) their straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on a holiday when eligible for said holiday.
H.	3. Part-time Prepared Food/Service Clerks (new to the industry) hired on or after April 20, 2003, working in all departments except the Meat Department, shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour for each hour worked when eligible for the holiday for a period of one (1) year. Thereafter, they shall receive $1.50 per hour premium for the next eighteen (18) months. After thirty (30) months of service, they shall continue to receive time and one-half the straight-time rate of pay for all hours worked on holidays. Employees working in the industry and receiving time and one-half on April 20, 2003, who are en^loyed by the Company, shall continue to receive time and one-half (1-1/2) their straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on a holiday when eligible for said holiday.
I.	when a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday. Federal Government determined Monday Holidays shall be observed on Mondays.
J.	The basic work week for full-time employees in a holiday week shall be thirty-two (32) hours for forty (40) hours' pay. Time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid for all time worked
8
after thirty-two (32) hours. Employees may work a fifth (5th day during a holiday week at their straight time rate of pay b; mutual consent.
K.	Work on holidays shall be rotated fairly amongst ai: •f full-time and part-time employees,
L.	There shall be no rescheduling of employees in <• a holiday week.
M.	No employee shall be required to work op Easter Sunday or December 25th.
N.	Employees shall be required to work the scheduled daj before and the scheduled day after the holiday to be eligible foj holiday pay except when excused for good or just cause.
ARTICLE 18. - REGPIAR WORK WEEK AND MAXIMUM HODRfl
A. 1. A week's work for all full-time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours per week divided into eight (8) hours per day over a period of five (5) days, Monday through Saturday. All work in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or forti (40) hours in any one (1) week, but not both, shall be paid foi at one and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time rate. Full-time employees are defined as those working thirty (30) hours per week or more Monday through Saturday.
A.	2. Full-time employees, on a voluntary basis by mutual agreement between the Employee and the Employer, may elect to work four (4) ten (10) hour days, Monday through Saturday, entitling said Employee up to three (3) days off per week. All work in excess of ten (10) hours in any one (1) day or forty (40) hours in any one (1) week, but not both, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time hourly rate. Employees working four (4) ten (10) hours days shall not suffer any loss in total hours of sick leave time, holidays, personal time, funeral leave and jury duty time.
B.	1. There shall be no split shifts. There shall be a first shift starting time between 6:00 A.M. and 9:00 A.M. for each full-time employee hired before January 15, 1984, including Sunday.
B.	2. There shall be no split shifts. There shall be a first shift starting time between 6:00 A.M. and 10:00 A.M. for each full-time employee hired on or after January 15, 1984, excluding Sunday. The starting time on Sunday shall be between 6:00 A.M. and 11:00 A.M.
B.	3. There shall be no split shifts. There shall be a second shift starting time between 11:00 A.M. and 3:00 P.M. for
[
each full-time employee, including Sunday. Assignment of the second shift shall be made in the following order:
(1)	New hires,
(2)	Volunteers,
(3)	Night crew,
{4) Employees hired after January 1,	1980 by
inverse order of seniority,
(5) To protect an employee from layoff.
C.	' The starting times in Section B, shall be uniform for employees hired or appointed before January 1, 1995, except that one day in each work week a full time employee may be scheduled to begin work at any time within the said starting time at the employee's straight-time hourly rate. Any work performed before the starting time will be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) . Full-time employees hired or appointed on or after January 1, 1995 who are assigned to work on the first shift may be scheduled to work two (2) days a week on the second shift. All full-time employees who are currently assigned or who may be assigned in the future on the second shift may be scheduled to work three (3) days a week on the first shift on a seniority basis.
D.	If a full-time employee is called in to work on his or her regularly scheduled day off, he or she shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked. However, in the event a pattern of absenteeism is established, an employee may be required to work a minimum of forty (40) hours in such weeks in order to receive the premium pay as above. Part-time employees called in to work on their scheduled day off shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours of work at straight-time.
E.	The Employer guarantees to schedule its regular full-time employees forty (40) hours of work per week.
F.	1. Part-time employees hired before January 15, 1984 shall be scheduled a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week, Monday through Saturday.
F.	2. Part-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984 shall be scheduled a minimum of sixteen (16) hours per week, Monday through Saturday.
F.	3. Part-time employees hired after February 9, 1991 shall be scheduled a minimum of twelve (12) hours of work per week, Monday through Saturday. After eighteen (18) months of continuous service, such employees, at their option, shall be scheduled a minimum of sixteen (16) hours per week, Monday through Saturday.
10
F.	4. Any work performed in excess of eight (8] hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half [1-1/2). Part-time employees are defined as those working between twelve (12) and twenty-nine (29).hours per week, Monday through Saturday. No employee shall be hired to work less than twelve (12) hours per week. Any part-time employee working six (S) consecutive weeks of thirty (30) hours or more, will become a full-time employee, except while relieving for vacation, extended illness or any extenuating circumstances.
G.	Sunday Work
1.	Sunday shall not be part of the work week. In the event a store is open for business on Sunday, the work in the Meat Department shall be rotated fairly among the employees within a store using a ratio of one (1) full-time employee to two (2) part-time employees. All employees working on Sunday shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours' work.
2.	If there is work available, the Meat Wrapper shall be included in the rotation either in the Meat Department or the Deli Department for Sunday work.
H.	Full-time employees hired before January 15, 1984 who work on Sunday shall be paid pursuant to the following schedule:
1.	Full-time employees employed as Meat Department Heads, Journeyperson Butchers and full-time employees employed in the Fish and Poultry departments at the top rate shall receive their applicable hourly rate plus a $12.00 per hour premium,
2,	Deli and Appy Department Heads shall receive their applicable hourly rates plus a $10,00 per hour premium.
3.	All other full-time employees at the top rate shall receive their applicable hourly rate plus $9.00 per hour premium.
4.	Employees receiving the aforementioned Sunday premium rate shall continue to receive such rate until the Sunday premium rate is equivalent to the employee's hourly rate at time and one-half (1-1/2). Then, in such event, the employee shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on Sundays.
1. 1. All full-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984 and all part-time employees, shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times their straight-time hourly rate for work performed on Sunday.
I. 2. Part-time Prepared Food/Service Clerks (new to the industry) hired on or after January 5, 1999 and before April 20, 2003, working in all departments except the' Meat Department, shall receive a premium of $1.50 per hour in addition to their hourly rate of pay for each hour worked on Sundays during the
11
first thirty (30} months of service. Thereafter they shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) their straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on Sundays. Employees working in the industry on . January 5, 1999, who are employed by the Company, shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) their straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on Sundays.
I.	3. Part-time Prepared Food/Service Clerks (new to the industry) hired on or after April 20, 2003, working in all departments except the Meat Department, shall receive a premium of $1.00 per hour for each hour worked on Sundays for a period of one (1) year. Thereafter, they shall receive $1.50 per hour premium for the next eighteen (18) months. After thirty (30) months of service, they shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2} the straight-time hourly rate for all hours worked on Sundays. Employees working in the industry and receiving time and one-half on April 20, 2003, who are employed by the Company, shall continue to receive time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on Sundays.
J.	The Employer shall post work schedules in ink by Friday 6:00 P.M, of each week for the following week. Once posted, work schedules will not be changed except for sound business reasons such as, but not limited to, fire, flood and power failures.
K.	Night Shifts
1.	Night shifts shall be scheduled from 12:01 A.M. to 8:30 A.M,, which shall include a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period five (5) consecutive nights Monday through Saturday. At least two (2) employees will be on duty at all times.
2.	The Night Shift premiums shall be:
Night Shift Head.................. $25.00 per week
Full-Time Night Shift Employee.... $15.00 per week Part-Time Night Shift Employee.... $3.00 per night
3.	If there are- no volunteers, night shift workers shall be selected on the basis of least seniority within job classificationa.
‘	a
L.	Overtime shall be fairly rotated among all full-time employees within classification.
ARTICLE 19.	- LUNCH PERIOD
All full-time employees shall be guaranteed at least one-half hour (1/2) for lunch, as close to the middle of their shift as possible. If employees are required to work overtime, one-half (1/2) hour for supper shall be granted, which shall not be deemed as hours worked providing the overtime shall be of at least two (2) hours duration.
12
ARTICLE 20.	- REST PERIOD
A.	All full-time employees shall be granted a fifteen {15 minute rest period twice a day, once in the first half of th shift and once in the second half of the shift, which rest perio' shall be deemed as time worked. No full-time employee shall b required to punch a time card in and out or to sign a time shee in and out for any rest period.
B.	All part-time employees shall receive a fifteen (15 minute rest period for every four (4) hours of wprk. Part-timi employees may be required to punch in and punch out for rest periods.
ARTICLE 21.	- VACATIONS
A.	All full-time employees hired before January 15, 198* shall receive the following vacations with pay:
After one (1) year of service.............. 2 weeks' vacatioi
(One (1) of which may be taken after 6 months of service)
After six (6) years of service............. 3 weeks' vacatioi
After twelve (L2) years of service......... 4 weeks' vacatioi
After twenty-five (25) years of service... 5 weeks' vacatior
B.	Part-time employees hired before January 15, 1984 shall have the same vacation benefits as full-time employees hirec before January 15, 1984 on a pro-rata basis. Vacation benefits for such part-time employees shall be based on the average of the six (6) months prior to the vacation, but in no event to be less than twenty (20) hours per week.
C.	All full-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984 shall receive the following vacations with pay:
After one (1) year of	service....... 1	week's	vacation
After three (3) years	of service... 2	weeks'	vacation
After eight (8) years	of service... 3	weeks'	vacation
After fourteen (14) years of service. 4 weeks' vacation
D.	Part-time employees hired on or after January 15, j 1984 shall receive the same vacation benefits as the full-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984 on a pro-rata basis. Vacation benefits for such part-time employees shall be based on the average of the six (6) months prior to the vacation, but in no event to be less than sixteen (IS) hours per week. The vacation benefit for employees hired after February 9, 1991 shall
11
be no less than twelve (12) hours per week except that the employee may request a review of his scheduled hours after eighteen (18} months of continuous service and shall receive a vacation benefit of sixteen (16) hours per week if he is so scheduled. Part-time employees, with five (5) years or more of continuous service, shall receive vacation benefits based on the < average straight-time hours worked during the fifty-two (52) weeks prior to the vacation, but in no event to be less than sixteen (16) hours per week.	/
E.	Vacation pay for a full-time employee shall be computed on the basis of the employee's straight-time earnings, including all premiums {night shifts, box pay, designated second person pay) .
F.	All vacations become due on each employment anniversary date of the employee and may be taken during the ensuing twelve j (12) months. Two (2) weeks only may be taken during the summer months. Those employees eligible for three (3) , four (4) and ! five (5) weeks of vacation will take them outside these summer i months by mutual consent.
G.	Employees will be paid vacation pay prior to taking the vacation.
H.	Vacations will be granted to employees on a Company seniority store level basis. In event of transfer, an employee shall not lose a previously scheduled vacation.
I.	The Employer shall determine the number of employees, if any, within each classification in each store who may be on vacation at the same time.	i
J- Employees who voluntarily retire or resign with two (2) weeks' written notice or who are involuntarily terminated by the Employer, except for dishonesty when sustained by an arbitrator or when the employee so charged fails to file a grievance or when the grievance is not processed to arbitration, shall receive prorata vacation pay within two (2) weeks after the time of the termination.
K.	Any employee who receives his or her vacation during a holiday week shall receive, at the option of the Employer, one	!
(1)	extra day's pay or one (1) additional day off the week immediately following.	—
L.	The vacation entitlement of employees absent because, of | illness, injury or authorized leave of absence, but not including	J
vacation, sick leave days or death in the family leave, for	j
thirty (30) days or less shall not be adversely affected.	i
j 1	M. Vacation pay due a deceased employee including pro-rata
as in J. above shall be paid to the heirs or estate of the deceased employee.	1
14 •_
ARTICLE 22.	- SCALE OF WAGES
A,	Employees shall be paid in accordance with the ter and conditions in Schedule "A", "B" or "C" attached hereto a: made a part of this Agreement. If an employee's rate is re-circled, the wage differential shall be maintained for the li of this Agreement.
B.	New full-time employees will be placed in t progression scale in accordance with their verified similar cha food store experience by classification within the prior two ( years.
ARTICLE 23.	- MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
In the event that any employee now or hereafter becom engaged in military or naval service of the United States America for the purpose of training or otherwise, then and such event he/she shall be given a leave of absence for su period of service without prejudice to his/her seniority righ or privileges. Upon the termination of his/her service, he/s shall be reinstated within a period of ninety (90) days from t date of his/her discharge from government service and given t same job which he/she held at the time he/she left for servic and shall be fully compensated in accordance with the provisio contained herein or pursuant to the Agreement which had been effect at the time of his/her resumption of service with t Employer.
ARTICLE 24.
NATIONAL GUARD SERVICE RESERVES
A.	Any full-time employee who is a member of an organiz reserve program or in the National Guard shall be eligible for two (2) week leave of absence, subject to extension exceptional cases, without pay.
B.	Such leave of absence may be in addition to t employee's regularly scheduled vacation period in order that t employee may participate in the military training required such organization.
C.	Any employee who wishes to use his/her regular vacati period for military absence shall be paid in accordance with t regular vacation procedure.
ARTICLE 25.	- BETTER CONDITIONS
Nothing in this Agreement shall operate to deprive a employee of a special privilege or to reduce the present wage increase the working time of any employee covered under t provisions of this Agreement.
15
ARTICLE 26.	- LAUNDRY. TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
All linens required by the Employer to be worn by the employee will be furnished and laundered by the Employer. The Employer shall supply all tools and equipment in a good and workable condition to all employees requiring the same without f any cost to the employees.
ARTICLE 27.	- ENFORCEABILITY OF ANY PART OP AGREEMENT
The parties hereto agree that should any section, part or paragraph of this Agreement be declared by established courts to be unlawful, invalid, ineffective, or unenforceable, said section, part or paragraph so declared shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any other section, part or paragraph hereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue to remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 28.	- NO DISCRIMINATION
There shall be no discrimination against any employee by the Employer or Union regardless of race, color,- creed, sex or nationality in the matter of hours, wages or working conditions, except that the Employer will have the right to choose and designate the type of enployee whenever the said Employer applies for an employee to the Union, and the Union agrees to furnish the type of employee so designated.
ARTICLE 29.	- SUCCESSORS & ASSIGNS
This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the respective parties hereto and to their respective heirs and assigns.
ARTICLE 30,	- LIABILITY CLAUSE
It is further agreed between the respective parties that no liability shall be chargeable to the Union for any act of its members and the only liability of the Union shall be such as may be agreed to in writing by the Union and such agreement signed by an officer duly qualified and authorised by the members of the Union.
16
ARTICLE 31.
WORKERS1 COMPENSATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
The Employer agrees to cover its employees under Workers’ Compensation and Unemployment Insurance regardless of the nwnbex of employees presently employed.
ARTICLE 32.	- SICK LEAVE
A.	All full-time employees hired before January 15, 1984 are eligible to receive in each calendar year a maximum of twelve (12) paid sick leave days of eight (8) hours each or pay for unused sick leave days.
B.	All employees hired or appointed to full time, after ■January 15, 1984, shall be eligible to receive the following sick leave days of eight (8) hours each or pay for unused sick leave days:
After six (6) months ........... 3	days
After twelve (12) months ....... 5	days
After twenty-four months ....... 8	days
After thirty-six months ....... 10	days
C.	Terminated full-time and eligible part-time employees, except those terminated for dishonesty when sustained by an arbitrator or when the employee so charged fails to file a grievance, or when the grievance is not processed to arbitration, will be paid the unused portion of their sick leave on a pro-rata basis thirty (30) days after termination subject to the formula set forth in Sections A, B, F or G of this Article above, whichever is applicable.
D.	Unused sick leave days will be paid to full-time and eligible part-time employees only and payment will be made during the first (1st) thirty (30) days following the end of the calendar year.
E.	Sick leave benefits for any employee will be paid no later than the second (2nd) week following return from sick leave.
F.	All part-time employees hired before January 15, 1984 shall receive in each calendar year, a maximum of six (6) paid sick leave days or pay for unused sick leave days.
Q. 1. All part-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984 with one (1) year of continuous service shall be eligible to receive in each calendar year a maximum of five (5) paid sick leave days beginning with the second scheduled sick leave day.
n
।
□ . 2. All part-time employees hired on or after January 15, 1984 with five (5) years of continuous service shall receive in each calendar year a maximum of five (5} paid sick leave days or pay for unused sick leave days.
H. Part-time sick leave shall be based on the average hours of the five (5) weeks preceding the sick leave during which work was performed, but in no event less than four (4) hours per day.
ARTICLE 33.	- JURY DUTY
A.	Employees shall be eligible to receive jury duty benefits after one (1) year of continuous service. Any employee called to serve as petit juror shall be paid the difference in pay between base pay and the amount received for jury service for a maximum of ten (10) days in any one (1) year period. Any employee called to serve as grand juror shall be paid for a maximum of twenty (20) days in any one (1) year period. However, employees who volunteer for grand jury service shall be paid for a maximum of ten (10) days in any one (1) year period.
B.	An employee dismissed from jury duty sufficiently early to enable the employee to work four (4) hours or more of a scheduled shift, including reasonable travel time, shall report to the store to complete the shift.
C.	If a full-time employee is called for jury service for less than five (5) days, the employee will report to work for the number of days he or she was not called to jury service.
D.	Part-time employees shall receive the same jury service benefits as full-time employees based on their normal part-time schedule after one (1) year of continuous service.
ARTICLE 34.	- DEATH IM THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
A.	All full-time employees with six (6) months or more of continuous service shall be entitled to the next three (3) scheduled days off and pay therefor in the event of death in the employee's immediate family. Immediate family is defined to mean parents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, child, sister, brother, wife or husband, grandparents of employee or spouse and grandchildren.
B.	The employee's scheduled day off and Sunday shall not count as any part of the three (3) days.
C.	In the event of the death of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law, the employee shall be granted one (1) scheduled day off and pay therefor to attend the funeral services.
18
D.	Part-time employees shall be eligible to receive death leave benefits after one (1) year of continuous service in the event of a death in the employee's immediate family as defined in paragraph A above. Part-time employees shall be entitled to up to three (3) scheduled days off from the date of death to the date of the funeral at four (4) hours' pay per scheduled day.
ARTICLB 35. - MOBILE MEDICAL UNIT
Employees shall be permitted paid time off once each year to use the Mobile Medical Unit at the employee's store. The parties shall mutually agree upon the schedule so as to avoid interference with the Employer's operation.
ARTICLE 36.	- GENERAL PROVISIONS
A.	Employees in the 464A bargaining unit shall not be transferred to another bargaining unit in the store. Local 464A members may be transferred to another 4 64A department for lunch relief and emergencies. The Employer shall have the right to interchange, on a temporary basis. Meat Wrappers and Deli/Appy/Seafood Clerks for lunch periods, emergencies and to provide adequate customer service.
B.	Supervisors shall not use the tools of the trade except for store openings and training, or emergencies with notification to the Union.
t	C.	The Employer shall supply lockers for the employees.
[	D.	The Employer shall provide a ladies rest room with cot
| and chairs and there shall be no abuse of same.
I	E. The Employer agrees that a Meat Wrapper shall not
| perform the duties of the meat cutter. However, the Union and j the Employer shall work together to maximize customer service in ( the meat department.
| F. No employee shall be required to take a lie detector ? test.
’’ G. During the term of this Agreement the Employer and the Union agree that a voluntary system may be developed for directly f depositing an employee's pay.
H.	The Union agrees to use its best efforts to ensure that ! '< the stores are adequately staffed on Sundays and Holidays.
19
ARTICLE 37.	- DESIGNATED CHOPPED MEAT/SAU3AGE MAKER CLERK
।	where the Employer designates a full-time Meat Department
Clerk to perform the additional duties necessary to grind and prepare chopped meat and sausage, designated Chopped Meat/Sausage Maker Clerks shall receive a wage premium of $25.00 per week above their current Clerk rate of pay. It is understood that the establishment of this claasification will in no way reduce the number of full-time meat cutters, nor will it reduce their regular hours, overtime or Sunday work rotation.
ARTICLE 38.	- DEPARTMENT HEADS
A.	The Employer shall	notify the	Union and the employee
one	(1)	week in advance, in	writing, on	demotion of department
heads setting forth reasons for demotion, and the Union shall have the right to investigate	same before	demotion is effective.
1	B.	Department heads demoted shall	be returned to the same
classification held before promotion at the rate of pay he or she received before the promotion, plus contract increases, except if the prior position was second person, in which case the demotion shall be to a Journeyperson meat cutter, boxpereon or deli/apply I clerk, whichever is applicable.
C. If a department head voluntarily requests demotion, he or she shall be returned promptly to the classification held before promotion at the rate of pay he or she received before the i	promotion, plus contract increases, except if the prior position
|	was second person, in which case the demotion shall be to a
Journeyperson meat cutter, boxperson or deli/appy clerk whichever • is applicable. Any excessive delay in acting on the voluntary request shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 39.	- SAFETY
A.	The Employer and the Union shall jointly form a safety committee of six (6), three (3) from management and three (3) from labor. The committee shall work toward providing all employees the safest possible equipment and working conditions. The Employer shall provide whatever statistical information is required.
1	B. Joumeyperson meat cutters and boxpersons shall be
supplied with leather or mesh aprons and meeh gloves while performing box work upon request.
i
C.	Employees shall not be required to enter delivery vehicles which are unsafe.
20
D.	All wrapping machines will be the cool rod type.
E.	The Employer will make every effort to ensure tha boxed meat shall not weigh in excess of one hundred (100) pounds
ARTICLE 40.	- RELIEF DEPARTMENT HEADS
A.	Full-time employees taking the place of any departmen head shall be paid from the first (1st) day as relief departmen head in the event relief duties extend for more, than three (3 days in any one (1) week.
B.	Full-time eirployeee relieving for vacation period shall be paid the contractual rate from the first (1st) day.
ARTICLE 41,	- BOXPERSONS
All boxpersons shall receive ten ($10.00) dollars per wee premium pay.
ARTICLE 42	. - DESIGNATED SECOND PERSON
A,	The designated second person in the meat departmen shall receive ten ($10.00) dollars per week premium pay.
B.	The designated second person in the deli, appet izin and seafood departments shall receive five ($5.00) dollars pe week premium pay.
C.	where applicable, the bona fide second person, i designated, shall be considered a separate classification fo purposes of layoff and recall. These provisions will not b applied in an arbitrary, capricious or punitive manner.
ARTICLE 43.	- BULLETIN BOARDS
The Union shall share existing bulletin boards in market for the use of regular Union notices to the members.
ARTICLE 44.	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
A.	No full-time Meat Department employee on the Company1 payroll as of April 19, 2003 shall be laid off or reduced t part-time solely due to the introduction of prepackaged meat.
B.	The above paragraph does not apply where there ar store closings or a significant downturn in business.
21
C.	The Employer agrees to discuss technological changes with the Union prior to the introduction of any such changes.
ARTICLE 45.	- SHOP STEWARDS
A.	The Union shall have the right to appoint or to have elected a shop steward who shall have super-seniority for lay-off purposes.
B.	The Employer will, upon adequate notice, arrange for shop stewards and Executive and Policy Board members to have the same day off once each year, with eight (8) hours straight-time pay, for the purpose of attending the Union's shop steward seminar.
ARTICLE 46	. - PENSION FUND
A.	The Employer shall contribute One Hundred Forty Dollars ($140.00) per month for each full-time employee to the Pension Fund of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, at no cost to the employee.
B.	All contributions to the Pension Fund for newly hired full-time employees shall commence the first of the month following the first thirty (30) days . of employment. Contributions for Local #464A members start immediately upon employment.
C.	The Employer shall contribute Forty-One Dollars ($41.00) per month for each part-time employee to the Pension Fund of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, beginning with the f irat of the month following six (6)' months of employment, at no cost to the employee.
D.	In the event an employee is out because of illness or an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make contributions to the Pension Fund on behalf of the employee on the same basis as if the employee was working for a period of time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.
E.	The parties agree that the contributions to the Pension Fund shall be deductible in full for the Employer's taxable year with respect to which the contribution is made. The determination as to the deductibility shall be based on the information furnished by the Fund Actuary concerning the funding , status of the Pension Fund at the time the contribution would be due.	in the event that the contributions required by this
Article are not deductible, the parties agree that the said contributions will be diverted to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund. All current and future negotiated Welfare Service Benefit Fund contributions provided for in this Agreement are to continue in full force and effect without setoff or deduction.
22
ARTICLE 47.	- WELFARE SERVICE BENEFIT FUND
A,	Effective May 1, 2002 the Employer shall contribi Four Hundred and Seventy-Five Dollars ($475.00} per month f each full-time employee to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, at coat to the employee.
B.	Effective May 1, 2004 the contribution to the Welfa Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall be Fc Hundred and Ninety-Five Dollars ($495.00) per month.
C.	Effective May 1, 2005 the contribution to the Welfa Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall be Fi Hundred and Twenty Dollars ($520.00) per month,
D.	Effective May 1, 2006 the contribution to the Welfa Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall be Fi Hundred and Forty Dollars ($540.00) per month.
E.	Effective September 1, 2007, the contribution to t Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each full-time employee shall : Five Hundred and Seventy Dollars ($570.00) per month.
F.	All contributions to the welfare Service Benefit Fir for full-time employees shall commence on the first of the mon following six (6) months of employment- Contributions for Loe; #464A members shall be made immediately, provided the employ ’ was covered by the Fund within ninety (90) days prior to tl employee's date of hire.
G.	1. Effective May 1,	2003, the Employer sha‘
contribute Eighty-Two Dollars ($82.00) per month for each part , time employee to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund of the Unit* Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, at no cost to tl !	employee.
G.	2. Effective May 1, 2004, the contribution to tl Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employee shall I Eighty-Four Dollars ($64.00) per month.
G.	3. Effective May 1, 2005, the contribution to tl Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employee shall t Eighty-Six Dollars ($86.00) per month.
G.	4. Effective May 1, 2006, the contribution to th Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employee shall fc Eighty-Eight Dollars ($88.00) per month.
G.	5. Effective September 1, 2007, the contributions t the Welfare Service Benefit Fund for each part-time employe shall be Ninety Dollars ($90.00) per month.
23
G.	6. Contributions on behalf of part-time employees shall commence with the first of the month following six (6) months of employment.
H.	In the event an employee is out because of illness or an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make contributions to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund on behalf of the employee on the same basis as if the employee was working for a period of time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.
I,	The Union may elect to have contributions diverted during the term of this Agreement from the Legal Service and Educational Benefit Funds, as provided for in Articles 4B and 49 to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund in order to increase its reserves.
J.	In the event of any change in state or federal legislation affecting the tax deductibility of this coverage, the parties immediately shall meet to discuss all necessary changes to the Plan to insure that the Employer's Health and Welfare costs shall not increase.
ARTICLE 4B.	- LEGAL SERVICE FUND
A.	The Employer shall contribute Three Dollars and Fifty Cents ($3.50) per month to the Prepaid Legal Service Fund of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 464A, for each full-time employee at no cost to the employee.
B.	The Employer shall contribute One Dollar and Fifty Cents ($1.50) per month to the Prepaid Legal Service Fund of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 464A, on behalf of all part-time employees who have attained one (1) year of employment, at no cost to the employee.
C.	All contributions to the Legal Service Fund for full-time employees shall commence the first of the month following one (1) year of employment. Contributions for Local #464A members shall be made immediately, provided the employee was covered by the Fund within ninety (90) days prior to the employee's date of hire.
D.	In the event an employee is out because of illness or an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to make contributions to the Legal Service Fund on behalf of the employee on the same basis as if the employee was working for a period of time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.
E.	The Union may elect to have contributions during the term of this Agreement, diverted from the Legal Service Fund to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund, in order to increase its reserves.
24
ARTICLE 49.	- EDUCATIONAL BENEFIT FUND
A,	The Employer shall contribute Fifty Cents ($.50) pe month to the Educational Benefit Fund of the United Food an Commercial Workers Union, Local #464A, for each full and part time employee at no cost to the employee.
B.	Contributions to the Educational Benefit Fund for al full and part-time employees shall commence on the first of th month following twenty-four (24) months of employment Contributions for Local &464A members shall be made immediately provided the employee was covered by the Fund within ninety (90 1 days prior to the employee's date of hire.
i	C. In the event an employee is out because of illness o
; an approved leave of absence, the Employer shall continue to mak ' contributions to the Educational Benefit Fund on behalf of th | employee on the same basis as if the employee was working for .
period of time not to exceed two (2) monthly contributions.
I	D. The Union may elect to have contributions during th
term of this Agreement, diverted from the Educational Benefi' i Fund to the Welfare Service Benefit Fund, in order to increas. I its reserves.
i ARTICLE 50. - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A. If a full-time employee desires a leave of absence th | Employer shall give consideration to granting the leave o: i absence.
I
1	B. Permission to grant a leave of absence shall not bt
1 unreasonably withheld.
C. Leaves of absence shall be without pay and shall be fo3 i a maximum of thirty (30) days in any one (1) year, unlesi I otherwise required by law.
ARTICLE 51.	- APPRENTICE MEAT CUTTERS
A.	The Union and the Employer agree to form a committee for the purpose of giving meat cutter tests to apprentice meat cutters with exceptional ability.
B.	Those apprentices found to have exceptional ability ii meat cutting shall be promoted to Journeyperson meat cutters ant shall receive the Journeyperson rate.
C.	In the meat department, the ratio of employment shall be one (1) apprentice meat cutter for every three (3) Joumeyperson meat cutters.
25
!
ARTICLE 52.	- CASE WORKERS
Full-time case workers in the meat department shall be rotated on a daily, weekly or bi-weekly basis, or shall receive five ($5.00) dollars per week premium pay.
ARTICLE 53.	- MANAGEMENT
The Employer reserves the right to the operation of its business and the direction of its working forces including, but not limited to, the establishment of the opening and closing time of stores, the assignment of employees' starting and stopping hours, the right to interchange employees1 starting and stopping hours, transfer, suspend, layoff, promote, demote, discharge for just cause, transfer employees from one store location to another subject, however, to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 54.	- LEGISLATIVE CIAPSE
A.	In the event a federal, state or local government shall enact legislation during the term of this Agreement, affecting the application of any of the provisions hereunder including, but not limited to, wages or fringe benefits, the parties hereto recognize their obligation to comply with such new restrictive legislation. Thereafter, if the provisions, including but not limited to, wages or fringe benefits, of this Agreement may be lawfully reinstituted, the parties hereto further agree that they shall reinstitute as soon as possible the provisions of this Agreement as if no such new restrictive legislation has been enacted.
B.	The Employer and the Union agree to comply with those provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Clean Air Act which are relevant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Employer expressly reserves any rights it may have under any of the foregoing legislation.
ARTICLE 55. - NO STRIKE - KO LOCKOUT
A.	There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes, no picketing or other interference with the operations of the Employer, or lockouts for any cause whatsoever, during the life of this Agreement.
B.	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, and it shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action, in the event an employee refuses to enter upon any property involved in
26
I
a primary labor dispute, or refuses to go through or work to eh: any primary picket line, including the primary picket line of i Union party to this Agreement and including primary picket lii at the Employer's places of business. Notwithstanding t foregoing, in view of the perishable nature of the produc handled, the union agrees that the above rights shall not exercised unless the Employer has been notified by the Union registered mail at least three (3} working days in advance of J intention to honor the picketing Union's line.
C.	The union and its members may participate in all Uni I activities, strikes and boycotts as may be permitted 1 legislation, or court decisions.
D.	In the event of any modification, amendment or repe of existing legislation which affects the rights of the Union a its members in participating in labor disputes or Union aetivit :	the Employer agrees that the Union and its members shall
permitted to engage in such Union activity as hereinbefo permitted and provided for in previous collective bargaini agreements with the Union.
ARTICLE 5S.	- REPLACEMENT CLAUSE
1	A. Any full-time employee who leaves the employ of t
Employer for any reason shall be replaced by another full-til j employee except in the event of a store closing or a signifies; decline in operations, which can be verified by appropria
! documentation. The Union reserves the right to submit a; I dispute under this clause to arbitration.
B. The Employer agrees that the total number of full-tii employees on the payroll at the expiration of this Agreement including those on leave in the military service, shall not J I less than the number of employees on the Employer's payroll < < January 1, 1981.
<
i	ARTICLE 57, - PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
A.	From the first day part-time employees begin work on ! full-time basis, they shall begin to accrue and earn their full , time benefits other than wages and vacation as other full-tin employees, except that part-time employees transferring to full time status shall earn full-time sick leave on a pro-rata basis > minus sick leave already used that year. f
B.	When full-time openings become available, part-tirr i employees will be given preference to fill the full-titr 1 openings.
27
C.	Part-time employees shall receive one-half (1/2) service credit towards the full-time wage rate (to a maximum increase of One Dollar ($1.00) per hour and thereafter progress on the applicable'scale) and vacation benefits when promoted to full-time.
D.	Part-time employees recalled within a one (1) year period shall receive their former hourly rate of pay.
E.	No part-time employee can he required to perform the work of or relieve the meat department manager.
F.	All part-time employees who are interested in obtaining a full-time position shall place their name on a bid sheet. When a full-time job opportunity becomes available within the department, the Employer shall consider the qualifications, abilities and seniority in awarding said full-time position. Seniority shall control when all other factors are equal.
ARTICLE 58.	- POLICY AND PROCEDURE CHANGES
The Union shall be notified in advance of any changes in policies and procedures by the Employer.
ARTICLE 59.	- TRAININS
A.	The Employer agrees to evaluate all its employees for the purpose of upgrading.
B.	Any employee selected for management training will remain in the bargaining unit until such training and the promotion to a management position has been completed.
ARTICLE 60.	- DELINQUENT CONTRIBUTIONS
A.	It is agreed that if the Employer fails to make timely contributions and becomes delinquent to the Pension, Welfare, Legal Service or Educational Benefit Funds, the Employer shall be responsible for interest, as the Trustees may direct, from the date the contributions were due. In addition, the Employer will be responsible for any legal fees and/or court costs incurred because of such delinquency.
B,	The Employer further agrees that if the Trustees deem it necessary, the Employer's payroll records may be examined to determine whether or not the Employer is meeting the terms of this Agreement and the Trust Agreement.
28
ARTICTJ? 61. - TIME WORKEg
The Employer agrees, in making contributions to the Penait Welfare, Legal Service and Educational Benefit Funds, to cotnpi as time worked all time paid tor such as holidays, vacations t sick leave days. The payroll records of the Employer shall evidence of time paid for.
ARTICLE 62, -EXPIRATION
Thia Agreement shall be in full force and effect from t day and year aforementioned through August 18, 2007, e thereafter from year to year unless either party, sixty (60) de prior to the expiration, date, shall serve upon the other writt notice of any changes or demands to be made.
PATHMARK STORES, INC.
1U11
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL #464A, affiliated with AFL-CIO
BY
29
-	PATHMARK STORES, INC.
SCHEDULE "A"
(ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HQUR WORK WEEK!
All employees an progression shall remain on progression. Such employees upon reaching the top of the scale shall receive the applicable general wage increases listed below, except all employees on the payroll as of April 20,2003, shall receive the first General Wage Increase.
	EFFECTIVE 4/20/03	EFFECTIVE 4/18/04	EFFECTIVE 4/17/05	EFFECTIVE 10/16/05	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE 10/15/06	EFFECTIVE 4/15/07
A. general increases							
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD		SI 5.00	$20.00	$15.00	$20.00	.	$15,00	$15.00	$15,00
BOXMAN			$15.00	$15.00	$15.00	$17.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER..	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00	$17.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
SEAFOOD & POULTRY WORKERS
(WHERE APPLICABLE)		$15.00	$15.00	$15.00	$17.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
DELVAPPY HEAD		. $15.00	$15.00.	$15.00	$17.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD AND DELVAPPY CLERKS		$15.00	$15.00	. $15.00	$13.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
ALL PART-TIME EMPLOYEES WITH 3 OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE HIRED PRIOR TO 4/19/03 (EXCLUDING PARTTIME MEAT CUTTERS)		$ .25	$ ,25	$ .25	$ .25	' .$ 25	$ .20	$ .35
- a -
(ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HQUR WORK WEEK)
&	MINIMUM WAGES	EFFECTIVE 4/20/03	EFFECTIVE 4/18/04	EFFECTIVE 4/17/05	EFFECTIVE 10/16/05	EFFECTIVE 4/16/06	EFFECTIVE 10/15/06	EFFECTIVE 4/15/07
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD		$971.00	$991.00	$1,006.00	$1,026.00	$1,041.00	$1,056.00	$1,071.00
BOXMAN		$912.00	$927.00	$ 942.00	$ 959.00	$ 974.00	$ 989.00	$1,004.00
JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER...	$902.00	$917.00	$ 932.00	$ 949.00	$ 964.00	$ 979.00	$ 994.00
DELI/APPY HEAD		$836.00	$851.00	$ 866.00	$ 883.00	$ 898.00	$ 913.00	$ 928.00
MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD AND DELI/APPY CLERKS		$780.00	$795.00	$ 810.00	$ 823.00	$ 838.00	$ 853.00	$ 868.00
PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS		■$ ?2.55	$ 22.925	,$. 23.30	. $ 23.725	$ 24.10	$ 24.475	$ 24.85
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES (EXCLUDING PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS) AT OR ABOVE $13.30 AS OF 4/19/03		S 13.55	$ 13.80	$ 14.05	$ 14.30	$ 14.55	$ 14.75	$ 15.10
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES (EXCLUDING PART-TIME MEAT CUTTERS) AT $12.65 BUT BELOW $13.30 AS OF 4/19/03	 S	12.90		$ 13.15	$ 13.40	$ 13.65	$ 13.90	$ 14.10	$ 14.45

SCHEDULE "B"
EMPLOYEES HIRED OR APPOINTED ON OR zXl-TER JANUARY 15. 1984 AND BEFORE JULY 19, 1987
(ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HQUR WORK WEEK)
	EFFECTIVE 4/20/03	EFFECTIVE 4/18/04	EFFECTIVE 4/17/05	EFFECTIVE 10/16/05	EFFECTIVE 4/16/06	EFFECTIVE 10/15/06	EFFECTIVE 4/15/07
A.	MINIMUM WAGES	'							
MEAT DEPARTMENT HEAD		$946.00	$966.00	$981.00	$1,001.00	$1,016.00	$1,031.00	$1,046.00
BOXMAN		$887.00	$902.00	$917.00	$ 934.00	$ 949.00	$ 964.00	$ 979.00
JOURNEYMAN MEAT CUTTER.	$877.00	$892.00	$907.00	$ 924.00 .	$ 939.00	$ 954.00	$ 969.00
DELUAPP Y HEAD		$811.00	$826.00	, $841.00	$■ 858.00	$ 873.00	$ 888.00	$ 903.00
MEAT WRAPPER, SEAFOOD CLERK, AND DELI/APPY CLERK		$755.00	$770.00	$785.00	$ 798.00	$ 813.00	$ 828.00	$ 843.00
PART-TIME MEAT CUTTER ..	$ 21.925 PER HOUR	$ 22.30 FER HOUR	$ 22.675 PER HOUR	$ 23.10 PER HOUR	$ 23.475 PER HOUR	$ 23.85 PER HOUR	S 24.225 FER HOUR
A.l. Meat Department Heads and Journeymen Meat Cutters receiving wages listed in Schedule "B", Section A MINIMUM WAGES shall receive
the following additional wage increases totaling $25.00:
UPON COMPLETION OF 42 MONTHS OF SERVICE......................510.00 increase
SIX fo) MONTHS THEREAFTER.................................... $ 5.00 increase
SIX (6) MONTHS THEREAFTER.................................... $ 5.00 increase
SIX (6) MONTHS THEREAFTER.................................... $ 5.00increase
-c-
SCHBDULE"C"
EMPLOYEES HIRED OR APPOINTED ON OR AFTER JULY 20.1987
(ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HQUR WORK WEEK)
1.	FULL-TIME MEAT WRAPPERS. SEAFOOD CLERKS AND DELI/APPY CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER JULY 20,1987. BUT
BEFORE JANUARY 5,1999 SHALL CONTINUE TO RECEIVE THEIR CURRENT (APRIL 19,2003) WAGE RATE, PLUS THE FOLLOWING GENERAL WAGE INCREASES:
EFFECTIVE 4/20/03	EFFECTIVE 4/18/04	EFFECTIVE 4/17/05	EFFECTIVE 10/16/05	EFFECTIVE 4/16/06	EFFECTIVE 10/15/06	EFFECTIVE 4/15/07
$ 15.00	$15.00	$15.00	$13.00	$15.00	$15.00	$15.00
2.	FULL-TIME JOURNEYMEN BUTCHERS AND/OR APPRENTICE BUTCHERS HIRED OR APPOINTED ON OR AFTER
JANUARY 1,1995:
	EFFECTIVE 4-WO3	EFFECTIVE 4/18/04	EFFECTIVE 4/17/05	EFFECTIVE 10/16/05	EFFECTIVE 4/16/06	EFFECTIVE 10/15/06	EFFECTIVE 4/15/07
AFTER 30 DAYS			 $265.00						
AFTER 6 MONTHS				295.00						
"	12	"					325.00						
"	18	"					350.00						
"	24	"					375.00						
*	30	"					400.00						
■	36	"					465.00						
"	42 . "					500.00						
"	48	"					$724.60	$739.60	$754.60	$771.60	$786.60	$801.60	$816.60
-d.
SCHEDULE "C" (Ctmiintied)
EMPLOYEES HIRED OR APPOIN TED ON OR. AFTER JULY 20.1987
I ALL FULL-TIME WAGES BASED ON A 40-HQUR WORK WEEK)
PART-TIME JOURNEYMEN BUTCHERS HIRED OR APPOINTED ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1,1995 SHALL RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING WAGES:
EFFECTIVE 4Z2W03	EFFECTIVE 4/18/04	EFFECTIVE 4/17/05	EFFECTIVE WW	EFFECTIVE 4/16/06	EFFECTIVE WISfflfi	EFFECTIVE 4/15/07
$18,115	$18.49	$18,865	$19.29	$19,665	$20.04,	$20,415
PER HOUR	PER HOUR	PER HOUR	PER HOUR	PER HOUR	PER HOUR	FER HOUR
4.	FULL-TIME MEAT WRAPPERS, SEAFOOD CLERKS AND DELIZAPPY CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER JANUARY 5,1999 SHALL
RECEIVE A MINIMUM STARTNG RATE OF $260.00 PER WEEK AND SHALL RECEIVE AN ADDITIONAL $15.00 PER WEEK AFTER THIRTY (30) DAYS OF FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT. THEREAFTER, THESE EMPLOYEES SHALL RECEIVE INCREASES OF TWENTY DOLLARS ($20.00) PER WEEK EVERY SIX (6) MONTHS, FROM THEIR DATE OF HIRE OR APPOINTMENT TO FULL-TIME STATUS UNTIL THEY ATTAIN A MINIMUM WEEKLY RATE OF $480,00 AFTER FORTY-EIGHT (48) MONTHS OF SERVICE. THEREAFTER, THEY SHALL BECOME ELIGIBLE FOR SUBSEQUENT GENERAL WAGE INCREASES.
5.	THOSE CLASSIFICATIONS REFERRED TO ON SCHEDULE "B", AND NOT REFERRED TO ON SCHEDULE "C" SHALL BE PAID
PURSUANT TO SCHEDULE "B".
6.	PART-TIME PREPARED FOODSERVICE CLERKS HIRED PRIOR TO APRIL 20, 2003 (WORKING IN ALL DEPARTMENTS, EXCLUDING THE MEAT DEPARTMENT), SHALL RECEIVE ALTERNATING INCREMENTS OF $.10 AND $.15 EVERY SIX (6) MONTHS FOLLOWING THEIR HIRE DATE. UPON REACHING THREE (3) YEARS OF SERVICE, THEY SHALL RECEIVE THE REMAINING GENERAL WAGE INCREASES LISTED IN SCHEDULE "A', PARAGRAPH A.
7.	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER APRIL 19, 2003 SHALL RECEIVE ALTERNATING INCREMENTS OF $.10 AND $.15 EVERY SIX (6) MONTHS FOLLOWING THEIR HIRE DATE FOR THE TERM GF THE AGREEMENT.