2>o£
AGREEMENT
STATE OF NEW JERSEY
STATE LAW ENFORCEMENT CONFERENCE OF THE NEW JERSEY STATE POLICEMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION
LAW ENFORCEMENT UNIT
July 1,1999-June 30, 2003
ARTICLE
I
IL
I]I
TV
V
VI
vn
VTTI
table of contents
TITLE
PREAMBLE
RECOGNITION
job training partnership act
AND SPECIAL ClRCTJMSTAN'CLS
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
MERIT SYSTEM REGULATIONS
NON-DISCRIMINATION
POLICY AGREEMENTS
A.	EMPLOYEE RELATIONS POLICIES
B.	QUARTERLY EMPLOYEE RELATIONS MEETINGS
D. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REVIEW
DUES DEDUCTION
A. MEMBERSHIP DUES
B REPRESENTATION FEE (AGENCY SHOP}
•ASSOCIATION RIGHTS
A.	ACCESS TO PREMISES
B.	ASSOCIATION ACTIVITY WITH PAY
C.	TRANSFER AND REASSIGNMENT (FOR ASSOCIATION OFFICERS)
D.	BULLETIN BOARDS
PAGE NO.
]
I
]
2
2
2
2
X»
2
3
4
4
4
6
6
6
6
E STEWARDS
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGE NO.
K	ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FOLDERS AND EVALUATIONS	E
X	PERSONNEL PRACTICES	S
	A. IDENTIFICATION CARDS	5
	B. DEPARTMENT Of PERSONNEL EXAMINATIONS	S
	C. EDUCATION PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENTS	a
	D, PRINTING OF AGREEMENT	8
	E FRINGE BENEFIT INFORMATION	a
	F. LATENESS	8
	G. LATENESS OR ABSENCE DUE TO WEATHER CONDITIONS	9
	H. EXCUSED ILLNESS DURING WORK TIME	9
	I. NOTICE OF SUSPENSION	9
XI	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	9
XII	DISCIPLINE	14
xm	SENIORITY	19
xrv	SALARY COMPENSATION PLAN AND PROGRAM	19
	A. ADMINISTRATION	19
	B. COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENT	19
	D DENTAL PLAN	21
	E. EYE CARE PLAN	2i
	F, TEMPORARY DISABILITY PLAN	21
	G. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN	2J
	U. COOPERATIVE EFFORT	22
ARTICLE	TITLE	PACE NO.
XV	VACATIONS	12
	A. VACATION ALLOWANCE	22
	B. VACATION SCHEDULE	23
	C. PAYMENT FOR VACATION	25
XVI	HOLIDAYS	24
XVTT	PERSONAL PREFERENCE DAYS	24
xvm	ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE	24
XIX	SPECIAL TIME OFF	25
XX	COMPENSATORY TIME OFF	25
XXI	SICK LEAVE	26
XXI]	LEAVE OF ABSENCE DUE TO INJURY	27
XXlfl	SPECIAL LEAVE	27
XXIV'	PREGNANCY-DISABILITY LEAVE	
	(MATERNITY LEAVE)	28
xxv	LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY	2R
XXVI	LEAVE FOR ASSOCIATION ACTIVITY	2B
xxvn	MILITARY SERVICE LEAVE	29
xxvm	HOURS OF WORK	29
XXIX	OVERTIME	30
XXX	scheduling of overtime	30
XXXI	TRANSFER AND REASSIGNMENT RIGHTS	31
XXXII	JOB POSTING	3]
xxxni	PROMOTION	32
XXXIV	OUT-OF-TITLE WORK	32
XXXV	POSITION REEVALUATION REVIEW	32
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE NO-
XXXVI	LAYOFF AND RECALL	33
XXXVR	SAFETY	34
xxxvuj	FRINGE BENEFITS	35
	A. HEALTH INSURANCE	34
	L STATE HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM	34
	2. HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION	35
	3. PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM	35
	B. INSURANCE SAVINGS PROGRAM	35
XXXIX	UNIFORM ALLOWANCE	36
XL	TRAVEL REGULATION	36
XLI	TUITION refund and employee TRAINING	i?
XL FI	USE OF STATE FACILITIES	3:
XLHI	MAINTENANCE OP BENEFITS	37
XLIV	EFFECT OF LAW	3R
	A. LEGISLATIVE ACTION	38
	B. SAVINGS CLAUSE	38
	C. PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS	38
	D. LIABILITY CLAIMS INDEMNIFICATION	38
XLV	OUTSIDE WORK	39
ARTICLE
XLVJU
XLIX
L
XLVI	CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT	59
XLVn	NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURES	39
A. SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT	39
R. PROCEDURE	39
TITLE	PAGE NO.
TERM OF AGREEMENT	39
COMPLETE AGREEMENT	39
NOTICES	4Q
APPENDIX I	42
APPENDIX U	43
appendix in	44
PREAMBLE
This Agreement enlerwi into by the State uf New Jersey, Office of Employee Relations in the Governor's Office and hereinafter referred to as the "State" and the State Ia* Enforcement Conference of the New Jersey Stare Policemen's Benevolent Association, hereinafter referred Io a$ the "PSA", has as its purpose the promotion of harmonious employee relations between liie State and the PBA, the establishment of an equitable and peacefill procedure for (he resolution of differences and the establishment of salaries, wages, hours of work and other terms and conditions of employment
ARTICLE r
Recognition
The State recognizes the P.B.A, as the sole and exclusive representative of thosa employees in the La* Enforeeroeot Unit for Ute purpose of Collective negotiations concerning salaries, wages, hours of work find other terms and conditions of employment.
The Stam will nut negotiate any other or any additional terms- and conditions of employment, including those expressed in this Agreement, with any codividuai tie group of employees m this uni:
A, 1. Included arc alt full-time permanent and provisional employees of the State of Ne* Jersey listed in Appendix HI.
2.	Whenever new classifications of employees ate created, the itatc shall assign (o such classification an appropriate unit designation. The State will notify the P.B.A. of such designations 1q (his negotiations unit thirty (30) Jays prior to the effective date of Wending such listing. If requested in writing, the Stale will djsedas any' Ruch designation with the P.B.A. In (he event m? agreement la reached on such amendment after dist-ussjoji us provided herein, the resolution of the mutier shall be by' the clarification of tinil procedures of the Public Etnploymenrt Relations Cotumissioti.
B. Excluded are:
1.	Managerial Executives.
2.	Supervisors
3.	State Troopers
4.	Employees represented in other certified bargaining units.
5.	Clasaificatioru within the Department of Higher Education except
those in (he State College System.
6.	All other employers of the Stale ofNew Jersey no: included within the SliJlewide Ijiw Enforcement Unit
ARTICLED
Job Training Partnmhip Act and Special CirmimstUcei
Employees who are within the classifications included in thia unit, but appointed under the JTPA I’TOgrusn or other compurabiy funded empioynwrtt programs, are considered to be Subject to ah provisions of this Contract as provisional employees; except tJtat (be Federal legillation and regulations concerning these programs and any agreement between the Slate and any local government prime sponsor which is involved Rhall be in effect and modify the provisions of tbt# Contract which would otherwise be operable
Any grievance a.$ io whether or not the provisions of the Contract conflict with Federal legislation Or regulations or any agreemenl with a local government prime sponsor shall be Considered io be governed under A2. of the Grievance Procedure.
1
ARTICLE UI
Management Rights
The Slate, its several departments and subotdineie Wt'ctiOnS, retain and may exercise all rights, powers, duties, authority and .responsibilities conferred Upon and vested in (hem by the laws and Constitutions of the State t}£ New Jersey and of (he Dotted Slates of America
Except as specifically abridged, Itmited or modified by the tenns of l)ie Agreement between the State and die P.B.A. and Ch. 303, L. 1968, all such rights, powers, authority, prerogatives of management and responsibility to enforce reasonable rules' and regulations governing Ihe conduct and the activities of employees tire returned by (tie Slate.
ARTICLE IV'
Merit System Regelations
It is intended Ihal the administrative and procedural provisions and controls of the Merit System Law and Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder are to be observed tn the adrmnistratiun of this Agreement, where applicable, except and (0 Hie exlent that this Agrecmeni pertains to subjects not therein contained,
ARTICLE V
Notj-ftiscrimiaatioi]
The provisions of this Agreement shall he applied equally to all employees and the P.B.A. and the State agree there ahsll not be any discrimination as to age, sex, marital starts, face, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, association membership, nr lawful membership activities nr activities provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Policy Agreements
A.	Employee Relations Policies
1.	During the teem of this Agreement tire parties agree that neither the P.B.A., w any employee represented by it, w-|[ engage in ot support any strike, work stoppage, slowdown, or any job action.
2.	No lockout of employees shall be instituted or supported by the State dining the term of thia Agreement
3-	The Association recoijntws its responsibility as exclusive collective negotiations agent and agrees to represent all employees In the Unit without discrimination.
4,	These agreements are noi intended to limit the freedom of speech of the Association or its members.
B.	Quarterly Ejapioyee Relations Meetings
1.	A Committee consisting of Stale and Association representatives may mtel for (he purpose of reviewing the admimsiration of (his Agreement, and (o discuss problems which hwy arise. Said committee meetings shall be some time during the last week of February, May, August and November, These meetings are not intended to by.paSs the grievance procedure or tu be considered contract negotiation meetings but are intended as a menus of fostering good employee relations ittfOUgh regular communications between the parties.
2.	Either party iru'iy request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of lopics to bo discussed seven (?) days prior to such a meeting. If the Association requests such a meeting, the State shall schedule the mealing,
3.	A maximum of otic fl) employee representative of each component Local of the PBA in the Association may attend such quarterly meetings and, If during duty hours, shall be granted time to attend without loss of pay. If any employee representative attends the statewide quarterly meeting and ir scheduled to work and works on another shift i)n ihe date of
2
said meeting or avoids meeting on his/her normal day off, he/she shall be granted compensatory time for (he actual tune spenl al the tncctjfig. .Such compensatory time granted shall not be Considered time worked foe (lie ccsnputatiou of overtime.
C, It is further agreed that each component local of the P.B-A- representing a subunit element of (he negotiations unj1 shall meet with a State committee on a senri-tmnual basis, if requested. The purpose of such meetings being to review the administration of this Agreement 8s it pertains to the subunit employees by amicably relieving problems on an mfetraal basis and Io reduce costs and lost of time for all parties consistent wjUt ihe conditions agreed Lo in 0. above except that a maximum of three (3) Association representatives, who shall ba authorised to speak for the P.B.A., shall attend such meetings.
D. Performance AMCSEIMiit Review
The State will maintain a performance assessment review system (PAR) for all employees, except those in trainee Slatus, covered by this Contract. The system will include a formal process -whereby the employee and bis designated Supervisor mutually formulate performance and improvemeni goals and work standards iqjpiopriata to the job performed which shill be (lie basis for measuring the employee's performance during a rating period.
Where the employee and designated supervisor fail to reach agreement on performance and im-MoveiTiern goals and work jJunrWrfc, the dispute -may bw proceaaiid ns as A.l non' contractual grievance through the grievance procedure.
There shall be a written evaluation and rating of each employee completed annually which shall be the basts for granting a normal merit increment fo eligible employees, if such in provided for in the Salary Program Article of this Contract. More Sequent assessments may be made where circumstances such as promotion, changes of the supervisor Or other reasons may warrant. In such cases, the annual rating shall be a function of all such evaluations. No performance elements older than one (1) year shall be included in the then current performance evaluation.
Employees who are eligible and whose performance is "marginally below standard" or higher shall be granted a norfrial merit increment, if such, js provided for in the Salary Program Article of this Contract.
A1 least every six (6) months, the employe? shall bax'c a conference with the employee in connection with performance assessment and improvement goals and work standards. A written record of such conference shah be provided Io the employee.
Where the performance of an employee is Itsa than "standard" the designated aupeA tSor will confer with such employee not less frequently than every three (3) months and shall set forth ihe deficiencies and improvement goals required to achieve "standard or bctler performance” A record of such tonferenoaa shall be made and a copy given CO the employee and at ihe request of (he employee a copy sliall be made available to the Union.
Where (here are disagreements between (he employee and his supervisor on a perfontiaftte assessment, the employee may note in willing the disagreements and may have a Union representative discuss the disagreements with the supervisor.
Where the normal merit increment has been denied due to a "significantly befow standard" pcrfonnaiKe rating, and if subsequent performance of Ihe employee is detemijiied by the supervisor i& have improved to the point which then warrants granting of the nontuti merit increment, SPrh incrcmeni will be granted effective cm any payroll period following 90 days from the Ihe anniversary date The determination by a Strpemsor to recommend the reinsiatement of a merit increment as provided herein shall ftOL be Erievable.
I he normal anniversary date of sneh employee shall not be effected by this action,
The required signature of the employee on Hie annual assessment review form or any related form shall he acknowledgntenl but shall mn be construed r.u mean agreement with the content unless such agreement is slated Ihereon by (he employee.
The Si.u.ie will u$« a variety of ccmmunwatitms media, which may include booklets,
3
pamphlets, publications, letters and annoanccineots, to keep employees informed on the Current status of the Performance Assrennent Review System. All Hew employees at the tune of hire shill recei ve an orientation booklet describing the objectives of tire assessment system. Such material will be distributed to employees through their appropriate personnel function. Additional copies of such cOTnmnntcations shall be supplied Io ibe Union at its request.
In the went of a proposed modification or change in part or all of the Performance Aaseasmeol Review System, the State agrees to discuss Such changes with the Union prior to its introduction.and/or adoption.
Evaluation Report Daring Probatioiary ?erfod (Working Test Period)
During the normal probationary period of four (4} months the employee will be advised of his progress, tn writing, at the end. of the second and. fourth months. During the fourth {4) month, (he employee shall be advised as to wheths he has successfully completed the required probationary period or if the probationary period is to be extended. If the probationary period is extended (0 a maximum of six (6) months, ths employee will be aivjsed of his progress at the end of the fifth (5) month and 64h month.
In exception to the previous paragraph, where certain titles have one year working test periods, Che employees tn such titles will be advised of their progress at the end of six (6) months and again 31 the end of one year.
ARTICLE VH
Duet Deduction
Au Member?hip Duet
I.	The Stale agrees to deduct from the regular pay of any employee, the dues of the P.B.A- Local of which he is a member provided the employee submits an. wthsrizeiisn for dues deduction in writing and on proper form to the responsible payroll clerk. The payroll clerk shall process and forward a properly executed form, within seven (7) days, io the cortralized payroll Section, Department of the Treasury. Ducs deduction will be reflected in the next regular paycheek provided the authorization form is received in centralized payroll at leasl seven CT) days prior to tire end of the pay period.
2.	Dues deductions for any employee in this negotiations unit shall be limited to (he PBA, the duly certified majority representative, and employees shall be eligible to withdraw such, auihorizaition only as of July 1 of each year.
3.	Dues so deducted shall be transmilled to the desdgnaied officer of the P.B-A. together with a listing of the employees included.
4.	The President of Ihe P.B.A- Local shall certify to the State the amount of dues and shall notify the Slate of any ciiange lu the amount of dues to be deducted thirty (3(1) days prior tn the intended effective date of such change.
B.	Reprtwri ration Fee (Agency Stop)
I.	Purpose ofFee
Beginning thirty days after signing of this agreement all eligible non-member employees in tbit unit will be required to pay to the majority representative a representation fee in lieu of dues for services rendered by the majority representative. Nothing herein shall be deemed in require any employee to become a member of the; majority representative.
2.	Amount afFe^
Prior lo the beginning of each agreement year, the P.B.A, will notify the State, in Writing, of the amount of regular membership dues, initiation fees and assessments charged by the P.0.A. to its own members for tbal agreement year, and the amount of the representation fee for that agreement year. Any changes in the representation fee structure during the agreement year shall be in ancordimcB with A.4. above.
The represcniition foe in lieu of dues shall be in an amount equivalent n> the regular membership dues, initiation fees Laid assessments charged by th.e majority representative to its
4
own mwnbcrs, less the cost of benefits financed through the dues, fee? and assessments and available to or benefiting only ita members, but in no ewid shall such fee exceed 85% of the regular membership dues, feds and as-iesstticiils.
3.	Deduction and Transmission of Fee
a.	Once during each agreement year, the PJJ.A. w ill submit to the State; a list of those employees who have noi become member? of the P.B.A. After verification by the State ihal these employees must puy the representation fee, the State will deduct the fee in accordance with this Article.
The P.B.A. will notify the State, ht writing, of any changes in die list provided and Such chitflges will be reflected in any deductions made more than ten CIO) days after the State received said notice.
b.	Tbc mechanics of the deduction of representation fees and the traiLsmtsajon of such fees to the P.B.A. will, as nearly as possible, be the same as those used for the deduction and transmission of regular membership dues To the P.R.A.
c.	In no even will the representation fee be deducted from a new employee before thirty (.50) days front the beginning date of employment in a position in this unit.
4.	Desnand and Rerun) System
a,	The representation fee iu Eletl of dues only shall be available to the P.B.A. if the procedures hereafter are maintained by the P.B.A,
b.	The burden of proof under this system is on t he P.B .A.
c.	The P.B.A. shall return any part of the representation fee paid by the employee which represents the employee's additional pro rata share of expenditures by the P.B.A. that is either in aid of activities or causes of a partisan political or ideological nature only incidentally related to the terms and conditions of employment, or applied toward the COS1 of any other benefits available only io members of the majority reprcseocalive.
d.	The employee shall be entitled to demand and have returned from the P.B.A. any portion of the representation fee wliich is expended uo (hose activities listed in paragraph d.
The P.B.A. shall submit a copy of the union review sy.stem to the Office of Employee Relations. The deduction of the recrtsrnmtitm fee shall be available tmly if the P.B.A. establishes ar>d nuinlains this review system.
e.	If the employee dissatisfied with (he P.S.A.'s decision, he may appeal to a tJiree-memher board established by the Governor.
5.	State Held Harmless
The P.B.A. hereby agrees that it will indemnify' and hold the State harmless from any claims, actions or proceedings brought by any employee in the negotiations unit which arises frcni. deductions nude by the State in accordance with this provision. Once the representation fee in lieu of due? is remitted to the P.B.A. by the Shite, disposition thereafter shall be the sole and exclusive Obligation and responsibility of The P.B.A.
6.	It is understood that (he impknaentatidn of the agency fee program is predicated on the demonstration by the Union that more than 50% of the eligible employees ib the negotiating unit are dues paying members of the Union.
If at the signing of this agreement the above percentage h&S not been achieved, the agency fee plan wj]] be continued through pay period 2(1 of Ilie calendar year, after which it Shall be discontinued unless the minimum has been achieved prior to that occurrence. Thereafter, j( rhe rainrrnum percentage t? exceeded on any quarterly date, i.«,, January 1, April ’. July 1 nr October I, ihe agency fee plan shall he reinstated, with proper notice to affected employees.
Tn each year of 1h? agreement on July 1, an assessment shall be made (o determine if (he minimum percentage has been exceeded. If it ha?, the agency fee shall continue until (he following annual assessment. If it has not the agroty fee will he discontinued and eligibility for rd natal cm ent shall be oo a quarterly basis as provided above.
5
ARTICLE VUl
Association Rights
Au Atrnj to Premises
I,	Previously designated representatives of the Association, who are acknowledged by th a Slate, shall be admitted to die premises of the Suite on Association business.
Request for aueb visitation lights shall be directed to designated Stale officials and include the purpose of the risiL, proposed lime and date, and specific work arena involved. Permission for such visits shall not be Unreasonably withheld.
Such Aesctiaticro officiate shall also have the opportunity to consult -with off duty employees in the negotiations unit before the start of the work shift, during lunch Or breaks, or afier completion of the work stuff. The state will designate appropriate places for such Cansuttatiofta.
2.	The rights of access provided in this section A above stall not be granted to any Other employee organization or to arty representative Or employee of such organization for the purpose of communicating with employees in Uns Unit.
3,	Where a piublem occurs which ls of such consequence M to suggest the need for u higher than locti] level P.B.A, representative, a request to permit the local P.B.A. president aececG to the location <i( ths iicuLrletu bf directed ui the Office at Employes Rjclalrona tor approval., A decision and any conditions imposed by Ihe Office of Employee Relations shall be final. Approval of such requests stall not be unreasonably withheld and the P.B.A- shall have the right to grieve the matter of reasonableness.
4.	A telephone shall be available at each installation or institution for use by mutually agreed representatives of (he P.B.A. for Association business. Sucb representatives may' also use fax machines and copy' machines where available. The P.B A shall reimburse the State for telephone charges, as well as COSTS for the use of the fax and copy machines, if any. Abuse of this right will result in forfeiture.
5.	The State wilt provide a thirty (30) minute period during a new employee's training period to allow the local PBA representative to meet and explain the PBA's responsibilities.
(5. Where the PBA has mail to be delivered to its Officers, the intraollice mail system will be made available, provided that priority is retained for foe business of Ute State.
B,	Association Activity With Pay
The State agrees 1hlL during working hours, on its premises and without loss of pay, properly designated and mutually agreed upon Association representatives shall be allowed to:
I.	reprejetd employees in the negotiating unit at grievance proceedings,
2.	subtnii Association notices for posting,
3.	artend negotiating meetings if designated as a member of the negotiating Leant to a maximum of two (2) employees per local. Where exception is required, a request for one (1) additional employee can be'made and may he approved based on tire appropriateness of the request to the issues being negotiated. If sub-Qnit negotiations occur, foe number of P.B.A. representative!; will be determined by mutual agreement,
4.	artend scheduled meetings with the State and its representative concerning the application of the Agreement.
The accredited Association representative shall provide reasonable notification lo ids supervisor and to the appointing authority whenever tie wishes to transact such Association busjjoeSs on State time,
C.	Transfer and Reassignment (Fer Association Officers)
1.	The Slate and the Association recognize that Association Officers have in their relationship to their jobs a need for Continuity in the assigned shift and location which exceeds tbit of Other fellow employees. It is agreed, therefore, Thal Association Officers mutually agreed upon will not he routinely reassigned or transferred involuntarily.
6
2.	The State and the Association recognize Ihe need to utilize all persotmel to meat operational requircmaits effectively and notwithstanding the cominttmeDt in paragraph C.l. above that movcnrenl of such Association Qf&cers may be necessary' and appropriate (generally on a tctnporaiy basis) in exception (o the guideline agreed to in paragraph C.l. The exception provided in litis paragraph will not be ured arbitrarily.
IX BBHetin Boards
1.	The Slate agrees to furnish a suitable share of existing bulletin boards in convenient places Lt) each working area to be used exclusively by the P.B.A. The space provided shall minimally approximate 30 x 30 inches or (he equivalent.
2.	If the P.B.A. desires additional bulletin boards, it may request permission to erect its OWil A roqnis.1 to erect a bulletin hnafd in conformance vrilh State siandaids shall not he unreasonably withheld.
3.	The P.B A. shall limit its postings to polices, bulletins, reports and similar materials which shall not contain any profane or obscene matter or be defamatory of any individual or the State. The P.B.A. shall do! post election campaign Materials. Postings shall be signed by an authorized representative of the P.B. A. or the organizational ori ji n shall be set forth.
4.	The .Slate will provide space in central locations and areas frequented by employees fa (he unit where; Association news^iapefs, circulars and bleralure may be placed so iLd employees may pick up copies during non-wnrk time provided (ha! such materia) for distribution is cofttistetil with 3. above of this provision. Il is ftuthea agreed that the Association will assure that all undistributed [jleramrc is removed from the distribution points after a reasonable tune.
5	• Any material which an authorized representative of the Office of Employee Relations alleges Co be in violation of this Agreement, shall be promptly removed by The P.B.A. The matter may then immediately be initiated as a Step 3 grievance for resolution "by th# Associatiob or submitted to the Office <if Employee Relations.
ti	. The State may, upon rcques.1 of the Association, undertake io make specific postings of authorized materieds on behalf t)f Utt Association.
E. Stewards
The P.B.A. has the sole nght and discretion tt> designate Stewards and »o specify their respective responsibilities and authority io act fat the P.B.A. The Slate reserves to its discretion (he extension of privileges to Limited numbers of such Stewards as agreed upon with the P.B.A.
ARTICLE IX
Access to Personnel Folders and EvjblaAtums
A.	Art employee shall, within five (5) working days of a written request Io hts agency ar depattment, have tn oppnttuo.jt.y review his perauui1. histsyry folder iw the presence of aft appropriate official of the depmuneuL or agency to examine uny criticism. Commendation or any evaluation of his warlc performance cr conduct prepared by the State during the term of Otis Agreement. Such examination shall not require a toss of paid. time. The persotmel folder subject to examtnatioo shall include the employee's employment application, performance appraisal forms, letters and reports of ap.mmeadation, special training or other related achievements, and reports of criticism, wanuuga, ceprimaMs, suspensions, fines or demotions. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as granting, an employee access to confidential documents other than the above items regardless of whether or not these ftWIerials are normally maintained io the same folder with other personnel records. The Slate shall honor any reasonable request of employees for copies of docinuents in tine file.
Employees shall be allowed io place fa such tile a response of reasonable Length to anything contained therein. If any material derogatory to the employee is placed in his file, a copy of such material shall be sent to the employee within fifteen (15) days.
B.	Each jegnliir wntten evaluation of work performance shall be reviewed with the employee
7
tiwi ewideiKE of Ihas review shall be the reqiiifed signature of ths employee on the evaluation fana. Such signature Shall hot be construed to mean agreement with the contetj: of 1he evaluation unless such agreement is stajed thereon.
C.	An employee may request (he expungement of materials included in the folder where there are pertinent and substantive inaccuracies or for reasons of time duration, relevKDce or fairness. Such, requests will be evaluated in relation Co the Slate's needs for comprehensive and complete records but will not be unreasonably denied-
D- No documenl of anonymous origin shall be maintained in the personnel folder.
ARTICLE X Personnel Practices
A. Tdmtificatiob Cards
A standardized identification card shall be utilized for alt employees in foe negotiations unit,
The Stale shall furnish identification cards to all employees who have served Continuously for six (6) months. Lost cards shall be reported immediately and (he first replacement shall he made at no cost Lo (he employee, B, Department of Pr.t-connel R*amhati<m<
1.	Antployecs who arc scheduled Lo uikt: upeu competitive examinations for the position in which the employee is provisional, or to take promotional examinations itdmirustcred by the Department of Pereonnei of the State of Ne*- Jersey, for positions in the State service, shall be granted time off with pay to take such examinations if they ore scheduled during the work shift of the employee. Such privilege* may not be abused.
2,	When an employee has been certified for promotion and is sclieduled lo be interviewed by rhe agency' tn which be may be pvotn&lfei, he shall suffer nn loss in pay to attend the scheduled interview i deluding travel time required, if during his tegular work shift.
C.	Education Program Announcemeots
When announcements are published by the State which describe available educational programs or State Scholarships, Such materials wj]] be posted prominently in order that interested employees may be informed of this availability. The appointing authority of each department shdJJ forward copies of these items to the Chairman and Local President of the Law Enforcement Unit.
D.	PrEifing of Agreement
The Stale wj]J reproduce tills Agjeetuenl as soon as reasonably possible in sufficient quantities st> ihai each employee in the negotiation* unit may receive a copy, plus itddiliotiiil reserve copies for distribution to employees hired during the term of (he Agreement. The Agreement cover will include the seal of the Stale of New Jersey aod the Association insignia. £• Fringe Benefit Information
The State shall provide a booklet describing the health benefits program, foe life insurance and pension program and similar available publications to each employee upon request and to all new employees when hired.
F, Lateness
Whenever an employee is delayed in reporting for a scheduled work assignment, he shall endeavor to contact his supervisor in advance, if possible. An employee who has s reasonable excuse and is less than fifttai (15) minutes Lain is nol to be reduced in salary or denied the Opportunity to work the balance of his scheduled shift and he shall not be <f isc iplhtod excepl where there is evidence of repetition or neglect A record of such Lateness shall be niainMined and muy be charged against any compensatory time accrual where there Is evidence of repetition or neglect-
Lateness beyond Ute fifteen (15) minute period above shall be Ireaied On a discretionary basis. However, this provision is not intended to mean that all lateness or each incidence of
8
lateness beyond fifteen (15} minutes shall incur disciplinary action or loss of opportunity to complete a work shift or reduction of salary,
G- Lateness or Absence Due to Weather Codditkres
1.	When an employee is unable lo get to bis fissiped work becillsc of weather Conditions, his absence may be compensated if he has a sufficient compensatory time balance, or if none is available. a charge may be made against vacation balance Or administrative leave balance if requested by the employee. Such absotce will alternatively be without pay,
2.	Employees Eate for duty due to delays caused by weather conditions and who made a reasonable effort CO report on time may be given credit for such Lste time a| the discretion of the appointing authority.
H.	Excused Illness Durfag Work Time
An employee may apply for use of sick leave for pef jods of less than iii? foil work day for any appropriate and approved reason such as becoming ill while working during the assigned shift or in order to keep a medical appointment which could t'u>L be arranged during non-wojk lime. The employee must charge such sick Leave against bis accumulated sick leave balance, or, if Ruch employee has no Rick leave balance, he may chiifge such time against other accrued paid leave lime if available, or, alternatively, leave without pay. Utilization of any sick leave for Icbr t*ian a full work day shall be on an houOy basis; one hour of sick leave charged for each hour, or portico thereof, excused fiwn foe work shift. For purposes of thia clause, Only, seven (7) hours is equal 10 cue (1) day of sick leave for employees serving m a No Limit (NT) category and eight (8) hours is equal to one (1) day of sick leave for those employees serving in a NL4 category. Where an NL Ot N"L4 employee utilizes sick leave for a period of less than h:s established work schedule for the day, such employee shall be charged sick leave on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the work scltedule established on the day of utilization.
I.	Nati« of Suspension
1.	When an Mtiployee is suspended from duly the notice of such suspension shall be given to the employee immediately. Where such notice has oot been given and the employee reports for work and is willing and able 1o pertbrru his normal duties be shall nc>1 be deprived of 1he opportunity to work on that day and shah be paid for a minimum of one-half (} day or far a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.
Nolice required above may be by written message or oral Or telephonic means confirmed by written notice.
This provision is hot intended to requite payment for any hours not worked on (he day on which an employee is suspended for cause and asked to leave his work.
2.	ViHicre a hardship of undue or unusual effect is claimed and demonstrated, the employee's suspension may, al the discretion of the appointing authority, be elurged against accumulated compensatory time, vacation or administrative leave balances, if any, upon the request of the employee.
ARTICLE XI
Grievance Prondure
A. Grievance Definition
A "grievance" is:
t, A eJasmed breach, mts-ititerpretaiiou or improper application of foe terms of this Agreement or
2, A claimed violation, mis-intetpretation, or mis-applicatiou of rules or regulations, existing policy, agreements, administrative decisions, or laws, applicable to the agency or Department which employs the grievam affecting the terms and conditions of employment B. Purpose
1.	Tlte purpose of this procedure is to assure prompt add equitable solutions of problems arising from the administration of the Agreement Ot other conditions of employment by
providing the occlusive vehicle set forth in this Article for the settlcme*rt of employee grievances, except that a gricvsrtl may request thai Ute Merit System Board agree io review any mutter for which a specific appeal to the Board is available as provided in C.l.a. 1-5, below. Nothing herein can be construed to require the Merit System Board to review such matter hut any dec(j nation will be made in writing to the grievant and 1t> the Association i f a request to the Department of Personnel is made by the grievant.
2.	It is agreed 1hat the individual employee is entitled Io use this grievance procedure and to be represented by the Association upon his request in accordance with the provisions hereof. He shall no1 be coerced, intiiuidaled or sutfet any reprisal as a direct cw indirect result of such use. The P.B.A. shall b? notified of any scheduled grievance bearing.
3.	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as compelling the Association to submit a grievance to arbitration or to represent an employee before the Dcpantoent of Personnel. The Associeitwa'B decision to request the movement of any grievance al any step or to tentiinaic the grievance at any step shall be final us to the interests of the grievant and the Association
4.	No grievance settlement reached under Ihc terms of this Agreement Shall add to, subtract from or modify any terms of this Agreement.
S.	Fur purposes of Uns Agreement, terms and conditions of employment shal'. be these matters which intimately and directly affect the woric and welfare of Ihe employees covered Iwreunder and which do not significantly interfere with (he exercise of inherent mswgenienl prerogatives pertinent to the determination of governmenl policy.
C. Scope of tke Grievance PJttKrdfl re
1.	It is understood by the parties ihal thia grievance procedure represents the exclusive process for Lhe resolution of disputed matters arising out of the Grievance Definition, A l. and 2., above, except for those Specific matters listed below;
a, Appeals of matters in disputes shall be made directly to (he Merit System Board, subsequent to proper uolificarion to the responsible local managemejn oflcials. with regard to the following subject only:
1.	Oul-of-titlewOTk
2.	Position classification and reevaluaticm review
3.	Layoff and recall rights
4.	Merit System examination procedures for which an appeal exists
5.	Removal at completion ofworking lest period
6.	Sick Leave Injury
2.	Any claim of unjust discipline against an employee shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of Article XP, Discipline, of this Agreement.
3.	Reference by name or rille or otherwise in this Agreement to laws, rule*, reguEiUions. formal policies or order? of 1he State, shall noi be Construed as bringing any allegation concerning the interpretation or application of such matters within the scope of arbitrability as set forth in this Agreement except as provided inlhis Agreement.
D, General Rules ind Procedures
1.	AU members of the collective negotiating unit musl Ortdly present and discuss tkis complaint with his immediate supervisor on an informal basis prior to filing a formal grievance al Step One.
2-	In the event thM the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved i>n un informal basis, then an appeal isiAy be made on the grievance form specified below.
j. Where the subject of a grievance, or lLs emergent nature, suggests it is appropriate, and where the parties mutually agree, such grievance may be initiated at Or moved to any step of the procedure without hearing at a lower step. Where th.e P.B.A. requests a grievance be initiated ar Step Two or beyond based on a claim of emergency wherein the normal processing of the grievance would prejudice the effective relief sought and-for (he substantive rights of the
10
grievant andk if such request is denied by ihe agpncy of the Slate involved, the P.B.A. rasy seek an expedited determination by the Office of Employee Relations of (he appropriate step Io initiate such grievance ]f the P.B.A. is not satisfied with thia detfcfminalitm, then the issue of whether or not an emergency exists may be brought to an, expedited arbitration heating. The options to be prescribed would be; (a) initiate al Step One or, (b) initiate at Step Three.
4,	Where a grievance directly concerns and is shared by more than Ooe grievant, such group grievance may properly be initiated a1 the Aral level of supervision common to the several grievants, wiffi the mutual consent cf Ihe parties as to the appropriate step, The presentation of such group grievance will be by the appropriate Association representative^) and one of 1]je affected grievams designated by the Association, A group grievance may be initiated by the Association.
5.	All Ruch grievances shall be presented m writing to the designated representiuive of the party against whom it is made OB ‘Grievance Forms" to be provided by the State. Such forms shall make adequate provision for the representative of each of the parties hereto Lo maintain a written record of all action taken in handling and disposing of the grievance at each Step of the Grievance Procedure. The fontl shall contain a general description of the relevant feels from which the grievance derives and references to the sections of the Agreement if any, which the grievant claims have been violated. The grievance form must be completed in its entirety, A group grievance initialed by the Association may be presented on the above form, Of where appropriate, in another ftmnai provided (hat the grievance is fully set forth in writing and contains all Ihe information called for by said form,
6.	When a grievance is initialed, the original form Shall be forwarded lo the Personnel Officer of the appropriate operating agency. The remaining three (3) copies shall be kepi in£*cl while going through 1he steps of Uie Grievance Procedure. After the grievance lr resolved, 1he copies shall he distributed as designated on the grievance form.
A copy of the decision of the State at each Step shall be provided to the P.B.A. representative involved.
?. Grievance resolutions or dcciRtruts at Slep One and Step Two shall not constitute a precedent in any arbitration or other proceeding unless a specific agreement to that efleel is made by the Office of Employee Relations and the Attorney of the Association. This shall not be construed to preclude either party' from introducing relevant evidence, including Mich grievance resolutions, as lo the prior conduct of the other party.
E- Grievance Time Limits and Management Responses
1.	A grievance must be filed initially within fifteen {15) calendar days from the date On which the aci which is the subject of 1he grievance occurred Or fifteen (15) calendar days from the date cm which the griev'int should reasonably have (mown of it? occurrence. Other references to cays in this proceas are working days of Ihe party lo which they apply.
2,	Where a grievance involve? exclusively an alleged error in calculation of salary payments, the grievance may he timely filed within thirty (30) days of the time 1he individual should reasonably have knerwn ofils tccunenct.'
3,	Decisions after a scheduled hearing shall be rendered tn writing fo Ihe grievaot and to the PBA representative within established rime limits. The decision will be considered timely if rendered within the following limits.
a.	at Step One within ten (10) working days of 1he receipt of the grievance;
b.	at Step Two within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of the appeal from the Step One decision.
I he decision will also be considered timely if rendered wilhin three (3) days after the conclusion of a Step One hearing and fifteen (15) days after the cotitJusiun of a Step Two hearing in Ihe circumstance where the parties have mutually agreed io betting dates which would preclude the adherence lo 3.a. and 3. b. above,
4,	Should a grievance no! be satisfactorily resolved, cr should the employer nol respond
II
within the prescribed time periods, either after irutiaj receipt of the grievance or after a hearing, the grievance rosy be appealed within three (3) working daya to the next Step. The Jack of response by the State within the prescribed tint: periods unless time limits have been extended by mutual agreement, should be consented as a negative response, if a grievance ia appealed to Step Two under the crrcnmstaiices described in this paragraph,, it Shell be beard at Step Twn Unless the PBA agrees to have it renanriwi to Step One.
5.	When a grievance appeal is to be filed, the State representative at the last hearing, shall inform the grievant of the name and position of 1he iteKl higher level of management to whom (he appeal should be presented.
6.	Time ]jmife under this Article may' be changed by mutual S(tteortieiit and requests for extensions of lime limits will not be unreasonably defied.
?. If, at any step in the grievance procedure, the Slate’s decision is not appealed within the appropriate prescribed time, such grievance trill be considered closed and there shall be nd further appeal or review.
Where an extraordinary circumstance precludes the timely appeal of the grievance at any step, the P.B.A. may promptly seek a waiver of the time limit for such appeal by direct request 1o the Office of Employee Relations. Bitch request shall not be unreasonably denied.
8.	No adjustment of any grievance shall impose retroactivity beyond the date on which Ite grievance was initiated or the fifteen (15) day period provided in E-l. above except that payroll errors and related matter* shall beccrrected to date of error.
F.	Grievance TivestigmtoM - Time Off
When a grievance has been formally submitted in writing and the Association represents the grievant, and where the Association Steward or other representative officer requires time to investigate Such grievance to achieve an tmderstajvding of Ihe Specific work problem during working hours, the Steward or Officer will ba granted permission and reasonable titne. to 0 limit of one (I} hour lb investigate without loss of pay. It is understood that the supervisor shall schedule such time release, providing tile work responsibtjctiea of the Steward or Officer and of any involved employee are adequately covered and providing further there is do disruption of work. Such time release shall not be unreasonably withheld and upon request could he extended beyond the one (]) hour limit for specified reasons, tf to the supervisor, the circumstances watranl an exception to this limit. Where an Association Steward or other representative officer serves a mutually agreed upon grievance district encompassing two (2} or more geographically separated Work locations and where Ihe Circumstances require it, a supervisor shall authorize the additional time required for travel.
Silth time release shall not be construed to include preparation of paperwork, record keeping, eonforecK-eS among Association officuds- not preparation for presentation al a grievance hetiring.
G.	Time Ortfor Grievance Hearings
1,	An employee and bis designated employee representative shall be allowed time off without loss of pay"
a. Aa may be required for appearance a1 a hearing of the employee's grievance Scheduled during working boms;
b- For necessary travel time during working houre.
If the hearing extends beyond 1he employee's normal working holes, compensatory time equal tu the additional time spent 11 the hearing shall be granted but such time; shall not be considered time worked for the Compulation of overtime.
2.	Where the employee or the Association requests employee witnesses, permission for a reasonable number of witnesses required during ihe grievance proceedings will he granted- A witness at such proceedings will he perftiiMed to appear without loss cf pay for tiie time of appearance and Snivel lime as required if during his normal scheduled working hours.
3.	A1 Step One and beyond in the grievance procedure, witnesses may be heard itnd
12
pertinent records received.
4.	The ASaoclaticm repceseutative may have the right directly to examine or cross-examine witnesses who appear at any siep of Sue procedure.
Hr Grievance Steps and Parties Thereat
Grievances shall be presented and adjusted in accordance with the following procedures: Step One
If subsequent tn the informal discussion <>(' the complaint with the employee's immediate supervisor the matter is not resolved informally, a grievance may be filed with du* highest operational management representative. H«? Or his designee shall hear the grievance, witnesses may be heard and pertinent records received- The grievaal may be represented by:
(!) an employee in the same work unit designated by the appropriate Local Association President, or
(2)	an Association officer at the insti tut ion Or ina tallat ion involved, nr
0) other representative previously designated by the Association, and acknowledged by the State. The circumstances surrounding a grievance may suggest that (he Association Local President has B particular need to assist in the presentation of the grievance at Step Two. He may make a request to do so Io the Office of Employee Relations. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied.
StqJ Two
If the grievance is not satisfactorily disposed of al Step One, it may be appealed to the Department Head or his designee who shall not be a person who was directly involved in the grievance. The appeal shall be acecmpanied by the decisions at the preceduw: levels and any written record that has been nude part of the preceding tearings.
The grievant may be represented by the Local Association President and'or his designee. The Association may designate an addllicoa! Don-employee representative, If the decision involves a noncontractual grievance or if the grievant has presented his appeal without Association representation, the decision of (he department head or his designee shall be final and a copy of such decision shall be sent to (he Association.
Step Three
1.	In the even! that the grievance has not bent satisfactorily resolved a| Step Two, and the grievance involves an alleged violation of the Agreement as described in (he definition of a grievance in A.l. above, theti a request far arbitration may be brought only by the Association, through tia designee ■within lot (10) calendar days from the day the Association received the Step Two decision, by mailing a written request for arbitration to the Director of the Office of Employee Relations. If mutually agreed, a pre-arbitration conference may be scheduled to frame the issue or issues. All communications concerning appeals and decisions at this Step shall be made in writing. A request for arbitration dull contain the names of tbe department or agency and employee involved, copies of [he original grievance, appeal documents and written decisions rendered at the lower steps of the grievance procedure.
2.	Within thirty (30) days of the execution of (his Agreement. the parties shall mutually agree upon a paae] of three (3) arbitrators. t*clt member of the panel shall serve m turn. If a member of the panel is unable to serve, (he next member in sequence shall then serve. The Union may request an immediate appointment from the permanent pAnel of arbinalort in the event immediate review of a purported contract violation is required. In the evetU (he parties are unable to agree upon a panel of arbitrators within thirty (30) days, arbitrators shall be selected, on ? case by case basis under the selection procedure of the Public Emp.loymcui Relations Cotnmiasion, Until such time as the parties mutually agree upon a panel.
3.	The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract horn, or modify the provisions of this Agreement at laws of the State, or any written policy of the Stale or subdivision thereof and shall confine bis decision solely Lu the interpretation and application of this Agreement. He shall confine himself to the precise issue submitied for arbitration and shall
13
have do authority to detennme any Other issues not so submitted to him, nor shall he submit Observations or declatarion of opinions which are not relevant in reaching (he determination. The decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding consistent with applicable law and this Agreement. In no event shah the same question or issue: be the subject of arbitration more than onee. Ttie arbitrator may prescribe an appropriate back pay remedy when he rinds a notation of this Agreement, provided such remedy is permitted by la* and is consistent with the terms of this Agreement The arbitrator shall have 00 authority to prescribe a monetary award aS a penalty for a violation of (his Agreement. Rules, regulations, formal policies or Ordos of the State shall not he subject to revision by the arbitrator except if specifically provided herein. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator and iKordmg of Che procedure shall be divided equally between the parties. Any other COS1 of this proceeding shall be borne by the party iflemring. [he eosi.
4.	The arbitrator dull hold (he hearing at a trrae and place convenient to the parties within thirty (30) calendar days of his acceptance to act as arbitrator and shall issue his decision wilhift thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing. In the event a disagreement exists regarding the arbitrability of an issue, ths arbitrator shall make a preliminary determination as to whether the issue is arbitrable Wider the express toms of this Agreement. Once a det era] i nation is made that such a dispute is arbitrable, the arbitrator shall (hen proceed to dstesmine the ments of the dispute.
5.	WhcnevesagrievanDE which sa tabt resolved at Step Three, Arbitration, is based on a provision of this Agreement in which (he power or authority of the arbitrator ia specifically limited, those limits shall be observed and the provisions of paragraph three (3) above shall be operable except and tn the extent that the limitations in such provisions modify such powers or authority.
ARTICLE XI]
Dlscipibe
A.	Discipline of an employee shall be imposed only' for just cause. The terms of this Article shall not apply Co provisional employees or employees serving their working test period W Unclassified employees except as specified in paragraph H J. and paragraph], below.
B.	Discipline under this Article means official written reprimand, fine, suspension without pay, reduction in grade or dismissal from service, based Upon the personal
conduct or par fol rnanrg of the involved atnpLoyee. Dismissal from service or reduction in gride based Upon a layoff or operations] changes made by the State: shall not be construed to be discipline.
C.	Just Cause for discipline Up CO and including dismissal from service shall include those causes Set forth In N.J.A.C, 4At2-2.3. This list of causes set forth In N.JAC. 4A^-2.3 is not exclusive and disciptine Up to and including dismissal from service may be made for any other combination of circumstances amounting to just cau$e.
D.	'Where an appojnling authority or hia designee imposes discipline pursuant to paragraph C, written notice of such discipline shall be given io the employee. Such notice shall contain a reasonable specification of the nature of the charge, a general description of the alleged acts and/or conduct upon, which Che charge is based and The nafcsre of the discipline. Suspensions will not be implemented before the expiration of a period of seventy-two (72) hours from the beginning of the woik shift during which the notice of suspension was given except in casts where, in foe judgement of management, (he suspension is directed at an immediate need to maintain safety, order or effective direction of wotic assignments.
E.	The name of any employee who is notified of suspension or dismissal pursuant to paragraph D. shall be transmitted to the Association as soon as feasible bin not to exceed seventy-two (72) hours after such notice.
F,	Any appeal relating to the invoived disctplinaty matter must be filed by The employee within
14
ten (10) calendar days of notice of discipline: to the employee involved. The Department or Agency Head, or his designee, will convene a hefting within twenty (20) calendar days after receipt of such diseiplniHry appeal. The Department or Agehcy Head, nr his designee, shall render a written decision within twenty (20) calendar days from the date of SUch hearing. The employee may he represented ft Such hearing by the Steward, or his designee. and/Or legal counsel. The /‘ireumstannfs surrounding a discipline cast may suggest (hat the Association local president has a particular need to assist in the prescnlaticin at the hearing He may make a request tn do so to the Office of Employee Relations. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied. The decision tendered herein shall be final except where the disciplinary appeal involves a penalty as set forth in paragraph G. betaw. Where the matter involves a disciplinary penalty other than those set forth in G. below, the Department of Personnel may review (he matter if timely presented in accordance with its discretionary jurisdiction.
G.	1. In the event the appeal has not been satisfactorily settled or otherwise resolved and involves the following contemplated or implemented penalties:
(1)	Suspension of more than five (5) day? one time;
(2)	The last suspension or fme where an employee receives more than three suspensions or fines of five wotting (Uys or less or 4 suspension or fine fix five working days or leas where the aggregate number of days suspended or fined for any one calendar year IS 15 working days or more;
(3)	Demotion;
(4)	Discharge; then,
a. The individual may request or petition the Merit System Board for a hearing which request must be received by the Merit System Board within twenty (20) days after the date of reeaipi of the deejriCn rendered in paragraph 7. The Meri, System Law and foe Rules And Regulations promulgated thereunder shall govern tiie disposition of such a request or petition.
IL General Provisions
I.	The terms of this Article shall not apply to provisional employees or employees serving a working test period, provided such working test period does not except slt (5) months. This exclusion shall not apply to provisional or probationary nnployees who otherwise hold permanent appointment in a job classification included in the negotiating unit, except that under no cirournuanrr-c! will the State's judgement as Io the adequacy of the employee’s performance in a working test nr provisional status, or any action taken in pursuance thereof be deemed tn be discipline within the meaning of this Article. Employees serving (heir working lest period shall retain all rights under the Merit System Laws, Rules or Regulations.
2.	Tn tiie event a formal ehwry of misconduct 1$ made by the State against an employee and, if he so requests, he shall be entitled to a representative of the Association only as a witness or as an advisor during any subsequent interrogation of the employee concerning such charge. No recording of such procedure shall be made without notification (0 the employee and there shall be no presumption of guilL. The employee and/or (he Association, if present, may request and receive a copy of suck recording.
Where an employee is interrogated daring the course of an investigation and when there is a reasonable likelihood (hat the individual being questioned may have formal charge? preferred against him, the nature of those contemplated charge? shall be made known CO (he employee who shall then, if he requests, be entitled to a representative of tire Association, only as a witness or as an advisor, during subsequent interrogation concerning the charge provided chai (he interrogacion process shall not be delays ancVor the requirement to expedite any official duty no! be impaired.
3.	Where crijw'na] titles are initiated. the right of tfie employee 10 representation by Jtis attorney shall nctbevpoiaied.
4.	All diseipiinary charges shall be brought within 45 days of the appointing authority reasonably becoming aware of the offense. In the abseftif of the institution of the charge withm the 45 day time period, the charge shall be considered dismissed. The employee’s whole record of empfoymertt, however, may be considered with rap set to the appropriateness □f the penalty to be imposed- Charges under £E0C shad be brought within 60 days,
5.	Nothing in thia Article of Agreement shall be construed to limit the right of the State to implement any disciplinary action notwithstanding the pendancy of any appeal proceeding,
6,	In the even! a disciplinary «tion is initiated, the employee or his/her representative may request and shall be provided with copies of all written documents, reports, or statements which w;]] be Used against him/her at such hearing and a list of all known witnesses who may testify against hmvhtr, which, normally, will be provided not less than three (3) days, exclusive of weekends, prior to the bearing date, but in no case less than two (2) work days exclusive of weekends prior to the hearing date.
Where a fine is imposed as a disciplinary measure 2nd the matter is appealed within Che disciplinary procedure provided in this Agreement and where the fine is 5100 or more, the enforcement of the fine will be withheld upon request of the employee being fined pending hearings and tinal digestion of (he appeal as provided herein, provided the employee Continues in his employment with the State.
7,	Before a permanent career services employee is sn^mdad without pay pending dismissal hc/sbe shill promptly be given an opportunity for an informal discussion at which the employee will be informed of (he charges made and a synopsis of the evidence on which the State intends to rely. The employee shall have anoppotltinity to respond and/or refute.
I.	The following site]] constitute the disciplinary appeal procedure rights for unclassified and provisional employees, who have been employed in such capacity for a HUitifflUra of six (6) rood ths.
1.	In all disciplinary matters, except dismissal from service, Swell employees shall be entitled to Utilize the provisions of this Article up to the Departmental hearing level.
2,	In disciplinary matins involving dismissal frotn service, provisional employees, upon ■written request, shall be entitled to a conference with the Department Of Agency Head or his designee co discuss the matter, The Department or Agency Head or his designee may conduct an administrative investigation of the'raaitcr.
3,	In the evem an unclassified employee is dLsmissed from State employment, wjlhoul receiving specific vzritten reasons and such dismissal is not related to fiscal problems dr programmatic changes and in (he judgment of the Stale such dismissal is not of a nature whereby (he employee must be immediately removed from (he work Location, the Stare shall provide the employee wj(h at least ten (10) calendar days notice in advance of the dismissal.
Unless (here are exceptional circumstances when an unclassified employee is dismissed from Stale employment due 1a misconduct, management shall serve Such employee with the specific written reasons, relating to such misconduct, and the employee may request 2nd shall be granted a hearing by the departmesrt or igeitc\ head err his designee, whose decision shall be final. Time limits shall apply aa provided in this article. The burden of proof shall be on (he employee.
It is understood that nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the State from exercising its iifoerent discretion to terminate employees serving at the pleasure of (he department or agency head, (i.c., unclassified employees), without setting forth the reasons therefore. Moreover, the i«ue of dismissal relative to any matter of job performance shall not fail within the purview of (tlis article. Grievances Mtieemiiig the inlerpretation of this article shall be processed as noficoittratlUal A.2. grievances,
4.	tn no event strall the pro'risicns of this Article apply whese the employes htitw
lb
removed is a result of (be cratificatitro of * Dtjia latent iifTi im(Mi I eligible HflL
5.	Ntrthiiigintfns Article titoli be construed as a waiver ofay rights any employes tnsy have Undo- Merit System Stature cr Ac Merit Sytfcm Raks *ftd Regulations.
6.	In exception tu 1.1. through 15, abevt, thettralrnesiibtisaeniDg inft»6 sevnaJ titles of Marine Police and ABC Inspector shaD be articled to a Departmental haring upon appeals for suspensions of 5 days Or lea. All (rthtr dscipEnary appeals procedure rights fw these oupltyns shall be in acccnlsnce with As procedures Set forth by tbe Supermtstafait of State Police io the Department of Lnv nd Public Safrty.
J.	Special procedure for Review ud ArMntlo* of SuspetUHMS of One Throng* Fhe Daya
1.	The parties agree to establish a Joinl Afficdahon Management Panel oaoistiiig of oce (i) person selected by the State nod one (]} person selected by lbs As&seiawn and a third party neutral mutually selected, by the psties. Each panel rrnebef shall serve on an ad tec or other basis. Tbe purpose of (fa's panel is to review SHxajt from Departracptal drMmuatnJtts upholding diserpimary suspoisioas of one (1) (hroagh foe (5} days, excepting awUsSifiEd, provwitHiaJ or probationary onployoo.
2.	Tn order for a disciplinay appeal from tbe Assoctatron to be Conridered by (he patteL a written oobK of ^jpeal rrmsi be riled wiA the Dcpaitnmd for Agency He»d) or deegpM*, who issited the dBcisimt igibolding the Aiaraptireuy act™. Sudt notice must be fifed within ten (10) days of the issuance of Such decision. The Department (or Agency Head) or designee will promptly forward a «py of such notice to the Office of Employee Rclatitas and the Assnaati<ra together with * copy of the demswn and any fiber documents that have best made a part of the record of the matter.
3.	Tbe panel shall meet once each month providing that there are at least tea (10) matters to be Considered. The parties may mutually agree to schedule additional meetings if necesaiy-The agrada of each monlhly mestritg shall Consist of ill matters as to which the Association has requested panel considouikin. provided that tbe request is received at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the scheduled date of the panel marring. Ordinarily, do matter wilt be held poiding hearing for tonga than sixty (60) days;
d. Tbe panel coasidetoticiiK shall be baaed upon the Department Head's or designer's decifiUML and any documenta that have been made a part of ihe record of Sie matta before mcb Department Head or designee. The State ax) Association panel monbere dull dtfCus aad) matter co tbe agenda *»d, wife, the assistance of the wxSrai panel rnembe, attempt to joBhly resofre the appeal. Wboe fte State and Asociaticn panel do oct agree as to the diqiasitiun of the ippeat tbe neutral panel member may mggst that the nutlet raises issues which may warrant submission to arbitration.
5. The neiajal shall maintaia a written record of tbe disposition of each matter which shall be signed by each panel msriber. UnJasa rmuoally agreed to (he contrary* tbe written ditpositicn of each matter shall be rude at Ac panel meeting at which it is considered, and a Copy shafi be provided to each pane] Ctenba.
fi. In the evnrt fee neutral Suggests (fat a natter raises issues which may Warrant submiSKka) to arintratiotu the As&octeiaa may elect to 3PPfcJl the mabcr to disciplinary arbitration. An appeal to disciplaiay aftutritkxi may be brought only by (be Association by making a written request for dfedplmary arbrtraticai by certified ar negntaed mail to die Director of the Office of Employee Rektions, which must be postmarked within eighteen (18) calendar days frorri (be date of receipt of the nentrtl panel meuiba^ data miration. The neutral prod member may oct serve as Ae arbitrator for any mails which ha beat submitted to the panel. Tbe sole detcnninalum to be made by the uboiralur shell be (be guilt of hmococe of the nd ha shall therefore efthec sustain tbe penalty imposed or vacate it by bis Opinion and swam. The fees and exposes of the stbicar and recording of tbe procedure shall be divided equally between the partie*,
17
7.	The panics will jointly select the neutral within thirty (3Q) days of the ratification of this eoatract. The fees of the neutral panel member will be shared equally by the parties.
8.	In addition Lo the members described b) paragraph 1. above, each party may iatjl i?e one other resource person far each cate brought before the panel.
9.	Within 30 days of (he execution of this Agreement, die parties shall mutually agree upon a panel of three (3'1 artiicreton. to hear minor discipline cases raised under this contractual provision. Each member of the panel shall serve in turn. If a member of the panel is tillable to Serve the tie* I member fa sequence shall then serve. Tn the event the parties are trouble to agree upon fl panel of arbitretors within thtrly (30) days, arbjtwlOfs shall be selected on a case by case basis Utldet the selection procedure of lie Public Employment Relations CoramisEion, until such time as die parties mutimlly agree upon a panel.
ARTICLE XTTI
Seniority
A- A newly appointed employee shall be considered probationary and without seniority.
B, Pcmajittil employees shad, on fae day worked immediately following the successful completion of lite probationary period, be consdcfetf to have State seniority as of the date of employment. Such State seninrity shall accumulate Until there is a break in service. State seniority of an employee who is reinstated after a period of layoff shall he continued retroactively exclusive of the period of layoff.
Cr An employee shall be considered to have job cEassificaiion Seniority upon successful Cdmpletiott of the probationary period for that job as of the date of employment or permanent promotion to that Job. Job classification seniority aha]] accumulate until there is a break in service.
D.	1, A break in eontmvcuis service occurs when an employee resigns, is discharged for cause, retires Cris laid off
2.	Absence without leave for five (5) days or failure to rehini from any leave of absence shall be Considered a resignation.
E.	In the case where an employee is promoted bld does not successfully oorupEete the probationary period, he may be returned to his previous job classification. HIr job classification seniority and State seniority continues to accumulate during such period.
F.	Provisional appointments will tWl be made except fa lite ease of an emergjgttey as provided in NJ.S.A. 11 A;4,13. Where an examination is required, such will he scheduled al the earliest possible time.
G,	During ihe normal probationary period of four (4} months, the employee will be advised of his progress st the end of the second and fourth months.
H,	Every six (6) months the appointing authority shall post on bulletin hoards a current seniority list and make copies of same available to the Association. Any disagreement concerning [he accuracy of such lists will be matte known to the employee's Personnel Officer within one (1} month of the date of posting and corrective action will be initiated aL this level, 1. This Atlicte shall nnt apply lo the computation or application of Seniority in determination of individual rights adm roistered by' the Department of FcrstMuicl, such, as Layoff and promotional rights. In such circumstances seniority detecminarjous and applications shall be determined by die Departmen: of Personnel. The letms and conditiOos of seniority pertafaictg to layoff and pTOmotionR ue fully set forth in Statutes and in (he Merit System Regulations and arc intended to be observed in this adminislnitiou of this Agreement. The provisEons above are not intended to van'the application of the seniority provisions under rule or law as [hey pertain to layoff atid promotiooal matters.
18
ARTICLE XIV
Salary Cnmpessation Plim and Program
A.	A(1minIstratwn
I.	The parties acknowledge the existence and ccmtmueticrt during, foe terrji of this Agreement of the Stille Compensation Plan *tucJi incorporates in particular, hut without Specific limit, foe following basic concepts:
a.	A system of position classification with appropriate position descriptions.
b.	A salary range with Specific nun'unum and maximum rates and intermediate mcieiucntat steps therein for each position,
c.	The authority, method and procedures io effect modifications as SOch arc required. Ikwcver, within any classification the annual salary rate of employees shall not be reduced as a result of fot exercise of thia authority.
2.	The Slate agrees foal at! regular bi-weekly pay checks be accompanied by e current Statement of earnings and deductions and cumulative year-to-date earnings and tax withholdings.
J. Overtime earnings shall be paid on the supplemental payroll.
B.	Compensation Adjustment
It ii agreed that diu ccig ih« [enti Of this Agreement for Ihe period July I, 1999-June 30, 2003, the following Salary and hinge benefit improvements shall be provided fo eligible employees in the unit within Ihe applicable policies and practices of Che Stale and in keeping with the conditions Set forth herein,
i.	Subject to the State Legislature enacting appropriations of funds for these specific pittposes, (he State agrees to provide the fclkwjfig benefits effective at lire time slated herein nr if later, within a reasonable time after enactmetll of the appropriation.
a.	The following across the board increases are applicable co employees in the tides: Correction Officer R&Ciuit; Correction Officer Recruit, Juvenile Justice: Senior Correction Officer; Senior Correction Officer, Juvenile histjee; Senior Interstate Escort Officer,
I.	Effective July 1, 1999 there shall be a four (4%) parent across-the-board increase applied to the then current base salary for al] employees in the cities set forth in paragraph B.l.a. above. The State Compensation Plan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance with established procedures to imsrporaie these increases for each Step of each salary range, Each employee Shall receive the increase by remaining at the step in the range occupied prior to the adjustment.
2.	Effective July I, 2Q0Q there shall be a four (4%) percent across-Ure-buard increase applied to the base salary in effect on June 30,2000 for all employees in the titles set forth m paragraph B.l.a. above. Two (2%) percent of 1be increase shall be paid effective July 1,2000. Two (2%) percent of the increase shall be paid on or shout January 1,2001. The State Cumpct'^ation Plan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance: with established procedures to incorporate the increase by remaining ar The Step tn the range occupied prior to Ilie adjustment. Each employee shall receive the increase by remaining at the Step in the range occupied prior to the adjustments,
3.	Effective July 1, 2001 there shall be a four (4%) percent across-lhe-board increase applied to the base salary in effect on June 20,2001 for all employees in The titles set forth in paragraph B.l.a- above. Two (2%) petCnW of the increase shall be paid effective July 1,2001. Two percent of the increase shall be paid on. or about January 1,21)02. TbeState Ccwitpensslioii Plan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance wilh established procedures to incorporate the increase hy remaining at the Step in (he range occupied prior to the adjustment, Each employee stall receive foe increase by remaining at foe Step in foe range Occupied prior to the adjustment.
4.	Effective July I, 2002 there; shall toe a four (4%) percent across-the-board increase: applied to the base salary in cffecl on June 30, 2002 for all employees in the tides set
19
ftuth in paragraph B.La. above. The State CtMupcasatjon Plan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance with established procedllrts to incorpofOle the increase by resuming art tite Step in the range occupied prior to Ihe adjustment. Each employee shall receive the increase by remaining at the Step in the range occupied prior CO ihe adjustment,
b.	The following across-the-board increases ere applicable tc> employees in ail titles in Appendix LU other than those tides listed in paragraph B. 1 ,a_abovc.
1.	Effective July lt 1999 there shall be Io a two and one-half (2.5%) percent acrosa-the-board increase applied to the than current base salary for all employees io the titles Set forth in paragraph B.l -b- above. The Stafte Compensation Flan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance wUh established procedures to incorporate these increases for each Step of each salary range, Each employee shall receive the Increase by remaining at the step in Ihe range Occupied prior to the adjustment.
2.	Effective July 3, 2000, there shall be a three and Obe-half (3.5%) percent across-the-board increase applied Io the base salary in effort ou June 30.2000 for all employees in the titles set forth in paragraph B. I .b, above. Two (2%) percent of (he increase shall be paid effective July 1, 2000. One and one-half (1.5%) percent of the increase shall be paid on or about January' l, 2001. Tht Stale Cotnpeiosaiion Plan Salary schedule shall he adjusted m accordance with established procedures to incorporate these increases for each Step of each oaUry range, Each employee shall receive the increase by remaining si the Step in the range occupied prior to foe adjustment,
3.	Effective July 1, 200L there shall be a four (4%) pcicmt acroes-foe-bcuuti increase applied to foe base salary in effect On June 30, 2001 for all employees in the titles set forth in paragraph B.l.b- above. Two (1%) percent of foe increase shall he paid effective July I, 2001. Two (2%) percent ofthe increase shall be paid On ur aborrt January 1,2002, The State Compensation Plan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance wifo established procedures to incorporate these increases for each Step of each salary range, Each employee shall receive the increase by remaining al the step in foe range occupied prior to the adj ustmehl.
4.	Effective July 1, 2002, thore shall be a four and one-half (4 %%) percent acroBE-the-board increase applied IO the base salary in effect on June 30,2002 for all employees in the titles set forth in paragraph B. t .b. above, Two (2%) percent of foe increase stud] be paid effective July 1, 2002. Two and one-half (2.5%) percent of 11k increase shall be paid cm Or about January lr 2003. The Iitate Compensation Flan Salary schedule shall be adjusted in accordance with established procedures to incorporate these increases for each Step of each salary range. Each employee shall receive the increase by remaining at the step in the range occupied prior to the adjustment
C, NctTYQtd iocremenls shall be paid Io all employee! eligible for such inuenients within the policies of foe Slate Compensation Plan during the lerm of this Agreement.
d.	Where the normal incremml has been denied due to an unsatisfactory pCTfotmanee rating, and if subsequenl performance of foe employee is determined by the Supervisor tt> have improved to the point which then warrants granting a merit increment, such increment may be granted effective on any of the three (3) quarterly action dates which follow foe anniversary date of foe employee, and subsequent 10 the improved performance and rating winch justifies such action. The normal anniversary date of such employee shall not be affected by this action.
e.	Employees who have been art the eighth step of the same range for J& months or longer shall be eligible for movement to foe ninth step providing their performance warrants this salary adjustment.
C. Employees serving in Lhe titles that are shown below who are not provided State Iransporlation shall be oompensaled at the rate of $21 (twenty-one cents) per milt for travel in their private vehicle to and from their place of pErmanent assignment and their permanent place of residenee in excess of twenty (2fl) highway miles each way. Such payments shall not be
20
Started nor enlarged as the result of an employee vqlufllarily moving hisfoer permanent residence A1 a lime that L? not coincidental to a change in their place of assigrunenL
Thi$ reirnburaetnatl shall be made monthly and. shall be mMe 10 only those eligible employees serving in the following titles;
Conservation Officer 3
Ranges J
Police Officer Heilth Care Facility
Marine Police Office? and Senior Marine Police Office/ Al I titles in ABC Division with in the unit Dr Dental Plan
Full-time employees and eligible dependents shall be eligible ftrt the State-adntiitistiaed Denta] Cart Program,
Participation in the Program shall be voluntary with a condition of participation being that each participating. employee authorize a bi-weekly salary deduction Dot to exceed fifty parent (30%) of the CoSt of the type of coverage elected, e.g. individual employee only, husband and wife, parent and cllild, or family coverage.
Each employee shall be provided with a brochure describing the details of the program and enrollment information and the required forme.
The current optional Group Dental Programs will conrioue during the term of this agreement with the Understanding that the providers comply with their contractual obligations 10 the State, Participation in the various group dental programs shaS be voluntary with a condition (hat each participating employee authorize a bi-weekly deduction not to tXc«d 5© percenl of the cost of the coverage for a one year period. Employees may enroll in only one of the available programs, or choose not to participate.
E~ Eye Cure Plan
Full-time employees and eligible dependents shall be eligible for the State-administered Eye Care Program. The program shall provide for each eligible employee and dependents to receive a SSS.OU payment for prescription eye glasses with regular Ieuan and a $40,00 payment for such glasses with bi-foca] lenses. Each eligible employee and dependent may receive only one payment during the two year period (hat thia program will be in effect. The exteusictti of benefits to dependents shall be effective only afler the employee haa been continuously employed for a minimum nf aixty (60) days.
Full-time employees and eligible dependents as defined above shall be eligible for a maximum payment of $35.CK? or the coat, whichever is Jess, of an eye examination by an Opthalmologi&l or an Optometrist.
Each eligible employee and dependent may receive only one payment for glasses and Obe payment for examinations during the period of July 1,1999 to June 30, 2001 and one payment for glasses and one payment for examinations during the period July 1, 20111 to June 30. 2003. This program ends on June 30, 2003.
F. Temporary Disability Plan
AH employees in this unit are covered in the State of New Jersey Temporary Disability Man. This is a shared cost plan which provides payments to employees who are unable to uyaric as the result of non-work connected illness or injury and who have exhausted their accumulated rick leave.
G- Deterred Cotnpciuatfoa Plan
ft is understood that the State sha]i continue the program which will permit eligible employees in. ibis negotiating unit to voluntarily authorize determent of a portion of thedr earned base salary so that Ute funds deferred can be placed in an Internal Revenue Service approved Federal Income Tax exempt investment plan. Th< deterred income so invested, and the interest or other income reLum on the investment arc friended W be exempt from current Federal Income TiiXJtion until the individual employee withdraws or otherwise receives such
21
fundi as piovided in the plan.
it is under stood that the State shall be solely responsible for the admtiiLriration of the plan And the determination of policies, conditions and regulations govoning its Implementation and U$c.
Tbe State shall provide literature describing the plan as well as a required enrollment or other forma to all employees.
Il is further ur>derelood that the jtiixnnnm amount of deferrable income under this plan shall be- twenty-five (2 5) percept Or S7500 whichct'er is less.
H.	Cooperative Effort
The parties to die agreement understand 1hat the public services provided to the fitizensof the State of New Jersey require a continuing cooperative effort particularly during this period of severe fiscal constraints. They hereby pledge themselves to achieve 1he highest level of service by jointly endorsing a concept of intensive productivity improvements which may assist in realising that objective. This provision is not ruiended to nullify' or modify any portion of the SLEU Agreement.
ARTICLE XV
Vacations
A- Vaca God Allowance
Permanent employees shall be granted vacation leaves with pay as follows:
1.	One (1) working day of vacation for each month of Employment during (he £Lr&1 Calendar year of emplcymenl-
2.	Twelve (12) workingdays of vacation ftom Oft! (1} to five (5) yearsof service. 3. Fifteen (15) working days of vacation from six (6) to twelve (12) years of service.
4.	Twenty (2Q) woriring days of vacation from thirteen (13) to twenty (20) years of service.
5.	Twenty-five (25) working days of vacation after the twentieth {20) year of service.
Vacation allowance must be taken during 1h.e currenl calendar year at such time as permitted or ditecied, except where 1]Wre is mutual agreement or pressure of work, then a maximum of one (1) year of earned vacation allowance may be carried forward into the next succoeding. year. An employee's request to carry forward earned vacation into the next sue Meding year shall be made in writing (0 the appropriate appointing authority and may be approved for good reason and providing (hal the employee and hiafacr supervisor have scheduled the use of such earned vacation allowance. Such approval and scheduling shall not be unreasonably withheld. Where an employee has earned vacation Credit in excess of a one (1) year allowance as of October 31, the employee will meet with his supervisor to schedule such vacation, time.
B.	Vacation Schedule
L Il is imderataod that the current program Co schedule vacation time ar each institution will be continued and Iha1 such program will include a procedure for advance schedule of vacation time. Such advance scheduling procedures shall allow employees to reserve some portion of their annual vacation allotment to he used a$ individual days off upon request through tire proper procedure established for tbat purpose. The idfowaoce for the above described practice shall not be less than five (5) days for all employe®. Conflicts concerning dates of vacation for those weeks that are scheduled in the advance scheduling period will be resolved within the work uni1 On the basis of State seniority. Use of the days that are reserved for individual use will be honored on a first come, first served basis. Requests fof the use of individual days of vacations that are made at lea$148 hours in advance will not be denied on Lhe basis of timeliness. Nothing herein shall preclude an appointing authority from establishing a shorter advance notice practice.
2.	Whenever limitation* are imposed on (be scheduling of vacations because of
22
operational requirements in a work Unit, the agency involved will clearly establish and publish the rules and regulations. For all employees except the Corrections Group, file lOtul number of weeks of available vacation for each work unit during each of die periods outlined below shall bt determined by the agency and die regulations as to scheduling such vacation shall not violate the following criieria of a, to £. inclusive;
a.	Each employee shall have the opportunity to take at least one (1) week of sunuper vacation during the period, between the week in which May 15 occurs through the week in which September 15 occurs, The choice of available time shall be made by employees On die basis of State seniority. Thia provision, is not intended, to preclude marugfiment from granting more (tian one week of vacation during the period described if operational concerns are otherwise satisfied,
b.	During at least three (3) individual or consecutive months of the year the maxintltni allowable vacation for which an employee may apply shall not be less than three (3) consecutive weeks.
0,	During at least six (6) individual or consecutive months, including those months in b, above, the maximum allowable vacation for which an employee may apply shall not be less than two {2) consecutive weeks.
d.	ritmng the remainder of the aalcndiu year the, maximum alLuwabJe vacation {Or which an employee may apply shallnotbe less than one (1) week,
e.	Notte of the allowance limits stated above art inlmdcd 10 preclude the granting of Lesser periods of vacation if requested by an employee or granting full use of vacation when it can be Allow ed.
f.	It is understood that dne to Seasonal work load requirements or emergencies, the agency Wy select months in which no vacations can be scheduled except that the provision of a. above may not be violated.
g.	Ji :s also understood that when such limitations apply, but the employees in the agency do not fully subscribe for ihe amoutil of vacation leave which the work unit has determined can he available, then Other employees in the work unit who wish lo utilisu rtiOre of their earned and available vacation than would normally be Allowed shall St given reconsideration And, where reasonable, allowed to suheduie such additional time even if in excess of the established rules.
h.	Should the agency prepose new rules and regulatioos concerning vacation scheduling, they shall be discussed with the employee representatives before they are fmaltzcd and become operable.
3.	Where the vacation schedule ts established but there is need to adjust the schedule due la unforeseen pressure of the work, after voluntary changes are made, the employees named arid required to make a change wj]] be in inverse order of Their seniority except that consideration will be given u> a substantial oamraitmenj made hy the employee involved. Vacation schedules shall not be changed later (han thirty (30j days prior to the vacation unless mutually agreed upon or in case of emergency.
C.	Payment For Vacation
I.	tfpciiH separation from the State, or upon retirement, an employee shall be entitled lo vacation allowance for Ihe cumnn year prorated upon tfae number of months worked in the calendar year in which the separation or retirement becomes effective and any vacation leave which itiuy have Ixen carried over from, (he preceding calendar year.
2.	if a permanent employee dies having vacation credits, a sum of money etfual to the corapensatirm figured on bis salary rate al die time of his death shall be calculated and paid to his estate.
ARTICLE AVI
Hatidays
I.	The pod holidays which are reeogniTtd holidays fw fee poposcs of this Agiujueui, are its fbltows;
New Year’s Dey
Martha Luther King's Birthday (Jnj Mofidty in January)
Unco In's Birthday
WasttingfcmTs Birthday (3rd Mcmctey in February)
Good Friday
Memorial Day (Last Monday in May)
IndepaidaiDe Day
labor Day
Columbus Day (2nd Monday in October)
Election Day
Veteran's Day iNuVranbert 1)
ThsaksgiviagDay
Christinas Day
In the oljjL any vf the abort atatnluiy Ivlidayv (all «i a Sunday, they alndi be ccMjTBtal on the foTiowmg Monday. Id the event any of the above statutory holidays M <w a Saturday, they shall be celebrated do the preceding Friday.
J,	!□ addition to the afcuttnentkmed holi&ys, the State will grant a hoiidjry wtra Ihe Go veneer tteclana a holiday by PitJclaniiLDO-
3.	Compensation for boors waited on a holiday shall be 10 accordance with Meril System Regulations.
ARTICLE XVU
Personal Preference Day*
Daring fee month of January employees may sabKUt requests tor alternative holidays to those specified to be celebrated within fee calendar year winch shall be titles of pasoual preferetKe such he religious holidays, empkww birthday, anployce mnrvmary or like days of celebration, provided:
a the agency arpktyHig fee individual agrees and schedules the alternative dale off in Heu of the Holiday specified and the esoploytng agency i S scheduled to upr^tdc uu the alternative dates dsltd;
b. the employee shall be paid on fee holiday worked and rtefared st hia regular daily rate Of pay;
e. the connnjtnwaK to schedule the personal preference day off shall be DCnwcvok^le;
<1 and provided farfeet fealiG due tn an-enwgrsicy, the anphryee is requaed Id western fee selected persona) preference day he shall be paid «the same basis as if it woe a holiday wotkEd
Where more nquesta far pound prafamwe <L*ys are made than am be accommodated within a work unit, tbe St^e seniority of employes in the work unit shall be fee beris for scheduling the pmonal preference days which can be accOmmodaed.
ARTICLE XVTTl
Admin tarative Leave
A.	Employe^ shall be oititkd to three (3) days of administrative leave of absence with pay in each edeodar year.
AdurimStrative leave my be used [or CfiMrgttjCieS, personal brnmeaa, pcasoa) affaira or obServsticD of religions or other days of celebration but dp! holidays.
24
B.	Neiriy hired employees shall be granted Otte-half () day of administrative leave after each full calendar mouth of employment to a maximum of three (3) days during die remainder of the calendar year in which he ia employed.
C.	Administraiive leave shall be granted by the appointing authority upon request of the employee and leave shall be scheduled in advance provided the request maybe granted without interference with (he proper conduct of the government function involved.
Priority in granting Such requests shall be (1) emergencies, (2) observation of religious or other days of celebrations but not holidays^ (3) personal business, (4} other personal affairs. Where, within a work unit, there are more requests than can be granted for uae of this leave for One of the purposes above, the conflict will then be resolved on the basis of State seniority and the maximum number of such requests shall be granted in accordance with (he first paragraph of C. Administrative leave may be scheduled in units of One-half () day, one (1) day or more than one 11) day.
Requests for the use of an adminiRtralive leave day for a ntui'cmergency that are made at least 48 hours in advance shall not be denied solely on the basis of timeliness. Uns does not preclude appointing authority from establishing a shorter advance notice practice. Requests for the use of administrative Leave for emergency purposes can he made at any lime prior to th* leave, D, Such leave credit shall not accumulate, Unused balances in any year shall be cancelled.
ARTICLE XIX
Special Time Otf
A Emergency or Special Observations
Whenever the Governor may declare a special emergency Or observation, of any event of State or national concern and authorizes time off to employee* of the Stale for Etc observation of such event, those employees covered by thia Agreement who are required to work during the period of the authorized time off shall be compensated for Buch hOOra worked 4s outlined iQ Article XXVUT, Hours of Work, and Article XXIX, Overtime.
B. Other
Whenever the Governor may declare time off for all employees (such as a day preceding or following an existing holiday) those Who are required to work on that day shall he compensated for such hours worked by being granted equivalent time oil at other times in accordance with the Governor's proclamation, Otas provided by the appointing authority and, if operationally feasible, as requested by the employee. If the time off QCCtin on a seven (7) day Operation employee's regular day oft, Wshe shall be granted equivalent time off in accordance with the above provision.
ARTICLE XX
Compensatory Time Off
A.	When employees accunralalt compensatory time balances, the administrative procedures of ths department involved shall be followed to assure the employee that such compensatory balances wili not be taken away but will be Scheduled as time off or alternatively paid in cash.
B.	Employees requests for uae of compensatory time balances shall be honored. Priorities in honoring requests for use of compensatory rime balances will be grven to employees:
1,	where an emergency exists,
2.	where scheduled one (1) month in advance,
3.	where shorter notice of request is marie,
Requests for use of such time under 2 and 3 will be honored except where emergency tondirions exist or where the dates requested Conflict vrith holiday or vacation schedule*. Requests for the use of Compensatory time made at least 48 hours id advance shall not be dented solely on the basis of timeliness. This does not preclude an appointing authority from
25
estabtistung a shorter rustics practice.
C.	An employee may be required to schedule coijipcnsatory time off in keeping with the needs within a work Unit. Reasonable notice will be given to the employee.
D.	Ordinarily, a maximum of one hundred (100) hours. of cornpensaimy time may be carried by any employee. Where the balance exceeds one hundred (100} hour*, the employee and the Supervisor will meej co amicably schedule such compensatory time off.
ARTICLE XXI
Sick Sheave
Ar The sick leave policy shall be as follows:
(I)	During [he rgmaincter of the calendar year in which an employer first acquires permanent status, that employee win accumulate sick leave privileges as earned on the basis of ooe (I) day per month of service or major fraction [hereof
(1)	Permanent employes. starting with the second year of permanency shall be emitted to fifteen (15) days sick leave each calendar year on A cumulative basis. The leave is Credited in advance at the beginning' of the year in anticipation of continued employment fix the full year and may be used on the basis and in accordance with established Slate policy.
B.	In all cases of illness, the employee is required to notify his superior of the reason for absence. Notification will be given to the design****! person at the earliest possible time bul in no event less that] Ooe (1) hour befiire the scheduled Starting time.
If Special uircumstances require an earlier notification time. maoagemetU end the Association will work (he problem out and establish the Horificstkm nroe,
If the duration of absence exceeds two (2) consecutive days, it will be necessary' to report on every third day. Failure to report absences or abuse of siek leave privileges qn the part of Any employee may be cause for disciplinary action. A personal physician's certificate may be required to substantiate (he request for tick leave but (hl$ requirement shall not be imposed on a basis inconsistent with (he Merit System Rules and Regulations.
C.	Sick leave fur absences of mure [han ten (10J days must be requested by the employee in writing to his imntediate supervisor. This request must be accompanied by a written and signed statement by a personal physician prescribing the reasons for the sick leave and the anticipated duration of the incapacity.
D.	If there is a death in (he family as defined in the State Sick Leave Program and an employee has exhausted his sick leave balance, he shall be granted leave without pay or may charge leave against vacation or administrative leave or compensatory lime balances tor up to three (□) days upon his request to the appointing authority. In exceptional situations, the time limit may he extended at the discretion of the appointing authority.
E.	Siek Uave While on Vacation
(1)	When an employee is on vacation and requires sick Leave for any portion uf that vacation leave, he muat immediately request the Use of accumulated Stek leave, in accordance with State regulations, through the designated authority. Such requests may he made by telephone, telegram or letter, hut if by phone, should be confirmed by telegram or letter to clearly establish time of request. No Rtck Leave win be credited unless supporting medical evidence verify log the illness or injury which would have precluded working is presented,
(2)	TW employees Use of accumulated s»dk leave for a abort period of emergency attendance Upon a member of the ifrirnadiaie family critically til, and requiring his presence, may be approved if a proper request is made and evidence of Ute need presented as required in (1) above,
F.	Afi sick leaves are subject to approval.
G.	Employees will not be charged for sick leave on a holiday or for the SChedutad day off in lieu of a holiday.
2Z
■I
:i
H- Whenever a permanent employee enters retirement pursuaul io the provisions of a State administered or approved retirement system and has to his credit any earned unused accumulated sick leave, be shall be entitled to receive supplemental compensation for such earned and unused accumulated sick leave, Ihe supplemental cotnpenasiion payment to be paid shall be computed at the rate of ono-half (J of the eligible employee's daily rate of pay (breach day of earned and unused accumulated sick leave based upon the average annual compensation received during the last year of bis employment prior 10 the effective of his retirement, provided, however, that no such supplemental compensation payment shall exceed 515,000. This supplemental compensation shall be paid in a tump sum after the effective date of retirement Or at the option of the employee 00 Quarterly dales: January J, April 1, Juiy ] and October 1, with payments beginning on the quarterly date next following. the date of retirement I, An employee who has been absent On sick leave for periods Itfallmg fifteen 05) days in one (1) calendar year consisting of periods of less than five (5} days, shall submit acceptable medical evidence for any additional sick leave in that year unless such illness is of a chronic or recurring nature requiring recurring absences of one 0) day or less in which, case only one certificate shall be necessary for a period of six (6) months.
ARTICLE XXD
Leave of Absence Dae to lijary
Ari employee covered by Ltius Agreement who is disabled because of a job-related injury or disease may, if it is approved, ha granted a leave of absence with pay. Contingent Upon the availability of departmental funds legally usable for this purpose, such approved leave may be grunted with full pay. with reduced pay, or with full pay for a certain period and reduced pay thereafter.
Any amount of salary or wages paid of payable to an employee for disability leave shall be reduced by the amount of Voiko's compttiaatioa award under the Sew Jersey 'Worker's Compensation Act for temporary disability.
Such leave may be granted for up to one (1) year from the date of injury or [[Incss and shall be based on medical or cither proof of the injury or illness and the Continuing disability of the employee.
If the State requires an employee 10 visit a specific physician in connection with a leave of absence due to a job related injury or disease, ihe State shall reimburse that employee for travel expenses incurred in accordance with Ibe provisions of the State TrtVeE Regulations.
This program shall be wimmistered in accordance with Rules and RegulaHians promulgated by the Department ofPersonnel. ,
article xxiri
Special Leave
A. Ab employee shall be granted necessary time off without loss of pay when he is summoned and performs jury duty as prescribed by applicable law; or when required To pedbrm emergjmry civilian duty in relation to national defense or other emergency when so ordered by the Governor or the President of The United Stales. When his appearance is required during a shift period which js immediately contiguous to his scheduled shift and wholly within Che day of such duty, he shall be excused from Such shift without loss of pay. If his Shift hours extend fretti One day ic the next, turd the required appearance is during a shi ft period not immediately contiguous Io bis scheduled shift. the employee shall have the Option of choosing to be excused from the scheduled work shift prior 10 or after the required appearance provided the shift from which he is excused is partly' wilhin the day of such duty, In no event Is an employee to be excused from his work schedule for more days than the number of days of Such duty performed. H, When tin employee is summoned to appear as a witness before a court, legislative committee, ar judicial or quaai-iudicial body, unless the appearance is as a party to the litigation
27
in a matter unrelated to bis capacity as an employee or office of bis agency, tee Shall be granted necessary time off without kiss of pay Lf such appearance is riming his scheduled Wutk shift. Wbon his appearance is during a shift period immedtalely contiguous to his scheduled shift, he shall be granted necessary compensatdry time equal to the hours required for such duty.
C.	In no case will this special leave be granted or credited for more than eight (8) bouts tD any day or forty (40) hours tn any week.
D.	The employee shall notify management immediately df his requiremect for this leave, and subsequently fttmish evidence that he performed the duty for which Che Leave was requested.
ARTICLE XXIV
Pregnancy - Disability Leave (Maternity Leave)
A Permanent employees covered by this contract shall he entitled to pregnancy -disability leave as hereinafter set forth and consistent with Meric System Regulations.
IL Pregnancy - disability leave with or without pay shall be granted in ihe same manner and under the same terms and conditions as rick leave. Request for such leave mutt be made by the employee tn writing to the Personnel Department.
C. Ths appointing authority may request Keeptabla medical evidence that the employee is enable lo perform her work due to disabiiily because of pnffuocy.
Ek An employee may use accrued Leave time |e.g. sick, vacation, admitlisuaiive) for pregnancy - disability purposes, however, a) the employee shall not be required to exhaust accrued leave before miring a leave without pay for pregnancy shstbilicy, and b) the employee must exhausi all her accrued sick leave prior to being eligible for New Jersey Temporary Disability Insurance.
E.	Child eftre leave, which is only granted as a leave without pay, may be granted by the appointing authority under the same tents and conditions applicable to all Other personal leaves wrthoui pay,
ARTICLE XXV
Leave of Absence Without Pay
A A permanent employee, upon written application setting forth the reason, may be granted a leave of absence without pay for a maximum period Of one (I) year. Fortber, leave in exceptional situations may be gianted where it is io the public interest.
B.	The appointing authority shall request approval from the Department of Personnel for a leave of absence without pay up to a ttiaximuni period of one {]) yesr for an employee elected Or appointed to a full-lime position Wilt the Association or the State P.B.A. Such leave may be renewed on an annual basis as the terra of office of such petition requires to a total period not exceeding four (4) years. This privi lege may be extended to a maximum of three (J) employees at any one time.
C,	All requests for (save of absence or renewal are subject to approval.
ARTICLE XXVI
Leave for Association Activity
A1, The Slate agrees Lo provide leaves of absence with pay for desdgnees of the Association to attoid Association activities. A total of 155 days of such leave may be used in the year July 1, 1999 to June 30, 2000; 955 days during the period July L 2000 to June JO, 2001 and 955 days during the period July 1,2OCU io June 30,2002 and 955 days during ihe period of July 1, 2002 to lime 30,2003.
2.	The total number of days of such leave which may be used in each year shall be exclusive of leave provided umder the provisions of Netv Jersey law and ordinarily granted Under that statute.
B, This leave is to be used for participation in appropriate Association activity for which
2fi
ipproprijue approval by the Stale is required. Such approval will not be unreasonably withheld. C. 1. Application for the use of such Leave on behalf of the designees of the Association shall be made in writing fourteen (14) days in advance by the Association President to the OfEoe of Employee Relations.
2.	Timely requests for such (eave will be approved based upon the condition that the employee's absence will not cause undue hardship or the inability of ihe work tmat to function effectively. When possible, work schedules will be adjusted to eliminate this problem.
3.	Leaves will he granted to individuals authorized by the President.
D. Any leave not utilised m a yearly period shall not be accumulated except where a written request of the Association for cany' over of such leave for a particular purpose is nude not Jaier than thirty (30) days prior Io the end of the year period. This reqxtesl may be approved in whole or in part by tbe State.
&. Id addition, the Stale agrees to provide leave of absence without pay for designees of the Association to attend Association activities approved by Che State, A total of [30 days of such leave of absence without pay may be used during the period July 1,1999 10 June 30,2000; 400 days of leave of absence without pay during the period July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2Q01,400 day? during ihe period July 1, 2001 Co June 30,2002 and 400 days during the period July I, 2002 IO June 30,2003,
This additional leave of absence without pay ia to be Used under Ihe Same conditions and reatriclions expressed in connection with, the leaves of absence with ply.
ARTICLE XXVJI
Military Service Lnve
The existing State Statutes with regard to leave for military service in their preatrrt slate nr as they may be amended will be observed by the patties hereto. The benefits under these applicable statures shall be provided for any eligible employee tn this bargaining unit.
ARTICLE XXVHI
Hours of Work
A, The workweek for each job classification Mitin the unit shall be coarisieot with its designation in the Stale Compensation Plan.
B. 1. All employees shall be scheduled to work a regular shift as determined by the appointing authority which work shift shall have-slated starting and quitting times.
2.	Employees shall be given five (5) days of notice of permanent or temporary shift schedule changes which affect them. Change? which are required id cases of emergent circumstances arc excepted from this proviskm.
3.	In situations where totaling shifts are the normal practice, the supenns officer making 1he schedule shall minimise the- circurtistanccs where less than forty-five (45) hours time off is provided lo the atftcled employee when changing from the day shift to any other shift, C Normally, when an ctwjilww is c.»Llsd iittn work. outside hi.?, tegula shift. he will be provided a full work shift or the balance of the shift 1o which he is called. When an employee is called into work outside hi? regularly Scheduled shift, he shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2} hours compensation whether or not the rwo (2) hours are worked, except when the end of the cal kin period coincides with, ths beginning of his regular shift.
D.	The lime sheet of an employee will he made available for inspection hl his requ«1.
E,	Employees who are designated as "NE" may be ICcited as exceptions to the provisions of B. (l)audC.
F.	As a getiecul rule, when an employee's normal work schedule is made up, his normal days off will be scheduled on consecutive day? in accordance with the need? and operational eifoctiveftws of the agency for which he works-
G.	Where conditions of work permit, a rest period of fifteen (’5) minutes shall be provided
during each one-half () shift and employees who are requited to work beyond their regular gritting time into the next ship may receive an additional fifteen (15) ntintlte rest period when the period of w&tk beyond Ihtir regular shift exceeds two (2) hours.
K. Effective July 1, 2000, Senior Correction Officers shall be employed on a normal Work schedule of eight (8) hours per day (40 hours per 5 day week). Each officer shall have thirty (30) minutes for meal time within each work shift which shall be duty stems.
The overtime provisions of this Agreement shall pertain to all time worked beyond these normal work schedules.
ARTICLE XXIX
Overtime
A. Overtime Will accrue and compensation will be made in compliance with the Merit System Rides and Regulations and Personnel Manuel. Eligible employees will be compensated at the rate of time and one*half(1.5) for overtime hums accrued in excess of (he designated work week, These compensation credits shall be given in compensatory time or in cash.
1.	For the purpose of computing overtime, all holiday houtt, whether worked or not, for which an employee is compensated shall be regarded as hours worked. Overtime pay shall not be pyramided.
2.	"Scheduled overtime" means overtime assigned prior to the day on which it is to be wo rite d.
3-	"Notwcheduled overtime" means assigned overtime made on the day on which it is to be worked.
4.	"Incidental overtime" is a period of assigned nou-SCheduled overtime worked of Less than fifteen (I $} minutes.
5.	When a scheduled wrbhift exteftds from cure (1) day to the next, it is considered to be on (he day m which the larger portion of the hours are scheduled and all hours of the scheduled shift arc considered to be on that day.
8. I. The Scare wfjl give adWK* titrtitx- af all scheduled oVOrtnne to each employee concerned. Such scheduled overtime will be assigned minimally in units of one (I) hour and in hourly Or half-hourly increments (hereafter when Such overtime is (o be performed contiguously to the employee's scheduled work shift. When overtime is scheduled not contiguous to the employee's work shift, it will be assigned minimally in units of Iwo (2) hours and in hourly or half-hourly increments thereafter. All such scheduled overtime will be in accordance witft the provisions expressed in "Scheduling of Overtime".
2.	An employee who is assigned nan-scheduled overtime in excess af fifteen (J5) minutes will be guaranteed a minimum of one (1) hour's work. Aft employee who is called, in for non-schcdulcd overtime shall be guaranteed a mindmom of Iwo (2) Jmjuts work except when the end of the ea.11-i.ti period coincides with the beginning of his regularly scheduled shift. When an employee On the job is required to work non-scheduled overtime, notice of al leaaJ two (2) hours shall be given where the circumstances which make the assignment necessary are known sufficiently in advance to provide such notice.
3.	Where incidental overtime assignments are niade, records of all such tiijte worked Shall be kepi on a daily basis, and shall be paid in cash at time and one-half in the pay period that the incidental overtime is performed.
4.	Exceptions to the above provisions cOhcetnirtg Correction Officers and Senior Correction Ofricera are set forth in Article XXVIII. paragraph H-
ARTICLE XXX
Scheduling ul Overtime
A.	ft u agreed that overtime work shall be shared by all employees in an occupational classification within any work unit without discrimination. The t>pportuniry to work scheduled
30
overtime shall be extended to each empfo^ee co a rotatiotul basis provided the employee is capable of" perfonning the wrk wtcepl where the nvertiroe requirement is caused by at: emergency condition. The declaration of an emergency shall be by the ranking authority at tile location of institution involved or an authorized designee.
B.	Each employee is expected to be available foi u reasonable amount of overtime work. An Employee who refuses an overtime assignment with a reasonable excuse will not be subjected to disciplinary action. Where a P-B.A. local president ts required to attend previously Scheduled SLELJ contract negotiations routings with the Stale or a grievance hearing as prescribed in this Agreemetll or the regular monthly meetings of the local, and where non-emergency overtime is io be assigned at the same time of such a meeting, the president aha]] be excused from the teqirirement to perform the conflicting nvertitue, providing 4 request to be excused is initiated by the president whet) the offered overtime assignment is tint made,
A designee of the president w]w has been named and acknowledged by (he Slate will be accorded a similar privilege only when Jiao-emergency assignments would Conflict with attendance at contract negotiations meetings with the State or a scheduled grievance hearing under the conditions set forth above.
C.	On a Semi-arinual basis commencing *ith the implementatiotl of this provision, the distribution of overtime shall be evaluated .md assignmentr of ovectime mode (hereafter sLul] reflect the approximate equalization of Overtime for each employee in the worir unit by job classification.
For the purpose of determining approximate equalization of overtime, any overtime assignment offered, whether Or not walked, vail be considered as if it were worked.
To the extent that a disproportionate distribution of Overtime exists because of special ability or inability to perform (he work assignments, those hours will not be considered in (he Semi-annual equalization. This provision will notht abused.
D.	Lists Showing the rotational order of each employee and the total overtime worked and refused by' each employee shall be maintained in the work unit. Such lists shall be made available for inspection on request to Association Officers and employees concerned.
An overtime assignment is accepted subject to all appiupiiate rules and regulations of the State or Department and provisions ofthis Agreement,
ARTICLE XXXI
Transfer ud Reautgutoent Rights
A. Upon any transfer or reassignment of a permanent employee all rick leave and vacation balances shall be transferred with the employee. Upon voluntary transfer or reassignmenl, all aixru&d csmpensatoiy time will, art the discretion of (he State, be transferred with (tie employee, taken as time oil prior to transfer or reasrignmedl or paid in Cash at the employee's current rate ofpay.
R Upon involuntary transfer or reassignment of a permanent employee, all accrued compensatory time balances shall he transferred with the employee.
ARTICLE XXXT1
Job Posting
A,	To keep employees within 3 Department or organizational unit informed of positions in which they may be interested for reassignment or promotion and to provide an upportimily to apply, existing ur planned job vacancies shall be posted prominently for seven (7) calendar days, The posting shall include a description of the job, including the shift and days off as appropriate, any required qualifications, the location of the vacancies and the procedure to be followed by employees interested in making application.
B,	Any pcrtlianent job post which is to be filled shall be posted •within Seven (7) days. Nothing lierein shall be construed to limit the eutlwtyof the Stale to till any Such position.
31
C.	A copy of each police posted will be forwarded to the appropriate Iwai Associauoo m hoc.
ARTICLE XXXIH
Pro tt>« th) 11
Protnolj'on means the advancement of an employee to a job classification at a higher salary range.
A Upon promotion of a permanent employee, all sick leave and Vacation balances shall be transferred with the employee.
B.	Upon promcirion, an employee shall be informed pfhis new rate of compensation one (1) week in advance of the effective dale.
<L Provisional promotional appctnlmWls shall, he made only in cases of emergency when no employment list exists,
D. When an employee is given an Opportunity on a trial or provisional basis IP qualify1 for promotion by serving in a new classification. his permanency in his regular penmtnetU job classification shall ba continued during such trial Or provisional period and he shall have the opportunity to return to such permanent classification in the event the promotional opportunely shall not became permanent provided there is no discharge action for cause.
EX When it has been determined that a position which represents a provisional promotional oppontmlty is tone tilled. employees st Hit- locaiiujj »bere ihc opportunity cxincn shall be given preference wer arty applicant who hte r«ot passed an examination for the position, provided the local employee 10 be appointed is on the active Department of Personnel promotional ]is,
ARTICLE XXXIV OuM&TUte Work
A,	Employees shall be assigned work appropriate to iutd within theor job classification.
The assignment of out-of-tille work t>n a regular and continuing basis, exclusive of stand-in for limited periods for vacation, sick leave t>r other leaves, shall be avoided. Instances of such out-of-title work identified by the Association and formally brought j£> the attention of the Slate shall be corrected immediately or by phasing out such assignments at the earliest possible time which Shall in any case be no later than three (3) months from 1h* time of notificaiion by the Association. Any dispute as to whether the work is within Ihe job classification of 1he employee^} involved may be resolved by appeal to ihe Department of Personnel where the matter will he heard within twenty-one (21} days and a decision rendered within fifteen (15) days of that hearing- Any dispute wuceming the phasing oul period will be resolved through ihe grievance procedure .
B,	Each employee shall be furnished a copy of the job specification for the position in which he or she is employed upon request.
ARTICLE XXXV'
Position Reevatiation Review
A The Association may request a reevalualion of a classified position (job classification}, on the basis of job content change only. The State will review such a request and will re-evaluate the position, provide an oppommity for the Association to present its views, and render a written decision.
Itjiplettientaiion of any resulting reelasrification Of position shall be made consistent with nonrial procedures and availability of funds,
This provision shall mrt be abused.
B.	The Union may present requests for position rcevaluatfon review for unclassified positions to the departmental personnel office for coiwideration. if, subsequent to review, the department fines such request to be meritorious the department may, on its own initiative,
32
pwjauv ujl l»=iujc me ptupcr aeunonueS.
ARTICLE XXXVI
Layoff jmd Recall
4.	When rt Is necessity to lay off employees, the Association shall be notified st toot, and the conditions outlined below and the established prelections adnUrtistcred by the Department of Personnel shall be observed.
Ek Petmancnl employees wltlifo an organizational] totit will not ho laid off before any cun^fgency appointments., tenfiporBjy appointments Io temporary position$> provisional apporntmeflis to permanent positions Or employea serving in worfting test periods within Ebe classification affected- These non-petman®ii employees will be given Jniitimum notice of al least two (2) weeks of any reduction in force.
C.	The State will provide a minimum of forty-live (45) calendar days notice of layoff to any permanent employee to be affected.
D.	Joh classification seniority shall be a determining factor to-be considered when identifying which permanent employees are io be laid off
E- Whenever possible, the Stare wilt try to avoid layoff by transferring, reassigning or offering lo demote employees 1o available vacates.
F. Permanent employees alieclcd by layoff requirements may exercise bumping rights within Jtwir job classification or to equated or lower rated job cLassificatiete as provided.
C. The name of the permanent employee who is laid off shall be placed on a special reemployment list. Persons on such a list will be given preferenrijil consideration over any Other typo of applicant for appointment of the job clasrificatjnn w equated job classification and no new employee shajl be hired until all employees an layoff status deririnj, to return to work shall have been lecnlled. provided such employees on layoff states are capable of returning to work. The employee tnust provide the employer wi1k any addnisS change while w aiting for recall.
H. Permanent employees will be recalled to work in the reverse order in which they were lajd o-ffby th* appointing authority, subject to the limitation fliat those permanent employees who were laid off first fof raison of an unsatisfactory performance rating shall be placed on a special reemployment list in accordance with their senicniy credits. Notice of recall will be made in writing by mail to the employee's home address of record.
T. ] An employee wlw is recalled must respond wtlltio five (5} caleridntr days of the dale of receipt of |he notice o’ certification for recall or within ten (10) days of (be date of mailing or be considered to hitve abandoned his recall rights.
2.	An employe* recalled (y his former job classifitMicn nwst report foj reinstatement or be considered to have abandoned his recall rights.
3.	An employee recalled to a job classification with a lower salary rate than his previous joh classification may refuse such position and remain eligible for recall.
J.	An employee on layoff aevrues no additional rick leave or vacation credits. When an employee is recalled from layoff and reinstated, he i> considered to have continuous service credit for computation of future earned vacations.
K,	Layoff In Unclassified Service
In The event there is a layoff affecting Eric unclassified employees in this unit it is agreed that the terms and conditions Surrounding the definition and application of seniority by Merit System regulation shall be applied to those employee* affected as though the regulations were applicable.
L.	Tt is recognized that ths provisions of paragraph? A through J above are illustrative portions of itie layoff and recall rights established under Merit System SlXdutes and Regulations and that ihe overall system is administered by the Department of Personriet,
33
ARTICLE AAA.V U
Safety
A. The Slate shall cuntmue to make reasonable provision* for ihe safety and health of its ettiployees during the hours of then employment and wilt continue io provide appropriate Safety devices for their protection a&d to provide a reasonably safe and healthful place of ertiploynjent-
.B. The Stile agrees to provide adequate and regularly, maintained sanitary facilities for employee use. Each employee will maintain acceptable standards of personal bygievic and cleanliness in accordance with (he requirements of his job.
C.	An employee must report incidents of unsafe Or onheafthfiil conditions to his supervisor immediately. Complaints of unsafe or unbeaJthful conditions shall be promptly investigated. Corrective action Shall be initiated at the earliest time practicable to bring such oondjtirwis Within established safety guidelines providing necessary resources are available.
D.	Employees shall not he required to work under conditions of work which are determined to present 10 imminent hazard to safety or health- An employee whose wrote is tempD-nrriJy elimdnaled aS a result of the foregoing may be assigned on an interim basis to Other work which the employee is deemed to be qualified lo perform.
£. The State and rhe Association shall establish a Joitll Safety and Health Committee ccn lifting L>f fouj 44) iLitiubtLi Appointed by each party. Regular quarterly meetings wi!l b* scheduled as required to jimm safety and health problems or hazard* and programs and to make recommendations concerning improvement or modification of conditions regarding health and safely, The Association Shall supply an agenda when requesting a meeting. Where reasonably possible, all committee meetings shall take plane during working hours and employees shall suffer no loss of pay' as a result of attendance at such meetings.
f ■ In the event of an on-the-job injury requiring professwraal medical attention, the State will expedite Such medical attention by tailing for AD ambulance if required, Of, if the injured employee can be moved, arranging transportation lo a competent medical iiitiliLy. Time off required fc>T medical attention on the date of such mjury shall not be charged against his accumulated iick leave balance.
G.	It is understood that references to safety and health hazard? and conditions of wtuk referred to in this article are not Ltllended |O include those hazards attendant lo the employment of these employees as policemen, and which represent the risks normally SSSOCiable with such employment.
H.	Any arbitrator’s decision or award mlopreting Of applying section A of this Article Shall be advisory and ODD-binding. as specifically noted in Article XL Section H-5, Crrievance Procedure.
ARTICLE XXXVTIJ
Fringe Benefit*
A.	Health JaSUr'abcc
1.	State Health Benefits Program
a.	During the term of this Agreement (he Slflie shall continue to provide and CO pay the full cost Of the current Slate Health Benefits Program of New Jersey Blue Cross/Blue Shield, which shall be the series "1420" plan including Rider "I" and Major Medical Benefits for ah eligible employees in the unit. As defined imtfe-r the State Health Benefits Program, employees' eligible dependents who are enrolled in (he Program shall be covered without cos: to the employee.
b.	The Stele will extend to A maximum period of ninety (90) days the health insurance Coverage for eligible employees and iheir covered dependents enrolled in Che State Health Benefits Program upon exhaustion of such employee's accumulated sick and vacation leave and woo are granted an approved sick leave without pay, with (He Stale paying the cost.
In those- instances where the leave of absence (or and extension of such leave) wjlhout
34
r-> —'■ ->•—..wi'- uA-xsauuj	tue eiupmy«tnay stmprepay Bejua HtiJeiiS
premiums at foe group rate provided to the State for foe coverage provided in paragraph ®. for the next Iwo huddled and seventy (270} days of lire approved leave of absence following ihe period of ninety ($0) days paid for by the State a$ provided in 1he paragraph above.
2.	Health Maintenance Organization
Pursuant to N.J .SA. 2fi:2 J-1 through 30, emptoyew may opt to receive medical coverage from approved Health Msinlrnarjce Organizations, when available, in lieu of (he ponnal coverage Under the State Heahh Benefits Program. Eligibility requirements and administrative prcxwditfw arc governed by the Stile Health Benefits Conunisaion- Pursuant to NJ.S.A, 2tf:2J* I through 30,"., .the State shall no!. . Jpake a Contribution for any employee greater Chari the Contribution which would otherwise be made Lo die Stale Health Benefits Program.4- Therefore, as determined by the Health Benefits Qjrturiissteitl, employees opting to participate in a Health Maintenance Organization will he required to contribute the difference in the cost for such participation.
3.	Prescription Drug Program
Jl is agreed that the State shall continue the Prescription Drug Benefit Program during the period of this Agreement. The Program shah be funded tttd administered by the State, It shall provide benefits to all eligible unit employees and their eligible dependents. Each prescription i squired by competent medical authority for federal legend drugs shall be paid for by the State from funds provided for ihe Program subject to a dahwtible provision provided by law per prescription or renewal of such proscription and further subject to specific procedural and administrative rules and ftgulartoftS which ftre part of the Program.
Each employee shall he provided with an iulhorizAlion and identification card, a list of Ihe participating pharmacies in the Program and a brochure describing the details of the Program. Lt (a further agreed that the brochure shall incorporate on its title page the joint Slate and Association initiative and participation tn this Program.
B.	Iisnranoe Savings Program
Subject to any condition imposed by the insurer, ill employees shall hive the Opportunity to voluntarily purchase various insurance policies ear a group participation basis. The policy costs are to be borne entirely by the employee selecting insurance Coverages provided io the program. The State will provide a payroll deduction procedure whereby authorized monies may be withheld from the earned salary of such employees and remitted lo foe insurance pomp any.
The insurance company will provide information concerning risks covered, service offered, end all other aspects of the program to each interested employee, C. Health fusimuce for Employees hired after June 30,2000
The following provisions shall apply to employees who arc hired after June 30, 2000 anti are in titles other than Senior Correction Officer, Senior Correction Officer, Juvenile Justice ConuDisston; Correction Officer Recnit; Cotrection Officer Recruit, Juvenile Justice Cotnimasifin, Senior Interstate Escort Officer.
1,	The State of New Jersey Managed Care/Poinl of Service {New Jersey Plus) will remain without arty premium payment during the term of this Agrecnwm.
2.	Effective July I, 2000, employees who elect coverage id foe Traditional Plan shall pay 25% of foe coal of foe premium of that Plan as established by foe State Heabh Benefits Commission.
3.	Effective July t, 1000, ecnployttS who elect coverage in an HMO Plan shall pay 5% of Ihe cost of the premium of that Plan as established by foe Stale Health Benefits Commission.
4.	Active employees will be ahte to use pre-tax dollars to pay contributions to health benefits under a Section 125 preminm conversion option, All contributions will be deducted, from pay.
5.	The Slate agrees to assume upon reti ramecit the full cost of Heallb Benefits coverage
35
for Slate employees and their dependents for employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit service as provided under the State plan by July ], 2000 Of who retire for disability on 1he basis of fewer years of pension credit in the State Plan by' July I, 2000. In addition, employees who accrue 2$ yean of pension credit Of retire on a disability retirement during flic period July 1, 2(XM) through June 30,2003 are eligible to receive the following when they retire:
a.	Employees Lt) this group who elect to enroll in the Managed Care/Point of Service (NJ Plus) or any of the approved HMO Plans shall not have to contribute to the cost Of any premium for health insurance coverage,
b.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Traditional Plan stall pay 25% Of the premium costs of the Traditional Plan for health insurance coverage.
ARTICLE XXXIX
Uniform Allowance
The State agrees 1o OOnlilwe its practice of making initial issues Of uniforms Io all new employees in this Uttil-
Tbe State agrees (u provide a cash payment of S1435 for uniform mamlenancc payable on January 1, 2000, a cash payment of S1435 on January 1, 2001, a cash payment Of 51435 on January ], 2002 snd a wish paymmi of 51435 on January I, 2003 to all employees in the unit who have attained one (I) year of service is of December 31,1999, December 31, 2000 and Deownber 3 ], 2001 and December 3 ], 2002.
Employees serving m the titles of Correction Officers Recruit, Senior Collection Officer, Comctinn Officer Recruit, Juvenile Justice and Senior Cutiectiotl Officer, Juvenile Justice will be granted, in lieu c-f any unifonti allowances other that! the initial issues, the following cash payments: $830 in July, IE>99 to those employees with at least one (1) year of service as of June JO, 1999; 1830 in January, 2000 (t> those employees with St least one (I) year of service as of December 3 J, J 999; $830 in July, 2000 to all employees with at least one (I) year of service as of J line 30, 2000; S83 0 in January, 2001 to all employees with at LeaM one (I) yeat of service as of December 31,2000; S8S0 m July, 200 ] to all employees with at least one year of service as of June 30. 2001; Md 5830 in January, 2002 io all employees with at least one year of service as ofDecember31,200l; S830in July, 2002 to those employees with at least one (I) year of service as of June 30, 2002; and $830 in January. 2003 to those employees with al least one (]) year of setvfoe as of December 3 J, 2002.
It is understood that the above cash payments are to be NRed fur items of uniform or their tnainienarice and that all employees in the unit are expected Io meet prescribed standards and regulations Concerning individual items Of uniform which are required and the reasonable standards of maiotenanc'e af such uniforms.
ARTICLE XL
Travel Regulation
Employees are not requited to provide privtuely owned vehicles for official business of the State. However, when an employee is authorized to Utilize his privately owned automobile for official business of the State, tbe employee on a voluntary basis only may provide the use of said vehicle for (he authorized purpose and will be reimbursed for mileage at a rate per mile provided by law. The Stale requires each individual accepting such authorization to maintain insurance for persons] liability in the amounts of $25,000 for each person and $50,00(1 for each accident and 510,006 property damage for each accident. The State will provide insurance coverage where Such privately owned vehicles are used in foe authorized business of the State covering die excess over foe valid and collectible private insurance in the amount of S J 50,000 for each person and $500,000 for each accident for persona] liability and $50,000 property damage for each accident unless and until legislation is passed which requires the State to indemnify and hold hunnlcss their eeOploy tss for personal injuries and property damage caused
by rhe negligence of said employees while operating their privately owned Yehicics on the Authorized business of the Slate.
When an employee is authorized to utilize his own vehicle for navel on a temporary assignment, he shall he rrimburacd for the mileage as provided in the travel regulations. Esr\pl&yws shall be reimbursed for travel expenSroSviiileonlhe authorized business of the State in keeping with the Conditions set forth in the Travel Regulations of the State.
ARTICLE Xu
Tuhloa Refund and Employee Training
A. Tuitioa Refottd
The tuition refund program of the Slate shall be continued during the term of this Agreement, Further, because of the Special interests of employees and the Association, the availability and utilization of- the program shall be part of the agenda for subsequent joint meetings to review the administration of this Agreement as provided elsewhere herein. It shall be the policy of the Stale, together with (he Associatitra, to provide information as to the availability of the program io all employe®.
9.	Employee Training .
The State shall oantitW# to offer training pKigrams nf pnw«t worth which are unw4 m skills development and impTOvonent Ln order CO afford employees greater opportunity for performance improvement and promotional growth. Such offering may be regulated nr limited by availability of funds or other fadUrS.'
C. The appointing authorities of each department in which members nf this unit are employed shall forward all announcements concerning employee training fo the Chairman and the Local President of the Law Enforcement Unil, The PBA will supply each appointing authority with the proper names and mailing addresses for this purpose,
ARTICLE XLH
Use Of State Facilities
Local Presidents may request use of available space for the storage of papers and files of the P.B.A, local. Provisions of such space shall not be unreasonably withheld when available, however, the provision of space shall not take priority over essential operational uses and the State shall incur no responsibility for the security' or safety of any .Association materials nor any liability for loos or damages which may occur. FuiUkt, the P.B.A. may be permitted ro furnish file cabinets or other equipracnl related to the commitment above and under the same condiliuns. The permission to utilize facilities of the State may be withdrawn al any time for cause.
ARTICLE KE.nj Mtdattouce of Benefits
A,	The fringe benefits, which are substantially uniform in their application tc employees in the unit, and which are Currently provided Co these employees, including, bur no( limited Io, the Health Benefits Program, the Life Insurance Program, the Prescription Drug Program and their like, shall remain in effect without dimmntion during the tenu of this Agreement unless modified herein or by' subsequent agreement to the parties.
B.	Other substantial benefits, not within Tire meaning cf paragraph A above, currently enjoyed by an employee or a group of employees which are not in contradiction to current State policy and which are not in contradiction wj(h Other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect during the term of this Agreement and the continuation of the employee in hii present assignment, provided that the continuance of Such substantial benefit is not unreasonable Udder all of the circurnstADCCB and provided that if the Stale changes or intends to make changes which, have 1he effect of substantial modification or elimination of such Substantial benefits, the
3?
Stat* Will notify the Associaticm and, if requested by the Association within ten (iflj days or Such notice or within ten CIO} days of the date on which llw change would reasonably have become known m the employees affected, the State shall Within twenty (20) days of such request enter iicjiOtijitioilS wUh the Association on Uk matter involved providing the matter is within the scope of issues which are mndatorUy negotiable under the Employer-Employee P^elalions Act as amended ajsd, farther, if a dispute tristt ns 10 the negptiablhty of such matters that the procedures of 1he Public Employnteut Relations Commission shall be iltiliaed Io resolve such dispute.
it is funbct n.Ej-eed that the State shall refrain from implemeruatlon of changes in the oinKUttStances where the obligation to negotiate has Neil mutually agreed until such time as there has been a reasonable opportuoily for the position of the panics Io be fully negotiated in good faith.
It is further understood rhiti (he absence of mutual agreement as to the obligation to negotiate is not construed to be a Waver of* any rights Of the parries under the provisions of the Employer*Employee Relations Act as amended.
ART1CLL XLIV
Effecl of Law
A.	Lrgiilatht Action
I . If any provisions of this Agreement require legislative action, or adoption or modification of the Rules and Regulations of the Merit Systtnr Board to become effective, or the appropriation of funds for their implementation, it is hereby understood arid agreed that such provisions sliall become effective ortly afier the necessary legislative action oi nil* modification is enacted, and that the parties shall jointly seek the enaetroeni of such legislative action er rule modification.
2.	Tn the event that legislation becomes effective during the term of this Agreemenl whichhas {he effect of iaptvvjni' the fringe benefits otherwise available 10 eligible employees In this unit, this Agreement shall nm be construed as a limitation on their eligibility for sneh iinprovemtft'is
B.	Savings Clause
If any provision of this Agreement shall conflict with any Federal or State law Or have the effect of eliminating or making tire State ineligible fee Federal fandlng, that specific provision of this Agreement shall be deemed amended or nullified to conform (0 such law, The other provisions of the Agreement shall j»t be affected thereby and shall continue in full forte and effect.
Upon request of either party the State and the Association agree to meet and renegotiate any provision so affected.
C,	Preservation of Rights
Notwithstanding liny other provision of Ulis Agreement Ihe parties hereto recognize and agree (hat tiwy separately maintain sod reserve all rights 1e utilize ihe processes t>f tlic Public Employment Relations Contmiasion and io seek judicial review offer initffpose any Juki all claims o? defenses in legs] actions surroujkiinj such proceedings as unfair practices, scope of ntBOtjatiuds, tnforvemtnl ra modification of arbitration uwatds, issues of arbitrability, and specific psrfimnsnce of the Agreement.
T>. Liability Claims I ndntwifKation
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to defense and indemnification by- the Slate rgainsl liability claims or judgments arising out Of the performance of their official Slate duties as sei forth in tbe Laws of 1 972, Chaplera 45 and 48.

ARTICLE XkV
Outside Work
An employee may engage in outside employmetil with prior approval of the departmetit head or his or her designee. An employee desiring to engage in outside employment shat! repeat permission hl writing, Approval or disapproval of yath requests shaJl her transmitted within fourteen (i 4) calendar days and shall not be unreasonably withheld.
It ii underetood that outside employment shall dot interfere with the efficient Operation of the department or agency and the recognized priority of the employee's icsponsifefiity to assignments in hi s or her work as an employee.
AU grievances arising under this Article shall be considered grievances as defined in A.2 of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE XIA1
Claims Adjustment
Where a toss or damage to personal property is sustained as a result of an action taken in (he performance of the assigned duty of an employee, such Joss will be adjusted. A clstm for such lost mum be filed within Tbnn> (30} ifayt r>f iLc tinv? when the loss dccuttkI, The claim must be filled out cor the farms provided, including the requested adjustment, and submjUed (0 the State for this action. The State shall provide the forms and any instructions which may be necessary for 1he completion or processing of the forms.
The thirty (30} days requcrtmwrt noted above may he extended by mutual agreement. The agreement by Che employer shall not be unreasonably withheld.
ARTICLE XLVU
Negotiation Pmcedares
A.	Successor AjTteroefit
The parties further agret to enter into collective negotiations concemitig a successor Agreemenl io beiomc effective on or after July I, 1999, subject to the prevision expressed in Article XLVni, "Term of Agrecmwif'.
B.	Pructdnre
The parties also agree co negotiate in good faith on ttll mattes pmperly presented for negotiations. Should an impasse develop, (he procedures available under Law shall be utilized exclusively in an orderly manner in an effort to resolve such impasse.
ARTICLE XL VIII
Term of Agreement
This contract shall become effective on July 1, 1999, and shall remain Ln full force and effect until June 30,2G03.
The contract shall automatically be renewed froth year io year thereafter unless either party shall ^ive written nonce of its desire to terminate, ntodify or amend rhe Agreement. Such notice shall be by certified mail prior to October 1, 2002 ur October 1 of any SUccectiino year.
ARTICLE XLIX
Complete Agreement
The Slate and the Association acknowledge (his io be their complete Agreement except as may be added hereto by particular reference in memorandum of understanding predating the date of signing of this AgroertietH, and inclusive of all negotiable issues
whether or nor discussed and hereby waive any right [0 further negotiations on any issues presented except that any rights or obligation* <if either party Yo rjcgc.Sialt, aS set forth within the New Jersey Employer-Employe:: Relations Act (ch. 303 L. 68 and ch. 121 L. 94) and ;>s
39
amended, an actawviedged and not waived.
ARTICLE L
Notices
For the purpose of giving notice aS provided in "Teem of Agreement’, the State may be notified through the Director, Governor’s Office of Employee Relations, PO Box 228, Trenton, New Jeffey 08625; and the Association through ZjzmIj. FugeJJa and Nowak, One RivtifivnC Plaza. Newark, New Jersey <i? 102-5410.
40
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, fl* "fl* Association have caused flu* Agreement ta be signed by their duly authorised representalivei as of ihia 9th day of January> 2*301 •
FOB. THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY:
FOR THE STATE LAW ENFORCEMENT CONFERENCE OF THE NEW JERSEY NEW JERSEY STATE POLICEMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION:

APPENDIX I
The followu-g pruvisionfs) are set forth for informational purposes only. The non-iregolitible matlera as they apply to individual employees affected shall be grievabla wjtfiin the provisions of the Grievance Procedure in ttic Agreement as defined in Article X], Section A.2-ReasaicjimejK
Ah 1. Reassignment is the movement of an employee from one job assignment to another within his job classification and within the woiic unit, organizational unit or departmebt. Each employee shall he notified as Io the work unit referred to herein. Such work units shall not be defined by shifts,'
2. ReaSSignments of employees may be made in accordance with the fiscal responsibilities of the appointing authority; to improve or mainlaiu operational effectiveness; or to provide employee development and job training or a balance of employee experience in any Work area. Where such reassigranenta are not mutually agreed 10, the appointing authority'will make reassignment? in the inverse order of the job classification seniority of ihe employees affected, For Senior Correction Officers only, job classification seniority for reassignmeutS shall commence from the first day of employment in a custody position with the Department or Division of Gvrrectiwis,
J. When temporary ff.e. fur a period of six {6) months or less) rcassiguments are imide to achieve any of the objectives in A.2. above, employees 10 be affectad will be given maximum possible notice. The consideration Of seniority otherwise applicable in realignments will nol apply,
B. Where the; principles m A. 1 above are observed, requesls for voluntary reassignment within Ihe organisational unit or department shall be given consideration,
An employee desiring reassignment to any job in has organi^tioual Utlit or department may submit an application through his supervisor in writing to his personnel officer staling the reasons for the request. Employees who are capable of performing the work and who apply for such re assignments will be considered and reassignment? will be made on (he basis of these requests. Where more than one (1) request for reassignment fiom Qualified employees deemed capable of performing the work in such a job is an record, any assignments will be made an the hash of Ihe job classification seniority of employ®? having recorded such a request.
C, J. When personnel changes in a work unit provide opportunities for shift or schedule changes, interested employees may apply for desired assignments Id the work unit supervisor. Such changes In assignment will be made an the basis of the job ctaSSifjcation seniority of employees requesting the change, except that priority is given to the assignment of individual employees as provided tn A.2. above.
2.	When a vacancy is filled by an employee from outside a work unit, the employee joining that work uixit shall be aligned (heopen position on the shift and work schedule which were appropriate to rhe opening.
D.	An employee may have on record no more than, two (2} requests for reassignment in B. above,
E.	When an employee is granted a voluntary rtQfSignment under provisions of B. Or C. above, he shall then be eligible for only one (1) additional voluntary realignment in the succeeding twelve (12) month period. Consideration will be given to a request for additional reassignment where special circumstances exist. A promotion is not considered to be a reassignment
F.	Whenever an employee is required to sign a C.S. 21 form, a copy of the signed form shall be provided to the employee upon request for same.
G.	While it is acknowledged that reassignment? of any employees may be made for any of the purposes outlined in A.2. above, the reassignment <if groups of employees who Comprise a work unit shall not be made on a routine rotational basis without good cause,
J2
AyMWMKtI
The release of Senior Correctloh Officers who arc on duty, to wwk ar 17 North Willow Street during their work shift shall ctase c(T«cive June 30,2000. Effective July 1, 20QQ Senior Cwrection. Officers who are released from duty 1u partake in Onion business shall be released pursuant tu Ankie XXVJ Leave for Association Activity.
43
APPENDIX HI
Title
Code 1204} 32271 32081 32S41 408M
32991 61769 40803 32312 32352 32090
32092 32642 4 0808
32992 32662 61773 40806 51342 51344 51343 33QB3 33082 33081
Title
Antjoaisttcal Oprati&B Specialist Campus Po-lice Officer
Conservation Officer 3
Correction Officer Recruit
Correction Officer Recruit, Juvenile Justice
Inspector ABC
Partite Officer, Recruit
Parole Officer Recruit. Juvenile Justice
Police Officer Health Care Futility Police Officer PIP
Ranger Trainee
Ranger 1
Senior Correction Officer
Senior Correction Officer, Juvenile
Justice
Srmor Inspector ABC
SenkM-Interstate Escort Officer
Senter Parole Officer
Senior Parole Officer, Juvenile Justice
Special Agent Trainee
Special Agent 2
Special Agent 3
Weights and Measures Inspector I Weights and Measures Inspector II Weights and Measures Inspector 11