<& 7 U
I 5 u 0 €^-5
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
TOPS MARKET, LLC MIDSTATE DIVISION
tk)
4
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO & CLC
District Union Local One
Effective Date:
APRIL h 2001
Expiration Date:
APRIL 3, 2005
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
TOPS MARKET, LLC MIDSTATE DIVISION
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS DISTRICT UNION LOCAL ONE AFL-CIO & CLC
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BECOME
EFFECTIVE DATE: APRIL 1, 2001
EXPIRATION DATE: APRIL 3, 2005
TOPS MIDSTATE INDEX
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION
PAGE
	AGREEMENT	1
23	AVAILABLE HOURS	18
18	CAPTIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS	16
29	CREDIT UNION	21
38	CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS	33
n n J J	EDUCATION, SAFETY AND CULTURAL FUND	29
19	FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES	16
13	FUNERAL LEAVE	14
28	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION	20
31	HEALTH CARE FUND	22
5	HOURS AND OVERTIME	3
39	JOB POSTING	34
14	JURY DUTY	15
27	LAUNDRY AND TOOLS	19
12	LEAVE OF ABSENCE	13
32	LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND	26
10	LUNCH AND REST PERIODS	12
2	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	2
25	NEW CLASSIFICATION	19
20	NO INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS	16
11	PERSONAL HOLIDAYS	12
	PREAMBLE	1
26	PREMIUM PAY	19
INDEX - CONTINUED
ARTICLE DESCRIPTION	PAGE
24	PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE	18
21	PRIOR PRIVILEGES	17
40	PROBATIONARY PERIOD	35
1	RECOGNITION & BARGAINING UNIT	1
9	RULES-WORKING AGREEMENT	11
34	SAFETY AND HEALTH	30
35	SENIORITY	31
37	SEPARABILITY	33
17	SHOP STEWARD	16
36	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	32
7	SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS	8
22	TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK	17
43	TEMPORARY RELIEF OF DEPARTMENT MANAGERS	36
46	TERM OF AGREEMENT	48
42	TIME AND ATTENDANCE SYSTEM	36
41	TRAVEL PAY	35
4	UNION CHECKOFF	3
15	UNION IDENTIFICATION	15
3	UNION SECURITY	2
16	UNION VISITATION	15
8	VACATIONS	9
44	VOLUNTARY/INVOLUNTARY REDUCTION	37
45	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS	38
6	WORK SCHEDULES	7
AGREEMENT
This Agreement by and between Tops Markets. Inc. Midstate Division, hereinafter known as the "Employer" or "Company" and the United Food and Commercial Workers District Union Local One, affiliated with the AFL-CIO. CLC. hereinafter known as the "Union" or "Local" is entered into this 1st day of April, 2001.
PREAMBLE
WHEREAS, the above parties desire to maintain harmonious relations, to agree upon wage rates, standards and conditions of employment, to eliminate strikes, lockouts, boycotts, stoppages of work and other forces of industrial disturbances with a view of establishing ways and means for collective bargaining and for arbitration of grievances and disputes.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter contained, the Company and the Union, acting through their duly authorized representative hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT
1.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent with respect to work, rates of pay, hours and all other terms and conditions of employment for all employees in the appropriate bargaining unit.
1.2	The Employer further recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent within the territorial jurisdiction of the Union for all employees in its future supermarkets d/b/a Tops under the same common management, in all matters concerning wages, hours and conditions of employment. Excluded from the bargaining unit are Store Managers, Operations Managers, Grocery Managers, Customer Service Managers, Playhouse Managers, Professional Employees, Guards and Supervisors within the meaning of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 as amended.
1.3	The Employer further agrees not to recognize, deal with, or enter into contractual relations either orally, or written with any Labor Organization, Agent, Individual, or Group, concerning rates of pay, hours, or other terms and conditions of employment for any employees included in the bargaining unit for the life of this Agreement. For the purpose of this Section, the execution date of this Agreement shall be considered as its effective date.
1.4	In the event the Employer seeks to subcontract, transfer to outside vendors, or eliminate through technological means or new product introduction, work which is performed by members of the bargaining unit as of the effective date of this agreement, the Employer agrees to meet with the Union to discuss the impact of such changes prior to implementation.
1
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.1	The operation and management of the Employer’s stores, employees of which are covered by this Agreement, including the location, opening and closing of the same, the products to be handled and sold and the supervision of the working force, including but not limited to the right to hire, suspend or discharge for proper cause and the establishment and maintenance of rules for safe and efficient operation, are vested exclusively in the Employer. The Employer retains all its rights and authority except as the same may be specifically abridged or modified in this Agreement.
2.2	The Company agrees to have no more than one (1) Manager, three (3) Operations Managers, one (I) Customer Service Manager, one (1) Grocery Manager and one (1) Playhouse Manager per store, pursuant to Article 1.2.
ARTICLE 3
UNION SECURITY
3.1	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the date on which this Agreement is signed shall remain members in good standing and those who are not members in good standing and those who are not members on the date on which this Agreement is signed, shall on the thirty-first (31st) day following the date on which this Agreement is signed, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after the date on which this Agreement is signed shall, on the thirty-first (31st) day following the beginning of such employment become and remain members in good standing in the Union. Good standing shall be defined as the payment or tender of initiation fees, assessments, and/or union dues.
3.2	Any employee who is expelled or suspended from the Union because of nonpayment of initiation fees and dues (including such other obligations to the Union, failure to pay which would make an employee subject to discharge under the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947) shall be subject to dismissal after notification in writing to the Employer by the Union, provided however, that the employee may have a reasonable time within which to make such payments of initiation fees, dues, and assessments, the failure of payment of which has caused expulsion or suspension.
2
ARTICLE 4
UNION CHECKOFF
4.1	Upon receipt of proper written authorization from an employee, the Company agrees to deduct from the wages of said employee, and to forward to the General Office of the Union, within fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month, dues, assessments and initiation fees as listed by the Union in duplicate schedules, which shall be furnished to the Company once a month. It is understood that any authorization of payroll deduction shall be voluntary' on the part of the employee and may be canceled at yearly intervals or at the termination of this Agreement, whichever occurs first.
4.2	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that might arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken in respect to deduction of dues and initiation fees made pursuant to the provisions of this Article, except the failure of the Company to forward to the Union, checkoff dues and initiation fees as provided in this Article.
ARTICLE 5
HOURS AND OVERTIME
5.1	(a) Basic Work Schedule: Unless otherwise agreed to, the basic work week for full-time employees shall be forty (40) hours, consisting of five (5) eight (8) hour days worked Monday through Saturday.
(b)	Alternative Work Schedule: On a voluntary basis and by mutual agreement and for a period of not less than thirty (30) days, a full-time employee may be scheduled to work: (i) four (4) ten (10) hour days; (ii) three (3) eight (8) hour days, one (1) ten (10) hour day, and one (1) six (6) hour day; or (iii) any mutually agreed upon work schedule. Provided, however, that the Company or an employee may upon two (2) weeks notice terminate an arrangement for an alternative work schedule and reinstate the Basic Work Schedule.
(c)	An employee who agrees to work an alternative work schedule and who voluntarily agrees to work more than eight (8) hours in a given day shall not be entitled to overtime unless such work results in the employee having worked more than forty (40) hours in a given week, or the daily scheduled hours. In addition, the nightly restrictions shall not apply.
(d)	During a holiday week, the basic work week for full-time employees shall be thirty-two (32) hours worked within four (4) days, (not necessarily consecutive) excluding the holiday. Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular straight time rate of pay shall be paid after thirty-two (32) hours.
3
ARTICLE 5 - HOURS AND OVERTIME - CONTINUED
(e)	Time and one-half to be paid for all hours worked after 6:00 p.m. for full-time employees (except night stockers and general maintenance employees) after the second night worked regardless of whether the store is open for business or closed. This provision will not apply to full-time employees hired on or promoted after 11/1/96.
5.2	WORKWEEK FULL TIME EMPLOYEES
(a)	Sundays shall be outside the workweek unless otherwise requested. As such, if a Sunday is scheduled, a full time employee will then be scheduled forty (40) hours during the workweek (Monday through Saturday). The appropriate premium will be paid for hours worked on Sunday and straight time for the forty hours (five days) worked during the workweek. If called in or scheduled a sixth (6th) day during the Monday through Saturday workweek, time and one-half (1 !6) shall be paid for all such hours.
(b)	A full time employee prior to the schedule being posted, may request in writing to have Sunday included inside the workweek. In such event, if a Sunday is scheduled, a full time employee will then be scheduled thirty-two (32) additional hours for the balance of the workweek (Sunday through Saturday). The appropriate premium will be paid for hours worked on Sunday and straight time for the thirty-two hours (four days) worked during the balance of the workweek. If called in or scheduled a sixth (6th) day during the Sunday through Saturday workweek, time and one-half (1 !6) shall be paid for all such hours.
5.3	WORK WEEK PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
(a)	The basic workweek for part-time employees shall be worked Sunday through Saturday with a minimum guarantee of sixteen (16) hours per week. Employees may request in writing to the Store Manager to work fewer hours to accommodate their own personal schedule. The Company must approve such requests. An employee is considered part-time if their regularly scheduled workweek is thirty (30) hours or less per week.
(b)	Part-time employees shall receive time and one-half (1 1/2) the regular straight time hourly rate including premiums for all hours worked over eight (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any week, except when requesting a voluntary alternative work schedule as outlined in 5.1 (b) and (c).
(c)	The Company will make an effort to schedule part-time employees within five (5) days (not necessarily consecutive) in a calendar work week.
4
ARTICLE 5 - HOURS AND OVERTIME - CONTINUED
5.4	PART-TIME WORKING OVER 30 HOURS
(a)	SCHEDULED. When a part-time employee is scheduled forty (40) hours or more per week, they shall be paid either the new minimum full-time rate of pay or their part-time rate plus SI0.00 whichever is greater. Any hours worked over forty (40) hours will be paid at time and one-half (1 1/2) the appropriate rate of pay. The provisions regarding full-time employment will be applicable as to Sundays and Holidays.
(b)	NONSCHEDULED (OR SCHEDULED LESS THAN 40). In the event a part-time employee works in excess of thirty (30) hours per week, they shall be paid one dollar (SI .00) per hour above their rate of pay for all hours worked between thirty (30) and forty (40).
5.5	EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS
When School is in session (day after Labor Day to June 20):
Age of Minor	Daily Hrs. Allowed	Max. Weekly Hours.	Max. Days Per Week	Permitted Hours
15	2.75 hrs. max Monday-Friday	17.75	6	7:15 a.m. 6:45 p.m.
16 & 17	7.75 hrs. max Sat., Sun. 3.75 hrs. max. Monday-Thursday	27.75	6	6:15 a.m. 9:45 p.m.
	7.75 hrs. max. Fri., Sat., Sun. and Holidays			
When school is not in session (June 21 to Labor Day):				
Age of Minor	Max. Daily Hrs. Allowed	Max. Weekly Hrs. Allowed	Max. Days Per Week	Permitted Hours
15	7.75 hrs. max. Sunday-Saturday	39.75	6	7:15 a.m. 8:45 p.m.
16& 17	7.75 hrs. max. Sunday-Saturday	47.75	6	6:15 a.m. 11:45 p.m.
5
ARTICLE 5 - HOURS .AND OVERTIME - CONTINUED
Minimum number of hours worked by 15 year olds when school is in session shall be 13 hours per week.
Minimum number of hours worked by 16 & 17 year olds when school is in session shall be 16 hours per week.
5.6	Prohibited - Minors Use of Power Equipment - Applies to any employee under the age 18 years old. All power equipment is prohibited from being used or cleaned by minors including, but not limited to the following equipment; baler, meat room saw, deli slicer, disposals, etc. All minors are also prohibited from throwing cardboard into the baler. Anyone who violates this policy is subject to disciplinary action.
5.7	Employees working under the employment of minors language shall receive a scheduled break (Refer to Article 10.5).
5.8	When unscheduled overtime is necessary for frill time employees, Management will first solicit volunteers within the appropriate job code who are currently working and are available at the needed time. If there are more volunteers than necessary, the employee with the most seniority will be offered the overtime. If there are not enough volunteers, associates within the job code will be scheduled by inverse seniority within the job code. Other needed employees will be scheduled at management’s discretion. Management reserves the right to balance the staff as needed with experienced employees or those qualified to perform a special job function.
5.9	Overtime scheduled on a weekly basis for full time employees within a department shall be rotated among those desiring such additional hours provided they are qualified to do the work. In the event that volunteers are insufficient, such overtime shall be assigned by inverse seniority.
5.10	The Company will provide a call-in sheet by department that will be posted weekly with the department schedule. Part time employees desiring additional hours need to sign the weekly call-in sheet. If extra help is needed, the Company will call employees on the call-in sheet first for the additional work. The Company will make a good faith effort to distribute additional call-in hours in an equitable manner. It is understood that the Company shall not be required to generate overtime or premium pay as a result of this article.
6
ARTICLE 6
WORK SCHEDULES
6.1	A work schedule in ink for full-time and part-time employees shall be posted in the Employer’s store by 12:00 noon on Friday in advance of the next week. A copy of the work schedule shall be furnished to the Union upon request. The work schedule can be added to but not reduced during the week for which the schedule is posted. The total number of weekly hours provided to each employee shall be enumerated on the schedule.
6.2	When an employee is scheduled to work more than five (5) hours, it must be in one (1) hour segments.
6.3	No split shifts will be permitted.
6.4	When employees are scheduled to report for work on any day, they shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work that day. Exception: Except when school, store hours or State or Federal regulations make this impossible for part-time employees attending school.
6.5	The Employer agrees to nine (9) hours off between scheduled shifts unless otherwise mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee.
6.6	Any employee, full-time or part-time, who is required to work before or after their regular daily or weekly schedule as posted, shall not be required to take time off that week in order to avoid the application of overtime.
6.7	TRAINING PROGRAMS
When employees are required to attend training programs and/or Company meetings of any type, such time required shall be considered hours worked. If the meeting or training program is held in-store, or less than five (5) miles from an employee’s home store, a minimum of two (2) hours paid time (meeting, training program and/or work) shall be provided. If the meeting or training program is held more than five (5) miles from an employee’s home store, a minimum of four (4) hours paid time (meeting, training program and/or work) shall be provided
6.8	Except by mutual agreement, no employee shall be scheduled to work more than twelve (12) consecutive days.
7
ARTICLE 7
SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
7.1	All full-time employees shall receive eight (8) hours pay for the following legal holidays: New Year’s Day. Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day. Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
7.2	Any work performed by full-time employees on the above named legal holidays shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 14) times the straight time hourly rate of pay except that in case of emergency, the straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid.
Any work performed on Sunday by full-time employees hired (either part time or full time) on or before 5/10/01 shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 !4) times the straight time hourly rate of pay except that in case of emergency, the straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid.
Any work performed on Sunday by full-time employees hired (either part time or full time) after 5/10/01 shall be paid at a one dollar (SI.00) per hour premium for the first thirty-six (36) months of full time employment except that in case of emergency, the straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid. After thirty-six (36) months of full time employment, such employees shall receive time and one-half (1 !4).
7.3	All employees must work their scheduled day before the holiday, the holiday if scheduled, and their scheduled day after the holiday to be entitled to holiday pay. It is understood if scheduled on the holiday, this provision still applies for all employees. However, any absences due to the following reasons shall not result in the loss of holiday pay:
(a)	Meetings with the Employer and a representative of the Union.
(b)	Accident or illness substantiated by medical evidence (if required by the Employer)
that employee was unable to work, or
(c)	Excused absence by the Employer that is pre-approved prior to the holiday week’s schedule being posted as per Article 6 of the labor agreement.
7.4	If one of the holidays above specified falls within the employee's vacation, they shall be granted one (1) additional day's paid vacation.
7.5	During a holiday week, the basic work week for full-time employees shall be thirty-two (32) hours worked within four (4) days, excluding the holiday. Overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular straight time hourly rate of pay shall be paid after thirty-two (32) hours.
8
ARTICLE 7 - SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS - CONTINUED
7.6	Part time employees hired on or before 5/10/01 shall receive a one dollar (SI.00) per hour premium for work performed on Sundays or the above holidays. Part time employees hired on or after 5/10/01 shall receive a fifty-cent (50c) per hour premium for work performed on Sundays for their first year of emplovnieni. and a one dollar (SLOO) per hour premium thereafter. Part time employees hired on or after 5/10/01 shall receive a one dollar (SLOO) per hour premium for work performed on the above holidays.
7.7	Part-time employees who work any part of a holiday week shall be paid a pro rata allowance based on the average number of hours worked, in the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday week, in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	Up to twenty-nine (29) hours average-four (4) hours holiday pay.
(b)	Over thirty (30) hours average-eight (8) hours holiday pay.
7.8	Part-time holiday pay hours shall not be part of the minimum sixteen (16) hour weekly work schedule.
7.9	All part-time employees shall be eligible for Holiday pay after six (6) months of service.
7.10	The Company shall make a good faith effort to distribute Sunday and holiday work evenly among those full time employees desiring such additional hours provided they are qualified to do the work. In the event that volunteers are insufficient, Sunday and holiday work shall be assigned by inverse seniority to those qualified to do the work required.
ARTICLE 8
VACATIONS
8.1	Full-time employees will receive one (1) week vacation with pay after one (1) year continuous full-time service with the Employer, two (2) weeks vacation with pay after two (2) years of continuous full-time service with the Employer, three (3) weeks vacation with pay after eight (8) years of continuous full-time service with the Employer and four (4) weeks vacation with pay after twelve (12) years of continuous full-time service with the Employer. Employees shall be eligible for vacation upon their anniversary date.
8.2	The Employer shall post by January 1st of each year a vacation schedule. Employees will have until March 31st of each year to select their preference in scheduling vacations. The Employer must approve all vacation requests by April 15th of each year. Employee hire dates (either full or part time) shall be used to determine the order of selection. Once a vacation schedule is approved, the Company will abide by said schedule.
9
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS - CONTINUED
8.3	Any employee entitled to vacation in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and who has earned such vacation shall upon termination of their employment be paid any vacation pay due. Employees who, due to specific scheduling requests of Store Management (i.e., help shortage, store remodel, new store opening assignment) with District Manager approval, are unable to use earned vacation prior to re-qualifying for additional vacation, shall be paid out any unused vacation portion the next full payroll period following their anniversary' date of employment or shall carry' over a maximum of two (2) weeks of any unused vacation into the next eligibility year. The carry-over vacation time off must be agreed upon by all parties and not create any operational problems at store level.
8.4	Part-time employees with one or more continuous years service with the Employer shall be paid a vacation allowance which vacation allowance shall be paid on a pro rata proponion of the vacation allowance of full-time employees with a comparable number of years continuous service with the Employer, based on the average hours worked in the preceding 52 week period.
8.5	Employees at their option shall be paid their vacation pay prior to their vacation period.
8.6	The Company will make every effort to give employees the option of the Saturday before their Vacation as a scheduled day off. The company will not unreasonably deny such requests by employees.
8.7	The Company will make every effort to grant employees’ vacation days one day at a time.
8.8	Absence totaling less than thirteen (13) weeks in any calendar year shall not affect vacation rights. Absence for any reason (excluding Military Service) including but not limited to compensatory illness, illness, injury, maternity leave, personal leave or layoff, totaling more than thirteen (13) weeks in a calendar year shall have the following effect upon vacation earned that year:
(a)	Absence of more than thirteen (13) weeks, but not over twenty-six (26) weeks, shall reduce vacation and vacation pay by twenty-five percent (25%)
(b)	Absence of more than twenty-six (26) weeks, but not over thirty-nine (39) weeks, shall reduce vacation and vacation pay by fifty percent (50%)
(c)	Absence of more than thirty-nine (39) weeks shall disqualify for vacation.
(d)	Military Service shall not be considered as lost time in computing vacation.
10
ARTICLE 9
RULES-WORKING AGREEMENT
9.1	The Employer agrees to post on the store bulletin board no rules in conflict with this Agreement or discriminatory to any individual or group of the Employer’s employees.
9.2	The Company shall give advance notice to the Union and employees of store closings in accordance with state and federal regulations.
9.3	The Employer shall furnish complete first aid kits in all stores and maintain, make available and make accessible in strategic locations.
9.4	The Company will provide a space on the break room bulletin board at each store where the Union may post notices of Union recreational affairs, social affairs, elections and union meetings for the information of members.
9.5	Physical Examination: Any rule of the Company requiring physical or medical examination will be promptly complied with by members of the Union. The Company will pay the fee for the physical examination, not paid for by the Health Care Fund and may also select the physician who will make the required examination.
9.6	The Employer agrees to abide by all state and federal legislation with regards to lie detectors.
9.7	Company agrees to pay employees for time lost if subpoenaed by the Company to appear on the Company's behalf only.
9.8	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Labor-Management
Committee to discuss areas of mutual concern.
9.9	The Company will establish training programs to enhance job promotion
opportunities.
9.10	It is understood that any medical information provided to the employer shall be treated as confidential as required by applicable law. Provided, however, that such information shall be made available to the Union where the employee authorizes disclosure or where such information is relevant to a grievance filed by the Union.
11
ARTICLE 10
LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
10.1	All employees shall be entitled to uninterrupted lunch and rest periods.
10.2	The company will make every effort to schedule lunch breaks as close to mid-shift as possible.
10.3	A lunch period shall be allowed each day of at least thirty (30) minutes but not more than sixty (60) minutes.
(a) Full-time employees scheduled to work six (6) hour shifts will be given a twenty (20) minute paid rest period.
10.4	All full-time employees shall be given a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes before lunch and fifteen (15) minutes after lunch. Employees shall not be given rest periods until they have worked at least two (2) hours. Full-time employees scheduled for a 10-hour day shall receive an additional fifteen (15) minute rest period.
10.5	Part-time employees will be granted a fifteen (15) minute rest period if scheduled to work at least four (4) hours. In the event a part-time employee is scheduled six (6) hours, the Employer will schedule one (1) twenty (20) minute rest period at approximately mid-shift in lieu of the above. In the event a part time employee is scheduled to work more than six (6) hours, they shall be provided a lunch period of at least thirty (30) minutes and two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods, one before and one after lunch.
10.6	Part-time employees shall not be required to take a rest period until they have worked at least two (2) hours of daily work schedule.
10.7	Employees working under the employment of minors language shall receive a scheduled break mid-shift of their scheduled daily hours (Refer to Article 5.5 and Article 10.5).
ARTICLE 11
PERSONAL HOLIDAYS
11.1	Full-time employees classified as full-time prior to 3/30/90 are eligible for four (4) personal holidays.
11.2	Full-time employees hired or promoted on or after 3/30/90 are entitled to personal holidays as follows:
2 days after six (6) months of service
3 days after three (3) years of service
12
ARTICLE 11 - PERSONAL HOLIDAYS - CONTINUED
11.3	Full-time personal holidays shall be paid on the basis of eight (8) hours each.
11.4	All part-time employees shall be entitled to personal holidays based on the following schedule:
2	days after six (6) months of service
3	days after three (3) years of service
11.	5 Part-time personal holidays shall be paid on the basis of four (4) hours each.
11.	6 Part-time personal holidays may be taken in either four (4), eight (8) or twelve (12) hour increments.
11.	7 Personal holidays shall be earned on the employee’s anniversary date each year following a six (6) month waiting period for new employees. Upon one (1) week notice, personal holidays shall be granted and shall not be unreasonably denied. It is understood and agreed that personal holidays will not be granted in any manner that interferes with the normal business operation of the Employer.
(a) Personal holidays may be used to extend vacation but must be scheduled when the vacation is scheduled.
11.	8 Unused personal holidays will be paid on the employee’s anniversary date.
11.	9 Personal holidays may be used for illness.
ARTICLE 12
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1	Any employee on the seniority list who is unable to work because of an illness or injury and who furnishes medical certification and a written request thereof shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed six (6) months. Prior to the date of conclusion of the approved leave of absence, an extension of up to an additional six (6) months will be granted providing the employee requests the extension in writing to the Company and the Union and provides proper medical documentation that additional time off from work is still required. It is the employee’s responsibility, while off on leave, to meet with the Store Manager during the first week of each month and provide a status update, along with timely medical documentation that additional time off is still required and if known, a date on which he/she would be able to return to work.
13
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE - CONTINUED
Additional extensions may be granted by written agreement between the employee, the Company and the Union when extraordinary circumstances exist to warrant such.
12.2	Personal leaves of absence for emergency reasons may be granted for periods up to but not to exceed ninety (90) days.
12.3	Seniority shall be accumulated during approved leaves of absence.
12.4	Any employee who fails to report to work at the end of any approved leave of absence or who engages in or applies for employment elsewhere while on such leave, shall be considered to have voluntarily quit without notice and may be terminated from the employment of the Company.
12.5	The Company agrees to incorporate child and family leave as Company policy pursuant to Federal/State laws.
12.6	Upon two (2) weeks notification to the Company, any member of the bargaining unit appointed to a position in the Union shall be granted a temporary leave of absence not to exceed one (1) year, except where such leave would result in an undue hardship to the Company’s operation. Upon reluming to work, such employee shall be credited their former rate of pay plus any increase(s) granted during the leave. No more than five (5) such leaves shall be granted at any one time on a Company wide basis nor more than one per District.
ARTICLE 13
FUNERAL LEAVE
13.1	In the event of death in the immediate family, an employee will be granted as leave the three (3) days immediately following the death, with straight time pay for any of the three (3) days which are regularly scheduled working days. If the funeral is held on the fourth (4th) day following the death, employees will also be paid for the fourth (4th) day, provided that day is one of the employees scheduled working days. An employee shall be entitled to use one of their funeral leave days for the purpose of attending spring internment.
13.2	Members of the immediate family are defined as father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in law, sister-in-law, common-law spouse, grandparents, grand-children, step-mother, step-father, step-son or step-daughter or any in-law or relative with whom the employee may be residing at the time of death.
14
ARTICLE 13 - FUNERAL LEAVE - CONTINUED
13.3	Employees will be entitled one (1) day leave for attendance at a spouse's grandparent's funeral.
13.4	Days spent on funeral leave shall be considered days worked for scheduling purposes.
13.5	In the event a death in the immediate family as specified above occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be credited with additional paid vacation commensurate with the allowable funeral leave.
ARTICLE 14
JURY DUTY
All employees serving on Juries shall, upon presentation of proof of pay, be reimbursed for the difference between their regular straight time pay, and Jury Duty pay provided they make themselves available for work within their regular schedule when not occupied with Jury Duty. Days spent on jury duty shall be considered days worked for scheduling purposes. Night stock clerks (3rd shift) shall not be required to work regularly scheduled hours while serving on Jury Duty.
ARTICLE 15
UNION IDENTIFICATION
The Union Shop Logo is the property of the United Food and Commercial Workers District Union Local One AFL-CIO, CLC and is loaned to the employer for display, who signs and abides by this Agreement. The Employer agrees at all times to display it in a conspicuous place. The Union Shop Logo can be removed from any business establishment of the Employer's by the Union Representative of District Union Local One for a violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16
UNION VISITATION
16.1	Representatives of the Union shall have the right to visit the Employer's places of business at any time during working hours for the purpose of ascertaining whether this Agreement is being properly observed, provided that there shall be no undue interruption of or interference with the Employer's business. Any and all disputes, grievances, complaints or questions hereunder shall be taken up for discussion and settlement by a representative of the Union and of the Employer.
16.2	The Union also, through its Membership Servicing Representatives, shall have the right to visit the Employer's places of business, with prior approval of store manager, at any time during working hours for the purpose of updating Union records and fringe benefit entitlements.
15
ARTICLE 17
SHOP STEWARD
17.	1 The Union shall have the right to designate at least one (1) member of the unit as Union Steward, who shall not be discriminated against due to legitimate union activity. The Union Steward shall be permitted to discuss grievances with a designated representative of the Employer consuming such time as is reasonably necessary.
17.	2 One (1) additional paid personal day will be allowed per calendar year for the purpose of attending Stewards Conference.
17.	3 A store Union Steward shall be the last employee in the job classification to be laid off, transferred or reduced in hours on a departmental basis.
17.	4 The Company will ask employees if they desire a Shop Steward, Co-Steward or in the absence of both, a Union employee to be present during disciplinary meetings.
17.	5 New employees will be referred to the Shop Steward as part of new employee orientation.
ARTICLE 18
CAPTIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
The section and paragraph headings in this Agreement are intended for indexing and descriptive purposes only and shall not be interpreted to restrict or modify in any way the provisions to which they refer. All personal pronouns used herein with reference to Employees of this Employer shall be construed, where applicable, to have both masculine and feminine gender.
ARTICLE 19
FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
The Company and the Union agree that the principle of non-discrimination as required by law, shall apply in administering all aspects of this contract.
ARTICLE 20
NO INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS
It is understood and agreed that no employee shall be asked or required to make any written or verbal individual agreement, and that any individual contract that may be with any member of the Union shall be considered a violation of this Agreement.
16
ARTICLE 21
PRIOR PRIVILEGES
As a result of the signing of this agreement, no employee shall suffer a reduction in the wages they are presently receiving.
ARTICLE 22
TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK
22.1	In the event a part time employee works thirteen (13) or more weeks of forty (40) hours or more in any six (6) month period from October 1st to April 30th, an additional full time position shall be created and posted for the department in which the requisite hours were worked. In the event the requisite hours were worked in a number of departments, the Company may designate the additional full time clerk position to be posted. This does not include those designated as temporary full-time.
TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK REPLACEMENT
22.2	Part-time employees working temporary full-time shall be subject to full-time health care and pension contributions on the first of the month following six (6) weeks full-time service.
22.3	Part-time employees working as temporary full-time replacing a regular full-time employee absent because of vacation, illness or leave of absence from the period of October 1st to April 30th will be considered temporary for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days. The Company will notify the Union of such replacements.
22.4	Such part-time employees will be paid the new minimum full-time rate or their part-time rate whichever is greater.
22.5	Temporary full-time employees returning back to part-time work shall revert to their regular part-time rate of pay.
22.6	The employer will be responsible for Health Care and Pension contributions on the first of the month following ninety (90) days of full-time service.
22.7	During the period of May 1st to September 30th, (Summer Program), part-time employees may work any number of consecutive forty (40) hour weeks without becoming a fulltime employee and no full-time position shall be created thereby.
22.8	Hourly rates for part-time employees temporarily assigned to full-time shall be as follows:
(a)	The Employer will be responsible for Health Care and Pension contributions on behalf of part-time employees working temporary full-time (Summer Program) on the first of the month following ninety (90) days of full-time service.
17
ARTICLE 22 - TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK - CONTINUED
(b)	Part-time employees working as temporary' full-time will receive the same provisions as part-time employees for Sundays and holiday hours.
(c)	Available temporary full time positions will be offered to part time employees by seniority within departments providing the employee has the qualifications and ability to do the work required.
ARTICLE 23
AVAILABLE HOURS
Part time employees who desire such and are qualified to perform the job functions shall be scheduled by seniority for available hours up to thirty (30) per week unless scheduled under the provisions of Article 22.1.
ARTICLE 24
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
24.1	Proven full-time or part-time experience, which is directly related to the work assigned to a newly hired employee, will be recognized by the Company for the purpose of establishing hourly wage rates only. Completed full months of employment will be counted in determining the length of sendee to be credited. The amount of credit shall be limited to full-time and part-time experience in the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of employment. The wage rate of employees credited with previous experience will be at the bracket called for in the progression scale in effect at the date of hire.
24.2	When part-time employees become full-time, they shall receive one (1) months full-time credit for each two (2) months of part-time service for the purpose of determining wages.
18
ARTICLE 25
NEW CLASSIFICATION
The Company agrees that in the event any new classification is established, the Company and the Union will meet for the purpose of discussing the new rate of pay for such classification.
ARTICLE 26
PREMIUM PAY
26.1	Employees whose schedule starts between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. shall receive a fifty cents (50c) per hour premium for all hours worked.
26.2	Maintenance employees shall receive a fifty cents (50c) per hour premium if scheduled to begin their shift at 9:00 p.m. or later.
26.3	Night Crew Manager shall receive SI.00 per hour for all hours worked, which includes the fifty cents (50c) premium.
26.4	Night stockers will be paid a fifty cents (50c) per hour premium as part of their hourly rate of pay.
ARTICLE 27
LAUNDRY AND TOOLS
27.1	All Uniforms which the Employer requires the employee to wear shall be furnished by the Employer without charge to the employee.
27.2	The Company agrees to clarify and standardize the dress code for all stores covered by this agreement.
27.3	Employees not classified as Meat Managers, First Cutters, Journeyman Cutters or Apprentice Meat Cutters may not use tools of the trade including hand or electric saw, meat grinder, hamburger patty machine and cubing machine while performing work in the meat department. Knives may be used by Clerks to trim or otherwise prepare meat for customers from retail cuts.
27.4	Production employees shall receive a wraparound smock.
19
ARTICLE 28
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
28.1	In the event of any difference, dispute or complaint that arises over the meaning or application of the terms of this agreement, there shall be an earnest effort made by the Steward (and aggrieved employee if necessary) and the Store Manager to settle the dispute. If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached, the following procedure shall be followed:
28.2	STEP 1 - An employee who considers that this Agreement, has been violated by the Employer, with respect to such employee, shall contact the Union Representative who shall submit a written statement of such grievance to the store manager, within five (5) working days after the incident occurs.
(a) Upon receipt of the written grievance, the Store Manager must meet with the Union Representative and the aggrieved employee within five (5) working days. The Store Manager must attempt to resolve the grievance between the Company and the Union employee. The Store Manager must respond in writing as to the resolution of the grievance to the Union Representative with a copy to the District Manager and Director of Labor Relations.
28.3	STEP 2 - If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached in Step 1, then the Union Representative shall re-submit the grievance in writing to the District Manager within five (5) working days after the answer is given in Step 1 to request that a second step meeting take place.
(a) The District Manager upon receipt of the Second Step grievance must, within five (5) working days, contact the Union Representative to schedule the Second Step meeting with him or herself and the Store Manager. The District Manager must respond in writing within five (5) working days to the Union Representative (cc: Store Manager and Director of Labor Relations) with his or her determination on the state of the grievance following the Second Step Meeting.
28.4	STEP 3 - If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached in Step 2, the Union Representative must re-submit the grievance in writing to the Tops Corporate Director of Labor Relations within five (5) working days after the answer is given in Step 2. Upon receipt by the Director of Labor Relations, a meeting will be conducted to facilitate the outstanding grievance. The meeting will consist of the Director of Labor Relations, District Manager, Store Manager, Union Representative and the aggrieved employee. The Director of Labor relations must respond in writing to the Union with a final decision on the stated grievance within five (5) working days following the Third Step Meeting.
28.5	STEP 4 - If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached in Step 3, the Union or the Employer may submit the written grievance to arbitration in accordance with the following procedure:
20
ARTICLE 28 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION - CONTINUED
28.6	Notice of intent to arbitrate must be given in writing to the other party and the grievance shall be stipulated in the letter of notification. Any request for arbitration must be submitted in writing not later than twenty-five (25) working days after receipt of the written decision from the Third Step meeting or at any time after an arbitration is approved following an appeal to the UFCW Local One Executive Board.
28.7	Unless by mutual agreement of the parties to the contrary, all grievances submitted for arbitration will be processed under the Voluntary Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Where expediency, efficiency or convenience of the parties will be served, and upon mutual agreement, an arbitrator may be selected through the services of the New York State Mediation Board, or any mutually agreed to arbitrator may be designated to serve.
28.8	In the event that the Company or Union “delays” in selecting an arbitrator, the other party will be authorized to unilaterally select an arbitrator. For the purposes of this paragraph, “delay” will be considered any case where an arbitrator has not been selected after thirty (30) days of receipt of the list of arbitrators.
28.9	The arbitrator is hereby authorized to interpret and apply, but not to modify, enlarge, set aside or restrict, the provisions expressed in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall not have the power to set or change rates of job classification. The decision of the arbitrator shall be rendered without undue delay and shall be final and binding on both parties. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid jointly by the parties. All other expenses of arbitration shall be paid by the party, which incurred them.
ARTICLE 29
CREDIT UNION
At the written request of an employee, and in accordance with appropriate procedures to be mutually agreed upon concerning the frequency and amount of payments, the Company shall deduct weekly from the employees wages such amount as the employee has elected. These deductions shall be remitted within fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each week to the Power Federal Credit Union.
21
ARTICLE 30
ACTIVE BALLOT CLUB
30.1	The Employer agrees to deduct an amount from the pay of each employee per week, who is a union member and who executes an appropriate voluntary checkoff authorization form to the UFCW Active Ballot Club. Deductions shall be in the amount specified in the checkoff authorization form signed by the employee and deducted every week. The deduction shall continue for the life of this agreement for those employees who sign UFCW Active Ballot Club checkoff authorization forms unless they are revoked individually and in writing.
30.2	The Employer agrees to transmit UFCW Active Ballot Club deductions to the UFCW Active Ballot Club in care of the Local Union, within fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month. The Employer further agrees to transmit to the Local Union at the same time the names of those employees for whom deductions have been made and the amounts deducted for each employee.
ARTICLE 31
HEALTH CARE FUND
31.1	The health care provisions of the prior labor agreement shall remain in effect until 4/30/01.
Effective 05/01/01, the Employer shall pay monthly, within fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month, to the UFCW District Union Local One Health Care Fund, the following sums per employee per month:
FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Family Coverage Plan A:	S390.00
Family Coverage Plan B:	$312.00
PART TIME EMPLOYEES:
Individual Coverage Plan A:	S235.OO
Individual Coverage Plan B:	$188.00
Covered under the Wrap Plan:	$35.00
22
ARTICLE 31 - HEALTH CARE FUND - CONTINUED
31.2	In the event that the Board of Trustees of the Fund find that the foregoing contribution rates are insufficient to maintain the Plan of Benefits provided by the Fund, the Employer agrees to make such additional contributions as determined by the Trustees. Maintenance of benefits increases shall occur on the following dates and be capped as follows:
1/1/02	Up to 12% if necessary
1/1/03	Up to 12% if necessary, plus any portion of the prior year’s cap not
implemented.
1/1/04	Up to 12% if necessary, plus the balance of either of the prior caps not
implemented.
4/1/04	The parties shall meet to negotiate the appropriate increase. Article 36
shall be suspended pending resolution of such bargaining.
31.3	Contributions shall be made for all employees who have been paid and are entitled to payments for the performance of duties at any time during the month. The contribution rate shall be determined by the employee’s full-time or part-time status as of the first pay period of such employee during the month. In case of employees who have been laid off and who are re-employed, the contribution rate shall be determined by the employee’s full-time or part-time status when re-employed.
31.4	Contributions on behalf of all employees hired or advanced to full time prior to 5/10/01 shall be made at the Family Coverage Plan A rate and shall commence on the first day of the month following completion of thirty (30) days of employment with the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a full-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the date of hiring, then, in such event, contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee’s prior cumulative full-time service with any participating Employer, shall aggregate thirty (30) days. In the event a part time employee was receiving Individual Plan A benefits prior to promotion to full time, contributions for full time coverage shall be made at the Family Coverage Plan A rate.
23
ARTICLE 31 - HEALTH CARE FUND - CONTINUED
31.5	Contributions on behalf of all employees hired or advanced to full time on or after 05/10/01 shall be made at the Family Coverage Plan B rate and shall commence on the first day of the month following completion of thirty (30) days of employment with the Employer. Such contributions shall be made for thirty-six (36) months after which contributions shall be made at the Family Coverage Plan A rate. Months of service by a part time employee, where Individual Coverage Plan B contributions were made, shall be recognized towards qualifying for full time Family Coverage Plan A benefits. In the event the Employer hires a full-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the date of hiring, then, in such event, contributions at the Family Coverage Plan A or Plan B level, depending on the Plan they were previously enrolled in, shall commence on the first day of the month following completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee’s prior cumulative full-time service with any participating Employer, shall aggregate thirty (30) days.
31.6	Contributions for Wrap Plan benefits for all part-time employees hired on or before 5/10/01 shall commence on the first of the month following completion of six (6) months employment with the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a part-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the date of hiring, contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee's prior service (whether full or part-time), with any participating Employer, shall aggregate six (6) months.
31.7	Contributions for Wrap Plan benefits for all part-time employees hired after 5/10/01 shall commence on the first of the month following completion of nine (9) months employment with the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a part-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the date of hiring, contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee’s prior service (whether full or part-time), with any participating Employer, shall aggregate nine (9) months.
31.8	Contributions for Individual Coverage Plan A benefits shall continue to be made on behalf of all part time employees where such contributions were being made prior to 05/01/01.
24
ARTICLE 31 - HEALTH CARE FUND - CONTINUED
31.9	Contributions for Individual Coverage Plan B benefits shall be made on behalf of part time employees with at least twelve (12) months service if no major medical and/or hospitalization is provided to them from any other source. Contributions shall commence the first of the month following the date on which a valid application for such coverage is received by the Employer. Contributions at the Individual Coverage Plan A rate will be made thirty-six (36) months after the date on which contributions for Individual Coverage Plan B benefits began. In the event the Employer hires a part-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (I) year prior to the date of hiring, eligibility for Individual Coverage Plan A or Plan B level, depending on the Plan they were previously enrolled in, shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee's prior service (whether full or part-time), with any participating Employer, shall aggregate twelve (12) months.
31.10	If an employee who has previously qualified to have contributions made on their behalf is absent from work due to illness, injury, or military service, the Employer shall continue contributions to the United Food and Commercial Workers Local One Health Care Fund for the first six (6) months of absence in any twelve (12) month period.
31.11	If an employee who has previously qualified to have contributions made on their behalf is absent from work due to layoff the Employer shall continue contributions to the United Food and Commercial Workers Local One Health Care Fund for the first three (3) months of absence in any twelve (12) month period.
31.12	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Amended and Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust (as amended from time to time) which governs the operation of the Fund and hereby agrees to accept the Employer Trustees of the Fund who have been selected, as provided therein, as its representatives in the joint administration of the Fund. The Fund shall at all times have and maintain United States Treasury Department approval, otherwise the Employer shall not be obligated to make contributions thereto.
31.13	The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce the payment of contributions required hereunder. The Trustees, their designated representatives, shall have the right to inspect payroll records, time records and such other records maintained by the Employer in the normal course of business as the Trustees believe pertain to the Fund. The Employer shall make available such records during reasonable business hours upon receipt of notice from the Trustees that they intend to conduct an audit or examination of such records for the purpose of verifying payments due to the Fund and ensure compliance by the Employer with its obligation to make contributions pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and applicable law.
25
ARTICLE 31 - HEALTH CARE FUND - CONTINUED
31.14	Said Fund shall have its principal office in the City of Utica and shall be administered by a Board of Trustees consisting of an equal number of Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with said Amended and Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust. The principal and income of the Fund shall be used for the sole purpose of providing for the employees of the Employers contributing thereto, their families and dependents, with health care benefits, and for any and all other purposes which may be permitted pursuant to Section 302 (c) (5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, and the payment of all expenses including the administration and maintenance of the Fund.
31.15	The rules of eligibility for coverage, waiting periods for coverage and the benefits to be provided to employees and/or their dependents shall be as provided in the plan of benefits of the Fund. The provisions contained in this Article regarding the dates for the payment of contributions to the Fund shall not bear upon the date when coverage commences.
31.16	The Employer agrees to provide payroll deductions for part-time employees purchasing dependent coverage. These deductions will be due fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month.
ARTICLE 32
LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND
32.1	The Full Time schedule of contributions contained in the prior labor agreement that expired on 3/31/01 shall remain in effect until 06/30/01.
Effective 7/01/01, the Employer shall pay monthly within fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month, to the UFCW District Union Local One Pension Fund, the following:
FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES:
The Company shall make the following pension contributions on behalf of all employees hired or promoted to full time prior to 7/1/01:
Contributions on 6/1/01:
New Contributions:
	7/1/01	4/1/02	4/1/03	4/1/04
Less than S92.00/month:	SI 05.00	SI 26.00	S140.00	$140.00
S92.00/month:	SI 26.00	SI 40.00	S140.00	$140.00
S125.50/month:	SI 40.00	SI 40.00	S140.00	SI 40.00
S140.00/month:	SI 40.00	SI 40.00	SI 40.00	$140.00
26
ARTICLE 32 - LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND - CONTINUED
The Company shall make the following pension contributions on behalf of all employees hired or promoted to full time on or after 7/1/01:
Effective 7/1/01:
First year of full time service: Second year of full time service: Third year of full time service:
S105.00
SI 26.00
SI 40.00
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Effective 7/01/01:
Effective 4/01/02:
Effective 4/01/04:
SI0.00 per month
SI5.00 per month
S20.00 per month
32.2	Contributions shall be made for all full time employees who have been paid or are entitled to payment for the performance of duties at any time during the month. The contribution rate shall be determined by the employee’s full time or part time status as of the first pay period of such employee during the month. In the case of employees who have been laid off and who are reemployed, the contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full time or part time status when reemployed.
32.3	Contributions on behalf of all full time employees shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of thirty (30) days of employment with the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a full time employee who has been employed by another Participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the date of hiring, then in such event, contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee's prior cumulative full time service with any Participating Employer, shall aggregate thirty (30) days.
32.4	Contributions on behalf of all part-time employees shall commence on the first day of the month following the latter of reaching age twenty-one (21) or the completion of twelve (12) months of employment with the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a part-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the date of hiring and who has also attained age twenty-one (21), then, in such event, contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee's prior cumulative service with any participating Employer, shall aggregate twelve (12) months.
27
ARTICLE 32 - LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND - CONTINUED
32.5	If an employee who has previously qualified to have contributions made in their behalf is absent from work due to illness or injury, the Employer shall continue contributions for the first six (6) months of absence in any twelve (12) month period. If an employee is on layoff, the Employer will continue to make contributions for a period of three (3) months.
32.6	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Amended and Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust (as amended from time-to-time) which governs the operation of the Fund and hereby agrees to accept the Employer Trustees of the Fund who have been selected, as provided therein, as its representatives in the joint administration of the Fund. The Fund shall at all times have and maintain United States Treasury Department approval, otherwise the Employer shall not be obligated to make contributions thereto.
32.7	Said Fund shall have its principal office in the City of Utica and shall be administered by a Board of Trustees consisting of an equal number of Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with said Amended and Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust.
32.8	The principal and income of the Fund shall be used for the sole purpose of providing for the employees of the Employers contributing thereto and their beneficiaries, with retirement benefits and for any and all other purposes which may be permitted pursuant to Section 302 (c) (5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, and the payment of all expenses, including the administration and maintenance of the Fund.
32.9	The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce the payment of contributions required hereunder. The Trustees, or their designated representatives, shall have the right to inspect payroll records, time records and such other records maintained by the Employer in the normal course of business as the Trustees shall believe pertain to the Fund. The Employer shall make available such records during reasonable business hours upon receipt of notice from the Trustees that they intend to conduct an audit or examination of such records for the purpose of verifying payments due to the Fund and to ensure compliance by the Employer with its obligation to make contributions pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and applicable law.
28
ARTICLE 33
EDUCATION, SAFETY AND CULTURAL FUND
33.1	The Employer shall pay monthly, within fifteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month, to the UFCW District Union Local One Education, Safety and Cultural Fund, the following sums per employee per month:
FULL-TIME	PART-TIME
1	Oc per hour per employee	5c per hour per employee
33.2	Contributions shall be made for all employees who have been paid or are entitled to payment for the performance of duties at any time during the month for all straight time paid hours up to 40 hours per week. The contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full-time or part-time status. In case of employees who have been laid off and who are reemployed, the contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full-time or part-time status when reemployed.
33.3	Contributions for all full-time employees and all part-time employees including Maintenance and Customer Sendee Clerks, shall commence on the first day of employment with the Employer.
33.4	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of the Trust Agreement which governs the operation of the Fund and hereby agrees to accept the Employer Trustees of the Fund who have been selected as provided therein, as its representatives in the joint administration of the Fund.
33.5	The foregoing contributions shall be utilized by the Trustees of the Education, Safety and Cultural Fund for the operation of a Education, Safety and Cultural program pursuant to such terms and conditions and rules and regulations which the Trustees may hereafter adopt. Said Fund shall have its principal office in the City of Utica and shall be administered by a Board of Trustees consisting of an equal number of Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with the Declaration of Trust.
33.6	The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce the payment of contributions required hereunder. The Trustees, or their designated representatives, shall have the right to inspect payroll records, time records and such other records maintained by the Employer in the normal course of business as the Trustees shall believe pertain to the Fund. The Employer shall make available such records during reasonable business hours upon receipt of notice from the Trustees that they intend to conduct an audit or examination of such records for the purpose of verifying payments due to the Fund and to ensure compliance by the Employer with its obligation to make contributions pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and applicable law.
29
ARTICLE 33 - EDUCATION, SAFETY AND CULTURAL FUND - CONTINUED
33.7	The rules of eligibility for coverage, waiting periods for coverage and the benefits to be provided to employees and/or their dependents shall be as provided in the plan of benefits of the fund. The provisions contained in this Article regarding the dates for the payment of contributions to the Fund shall not bear upon the date when coverage commences.
33.8	Subject to approval by the Board of Trustees of the UFCW Education, Safety and Cultural Fund, the Employer shall be granted a reduction equal to one-half (1/2) of the total contributions that would otherwise be due pursuant to Article 33.1, 33.2 and 33.3 during the first year of this agreement.
ARTICLE 34
SAFETY AND HEALTH
34.1	The Company agrees that it has the sole responsibility to provide a safe workplace and to correct safety hazards and that nothing in this Agreement shall imply that the Union has undertaken or assumed any portion of that responsibility. The Company further agrees that it will indemnify and hold the union harmless from any claims asserting that the Union failed to provide a safe workplace.
34.2	The Company will participate with the Union on a Joint Labor/Management Retail Food Industry Safety and Health Committee. The Committee shall consist of equal representatives from the Union and the Industry, subject to replacement under such circumstances and conditions as each party may determine. The Retail Food Industry Safety and Health Committee shall meet regularly, but not less than quarterly after work hours.
34.3	The Safety and Health Director of the Union, or his representative, shall have the right to visit any of the Company's places of business in order to ensure a safe work environment.
34.4	The Union may designate one employee per store to act as a Safety and Health Representative. The Safety and Health Representative will receive one additional paid personal day to attend a LJnion sponsored Safety and Health Conference.
34.5	Safety and Health concerns will be handled in the following manner:
STEP 1: The Safety and Health Representative will bring all safety problems to the attention of the Store Manager. If the problem is not taken care of in a reasonable period of time;
STEP 2: The Safety and Health Director of the Union and the Company shall meet as soon as possible. If the problem is not taken care of in a reasonable period of time;
STEP 3: The Company and the Union will submit the dispute to the President of the Union and Vice President of Labor Relations and they will jointly resolve the dispute.
30
ARTICLE 35
SENIORITY
35.1	Seniority of regular full-time employees shall commence as of their starting date as full-time employees. Seniority of part-time employees shall commence as of their starting date as part-time employees.
(a)	Seniority roster shall be in the following categories:
1)	Regular full-time employees
2)	Regular part-time employees available for
additional scheduled hours.
3)	Regular part-time employees not available
for additional scheduled hours.
4)	Customer Service Clerks
(b)	Seniority shall be accrued and applicable within each of the above four categories respectively. Those in the fourth category will be the first to be laid off in line with seniority standing within that group. A full-time employee reduced to part-time involuntarily shall be placed at the top of category 2. A full-time employee who reduces to part-time voluntarily shall be placed in category 3 in a position commensurate with their total Company seniority.
(c)	Employees advancing from one seniority category to the next shall not carry any accrued seniority from the group that they have advanced from.
(d)	Full-time employees with thirty-one (31) days sendee shall have seniority over all part-time employees.
(e)	Seniority shall be applied and considered within the respective seniority units.
(f)	The employer agrees to make a sincere effort to train, in advance, senior employees to
fill future higher rated classifications.
(g)	Respecting the promotion, and demotion, layoff and rehiring, the qualifications and ability of the employee shall be considered in conjunction with seniority standing. The promotion shall be based on fitness and ability with seniority a factor only when fitness and ability are equal. All employees who meet the above qualifications shall be given the opportunity to fill future job vacancies. Regular part-time employees shall have seniority standing over part-time student and/or part-time employees holding full-time jobs elsewhere, provided they have the necessary qualifications and can work the available hours as determined by the ’’Employer."
31
ARTICLE 35 - SENIORITY - CONTINUED
(h)	Regular full-time employees, if laid off due to no fault of their own shall have preference for available part-time employment.
(i)	in the event a full-time employee is promoted from the ranks of the Union, they shall retain their accrued seniority for a period of one (1) year. If, within that period, they are transferred back to any position covered by this Agreement, their full seniority shall be restored immediately.
(j)	Employees in Classified positions or Department or Assistant Department Manager positions who are demoted, are involuntarily reduced or voluntarily seek reduction themselves, shall be reclassified as full time clerks provided that they have been full time for at least one (1) year prior to the date of such reduction and can work the available hours.
35.2	An employee’s seniority shall end if discharged for just cause by the Employer, if they voluntarily quit, or if they are laid off continuously for a period of more than six (6) months, or if the employee is called back to work after a layoff and does not report to work within three (3) days, or seventy-two (72) hours, provided said employee has been notified by registered mail to the last known address furnished by the employee. If within seventy-two (72) hours, additional time is requested by the employee, the employer shall grant four (4) additional days. Notice to the employer, making the request, shall be sent by the employee, by registered mail.
35.3	The Company will provide the Union with a store wide seniority list and update it every six (6) months, or as requested by the Union.
ARTICLE 36
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
During the term of this agreement, there shall be no strike, lockout or stoppage of work unless either party fails to comply with the decision of an arbitrator. In any event, there shall be no strike, lockout or work stoppage of any kind until the other party has given seven (7) days written notice that it intends to engage in such a strike, lockout or work stoppage.
32
ARTICLE 37
SEPARABILITY
37.1	The provisions of this Agreement are deemed to be separable to the extent that if and when a court of last resort adjudges any provision or provisions of this Agreement in its application between the Union and the undersigned Employer to be in conflict with any law, such decisions shall not affect the validity of the remaining provision, or provisions of this Agreement. Such remaining provision or provisions shall continue in full force and effect, provided further that in the event any provision or provisions are so declared to be in conflict with a law, both parties shall meet immediately for the purpose of renegotiating an agreement on the provision or provisions so invalidated.
37.2	In the event by Federal, State or Local legislation there shall be in effect an existing law or such law shall be passed which shall provide for a minimum wage rate which will exceed any contract wage rate or rates in effect at the time of the effective date of such law, then such contract wage rate or rates shall be automatically adjusted at the time of the effective date of such law.
ARTICLE 38
CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS
38.1	Customer Service Clerks will be a part of the bargaining unit, and will be employed under conditions as set forth below:
(a)	Customer Service Clerks must be identified by means of a badge or some distinguishing article of apparel.
(b)	Duties will be limited to:
1)	Parcel and carry-out including canopy to car
2)	Cart control
3)	Sweeping and cleaning
4)	Cleaning of outside areas,	including sidewalks
and parking lots snow removal and washing
5)	Wash windows
6)	Clean rest rooms
7)	Stock bag racks, including	bringing bags	from
the storage area
8)	Return empties and bottle returns to the storage area
9)	Check missing prices for Cashiers
10)	Counter sales in all departments
33
ARTICLE 38 - CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS - CONTINUED
11)	Can generally wait on trade but may not engage in stocking, cashiering, baking, meat wrapping and use of processing equipment.
12)	Demonstrating and sampling of products
38.2	Length of service while employed as a Customer Service Clerk, shall be carried forward when a Customer Service Clerk is promoted to regular part-time status for the following purposes only:
(a)	Completion of probationary period (If service is greater than thirty (30) days, then probationary period will be considered as satisfied).
(b)	Length of service pay progressions shall be based upon original start date as Customer Sendee Clerk.
38.3	Seniority within the regular part-time category shall commence with the date of promotion to regular part-time status.
38.4	Part-time benefits, based upon length of service, shall be based on seniority within the regular part-time category.
38.5	Part-time Customer Service Clerks shall be covered for all provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement including fringe benefits except for Article 31 Health Care, as amended, and Article 32, Pension Fund.
ARTICLE 39
JOB POSTING
39.1	The Company shall post in the employee break-room all full time job openings. The job posting shall be made for a minimum of seven (7) days.
39.2	The Employer will agree to give part-time employees the opportunity to fill full-time jobs according to seniority provided they are qualified to perform the work and provided they can work the scheduled hours.
39.3	Upon request by the Union Representative, the Employer will send a copy of the notice concerning the employee who has successfully filled a posted position.
39.4	The Company will post for no less than a seven (7) day period, the name of the successful bidder for each job posted once the selection has been made.
39.5	All applicants for posted jobs will receive an interview.
34
ARTICLE 39	- JOB POSTING - CONTINUED
39.6 Once an employee has bid on and received a full time job, such employee shall not, except by demotion or by mutual consent, be permanently transferred to a different job or store. The Company reserves the right to work an employee in any department or in any job on a less than permanent basis. It is further understood that in the event a department or job is eliminated in-full or in-part, based on operational needs, the Company may re-assign an affected employee without regard to the foregoing.
ARTICLE 40
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Any new employee hired by the Company shall be on probation for a period of thirty (30) days after date of hire. The thirty (30) day trial period can be extended an additional thirty (30) days on an exception basis with the Agreement of the Union Representative. During such time an employee may be discharged at any time and for any reason at the sole discretion of the Company and without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Upon completion of the probationary' period, the employee shall be placed on the seniority list with seniority dating to time of hire or rehire.
ARTICLE 41
TRAVEL PAY
Employees, including floaters, who temporarily transfer at the company's request to another store or are requested to attend a meeting at another location will be paid travel expenses from their home store or respective residence, whichever distance is shorter, at the rate of thirty-four and one-half cents (34.5c) per mile for all miles actually driven by the employee if the one way distance is in excess of twenty (20) miles. Employees who car-pool with another employee (whose vehicle is used) shall not be eligible for mileage pay.
35
ARTICLE 42
TIME AND ATTENDANCE SYSTEM
42.1	Time and Attendance System shall be installed in all stores of the Company and each employee shall, as a condition of employment, be required to record and sign their individual Time and Attendance Record.
42.2	"The Fair Labor Standards Act", as amended, requires, among other things, that all time worked by employees be accurately recorded and that employees receive compensation for all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week at one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular hourly rate of pay. The parties recognize and agree that strict compliance with this Act is in the best interest of the Employer, the Union and the employees. Therefore, the Employer will not request, suffer or permit any employee to work while not being registered on the Time and Attendance System, and the Union agrees to cooperate with and to assist the Employer in assuring strict compliance with this important federal legislation.
42.3	Any employee violating this provision, (either 42.1 or 42.2) shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
ARTICLE 43
TEMPORARY RELIEF OF DEPARTMENT MANAGERS
Any employee who relieves an employee in a classified or premium paying position for five (5) work days or more, shall receive the applicable starting rate for the classified position or their rate plus the appropriate premium (50<i/hr - Dept. Mgrs, 25d/hr - Ass't Dept. Mgrs.), whichever is greater. Assistant Department Managers, First Cutters and Lead Clerks shall be replaced at the discretion of Management when such replacement is warranted.
36
ARTICLE 44
VOLUNTARY/INVOLUNTARY REDUCTION
44.1	Employees who voluntarily reduce themselves from full-time to part-time shall receive their prior part-time rate plus any part-time wage increases which were granted during the period they were full-time. Employees, who were hired as full time, shall use their full time start date to determine the appropriate part time pay rate. The Employer shall pay at the time of reduction any unused full time vacation or personal holidays the employee has accrued.
44.2	Employees who are involuntarily reduced from full-time to part-time shall receive their prior part-time rate plus any part time wage increases which were granted during the period they were full-time. Employees, who were hired as full time, shall use their full time start date to determine the appropriate part time pay rate. The Employer shall continue to make full-time health care and pension contributions for three (3) additional months following the reduction. The Employer shall pay at the time of reduction any unused full time vacation or personal holidays the employee has accrued.
44.3	If the introduction of “case-ready” meat results in the elimination of Meat Cutter positions, affected employees will be provided other positions as long as they can perform the duties required. The new rate of pay for such employees will be no less than their Meat Cutter or First Cutter rate at that time. Eligible employees shall be those classified as Meat Cutters or First Cutters on or before 5/10/01.
37
ARTICLE 45
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
45.] Employees with base wage rates at or above the top rate called for in their respective progression scale or the rates listed below for classified positions shall receive the following general wage increases on the dates indicated below:
	4/1/01		3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Classified Positions		40c	40c	40c	40c
Department Managers		40c	40c	40c	40c
Assistant Department Managers		40c	40c	40c	40c
Full Time Clerks		40c	40c	40c	40c
Part Time Clerks		30e	25c	25c	25e
Customer Service Clerks		20c	20c	20e	20c
45.2 CLASSIFIED POSITIONS					
	4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04	
Meat Manager	S16.60	$17.00	$17.40	$17.80	
Is’ Cutter	S15.90	$16.30	$16.70	$17.10	
Journeyman	$15.65	$16.05	$16.45	$16.85	
Produce Manager	$14.80	$15.20	$15.60	$16.00	
Apprentice Cutters:	4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04	
1 st 6 Months	S12.40	$12.80	$13.20	$13.60	
2nd 6 Months	$12.80	$13.20	S13.60	$14.00	
3rd 6 Months	$13.20	$13.60	$14.00	$14.40	
4th 6 Months	$13.60	$14.00	$14.40	$14.80	
Journeyman	$15.65	$16.05	S16.45	$16.85	
38
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.3 DEPARTMENT MANAGER POSITIONS
Deli/Prepared Foods Managers:
	4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S9.50	S9.50	S9.50	S9.50
Step 2	S10.00	S10.00	SI 0.00	SI 0.00
Step 3	S10.50	S10.50	S10.50	SI0.50
Step 4	SI 1.00	SI 1.00	SI 1.00	SI 1.00
Step 5	SI 1.50	SI 1.50	SI 1.50	SI 1.50
Step 6	SI 2.00	S12.00	S12.00	S12.00
Step 7	S12.50	S12.50	S12.50	S12.50
Step 8		S12.80	$12.80	S12.80
Step 9			S13.10	S13.10
Step 10				S13.40
Employees hired or promoted to Deli/Prepared Foods Manager on or before 5/10/01 will after first receiving the general wage increases, slot to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale on their full time anniversary date or the six (6) month date following their anniversary date and shall continue to progress every six (6) months thereafter until achieving the top rate.** Employees hired or promoted to Deli/Prepared Foods Manager after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
** Employees who have reached the top rate for their classification in the prior agreement will slot to the next highest wage rate in the above scale on September 30, 2001 and will continue to progress thereafter.
39
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
Bakerv Managers:
4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S9.25	S9.25	S9.50	S9.50
Step 2	S9.75	S9.75	S9.75	S9.75
Step 3	S10.25	SI 0.25	SI 0.25	S10.25
Step 4	S10.75	S10.75	$10.75	S10.75
Step 5	SI 1.25	SI 1.25	SI 1.25	SI 1.25
Step 6	Sil.75	SI 1.75	$11.75	SI 1.75
Step 7	S12.25	S12.25	S12.25	S12.25
Step 8		S12.55	S12.55	S12.55
Step 9			$12.85	S12.85
Step 10				$13.15
Employees hired or promoted to Bakery Manager on or before 5/10/01 will after first receiving the general wage increases, slot to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale on their full time anniversary date or the six (6) month date following their anniversary date and shall continue to progress every six (6) months thereafter until achieving the top rate.** Employees hired or promoted to Bakery Manager after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
** Employees who have reached the top rate for their classification in the prior agreement will slot to the next highest wage rate in the above scale on September 30, 2001 and will continue to progress thereafter.
40
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES ^ND CLASSIFICATIONS • CONTINUED
All Other Department Managers:
A)	Assistant Grocery Managers, General Merchandise Managers, Night Crew-Managers, Maintenance Managers, Office Managers, Scan Coordinators and Dairy and Frozen Food Managers.
B)	Bulk Food Managers, Captain’s Choice Managers, Cheese Shop Managers, Petal Works (Floral) Managers, Photo One Managers, Butcher Block Managers and Carry Out Cafe Managers.
These positions may be eliminated through attrition or when the department is abolished as a separate operational department. Affected employees shall retain their Department Manager rate and full time status.
	4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S8.00	S8.00	S8.00	S8.00
Step 2	S8.5O	S8.50	S8.50	S8.50
Step 3	S9.00	S9.00	S9.00	$9.00
Step 4	S9.50	S9.50	S9.50	$9.50
Step 5	S10.00	SI 0.00	$10.00	SI 0.00
Step 6	S10.30	SI 0.30	$10.30	$10.30
Step 7	S10.60	SI0.60	S10.60	$10.60
Step 8	S10.90	$10.90	$10.90	$10.90
Step 9	SI 1.20	SI 1.20	$11.20	SI 1.20
Step 10		SI 1.50	$11.50	SI 1.50
Step 11			SI 1.80	SI 1.80
Step 12				$12.10
Employees hired or promoted to Department Manager positions on or before 5/10/01 will after first receiving the general wage increases, slot to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale on their full time anniversary date or the six (6) month date following their anniversary date and shall continue to progress every six (6) months thereafter until achieving the top rate.** Employees hired or promoted to Department Manager positions after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
** Employees who have reached the top rate for their classification in the prior agreement will slot to the next highest wage rate in the above scale on September 30, 2001 and will continue to progress thereafter.
41
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.4 ASSISTANT DEPARTMENT MANAGERS:
	4/1/01	3/31/Q2	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S7.75	S7.75	S7.75	$7.75
Step 2	S8.25	S8.25	S8.25	$8.25
Step 3	S8.75	S8.75	S8.75	$8.75
Step 4	S9.25	S9.25	S9.25	$9.25
Step 5	S9.75	S9.75	S9.75	$9.75
Step 6	SI 0.05	S10.05	$10.05	SI 0.05
Step 7	S10.35	S10.35	S1O.35	S10.35
Step 8	S10.65	S10.65	$10.65	$10.65
Step 9	S10.95	SI 0.95	$10.95	$10.95
Step 10		SI 1.25	SI 1.25	$11.25
Step 11			$11.55	$11.55
Step 12				SI 1.85
Employees hired or promoted to Assistant Department Manager positions on or before 5/10/01 will after first receiving the general wage increases, slot to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale on their full time anniversary date or the six (6) month date following their anniversary date and shall continue to progress every six (6) months thereafter until achieving the top rate.** Employees hired or promoted to Assistant Department Manager positions after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
A part-time Assistant Department Manager, where designated by management, shall be paid the minimum full-time rate or their rate plus a twenty-five cent (25d) per hour premium whichever is greater. Assistant Produce Manager rates of pay shall be determined by the above,
** Employees who have reached the top rate for their classification in the prior agreement will slot to the next highest wage rate in the above scale on September 30, 2001 and will continue to progress thereafter.
42
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.5 FULL TIME CLERKS:
	4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S7.50	S7.50	S7.5O	S7.50
Step 2	S8.00	S8.00	S8.00	S8.00
Step 3	S8.50	S8.50	S8.5O	S8.50
Step 4	S9.00	S9.00	S9.00	S9.00
Step 5	S9.50	S9.50	S9.50	S9.50
Step 6	S9.80	S9.80	S9.80	S9.80
Step 7	S10.10	S10.10	S10.10	S10.10
Step 8	S10.40	SI 0.40	SI 0.40	SI 0.40
Step 9	S10.70	S10.70	S10.70	S10.70
Step 10		SI LOO	SI 1.00	SI 1.00
Step 11			SI 1.30	SI 1.30
Step 12				SI 1.60
Employees hired or promoted to Full Time Clerk positions on or before 5/10/01 will after first receiving the general wage increases, slot to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale on their full time anniversary date or the six (6) month date following their anniversary date and shall continue to progress every six (6) months thereafter until achieving the top rate.** Employees hired or promoted to Full Time Clerk positions after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
** Employees who have reached the top rate for their classification in the prior agreement will slot to the next highest wage rate in the above scale on September 30, 2001 and will continue to progress thereafter.
43
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.6 PART TIME CLERKS HIRED ON OR BEFORE 5/10/01:
Step 1
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Step 5
Step 6
Step 7
Step 8
Step 9
Step 10
Step 11
Step 12
S5.75 S6.00
S6.25
S6.50 S6.75
S7.00 S7.25
S7.50 S7.75 $8.00 S8.25
S8.50
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $5.49 or less will slot in at Step 1.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of S5.50 to S5.60 will slot in at Step 2.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of S5.61 to S5.75 will slot in at Step 3.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of S5.76 to $6.00 will slot in at Step 4.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of S6.01 to $6.25 will slot in at Step 5.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $6.26 to $6.50 will slot in at Step 6.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $6.51 to $6.75 will slot in at Step 7.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $6.76 to $6.85 will slot in at Step 8.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $6.86 to $7.15 will slot in at Step 9.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $7.16 to $7.50 will slot in at Step 10.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $7.51 to $7.75 will slot in at Step 11.
Part time employees with hourly wage rates of $7.76 to $8.00 will slot in at Step 12.
After slotting into the above scale, employees will progress at six (6) month intervals until achieving the top rate. After reaching the top rate, such employees will receive the general wage increase(s) as per Article 45.1.
Retroactivity shall be limited to the amount of the general wage increase.
44
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.7	PART TIME CLERKS HIRED AFTER 5/10/01:
4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S5.75 ca no	ex nn		
Step 2	So.UU			
Step 3	S6.25	S6.25	S6.25	S6.25
Step 4	S6.50	S6.50	$6.50	$6.50
Step 5	S6.75	$6.75	S6.75	$6.75
Step 6	S7.00	S7.00	$7.00	$7.00
Step 7	S7.25	$7.25	$7.25	S7.25
Step 8	S7.50	$7.50	$7.50	S7.50
Step 9		$7.75	$7.75	$7.75
Step 10		$8.00	S8.00	$8.00
Step 11			S8.25	$8.25
Part time employees hired after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals. After reaching the top rate, such employees will receive the general wage increase(s) as per Article 45.1.
45
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.8	LEAD CLERKS:
The Company may designate the following Lead Clerk positions:
Butcher Block Lead
Captain’s Choice Lead
Floral Lead
Photo One Lead
Bulk Food Lead Gas Shop Lead Customer Sendee Lead
Employees designated as such shall receive the appropriate full or part time clerk rate plus a twenty-five cent (25c) per hour premium. Such positions may be created and filled where employees classified as Department Managers vacate their positions.
46
ARTICLE 45 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
45.9 CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS:
	4/1/01	3/31/02	3/30/03	3/28/04
Step 1	S5.65	—	——_	——
Step 2	$5.85	$5.85	—	—
Step 3	$6.15	$6.15	$6.15	$6.15
Step 4	S6.30	$6.30	$6.30	$6.30
Step 5	$6.50	$6.50	$6.50	$6.50
Step 6	$6.70	$6.70	$6.70	$6.70
Step 7	$6.90	$6.90	$6.90	$6.90
Step 8	$7.10	$7.10	$7.10	$7.10
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $5.30 or less will slot in at Step 1.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $5.31 to $5.50 will slot in at Step 2.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $5.51 to $5.70 will slot in at Step 3.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $5.71 to $5.80 will slot in at Step 4.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $5.81 to $6.00 will slot in at Step 5.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $6.01 to $6.25 will slot in at Step 6.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $6.26 to $6.45 will slot in at Step 7.
Customer Service Clerks with hourly wage rates of $6.46 to $6.60 will slot in at Step 8.
After slotting into the above scale, Customer Service Clerks hired on or before 5/10/01 will progress at six (6) month intervals until achieving the top rate. After reaching the top rate, such employees will receive the general wage increase(s) as per Article 45.1.
Retroactivity shall be limited to the amount of the general wage increase.
Customer Service Clerks hired after 5/10/01 will progress through the above scale at six (6) month intervals. After reaching the top rate, such employees will receive the general wage increase(s) as per Article 45.1.
47
ARTICLE 46
TERM OF AGREEMENT
46.1	This agreement shall remain in effect from April 1, 2001 until 11:59 p.m.. April 3. 2005.
46.2	Either party desiring to terminate the Agreement or to negotiate changes in this Agreement shall give notice to the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date hereof. If such notice is not given as above, the Agreement shall be automatically renewed without change for a period of one (1) year. In the event either party serves notice of a desire to negotiate changes in the Agreement, it is mutually agreed that the Employer and the Union, without undue delay, shall begin negotiations on the proposed changes and that pending results of negotiations neither party shall change the conditions existing under this contract.
This Agreement cancels and supersedes all previous Agreements between the parties hereto:
PRESIDENT
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT
TO THE PRESIDENT/RECORDER
DIR., COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
ROBERT BOEHLERT
SYRACUSE AREA DIRECTOR
48
TOPS MARKETS, LLC MIDSTATE DIVISION AREA STORES AS OF 5/10/01
LOCATION	ADDRESS	CITY, STATE, ZIP CODE
504	352 West Genesee Street	Auburn, NY 13021
508	12 West First Street South	Fulton, NY 13069
509	293 F. State Route 104	Oswego, NY 13126
517	3918 State Route 281	Cortland, NY 13045-
521	614 South Meadow Street	Ithaca, NY 14850
522	2300 Triphammer Road	Ithaca, NY 14850
532	142 Genesee Street	Oneida, NY 13421
49
©IMPORTANT NOTICE
Facts youSHOULD KNOW...
IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY
#	1 All members terminating employment or leaving the bargaining unit (i.e.: promotion to management) should immediately request a Withdrawal Card by calling 1-800-NYS-UFCW (ask for the bookkeeping department).
#	2 Withdrawal Cards permit a member to return to the industry without the payment of a Reinstatement fee.
#	3 Withdrawal Cards are good for one continuous absence from the trade. Upon return to the industry, to be reinstated as an active member, you must deposit your original Withdrawal Card with the Local Union within 30 days.
#	4 Regardless of the number of terminations and/or layoffs, a new Withdrawal Card must be obtained in each instance except in the instance of college students working over holidays and/or breaks excluding summer break where a Withdrawal Card is required.
#	5 Any member who will be absent from work for a calendar month or more due to illness or injury must obtain a Withdrawal Card.
#	6	Failure to obtain a Withdrawal Card a member becomes suspended in accordance with Article
#	38, Section E & F of the UFCW International Constitution:
“Any member-two calendar months in arrears for dues and fees to the Local Union shall stand suspended; if same are not paid on or before the first day of the third month. After the expiration of such period, no Local Union shall accept dues without a Reinstatement application and required fee. The responsibility for maintaining membership requests rest with the member; a suspension, therefore, when it occurs, is the voluntary act of the member.”
“A suspended member working within the jurisdiction of the International Union may, upon application, be reinstated in the Local Union within whose jurisdiction he or she is working, upon payment to the Local Union of the regular reinstatement fee, dues, or assessments of that Local Union, and, in addition, he or she shall pay to the Local Union from which he or she is suspended any dues, fines or assessments due at the time of the suspension."
Frank C. DeRiso
President
106 Memorial Parkway
Utica, NY 13501-4887
DistrictUnionLocalQne
UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS
INTERNATIONAL AFL-CIO, CLC
Phone 315/797-9600 l-SOO-697-8329
Fax 315/793-1182
February 21,2002
Ms. Ann Foster
Bureau of Labor Statistics
2nd Massachusetts Avenue NE, Room 4175
Washington DC 20212
Dear Ms. Foster:
Enclosed please find copies of Tops Markets and P&C Markets contract, per your request. Also listed below are membership counts for each contract.
6 7'XTops - Buffalo Division G7t3fops - Rochester Division 67/) Tops - Midstate Division
P&C Markets
6,188
1,954	1
3,912 J
If I can be of further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me at 1-800-697-8329, ext. 2213.
Sincerely yours,
Joseph A. Cittadino
Recorder/Dir. of Collective Bargaining
JC:rmj Encs.
24 HOUR EMERGENCY HOTLINE 1-888-288-4096
DISTRICT OFFICES:
190 Lawrence Bell Drive, Suite 104
Buffalo, NY 14221-7894 716/631-8777
1-800/421-0120	.
1-800/733-3140 PA	©
6493 Ridings Road, Suite 115 Syracuse, NY 13206-1113 315/432-1222 1-800/340-4613
TOPS MARKETS, LLC MIDSTATE DIVISION
and
UNITED FOOD AND
COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO & CLC DISTRICT UNION LOCAL ONE
EFFECTIVE DATE: APRIL 1,2001
EXPIRATION DATE: APRIL 3,2005
DEARTOPS/UFCW LOCAL ONE MEMBER:
THIS UNION CONTRACT, NEGOTIATED FOR YOU BY UFCW LOCAL ONE AND TOPS EMPLOYEE BARGAINING COMMITEE, CAREFULLY EXPLAINS IN DETAIL, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR EMPLOYMENT AND YOUR MANY RIGHTS AND BENEFITS AS A UFCW LOCAL ONE MEMBER.
PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BECAUSE IT IS IMPORTANT THAT YOU ARE FULLY AWARE OF YOUR RIGHTS AND BENEFITS AND HOW THEY HELP YOU ON THE JOB.
BESIDES PROVIDING SECURITY, THIS CONTRACT HAS AN EFFICIENT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FOR THE ORDERLY AND FAIR SETTLEMENT OF ANY PROBLEMS YOU MAY ENCOUNTER IN THE COURSE OF YOUR EMPLOYMENT
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING YOUR RIGHTS OR BENEFITS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, PLEASE ASK YOUR SHOP STEWARD OR UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR ASSISTANCE.
SINCERELY AND FRATERNALLY,
FRANK C. DERISO PRESIDENT
FOR ASSISTANCE ASK YOUR SHOP STEWARD, UNION REPRESENTATIVE OR CALL:
SYRACUSE OFFICE
(315) 432-1222 (800)340-4613
CREDIT UNION
1-800-448-7328
BUFFALO
1-800-421-0120
1-800-733-3140 (PA)
(716) 631-8777
UTICA OFFICE 1-800-697-8329 (315) 797-9600
HEALTH CARE & PENSION FUNDS
1-800-959-9497
(315) 797-9600
TOLL FREE NATIONWIDE 1-800-NYS-UFCW E-MAIL: ufcwone@ufcwone.org WEB: www.ufcwone.org