1-800-697-8329
web: www.ufcwone.org e-mail: organize@ufcwone.org

O N T R A
AGREEMENT BETWEEN TOPSROCHESTER AND UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION DISTRICT UNION LOCAL ONE
EFFECTIVE DATE: JANUARY 8, 2006 EXPIRATION DATE: AUGUST 2, 2008
©
TOPS MARKETS, LLC ROCHESTER DIVISIO 'I
and
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORK RS INTERNATIONAL UNION DISTRICT UNION LOC AL ONE
EFFECTIVE DATE JAI. IJARY 8, 2006
EXPIRATION DATE: Al GUST 2, 2008

DEAR UFCW LOCAL ONE MEMBER:
THIS UNION CONTRACT, NEGOTIATED FOR YOU BY UFCW LO> JAL ONE AND THE TOPS MARKETS ROCHESTER DIVISION EMPLOYEE BARGAINING COMMUTE I::, CAREFULLY EXPLAINS IN DETAIL, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR EMPLOY MENT AND YOUR MANY RIGHTSAND BENEFITS AS A UFCW LOCAL ONE MEMBER.
PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BECAUSE IT II, IMPORTANT THAT YOU ARE FULLY AWARE OF YOUR RIGHTSAND BENEFITSAND HOW THE' HELP YOU ON THE JOB.
BESIDES PROVIDING SECURITY THIS CONTRACT HAS AN EFFICIENT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FOR THE ORDERLY AND FAIR SETTLEMENT OF AN'1 PROBLEMS YOU MAY ENCOUNTER IN THE COURSE OF YOUR EMPLOYMENT.
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING YOUR RIGHTS OF BENEFITS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, PLEASE ASK YOUR SHOP STEWARD OR UNION REPRESENTATIVE FOR ASSISTANCE.
SINCERELY AND PRATER' I ALLY.
FRANK C.DERISO
INTERNATIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
PRESIDENT, UFCW LOCA . ONE
FOR ASSISTANCE ASK YOUR SHOP STEWARD, UNION REPRE TENTATIVE OR CALL:
SYRACUSE OFFICE
1-800-340-4613
(315) 432-1222
CREDIT UNION
1-800-448-7328
BUFFALO
1-800-421-0120 1-800-733-3140 (PA) (716) 631-8777
UTICA OFFICE 1-800-697-8329 (315) 797-9600
TOLL FREE NATIONWIDE 1-800-NYS-UFCW
HEALTH CARE & PENSION FUNDS
1-800-959-9497
(315) 797-9600
E-MAIL: ufcwone@ufcwone :rg WEB: www.ufcwone.org
TOPS ROCHESTER INDEX
article
DESCRIPTION
PAGE
3()	ACTIVE BALLOT CLUB
AGREEMENT	1		
23	AVAILABLE HOURS	IS
U	CAPTIONSAND INTERPRETATIONS	16
24	CREDIT UNION	22
3X	CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS	30
33	EDUCATION, SAFETY AND CULTURAL FUND	27
14	LAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES	17
13	FUNERAL LEAVE	15
2*	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION	20
31	HEALTH CARE FUND	22
5	HOURS ANDOVERTIME	3
34	JOB POSTING	32
14	JURY DU TY	15
27	LAUNDRY AND TOOLS	20
12	LEAVE OF ABSENCE	14
32	LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND	25
10	LUNCH AND REST PERIODS	12
■i	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	2
25	NEW CLASSIFICA TION	10
20	NO INDIVIDUAL AGREEMEN TS	17
11	PERSONAL HOLIDAYS	13
PREAMBLE
INDEX-CONTINUED
ARTICLE	DESCRIPTION	PAGE
26	PREMIUM PAY	19
24	PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE	19
21	PRIOR PRIVILEGES	17
40	PRO BAT] ONA R Y P E R10 D	32
1	RECOGNITION & BARGAINING UNEI	1
9	RULES-WORKING AGREEMENT	1 1
34	SAFETY AND HEALTH	27
35	SENIORITY	2S
37	SEPARABILITY	30
17	SHOP STEWARD	16
36	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS	30
7	SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS	S
22	TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK	17
43	TEMPORARY RELIEF OF DEPAR 1 MENT MANAG RS	33
47	TERM OF AGREEMEN T	45
42	TIME AND ATTENDANCE SYSTEM	33
41	TRAVEL PAY	33
45	UFCW LOCAL ONE 40IK SAVINGS FUND	34
4	UNION CHECKOFF	3
15	UNION IDENTIFICATION	15
3	UNION SECURITY	2
16	UNION VISITATION	16
<5	VACATIONS	9
44	VOLUNTARY/INVOLUNTARY REDUCTION	34
4<i	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS	36
(■»	WORK SCHEDULES	7
iii
AGREEMENT
This Agreement by anti between Tops Markets, LLC Rochester Division, hereinafter known as the "Employer" or "Company" and the United Rood and Commercial Workers District Union Local One, affiliated with the CLC. hereinafter known as the "Union" or "Local" is entered into this Sth day of January, 2006.
PREAMBLE
WHEREAS, the above parties desire to maintain harmonious relations, to agree upon wage rates, standards and conditions of employment, to eliminate strikes, lockouts, boycotts, stoppages of work and other forces of industrial disturbances with a view of establishing ways and means for collective bargaining and for arbitration of grievances and disputes,
NOW THEREEORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter contained, the Company and the Union, acting through their duly authorized representative hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT
1.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent with respect to work, rates of pay, hours and all other terms and conditions of employment for all employees in the appropriate bargaining unit.
1.2	The Employer further recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent within the territorial jurisdiction of the Union for all employees in its future supermarkets d/b/a. Tops, Martin’s or any other banner operating under the same common management as Tops Markets, LLC. in all matters concerning wages, hours and conditions of employment. Excluded from the bargaining unit are Store Managers, Operations Managers, Customer Service Managers, Grocery Managers. Playhouse Managers, Professional Employees, Guards and Supervisors within the meaning of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 as amended.
1.3	The Employer further agrees not to recognize, deal with, or enter into contractual relations cither orally, or written with any Labor Organization, Agent, Individual, or Group, concerning rates of pay, hours, or other terms and conditions of employment for any employees included in the bargaining unit for the life of this Agreement, for the purpose of this Section, the execution date of this Agreement shall he considered as its effective date.
article l- recognition and BARGAINING UNIT-CONTIN Ui D
1.4	In the event the Employer seeks to subcontract, transfer 1 outside vendors, or eliminate through technological means or new product introduction, war. that is performed by members of the bargaining unit as of the effective date of this agreement. ic Employer agrees to meet with the Union to discuss the impact of such changes prior to implcn notation. The purpose of such discussions shall be to address ways to minimize any potential ad' erne effect on existing employees. I'his shall not be construed to limit any right(s) the Employer u Union have.
ARTICLE!
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.1	The operation and management of the Employer's stores, en oloyees of which arc covered by this Agreement, including the location, opening and closing of lie same, the products to be handled and sold and the supervision of the working force, including but not limited to the right to hire, suspend or discharge lor proper cause and the establishmei t and maintenance of rules for safe and efficient operation, are vested exclusively in the Emp oyer. The Employer retains all its rights and authority except as the same may be specifically a ridged or modified in this Agreement.
The Company agrees to have no more than one (1) Manager three (3) Operations
Managers, one (1) Customer Service Manager, one (1) Grocery Manager md one (I) Playhouse Manager per store, pursuant to Article 1.2.
ARTICLE 3
UNION SECURITY
3.1 It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who arc members of the Union in good standing on tic date on which this Arjrccmcnl is signed shall remain members in good standing and those wl a are not members in good standing and those who are not members on the date on which this Agreement is signed, shall on the thirty-firsr (31st) day following the date on which this Agreen ent is signed, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a cor । lit ion of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after tl .■ date on which this Agreement is signed shall, on the thirty-first (31st) day following th.: beginning of such employment become and remain members in good standing in the Union Good standing shall be defined as the payment or tender of initiation fees, assessments, and/or muon dues.
2
ARTICLE 3	- UNION SECURITY CONTINUED
3.2 Any employee who is expelled or suspended from the Union because of nonpayment of initiation fees and dues (including such other obligations to the Union, failure to pay which would make an employee subject to discharge under the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947) shall be subject to dismissal after notification in writing to the Employer by the Union, provided however, that the employee may have a reasonable time within which to make such payments of initiation fees, dues, and assessments, the failure of payment of which has caused expulsion or suspension.
ARTICLE 4
UNION CHECKOFF
4.1	Upon receipt of proper written authorization from an employee, the Company agrees to deduct from the wages of said employee, and to forward to the General Office of the Union, within fifteen (I 5) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month, dues, assessments and initiation fees as listed by the Union in duplicate schedules, which shall be furnished to the Company once a month. It is understood that any authorization of payroll deduction shall be voluntary on the part of the employee and may be canceled at yearly intervals or al the termination of this Agreement, whichever occurs first.
4.2	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that might arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken in respect to deduction of dues and initiation Ices made pursuant to the provisions of this Article, except the failure of the Company to forward to the Union, checkoff dues and initiation fees as provided in this Article.
ARTICLE 5
HOURSAND OVERTIME
5.1	(a) Basic Work Schedule: Unless otherwise agreed to, the basic work week for
full-time employees shall he forty (4(f) hours, consisting of live (5) eight (8) hour days worked Monday through Saturday.
(b)	Alternative Work Schedule: On a voluntary basis and by mutual agreement, a full-time employee may be scheduled to work: (1) four (4) ten (10) hour days; (11) three (3) eight (8) hour days, one (I) ten (10) hour day, and one (1) six (6) hour day; or (111) any mutually agreed upon work schedule. Provided, however, that the Company or an employee may upon two (2) weeks notice terminate an arrangement for an alternative work schedule and reinstate the Basic Work Schedule.
ARTICLE 5 - HOURS AND OVER'HME - CONTINUED
(c)	Ar. employee who agrees to work an alternative vv< A schedule and who voluntarily agrees Io work more than eight (8) hours in a given day s i:ill not be entitled to overtime unless such work results in the employee having worked more t an forty (40) hours in a given week, or the daily scheduled hours. In addition, the nightly restric urns shall not apply.
(d)	Time and one-half (I '/;) to be paid for all hours wor nd after 6:00 p.m. for full-time employees (except for night crew and maintenance) hired or proi mtcd Io full time prior Lei 8/26/W after the second night worked, regardless of whether the slore ■ open lor business or closed.
5.2	WORKWEEK LULL TIME EMPLOYEES
(a)	Sundays shall be outside the workweek unless otherwi ? requested. As such, if a Sunday is scheduled, a full time employee will then be scheduled 1 >Hy (40) hours during the workweek (Monday through Saturday), The appropriate premium s ill he paid for hours worked on Sunday and straight time for the forty hours (five day ) worked during the workweek. If called in or scheduled a sixth (6tl1) day during the Moi jav through Saturday workweek, lime and one-half (I '/:) shall be paid for all such hours.
(b)	A full time employee prior to the schedule being p led, may request in writing to have Sunday included inside the workweek. In such event, if । Sunday is scheduled, a lull time employee will then be scheduled thirty-two (32) additional h tits for the balance of the workweek (Sunday through Saturday). The appropriate premium nil be paid for hours worked on Sunday and straight lime for the thirty-two hours (four dir ;■.) worked during the balance of the workweek. If called in or scheduled a sixth (6th) day duri ■<; the Sunday through Saturday workweek, time and one-half(l ‘/;) shall be paid for all such hoi -s.
5.3	WORK WEEK PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
(a)	The basic workweek for part-time employees shall be v orked Sunday through Saturday with a minimum guarantee of sixteen (16) hours per week, Em| Inyees may request in writing to the Store Manager to work fewer hours to accommodate their < rn personal schedule. The Company must approve such requests. An employee is constde s:d part-time if their regularly scheduled workweek is thirty (30) hours or less per week.
(b)	Part-time employees shall receive time and one-ha) (I 1/2) the regular straight time hourly rate including premiums for all hours worked over eig i (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any week, except when requesting a voluntary altern nivc work schedule as outlined in 5.1 (b) and (c).
(c)	The Company will make an effort to schedule part-time employees within five 151 days (not necessarily consecutive) in a calendar workweek.
4
ARTICLE 5 -1 lOURS AND OVERTIME - CONTINUED
5.4	PART-TIME WORKING OVER 30 HOURS
(a)	SCHEDULED. When a part-time employee is scheduled forty (40) hours or more per week, they shall be paid cither the new minimum full-time rate of pay or their part-time rate plus $10.00 whichever is greater. Any hours worked over forty (40) hours will be paid at time and one-half (1 1/2) the appropriate rate of pay. The provisions regarding full-time employment will be applicable as to Sundays and Holidays.
(b)	NONSCHEDULED (OR SCHEDULED LESS THAN 40). In the event a part-time employee works in excess of thirty (30) hours per week, they shall be paid one dollar (SI .00) per hour above their rate of pay for all hours worked between thirty (30) and forty (40).
5.5	EMPLOYMENT OE MINORS
When School is in session (day after Labor Day to June 20):
Age of Minor	Daily Hrs. Allowed	Max. Weekly 1 lours.	Max, Days Per Week	Permitted I lours
15	2.75 hrs. max Monday-Eri day	17.75	6	7:15 a.m. 6:45 p.m.
16 & 17	7.75 hrs. max Sat., Sun. 3.75 hrs. max. Monday-Thursday	27.75	6	6:15 a.m. 9:45 p.m.
	7.75 hrs. max. Eri., Sat., Sun. and ! lolidays			
When school is not in session (June 21		to Labor Day):		
Age of Minor	Max. Daily Hrs. Allowed	Max. Weekly Hrs. Allowed	Max. Davs Per Week	Permitted Hours
15	7.75 hrs. max. Sun day-Saturday	39.75	6	7:15 a.m. S:45 p.m.
16 & 17	7.75 hrs. max. Sunday-Saturday	47.75	6	6:15 a.m. 1 1:45 p.m.
AR TICLE 5 - HOURS AND OVERTIME - CONTINUED
Minimum number of hours worked by 15 year olds when school is i session shall be 13 hours per week.
Minimum number ol hours worked by 16	17 year olds when school ,s in session shall be
16 hours pei week.
5.6	Prohibited - Minors Use of Power Equipment - Applies to any employee under the age IS years old. All power equipment is prohibited from being used t cleaned by minors including, but not limited to the following equipment; baler, meat ro< m saw. deli slicer, disposals, etc. All minors are also prohibited from throwing cardboard ini ■ the baler. Anyone who violates this policy is subject to disciplinary action.
5.7	Employees wotking under the employment of minors" langi.ige shall receive a scheduled break (Refer to Article 10.5).
5.S	When unscheduled overtime is necessary for full time employe Management will first solicit volunteers w ithin the appropriate job code who are current y working and are available al the needed time. If there are more volunteers than necessary, t! e employee with the most seniority will be offered the overtime, if there are not enough voluntei s. associates within the job code will be scheduled by inverse seniority within the job code. Olh r needed employ ees will be scheduled at management's discretion. Management reserves the ight to balance the staff as needed with experienced employees or those qualified to perform n s ecial job function.
5.9	Overtime scheduled on a weekly basis for full time employees within a department shall be rotated among those desiring such additional hours provided they ai ; qualified to do the work, In the event that volunteers arc insufficient, such overtime shall be issigned by inverse seniority.
5.It	) The C ompany will provide a call-in sheet by department that w I be posted weekly with the department schedule. Part time employees desiring additional ho rs need to sign the weekly call-in sheet. If extra help is needed, the Company will call empl yees on the call-in sheet first for the additional work. The Company will make a good faill effort Io distribute additional ca l-in hours in an equitable manner. It is understood that the Ci rnpany shall not be required to generate overtime or premium pay as a result of this article.
6
AR T ICLE 6
WORK SC! I EDIJL ES
6.1	A work schedule in ink for lull-time and part-time employees shall he posted in the Employer's store by J2:f>0 noon on Eriday in advance of the next week. A copy of the work schedule shall be furnished to the Union upon request. The work schedule can be added to but not reduced during the week for which the schedule is posted. The total number of weekly hours provided to each employee shall be enumerated on the schedule.
6.2	When an employee is scheduled to work more than five <5) hours, it must be in one (I) hour segments.
6.3	No split shifts will be permitted.
6.4	When employees arc scheduled to report for work on any day. they shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work that day. Exception: Except w hen school, store hours or State or Federal regulations make this impossible for part-time employees attending school.
6.5	The Employer agrees to nine (9) hours off between scheduled shifts unless otherwise
mutually agreed to between the Company and the employee.
6.6	Any employee, full-time or part-time, who is required to work before or after their regular daily or weekly schedule as posted, shall not be required to take time off that week in order to avoid the application oi overtime.
6.7	TRAINING PROGRAMS
When employees are required to attend training programs and/or Company meetings of any type, such lime required shall be considered hours worked. If the meeting or training program is held in-store, or less than Eve (5) miles from an employee's home store, a minimum of two (2) hours paid time (meeting, training program and/or work) shall be provided. If the meeting or training program is held more than live (5) miles from an employee's home store, a minimum of four (4) hours paid time (meeting, training program and/or work) shall be provided
6.8	Except by mutual agreement, no employee shall be scheduled to work more than twelve (12) consecutive days.
7
ARTICLE 7
SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS
7.1	.-Ml full-lime employees shall receive eight (S) hours pay for the following legal
holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, fourth of July, Labor Day, 'fl rnksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
7.2	Any work performed by full-time employees on the above name. I legal holidays shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half( I A) times the straight time hourly r;. e of pay.
Any work performed on Sunday by full-time employees hired (either p n time or full time) on or before SU 4)1 shall be paid at the rale ofone and one-half (I A) til vs the straight time hourly rale ol pay.
Any work performed on Sunday by full-time employees hired (cilher p irt time or full time) after 8/1/01 shall be paid al a one dollar (Si.00) per hour premium for th lust thirty-six (36) months of full time employment. After thirty-six (36) months of full tim ■ employment, such employees shall receive lime and one-half (1 A).
7.3	All employees must work their scheduled day before the ho day, the holiday if scheduled, and their scheduled day after the holiday to be entitled to toliday pay. It is understood if scheduled on the holiday, this provision still applies lor all et ployecs. However, any absences due to the following reasons shall not restdt in the loss of holid y pay:
(a)	Meetings with the Employer and a representative of the U ion.
(b)	Accident or illness substantiated by medical evidence if required by the
Employer) that employee was unable to work, or
(c)	Excused absence by the Employer that is pre-approved prior to the holiday week's schedule being posted as per Article 6 of the labor agreement.
7.4	If one of the holidays above specified Jails within the employee'; acation, they shall be granted one (1) additional day's paid vacation.
7.5	During a holiday week, the basic workweek for full-time emplc 'ees shall be thirty-two (32) hours worked within four (4) days, excluding the holiday. Overtii e at the rate ofone and one-half (I 1/2) limes the regular straight time hourly rate of pay shall >e paid after thirty-two (32) hours.
8
ARTICLE 7 - SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS - CONTINUED
7.6	Part lime employees shall receive a fifty-cent (50c) per hour premium lor work performed on Sundays for their first year of employment, and a one dollar (S1.00) per hour premium thereafter. Part time employees shall receive a one-dollar (SLOP) per hour premium for work performed on the above holidays.
7.7	Part-time employees who work any part of a holiday week shall be paid a pro rata allowance based on the average number of hours worked, in the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the holiday week, in accordance with the following schedule:
(a)	Up to twenty-nine (29) hours average-four (4) hours holiday pay.
(b)	Over thirty (30) hours average-eight (8) hours holiday pay.
7.8	Part-time holiday pay hours shall not be part of the minimum sixteen (16) hour weekly' work schedule.
7.9	All part-time employees shall be eligible for Holiday pay after six (6) months ot service.
7.10	The Company shall make a good faith effort to distribute Sunday and holiday work evenly among those full time employees desiring such additional hours provided they are qualified to do the work. In the event that volunteers arc insufficient, Sunday and holiday work shall be assigned by inverse seniority to those qualified to do the work required.
ARTICLE 8
VACATIONS
8.1	Full-time employees will receive one (1) week vacation with pay alter one (1) year continuous full-time service with the Employer, two (2) weeks vacation with pay after two (2) years of continuous full-time service with the Employer, three (3) weeks vacation with pay after eight (8) years of continuous full-time service with the Employer and four (4) weeks vacation with pay after twelve (12) years of continuous full-time service with the Employer. Employees shall be eligible for vacation upon their anniversary date.
8.2	The Employer shall post by January 1st of each year a vacation schedule. Employees will have until March 31st of each year to select their preference in scheduling vacations. The Employer must approve ail vacation requests by April 15th of each year. Employee hire dates (either full or part time) shall he used to determine the order of selection. Once a vacation schedule is approved, the Company will abide by said schedule.
9
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS - CONTINUED
8.3	Any employee entitled to vacation in accordance with the term of this Agreement, and who has earned such vacation shall upon termination of their empl >yment be paid any vacation pay due. Employees who, due to specific scheduling requests <: Store Management (i.e.. help shortage, store remodel, new store opening assignment) wi । District Manager approval, arc unable to use earned vacation prior to re-qualifying for additio al vacation, shall be paid out any unused vacation portion the next fuli payroll period following 1 :::ir anniversary date of employment or shall carry o\er a maximum of two (2) weeks of any uni cd vacation into the next eligibility year. The carry-over vacation lime off must be agreed upon >7 all parties and not create any operational problems at store level.
8.4	Part-time employees with one or more continuous years servic with the Employer shall be paid a vacation allowance which vacation allowance shall be paid on a pro rata proportion of the vacation allowance of full-time employees with a compnr blc number of years continuous service with the Employer, based on the average hours worker in the preceding 52 week period.
8.5	Employees at their option shall be paid their vacation pay pr or to their vacation period.
8.6	'[ lie Company will make every effort to give employees the op ion of the Saturday
before their Vacation as a scheduled day off. The company will not unn isonably deny such requests by employees.
8.7	Tie Company will make every effort to gram employees' vac.ili n days one day at a lime.
8.8	Absence totaling less than thirteen (13) weeks iti any calendar ear shall not affect vacation rights. Absence lor any reason (excluding Military Service | includ ig but not limited to compensator, illness, illness, injury, maternity leave, personal leave or layol < totaling more than thirteen (13) weeks in a calendar year shall have the following effect upon 'acation earned that year:
(a)	Absence of more than thirteen (13) weeks, but not o er twenty-six (26) weeks, shall reduce vacation and vacation pay by twenty-live percent (25%)
(b)	Absence of more than twenty-six (26) weeks, but not i ,cr thirty-nine (36) weeks, shall reduce vacation and vacation pay by filly percent (50%)
(c)	Absence of more than thirty-nine (3‘C weeks shall disqttal y for vacation.
(d)	Military Service shall not be considered as lost time in cm puling vacation.
10
ARTICLE 9
RULES-WORKING AGREEMENT
9.1	The Employer agrees to post on the store bulletin board no rules in conflict with this Agreement or diseri minatory to any individual or group of the Employer's employees.
9.2	The Company shall give advance notice to the Union and employees of store closings in accordance w ith state and federal regulations.
9.3	The Employer shall furnish complete first aid kits in all stores and maintain, make available and make accessible in strategic locations.
9.4	The Company will provide a space on the break room bulletin board at each store where the Union may post notices of Union recreational affairs, social affairs, elections and union meetings for the information of members.
9	5 Physical Examination: Any rule of the Company requiring physical or medical examination will be promptly complied with by members of the Union. The Company will pay the fee for the physical examination, not paid for by the Health Care Eund and may also select the physician who will make the required examination.
9.6	The Employer agrees to abide by all stale and federal legislation with regards to lie detectors.
9.7	Company agrees to pay employees for lime lost if subpoenaed by the Company to appear on the Company's behalf only.
9.8	The Company and the Union agree to establish a Joint Labor- Man agemen l
Committee to discuss areas of mutual concern.
9.9	The Company will establish training programs to enhance job promotion
opportunities.
9.10	It is understood that any medical information provided to the employer shall be treated as confidential as required by applicable law. Provided, howtwer, that such information shall be made available to the Union where the employee authorizes disclosure or where such information is relevant to a grievance Hied by the Union,
I 1
ARTICLE II)
LUNCH AND REST PERIODS
11). 1	All employees shall be emit led to uninterrupted lunch and rest p Hods.
i 0.2	The company will make every effort to schedule luticli breaks a close to tn id-shift as
possible.
10.3	A lunch period shall be allowed each day ol'at least thirty (?o) linulcs bin not more than sixty (<■<)) minutes.
I.i)	Eull-iime employees scheduled to work six (6) hoin s ills will be given a twenty (20) minute paid rest period.
10.4	All full-time employees shall be given a rest period of fifteen 115) minutes before lunch and fifteen (15) minutes after lunch. By mutual agreement between management and the employee, full lime employees may elect to take one (1) thirty 130) minute csl period in lieu of receiving a fifteen 1151 minute rest period before lunch and a fifteen (15) in rate rest period after lunch. Employees shall not be given rest periods until they have worked a least two (2) hours. Eull-lime employees scheduled for a ten (10) hour day shall receive an a, ditional fifteen (15) minute rest period.
10.5	P.irt-iime employees will be granted a fifteen (15) mimilc rest p riod it’scheduled to work at least four (4) hours. In the event a part-time employee is schedul d six (6) hours, the Employer will schedule one (1) twenty 120) minute rest period al appro.xiini ely mid-shift in lieu of the above In the event a part lime employee is scheduled to work moi than six (6l hours, they shall be provided a lunch period of al least thirty (30) minutes and iwo |2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods, one before and one after lunch.
1 0.6 Part-time employees shall not be required to take a rest period un d they have worked at least two (2) hours of daily work schedule.
HI.7 Employees working under the employment of minors’ latigu ige shall receive a scheduled break mid-shift of their scheduled daily hours (Refet to Article 5.5 and Article 10.5).
ARTICLE 11
PERSONAL HOLIDAYS
11.1	Full-time employees classified as liiU-tiine prior to 8/26'90 are eligible tor four (4) personal holidays.
I 1.2 Full-time employees hired or promoted on or after 8C6'90 are entitled to personal holidays as follows:
2	days after six (6) months of service
3	days after three (3) years of service
11.3 Full-time personal holidays shall be paid on the basis of eight (8) hours each.
11.4 All part-time employees shall he entitled to personal holidays based on the following schedule:
Two (2) days after six (6) months of service
Three (3) days after three (3) years of service
I 1.5	Part-time personal holidays shall be paid on the basis of four (4) hours each.
1 L6	Part-time personal holidays may he taken in either tour (4). eight (81 or twelve (12)
hour increments.
11.7 Personal holidays shall be earned on the employee's anniversary date each year following a six (6) month waiting period for new employees. Upon one (I) week notice, personal holidays shall be granted and shall not be unreasonably denied. It is understood and agreed that personal holidays will not be grunted in any manner that interferes with the normal business operation of the Employer.
(a) Personal holidays may be used to extend vacation but must be scheduled when the vacation is scheduled.
11.8 Unused personal holidays will be paid on the employee's anniversary date.
1 1.9 Personal holidays may be used for illness.
13
ARTICLE 12
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1	Any employee on the seniority list who is unable to work hei ruse of an illness or injury and who furnishes medical certification and a written request then if shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed six (6) months. Prior to the date of conclusion of the approved leave of absence, an extension of up to an add :ional six (6) months will be granted providing the employee requests the extension in writing to -ie Company and the Union and provides proper medical documentation that additional time i f from work is still required. It is the employee's responsibility, while off on leave, to meet wi i the Store Manager during the first week of each month and provide a status update, along x ith timely medical documentation that additional lime off is still required and if known, a t .1c on which hc/shc would be able to return to work.
Additional extensions may be granted by written agreement belwcci the employee, the
Company and the Union when extraordinary circumstances exist to warrant .;ch.
12.2	Personal leaves of absence for emergency reasons may be gram d for periods up to but not to exceed ninety (dO) days,
12.3	Seniority shall be accumulated during approx cd leaves of absence
12.4	Any employee who fails to report to work at the end of any approved leave of absence or who engages in or applies for employment elsewhere while on uch leave, shall be considered to have voluntarily quit without notice and may be terminated fr tn the employment of the Company.
12.5	The Company agrees to incorporate child and family leave :Company policy pursuant to Fcderal/Stalc laws.
12.6	Upon two (2) weeks notification to the Company, any member ot .he bargaining unit appointed to a position in the Union shall be granted a temporary leave of ab amcc not to exceed one (1) year, except where such leave would result in an undue hardship io the Company's operation. Upon returning to work, such employee shall be credited their fori i::r rate of pay plus any increase(s) granted during the leave. No more than five (51 such leaves dud I be granted at any one time on a Company wide basis nor more than one per District.
14
ARTICLE 13
FUNERAL LEAVE
13.	1 In the event oi death in the immediate family. an employee will be granted as leave the three (3) day's immediately lol lowing the death, w ith straight time pay lor any of the three (3) days, which have normally been scheduled as working days, li the funeral is held on the fourth (4th) day following the death, employees will also be paid for the fourth (4th) day, provided that day is one of the employees normally scheduled working days. An employee shall be entitled to use one (1) ot their funeral leave days for the purpose of attending spring internment.
13.	2 Members of the immediate family are defined as father, mother, sister, brother, spouse, son. daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law. hrolhcr-in law, sister-in-law, common-law spouse, grandparents, grand-children, step-mother, step-father, step-son or step-daughter or any in-law or relative with whom the employee may be residing at the lime of death.
13.	3 Employees will be entitled to three (3) days for attendance at a spouse's grandparent's funeral.
13.	4	Day? spent on funeral leave shall be considered days worked for scheduling purposes.
13.	5 In the event a death in the immediate family as specified above occurs during an employee's vacation, the employee will be credited with additional paid vacation commensurate with the allowable funeral leave.
ARTICLE 14
■JURY DUTY
All employees serving on Juries shall, upon presentation ot proof of pay. be reimbursed for the difference be I ween their regular st might time pay, and Jury Duly pay provided they make themselves available for work w ithin their regular schedule when not occupied with Jury Duty. Days spent on jury duty shall be considered days worked for scheduling purposes. Night stock clerks (3,d shift) shall not be required to work regularly scheduled hours while serving on Jury Duty.
ARTICLE 15
UNION IDENTIFICATION
The Union Shop Logo is the property of the United Food and Commercial Workers District Union Local One and is loaned to the employer for display, who signs and abides by this Agreement. The Employer agrees al all times to display it in a conspicuous place. The Union Shop Logo can he removed from any business establishment of the Employer's by the Union Representative <4 District Union Local One for a violation of this Agreement.
15
ARTICLE 16
UNION VLS1TATK>N
16.1	Rcpresenlalives of the Union slisilJ have the right to visit the ■. nip lover’s places of business al any time during working hours lor the purpose of ascot lining whether this .Agreement s being properly observed, provided that there shall be no uni ,ie interruption of or interference with the P.m pl oyer's business. Any and nil disputes, griev irces, complaints or questions hereunder shall be taken up tor discussion and settlement by a epresciitative of the Union and ol’the Employer.
16.2	'I he Union also, through its Membership Servicing Reprcsenli tves. shall have the right to visit the Employer's places of business, with prior approval ofstore tanager, al any time during working hours for the purpose of updating Union records and fringe I .■neill entitlements.
AR'11CI.E 17
SHOP STI-WARD
1	7 1 The Union shall have the right to designate at least one I 1) mi uber of the unit ns Union Steward, who shall not be discriminated against due to legitimate nion activity. The Union Steward shall be permitted to discuss grievances with a designated cpresentalive of the Employer consuming such time as is reasonably necessary.
17.2	One (1) additional paid personal day will be allowed per ca ,’iidar year for the purpose of attending Stewards C onference.
17.3	A store Union Steward shall be the last employee in the job chit illcalion to be laid off, transferred or reduced in hours on a departmental basis.
I 7.4 fhc Company will ask employees if they desire a Shop Steward. ( '-Steward or in the absence of boilt. a Union employee to be present during disciplinary meetings
17.5	New employees will be referred to the Shop Steward as part of new employee orientation.
ARTICLE IS
CAPTIONS and INTERPRETATIONS
The section and paragraph headings in this Agreement arc intended for indexing and descriptive purposes only and shall not be interpreted to restrict or modi , in any way the provisions to which they refer. .Ail personal pronouns used herein with refer ret to Employees of this Employer shall be construed, where applicable, to have both masci ine and feminine gender.
16
ARTICLE 19
FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
The Company and the Union agree that the principle of non-di scrim in at ion as required by law. shall apply in admin isleri ng all aspects of this contract.
ARTICLE 20
NO INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS
h is understood and agreed that no employee shall be asked or required to make any written or verbal individual agreement, and that any individual contract that may be with tiny member of the Union shall be considered a violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21
PRIOR PRIVILEGES
As a result of the signing of this agreement, no employee shall sutler a reduction in the wages they are presently receiving.
ARTICLE 22
TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK
22.1	In the event a part time employee works thirteen (13) or more weeks of forty (40) hours or more in any six (6) month period from < Jctober I st to April 301h. an additional til 11 time position shall be created and posted tor the department in which the requisite hours were worked. In the event the requisite hours were worked in a number of departments, the Company may designate the additional full lime clerk position to be posted. This does not include those designated as temporary full-time.
TEMPORARY FULL-TIME WORK REPLACEMENT
22.2	Part-time employees working temporary full-time shall be subject to full-time health care and pension contributions on the first of the month following six (6) weeks full-time service.
22.3	Part-time employees working as temporary full-time replacing a regular full-time employee absent because of vacation, illness or leave of absence from the period of October 1st to April 3l)th will be considered temporary for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days. The Company will notify the Union of such replacements.
17
ARTICLE ?2 -TEMPORARY I'ULI.-TIME WORK - CONTINUED
22.4	Such part-time employees will be paid the new minimum full-i me rate or their part-time rate whichever is greater.
22.5	Temporary full-time employees returning back to part-time wo ; shall revert to their regular pan-time rate of pay.
22.6	The employer will he responsible for Health Care and Pensior contributions on the llrst of the month following ninety (00) days of full-time service.
22.7	[hiring the period of May 1st to September 3(Hh, (Summer Program), part-time employees may work any number of consecutive forty (40) hour weeks wit out becoming a full-time employee and no full-time position shall be created thereby.
22.S	Hourly rates for part-time employees temporarily assigned Io uIl-time shall be as follows:
(t1	) The Employer will be responsible for Health Care and I’. nsion contributions on behalf of part-time employees working temporary full-time (Summer l’r< itram) on the first of the month following ninety (90) days of full-time service.
(b)	Part-time employees working as temporary full-time w I receive the same provisions as part-time employees for Sundays and holiday hours.
(c)	Available temporary full time positions will be offered to art time employees by seniority within departments providing the employee has the qualtI'icaiii and ability to do the work required.
ARTICLE 23
AVAILABLE HOURS
Part time employees who desire such and are qualified to perform the jo functions shall be scheduled by seniority for available hours up to thirty (30) per week unless tchcdided under the provisions of Article 22.1.
IS
ARTICLE 24
PREVIOUS EXPER1ENCE
24.1	Proven lull-time or part-time experience, which is directly related to the work assigned to a newly hired employee, will be recognized by the Company lor the purpose nt' establishing hourly wage rates only. Completed full months of employment will be counted in determining the length of .service to be credited. The amount of credit shall be limited to fulltime and part-time experience in the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of employment, the wage rate of employees credited widt previous experience will be at the bracket called for in the progression scale in effect at the date of hire.
24.2	When part-time employees become lull-lime, they shall receive one (1) months fulltime credit tor each two (2) months of part-time service for the purpose of determining wages.
ARTICLE
NEW CLASS1ETCATU)N
The Company agrees that in the event any new classification is established, the Company and the Union will meet for the purpose of discussing the new rale of pay for such classification.
AR TICLE 26
PREMIUM pay
26.1	Employees whose schedule starts between 1 1:00 pan. and 5:00 a.m. shall receive a fifty cent (50c) per hour premium for all hours worked.
26.2	Maintenance employees shall receive a fifty cents (50e) per hour premium if scheduled to begin their shift at 9:00 p.m. or later.
26.3	Night Crew Manager shall receive $1.00 per hour for all hours worked, which includes the fifty cents (50e) premium.
26.4	Night stockers w ill be paid a fifty cents (50e) per hour premium as part ol lheir hourly nite of pay.
26.5	Employees performing the job of "Manager on Duty" will receive a one dollar ($1.00) per hour premium for all hours worked as such.
19
ARTICLE 27
LAUNDRY AND T0< >LS
27.1	All Uniforms, which the Employer requires the employee to w ar, shall be furnished by the Employer without charge to the employee.
27.2	The Compilin' agrees to clarify and standardize the dress code dr all stores covered by this agreement.
27.5	Employees not classified as Meal Managers, First Cutlets, .)< nmeyman Cutters or Apprentice Meat Cutlers may not use tools of the trade including hand r electric saw, meat grinder, hamburger pally machine and cubing machine while performii j, work in the meat department. Knives may be used by Clerks io trim or otherwise prepare me r for customers from retail cuts.
27.4	Production employees shall receive a wraparound smock.
ARTICLE 2S
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
2S.1	In the event of any difference, dispute or complaint that arises iver the meaning or application cd’the terms of this agreement, there shall be an earnest effort i inde by the Steward (and aggrieved employee if necessary) and the Store Manager to settle the d -pute. If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached, the following procedure shall be followc I.
2S.2	STEP I - An employee who considers that this Agreement, has ■een violated by the Employer, with respeci to such employee, shall contact the Union Repri -cntalive who shall submit a written statement of such grievance <o the store manager, within t; e (5) working days after the incident occurs.
(a) Upon receipt of the written grievance, the Store Manage! must meet with the
Union Representative and the aggrieved empkivee within five (5) worMt •> days. 1'he Store-Manager must attempt to resolve the grievance between the Company and t c Union employee. The Store Manager musi respond in writing as to the resolution of the grit .ance to the Union Representative with a copy to the District Manager and Director of Labor Re ations.
2S..v	STEP 2 - If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached in Sic i I. then the Union Representative shall re-submit the grievance in writing to the District Man icer within five (5) working days after the answer is given in Step I to request that a second step nceling take place.
20
ARTICLE 28 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION CONTINUED
(a) I'lie District Manager upon receipt of the Second Step grievance must, within live (5) working days, contact the Union Representative to schedule the Second Step meeting with him or herself and the Store Manager. The District Manager must respond in writing within five (5) working days to the Union Representative (cc: Store Manager and Director of Labor Relations) with his or her determination on the state of the grievance following the Second Step Meeting.
28.	4 STEP 3 - if a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached in Step 2. the Union Representative must re-submit the grievance in writing to the Tops Corporate Director of Labor Relations within five (5) working days after the answer is given in Step 2. Upon receipt by the Director of Labor Relations, a meeting will be conducted to facilitate the outstanding grievance. The meeting will consist of the Director of Labor Relations. District Manager. Store Manager. Union Representative and the aggrieved employee. The Director of Labor relations must respond in writing to the Union with a final decision on the stated grievance within five (5) working days following the Third Step Meeting.
28.	5 STEP 4 - If a mutually satisfactory solution is not reached in Step 3, the Union or the Employer may submit the written grievance to arbitration in accordance with the following procedure:
28.	6 Notice of intent to arbitrate must be given in writing to the other party and the grievance shall he stipulated in the letter of notification. Any request for arbitration must be submitted in writing not later than twenty-live (25) working days after receipt of the written decision from the T hird Step meeting or at any time after an arbitration is approved following an appeal to the UECW Local One Executive Board.
28.	7 Unless by mutual agreement of the parties to the contrary, all grievances submitted for arbitration will be processed under the Voluntary' Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Where expediency, efficiency or convenience of the parties will be served, and upon mutual agreement, an arbitrator may be selected through the services of the New York State Mediation Board, or any mutually agreed to arbitrator may be designated to serve.
28.	8 In the event that the Company or Union "delays” in selecting an arbitrator, the other party will be authorized to unilaterally select an arbitrator. Eor the purposes of this paragraph, "delay" will he considered any case where an arbitrator has not been selected after thirty <30) days of receipt of the list of arbitrators.
28.	9 Hie arbitrator is hereby authorized to interpret and apply, but not to modify. enlarge, set aside or restrict, the provisions expressed in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall not have the [tower to set or change rates ofjob classification. The decision of the arbitrator shall be rendered without undue delay and shall be final and binding on both parties, lite fees mid expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid jointly by the parties. All other expenses of arbitration shall be paid by the party, which incurred them.
21
ARTICLE 29
CREDIT UNION
Al the written request of an employee, and in accordance with appropi .ite procedures to be mutually agreed upon concerning the frequency and amount of payment; the Company shall deduct weekly from the employee's wages such amount as the employee has elected. These deductions shall be remitted within fifteen (15) days after the last day of 11 .* last payroll period each week to the Power federal Credit Union.
ARTICLE 3t>
ACTIVE BALLOT CLUB
30.1	The Employer agrees to deduct an amount from the pay of each mployee per week, who is a union member and who executes an appropriate voluntary' check ol authorization form to the UECW Active Ballot Club. Deductions shall be in the amount spec lied in the checkoff authorization form signed by the employee and deducted every week. ' lie deduction shall continue for ihe life of this agreement for those employees who sign UECW Active Ballot Club checkoff authorization forms unless they are revoked individually and in writ ag.
30,2	The Employer agrees lo transmit UECW Active Ballot Club dedu lions to the UECW Active Ballot Club in care of the Local Union, within tificcn (15) days alte Ihe last day of the last payroll period each month. The Employer further agrees to transmit io he Local Union at the same lime the names of those employees for whom deductions have -evil made and the amounts deducted for each employee.
ARTICLE. 31
HEALTH CARE EUND
31.1	Effective Kb 1/05, the Employer shall pay monthly, within filiecn 15) days after the last day of the Iasi pay roll period each month, to the UECW District Union i.ocal One Health Care fund, the following sums per employee per month:
EULL-TIME EMPLOYEES: family coverage:	10/1.05 $500.00	1/1/06 $550.1)0	J/l./O S6II5 t'l	1/1/08 $666.00
PART TIME EMPLOYEES:				
Individual coverage:	$29(1.00	S319.00	$351. '0	S3 86.00
Wrap coverage:	$55.i)o	$61.00	$67. 0	$74.00
22
ARTICLE?! HEALTH CARE FUND C<)NT1NUE1)
31.2	Contributions sln.il I be made for all employees who hax e been paid or arc emit led to payment for the performance of duties including vacation and holiday pay at any time during the month. The contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full-time or part-time status as of the Hrst pay period of such employee during the month. In case ol employees who have been laid off and who are re-employed, the contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full-time or part-time status when re-employed.
3	1.3 Contributions for Family Coverage shall be made on behalf of all employees hired or advanced to full tune and shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of thirty (311) days of employment with the Employer. In the exent the Employer hires a lull-time employee who has been employed hy any participating Employer within one (11 year prior to the date of hiring, contributions shall commence on the Hrst day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee's prior cumulative full-time service with any participating Employer, aggregates thirty (30) days.
31.4	Contributions for Wrap Coverage for employees shall be made on behalf of all part-time employees and shall commence on the Cirsl of the month following completion of nine (9) mouths employment with the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a part-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (1) year prior to the dale of hiring, contributions shall commence on (he llrst day of the month following the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which together with the employee's prior service (whether full or part-time) with any participating Employer, aggregates nine {')) months.
31.5	Contributions for Individual Coverage shall be made on behalf of part time employees with at least twelve (12) months service if no major medical and/or hospitalization is provided to them from any other source. Contributions shall commence the first of the month following the date on which a valid application for such coverage is received by the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a part-time employee who has been employed by any participating Employer within one (I) year prior to the date of hiring eligibility for Individual Coverage shall commence on the first day of the month follow ing the completion of such period of employment with the Employer which together with the employee’s prior service (whether full or part-time) with any participating Employer, aggregates twelve (12) months.
31.6	If an employee who has previously qualified to have contributions made on their behalf is absent from work due to illness, injury, or military service, the Employer shall continue contributions to the United Rood and Commercial Workers Local One Health Care Fund for the first six (6) months of absence in any tw elve (12) month period.
ARTICLE 31 - }Jf■ AI,TJ J CARE FUND - CONTINUED
31.7	[fan employee who has previously qualified to have eont billions made on their behalf is absent from work due to layoff the Employer shall continue co. 11 ributions to the United Food ano Commercial Workers Local One Health Care Fund for the 1 ist ihrec (3) months of absence in any twelve (12) month period.
31.S	The Employer hereby agrees to he bound by the terms and provisions of the Amended and Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust (as amen .led from time to time) which governs the operation of the Fund and hereby agrees to accept tl ? Employer Trustees of the Func who have been selected, as provided therein, as its repr sentatives in the joint administration of the Fund. The Fund shall at all times have and unintain United Slates Treasury Department approval, otherwise the Employer shall not ie obligated to make contributions thereto.
31.9	The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the 1 list Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce the payment i contributions required hereunder. The Trustees, or their designated representatives, shall h; re the right to inspect payroll records, time records and such other records maintained by the Employer in the normal course of business as the Trustees shall believe pertain to the Fund. T >.? Employer shall make available such records during reasonable business hours upon receipt of intice from the Trustees that they intend to conduct an audit or examination of such records for he purpose of verifying payments due to the Fund and to ensure compliance by the Employer wi h its obligation to make contributions pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Agreement ; id Declaration of Trust and applicable law.
31.1	0 Said Fund shall have its principal office in the City of Oriskany and shall be administered by a Board of Trustees consisting of an equal number • I Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with said Amended and Restated Agree nent and Declaration of Trust. The principal and income of the Fund shall be used for the sole urpose of providing for the employees of the Employers contributing thereto, their lamilres and de pert dents, with health care benefits and for any and all other purposes which may be permitted pursuant to Section 302 (c) (5) cf the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, and the pr-mcnt of all expenses, including the administration and maintenance of the Fund.
31.1	1 The rules of eligibility for coverage, waiting periods for cov tage and the benefits to be provided to employees and/or their dependents shall be as provided i the plan of benefits of the Fund. The provisions contained in this Article regarding the d tes for the payment of contributions to the Fund shall not bear upon the date when coverage co- inienccs.
24
ARTICLE 31 - HEALTH CARE FUND - CONTINUED
31.1	2 The Employer agrees to provide payroll deductions for part-time employees purchasing dependent coverage. These deductions will be due 15 days after the last day of the last payroll period each month. The amount of the monthly payroll deduction and the rules regarding eligibility and coverage provided shall be as determined by the Fund.
31.1	3 Contributions for Individual Coverage shall conUnue to be made on behalf of all part time employees where contributions for such coverage were being made prior to 1 VV01.
ARTICLE 32
LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND
32.1	The Employer shall pay monthly within llfteen (15) days after the last day of the last payroll period each month, to the UFCW District Union Local One Pension Fund, the following sums per employee per month:
FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Contribution as of 12/31/05:	1/1/06	1/1/07	1/1/08
S105.OT per month	SI 15.50	$127.05	SI 39.76
$126.00 per month	$138.60	$152.46	$167.71
$140.00 per month	SI 54.00	$169.40	$186.34
Newly Hired or Promoted	$115.50	$127.05	$139.76
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Effective 1/1/06
Effective 1/1/07
Effective 1/1/08
$22.00 per month
$24.20 per month
$26.62 per month
32.2	Contributions shall be made for all full time employees who have been paid or are entitled to payment for the performance of duties at any time during the month. The contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full time or pan time status as of the first pay period of such employee during the month. In the case of employees who have been laid off and who arc reemployed, the contribution rate shall be determined by the employee's full lime or part time status when rccmployed.
25
ARTICLE 32 - LOCAL ONE PENSION EUND - CONTINUED
32.3	Contributions on behalf of all lull time employees shall count cnee on the first day of the month following the completion of thirty (30) days of employment wi t the Employer. In the event the Employer hires a full time employee who has been employed I . another Participating Employer within one (I) year prior to the date of hiring, then in such e\ 'ill, contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of sucl period of employment with the Employer w hich, together with the employee's prior cumulalivt till] time sere ice with any Participating Employer, shall aggregate thirty (30) days.
32.4	Contributions on behalf of all part-time employees shall comm nee ott the first day of the month following the latter of reaching age twenty-one (21) or the cor i ('Jetion of twelve (12) months of employment with the Employ er. In the event the Employer hire a part-time employee who has been ethploycd by any participating Employer within one (I) y. tr prior to the dale of hiring and who has also attained age twenty-one (21), then, in such evt it. contributions shall commence on the first day of the month following the completion of such uriod of employment with the Employer which, together with the employee's prior euniula ve service with any participating Employer, shall aggregate twelve (12) months.
32.5	If an employee who has previously qualified to have coni ri ul ions made in their behalf is absent from work due to illness or injury, the Employer shall con nue contributions for the first six (6j numtlw of absence in any twelve (12) month period. If an mployee is on layoff, the Employer will continue to make contributions for a period of three (3) i onths.
32.6	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms a 4 provisions of the Amended and Restated Agreement and Declaration of Trust (as amcndi 1 from lime-lo-liine) which governs the operation of the fund and hereby agrees to accept the Iniployer Trustees of the Eund who have been selected, as provided therein, as its represt itati'es in the joint administration oi the Eund. The fund shall al all times have anil m imain United Stales Treasury Department approval, otherwise the Employer shall not be obligated to make contributions thereto.
32.7	Said Eund shall have its principal office in the Cily of Oi isktuiy and shall be administered by a Board ot Trustees consisting of an equal numbet of 'nion and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with said Amended and Restated Agreeme I and Declaration of Trust.
32.X	The principal and income of the Eund shall be used for the sole urpose of providing for the employees of lite Employers contributing thereto and their benefieit ies. with retirement benefits and for tiny and all other purposes which may be permitted pursua I to Section 302 (cl (5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1047. and the payment of al expenses. including the administration and maintenance of the Eund.
26
ARTICLE 32 - LOCAL ONE PENSION FUND CONTINUED
32.9	The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions ot' the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce the payment of contributions required hereunder. The Trustees, or their designated representatives, shaft have the right to inspect payroll records, time records and such other records maintained by the Employer in the normal course of business as the Trustees shall believe pertain to the bund. I'hc Employer shall make available such records during reasonable business hours upon receipt of notice from the Trustees that they intend to conduct an audit or examination of such records for the purpose of verifying payments due to the Fund and to ensure compliance by the Employer w ilh its obligation to make contributions pursuant to the terms of this .Agreement, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust and applicable law.
ARTICLE 33
E])UCATION, SAFETY ANDCULTURAl. FUND
Effective 1/l/tXi the Company shall no longer be required to make contributions to the Education, Safely and Cultural Fund. Future Education and Safety benefits will be paid from the Ul'CW Health Care Fund as determined by the Board of Trustees.
ARTICLE 34
SAFETY AND HEALTH
34.1	Fhe Company agrees that it has the sole responsibility to provide a safe workplace and to correct safety hazards and that nothing in this Agreement shall imply that the Union has undertaken or assumed any portion of that responsibility. Fhe Company further agrees that it will indemnify and hold the union harmless from any claims asserting that the Union failed to provide a safe workplace.
34.2	'Fhe Company will participate with the Union on a Joint Labor/ Manage men I Retail Food Industry Safety and Health Committee. The Committee shall consist of equal representatives from the Union and the Industry, subject to replacement under such circumstances and conditions as each parly may determine. Fhe Retail Food Industry Safety and I lealth Committee shall meet regularly, but not less than quarterly after work hours,
34.3	Fhe Safety and Health Director of the Union, or his representative, shall have the right to visit any of the Company's places of business in order to ensure a safe vvork eti vironmenl.
34.4	The Union may designate one employee per store to act as a Safety and Health Representative. The Safety and Health Representative will receive one additional paid personal day to attend a Union sponsored Safety and I lealth Conference.
27
ARTICLE 34 - SAFETY AND HEALTH - CONTINUED
34.5	Safely and Health concerns will be handled in the following n auicr.
STEP I: The Safely :1,KI Health Representative vs ill bring all s .tely problems to the attention of the Store Manager. If the problem is not taken care of in i reasonable period of time;
STEP 2: The Safety and Health Director of the Union and the Corn; my shall meet as soon as possible. If the problem is not taken care of in a reasonable period of ti re:
STEP 3 The Company and the Union will submit the dispute to the ’resident of the Union and Vice President of Labor Relations and they will jointly resolve the dis i.te.
ARTICLE 35
SENIORITY
35.1	Seniority of regular full-time employees shall commence as o iheir starting date as full-time employees. Seniority of part-time employees shall commence a of their starting date as part-time employees.
(a) Seniority rosier shall be in the following categories:
I)	Regular full-time employees
2)	Regular part-time employees available for addilh aal scheduled hours.
3)	Regular part-time employees not available for idditional scheduled hours.
4)	Customer Service Clerks
(b> Seniority shall be accrued and applicable within eacl of the above four categories respectively. Those in the fourth category will be the first to bt laid off in line with seniority standing within that group. A full-time employee reduced to p; rt-time involuntarily shall be placed at the top of category 2, A lull-time employee who 'duces to part-time voluntarily shall be placed in category 3 in a position commensurate with heir total Company seniority.
tc) Employees advancing from one seniority category to the ieM shall not carry any accrued seniority front the group that they have advanced from.
(d)	Full-time employees with thirty-one (31) days service hall have seniority over all part-time employees.
(cI	Seniority shall be applied and considered within the respev ive seniority units.
ARTICLE 35 - SENIORITY - CONTINUED
(f)	The employer agrees to make a sincere effort io train, in advance, senior employees to 1111 future higher rated classifications.
(g)	Respecting the promotion, and demotion, layoff and rchiring. the qualifications and ability of the employee shall be considered in conjunction with seniority standing. The promotion shall be based on fitness and ability with seniority a factor only when fitness and ability are equal. All employees who meet the above qualifications shall be given the opportunity to till future job vacancies. Regular part-time employees shall have seniority standing oxer part-time student and/or part-time employees holding full-time jobs elsewhere, provided they have the necessary qualifications and can work the available hours as determined by the "Employer."
(h)	Regular full-time employees, if laid off due to no fault of their own shall have preference for available part-time employment.
(i)	In the event a full-time employee is promoted from the ranks of the Union, they shall retain their accrued seniority for a period ofone (1) year. If. within that period, they arc transferred back to any position covered by this Agreement, their full seniority shall be restored immediately.
(j)	Employees in Classified positions or Department or Assistant Department Manager positions who are demoted, are involuntarily reduced or voluntarily seek reduction themselves, shall be reclassified as full time clerks provided that they have been full time for at least one (11 year prior to the date of such reduction and can work the available hours.
35.2	An employee's seniority shall end if discharged for just cause by the Employer, if they voluntarily quit, or if they are laid off continuously for a period of more than six (6) months, or if the employee is called back to work after a layoff and does not report to work within three (3) days, or seventy-two (72) hours, provided said employee has been notified by registered mail to the Inst known address furnished by the employee. If within seventy-two (72) hours, additional time is requested by the employee, the employer shall grant four (4) additional days. Notice to the employer, making the request, shall be sent by the employee, by registered mail.
35,3	The Company will provide the Union with a store wide seniority list and update it even,' six (6) months, or as requested by the Union.
29
ARTICLE 36
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
During the term of this agreement, there shall be no strike, locko I or stoppage of work unless cither party fails to comply with the decision of an arbitrator. In tty event, there shall be no strike, lockout or work stoppage of any kind until the other party h given seven (7) days written notice that it intends to engage in such a strike, lockout or work si ippage.
ARTICLE 37
SEPARABILITY
37.1	Tire provisions of this Agreement are deemed to be separable a the extent that if and when a court of last resort adjudges any provision or provisions of ’.his Agreement in its application between the Union and the undersigned Employer to be in .onfliet with any law. such decisions shall not affect the validity of the remaining provision or provisions of this Agreement. Such remaining provision or provisions shall continue ir full force and effect, provided further that in the event any provision or provisions are so de. lured to he in conflict with a law, both parties shall meet immediately for the purpose of renegoi tiling an agreement on the provision or provisions so invalidated.
37.2	In the event by Federal, State or Local legislation there shall I in effect an existing law or such law shall be passed which shall provide for a minimum w-age ate which will exceed atty contract wage rate or rates in effect at the time of the effective date ■ f such law, then such contract wage rate or rates shall be automatically adjusted at the time o the effective date of such law.
ARTICLE 38
CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS
38 1 Customer Service Clerks will be a part of the bargaining unit, at <1 will be employed under conditions as set forth below:
ta) Customer Service Clerks must be identified by means of i badge or some distinguishing article of apparel.
30
ARTICLE 38 - CUSTOMER SERVICE CLERKS - CONTINUED
(b) Duties will be limited to:
1)	Parcel and carry-out	including canopy	to car
2)	Cart control
3)	Sweeping and cleaning
4)	Cleaning of outside	areas,	including	sidewalks and parking lots snow
removal and washing
5)	Wash windows
6)	Clean rest rooms
7)	Stock bag racks, including bringing bags from the storage area
8)	Return empties and bottle returns to the storage area
9)	Check missing prices lor Cashiers
10)	Counter sales in all departments
ll)	Can generally wait on trade but may not engage in slocking, cashiering, baking, meat wrapping and use of processing equipment.
12)	Demonstrating and sampling of products
38.2	Length of service while employed as a Customer Service Clerk, shall be carried forward when a Customer Service Clerk is promoted to regular part-time status for the following purposes only:
(a)	Completion of probationary period (If service is greater than thirty (30) days, then probationary period will be considered as satislied).
(b)	Length of service pay progressions shall be based upon original start dale as Customer Service Clerk.
38.3	Seniority within the regular part-time category shall commence with the date of' promotion to regular part-time status.
38.4	Part-time benefits, based upon length of sere ice. shall be based on seniority within the regular part-time category.
38.5	Part-time Customer Service Clerks shall be covered for all provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement including fringe benefits except lor Article 3 1 Health Care, as amended, and Article 32, Pension Fund.
3)
ARTICLE 39
JOB POSTING
39.1	The Company shall post in the employee break-room all lull ume job openings. The job posting shall be made for a minimum of seven (7} days.
39.2	The Employer will agree io give part-time employees the opj orlunity to till full-time jobs according io seniority provided they are qualified to perform the • ork ami provided they can work the scheduled hours.
39.3	[’he Company shall make every effort to select the siieeessfu bidder and fill the job no l;ilcr that twenty one (21) days alter the full time job opening occur Upon request by the Union Representative, the Employer will send a copy of the notice eoncc.mng the employee who has successfully lilted a posted position.
39.4	rhe Company will post for no less than a seven 17) day p successful bidder for each job posted once I he selection has been made.
riod. the name of the
All applicants for posted jobs will receive an interview.
39.6	Once an employee has bid on and received a full lime job. st h employee shall not. except by demotion or by mutual consent, be permanently transferred to different job or store. The Company reserves the right to work an employee in any department r in any job on a less than permanent basis. It is further understood that in the event a deparlm nt or job is eliminated in-full or in-part, based on operational needs, the Company may rc-assigi an affected employee without regard to the foregoing.
ARTICLE 40
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Any new employee hired by the Company shall be on probation tor । period of thirty (30) days after dale of hire. The thirty (30) day trial period can be extended ai additional thirty (30) days on an exception basis with the Agreement of the Union Representati During such lime an employee may be discharged at any time and for any reason at the ole discretion of the Company and without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. U|:o completion of the probationary period, the employee shall be placed on the seniority list w h seniority dating to lime of hire or rchirc.
32
ARTICLE 41
TRAVEL PAY
Employees, including floaters, who temporarily transfer at the company's request to another store or are requested to attend a meeting al another location will be paid travel expenses from their home store or respective residence, whichever distance is shorter, al the Internal Revenue Service standard mileage rate for all miles actually driven by the employee if the one-way distance is in excess of twenty (20) miles. Employees who ear-pool with another employee (whose vehicle is used) shall not be eligible for mileage pay.
ARTICLE 42
TIME AND ATTEN1JANCE SYSTEM
42.1	Time and Attendance System shall be installed in all stores of the Company and each employee shall, as a condition of employment, be required to reconl and sign their individual l ime and Attendance Record.
42.2	"The Eair Labor Standards Act", as amended, requires, among other things, that all time worked by employees be accurately recorded and that employees receive compensation for all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week al one and one-half (I 1/2) times their regular hourly rate of pay. The parlies recognize and agree that strict compliance with this Act is in the best interest of the Employer, the Union and the employees. Therefore, the Employer will not request, suffer or permit any employee to work while not being registered on the Time and Attendance System, ami the Union agrees to cooperate with and to assist the Employer in assuring strict compliance w ith this important federal legislation.
42.3	Any employee violating this provision (either 42.1 or 42.2) shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
AR TICLE 43
TEMPORARY RELIEF OF DEPARTMEN T MANAGERS
Any employee who relieves an employee in a classillcd or premium paying position for live (5) work days or more, shall receive the applicable starting rate for the classified position or their rate plus the appropriate premium (5()e/hr - Dept. Mgrs. 25e/hr - Ass't Dept. Mgrs.). whichever is greater. Assistant Department Managers, First Cutters and Lead Clerks shall he replaced at the discretion of Management when such replacement is warranted.
ARTICLE 44
VOLUNTARY/1N VOLUNTARY REDUCTION
44.1	Employees who \oluntarily reduce themselves from full- me to part-time shall receive their prior part-time rate plus any part-time wage increases wh ,:h were granted during the period they were full-time. Employees, who were hired as full time, dial! use their full time start date to determine the appropriate part time pay rate. The Employei 'hall pay at the time of reduction any unused full time vacation or personal holidays the employe has accrued.
44.2	Employees who are incoluntarily reduced from full-time to lart-lime shall receive their prioi part-time rale plus any part time wage increases which were gi inted during the period they were full-time. Employees, who were hired as full time, shall use th' :r full time start dale to determine the appropriate part time pay rale. The Employer shall con inue to make full-time health care and pension contributions for three (3) additional months f Towing the reduction. The Employer shall pay at the lime of reduction any unused full tint vacation or personal holidays the employ ee has accrued.
44.3	If the introduction of “case-ready" meat results in the dim lution of Meat Cutter positions, affected employees will be provided other positions as long a they can perform the duties required. The new rate of pay for such employees will be no less if n their Meal Cutter or first (hitter rate at that lime. Eligible employees shall be those classil rd as Meat Cutters or first Cutters on or before N/UOI.
ARTICLE 45
UECW LOCAL ONE 401K SAVINGS FUND
45.1	The Employer agrees to take the actions indicated betov with respect to its employees:
Deduct from pay and transmit to the UFCW Local One 401k Sa' ings fund employee contributions as elected by employees and as permitted by law. Ernph .ce contributions arc subject to the rules of the fund. Employee contributions shall be remitted -■ the Fund as soon as they can be reasonably segregated from the Employer’s general assets, but in later than the tenth 110th) day of the month following the month in which the covered perio. of employment was performed. The Employer agrees to remit such contributions on such for is and in accordance with such procedures as prescribed by the Trustees.
45.2	The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of the Tn a Agreement and the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Trustees which goserm the operation of the fund and hereby agrees to accept the Employer Trustees of the Fund who ave been selected as provided therein, as its representatives in the joint administration of the Fun
34
ARTICLE 45 UFCW LOCAL ONE 401 K SAVINGS FUND COSTIN1 JOO
45.3	The Fund shall have its principal office in the City of Oriskany and shall be administered by a Hoard of Trustees consisting of an equal number of Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with the Declaration of Trust.
45.4	T he Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce the payment of contributions required hereunder. The Trustees, or their designated representatives, shall have the right to inspect payroll records, time records and such other records maintained by the Employer in the normal course of business as the Trustees shall believe pertain to the Eund. The Employer shall make available such records during reasonable business hours upon receipt of notice from the Trustees that they intend to conduct an audit or examination of such records for the purpose of verifying payments due to the Eund and to ensure compliance by the Employer w ith its obligation to make contributions pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust anil applicable law.
35
ARTICLE 46
WAGES AND C LASSIE-IC AT EONS
46.1	Lull time employees with base wage rates at or above tin rales listed below for classified positions and full lime employees with base wage rates al o above the top rate for their app-opriate wage scale shall receive the tollowing general wage increases on the dales indicated below:
7/3(606
25c per hour
7/294)7
25e per hour
46.2 Pan time employees and Customer Service Clerks with base the Lop rate for the part time wage scale shall receive the following gener; dates indicated below:
■' age rales al or above wage increases on the
7/30'*06
25c per hour
7/29/07
25c per hour
46.3 CLASSIFIED POSITIONS
	1/8/06	7/30'06	7/29/07
Meat Manager	SI 7.80	$17.80	SI 8.05
P1 Culler	$17.10	S17.10	S 1 7.35
Journeyman	S 16.85	$16.85	SI7.I0
Produce Manager	$16.00	$16.00	$16.25
Apprenlice (.‘utters:
	1/8/06	7/30/06	7/29/07
Start	$13.60	$13.60	$13.85
After6 Months	$14,00	$14.00	$14.25
After 12 xMonths	$14.40	$14.40	$14.65
After IS months	S 14.80	$14.80	$15.05
After 24 mouths	$16.85	$16.85	$17.10
(Journeyman)			
36
ARTICLE 46 - WAGES ANU CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
46.4 DEPARTMENT MANAGER POSITIONS
Deli/Prepared Foods Managers:
	1/8/06	7/30'06	7/29/07
Step 1	$9.50		
Step 2	$10.00	$10.00	
Step 3	$10.50	$10.50	$10.50
Step 4	$1 1.00	$1 1.00	$1 1.00
Step 5	$11.50	$1 1.50	$1 1.50
Step 6	SI 2.00	$12.00	$12.00
Step 7	$12.50	$12.50	$12.50
Step 8	$12.80	$12.80	$12.80
Step 9	S 13.10	$13.10	$13.10
Step 10	SI 3.40	$13.40	$13.40
Step 1 1			$13.65
Employees hired or promoted to Deli/Prepared Foods Manager positions before 1/8/06 will continue to advance to the next highest wage rate called lor in the above scale dated 1/8/06 at six (6) month intervals front the date of their last increase.
Employees hired or promoted to Deli/Prepared Foods Manager positions on or after 1/8/06 will progress through the above scale dated 1/8/06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
EFFECTIVE 7/30/06
Employees hired or promoted to Deli/Prepared Foods Manager positions on or alter 7/30'06 will progress through the above scale dated 7/30/06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
Deli/Prepared Foods Managers with base wage rates below $10.00 will advance to $10.00 on 7/30/06 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/30'06 at six (6) month intervals utilizing the date of 7/30'06.
EFFECTIVE 7/29/07
Employees hired or promoted to Deli/Prepared Foods Manager positions on or after 7/29/07 will progress through the above scale dated 7/29/07 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
Deli/Prepared Foods Managers with base wage rates below $10.50 will advance to $10.50 on 7/29/07 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/29/07 at six (6) month intervals utilizing the dale of 7/29/07.
.37
ARTICLE 46 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
Bakeev Mamiiiers:
	1/8/06	7/30'06	7/29/07
Step 1	$9.50		
Step 2	S9.75	S9.75	
Step 3	SI 0.25	S 10.25	810.25
Step	S 10.75	SIO.75	S1O.75
Step 5	S1 1.25	Si 1.25	SI 1.25
Step n	S1 1.75	SI 1.75	811.75
Step 7	SI 2.25	SI 2.25	$12.25
Step 8	SI 2.55	SI 2.55	812.55
Step 9	SI 2.85	SI 2.85	812.85
Step 10	SI 3.15	SI 3.15	813.15
Step 11			SI 3.40
Employees hired or promoted to Bakery Manager positions before advance tc the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale dated intervals iiom the date of their last increase.
8/116 will continue to .'8/06 at six (6) month
Employees hired or promoted to Bakery Manager positions on or ait - 1/8'06 will progress
through the above scale dated 1/8/06 at six 161 month intervals from date o hire or promotion.
EE EEC T1VE 7/30/06
Employees hired or promoted to Bakery Manager positions on or aflei G30'O6 will progress through the above scale dated 7/30'06 at six (6) month intervals from date, f hire or promotion.
Bakery Managers with base wage rates below $0.75 will advance to ■9.75 on 7/30'06 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/30'06 al six (6) month interval! utilizing the date of 7/30/06.
ElTECTIVE 7/29/07
Employees hired or promoted to Bakery Manager positions on or alter -29/07 will progress through the above scale dated 7/29/07 at six (6) month intervals from dale o hire or promotion.
Bakery Managers with base wage rales below $ 10.25 will advance to $ u.25 on 7/29/07 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/29/07 at six (6) month intervals .ililizing the dale of 7/29/07.
ARTICLE 46 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUI•D
All Other Department Mat lagers:
a)	Assistant Grocer) Managers. General Merchandise Managers. Night Crew Managers, Maintenance Managers, Office Managers, Scan Coordinators and Dairy and Frozen Food Managers.
b)	Bulk Food Managers, Captain's Choice Managers, Cheese Shop Managers. Petal Works (Floral) Managers, Photo One Managers, Butcher Block Managers and Carrv Ont Calc Managers. I hese positions may be eliminated tbiough attrition or when the department is abolished a> a separate operational department. Affected employees shall retain their Department Manager rate and full time stains.
	1/8/06	7/304)6	7/2 Tit Z
Step 1	$8.00		
Step 2	$8.50	$8.50	
Step 3	$9.00	$9.00	$9.00
Step 4	$9.50	$9.50	$9.50
Step 5	Slo.oo	Slo.oo	$10.00
Step 6	810.30	$10.30	$10.30
Step 7	SI 0.60	$10.60	$10.60
Step 8	Si O.oo	$10.90	$10.90
Step 0	$11.20	$1 1.20	$1 1.20
Step 10	$11.50	81 1.50	SI 1.50
Step 1 1	$1 1.80	$1 1.80	SI 1.80
Step 12	$12.10	$12.10	$12.10
Step 13			$12.35
Employees hired or promoted to Department Manager positions before 1/84)6 will continue to advance to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale dated 1/8/06 at six (6) month intervals from the date of their last increase.
Employees hired or promoted to Department Manager positions on or after 1/8/06 will progress through the above scale dated 1/8/06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
EFFECTIVE 7/30/(16
Employees hired or promoted to Department Manager positions on or after 7/30'06 will progress through the above scale dated 7/30'06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
Department Managers with base wage rates below $8.50 will advance to $8.50 on 7/30'06 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/30'06 at six (6) month intervals utilizing the dale of 7/30'06.
EFFECF1VE 7/20'07
Employees hired or promoted Io Department Manager positions on or after 7/20'07 will progress through the above scale dated 7/29'07 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
Department Managers with base wage rales below $9.00 will advance to SO.lit) on 7/29/07 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/20'07 al six (6) month intervals utilizing the date of 7/29/07.
39
ARTICLE 46 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
46.5	ASSISTANT DEPARTMENT	MANAGERS	
	1/S'O6	7/30'<t(>	7/2'1'07
Step 1	$7.75		
Step 2	$8.25	SS.25	
Step 3	S8.75	SS.75	$8.75
Step 4	$9.25	S').2 5	$9.25
Step 5	$9.75	$9.75	$9.75
Step 6	$10.05	$10.05	$10.05
Step 7	$10.35	$10.35	$10.35
Step 8	$10.65	$10.65	$10.65
Step 9	$10.95	$10.95	$ 10.95
Step 10	$1 1.25	ST 1.25	$11.25
Step 1 ]	$1 1.55	Sil.55	SI 1.55
Step I?	$11.85	$11.85	SI 1.85
Step 13			$12.1(1
Employees hired or promoted to Assistant Deportment Manager positions lx to advance to the next highest wage rate called for in the above wale dated intervals from the date of their last increase.
Employees hired or promoted to Assistant Department Manager positions
I oe 1 /S/06 w ill continue
1 Sii 16 at six (6) month
on or after 1/806 will
progress through the above scale dated 1/8'06 at six (6) month intervals from dab of hire or promotion.
EFFECTIVE 7/30/06
Employees hired ot promoted to Assistant Department Manager positions
progress through the above scale dated 7/30'06 al six (6) month intervals ftom dal
Assistant Department Managers with base wage rates below SS.25 will adva
and shall advance through the scale dated 7/30'06 at six <6) month intervals utdizi
n or after 7/311'06 will of hire or promotion.
i..e to $8.25 on 7/30'06
■. the dale oi 7/30/llb.
EFFECTIVE 7/29'07
Employecs hired or promoted to Assistant Department Manager positions < 1 or after 7/20'07 will progress through the above scale dated 7/26'07 al six (6) inittilh intervals from dab of hire or promotion.
Assistant Department Managers with base wage rates below $8.7b will advat ce Io $6,75 on 7/2'607 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/29'07 at six (6) month intervals ulili.di the date of 7/29'07.
A pan time Assistant Department Manager, where designated by managei mt, shall be paid the minimum full time rate or their rate plus a tvveniy-llv e cent (25c) per hour premimt whichever is greater.
Assistant Produce Manager rales of pay shall be determined bv the above.
40
ARTICLE 46 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
46.6 FULL TIME CLERKS:
	1/8'06	7/30'06	7/29'07
Step 1	$7.50		
Step 2	$8.00	$8.00	
Step 3	$8.50	$8.50	$8.50
Step 4	$9.00	$9.00	$9.00
Step 5	$9.50	$9.50	$9.50
Step 6	$9.80	$9.80	$9.80
Step 7	$10.10	$ 1 0.10	$10.10
Step 8	$10.40	$10.40	SI 0.40
Step 9	$10.70	$10.70	$10.70
Step 10	$1 1.00	$1 LOO	$11.00
Step 11	$1 1.30	$ 1 1.30	$1 1.30
Step 12	$1 1.60	$ 1 1.60	$1 1.6(1
Step 13			$1 1.85
Employees hired or promoted to full time clerk positions before 1/8'06 will continue to advance to the next highest wage rate called for in the above scale dated 1/8'06 al six (6) month intervals from the date of their last increase.
Employees hired or promoted to full time clerk positions on or after 1/8/06 will progress through the above scale dated 1/8/06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
EFFECTIVE 7/3(1/06
Employees hired or promoted to Full Time Clerk positions on or after 7/30'06 will progress through the above scale dated 7/30'06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
Full Time Clerks with base wage rates below $8.00 will advance to $8.0(1 on 7/30'06 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/30'06 al six (6) month intervals utilizing the date of 7/30'06.
EFFECTIVE 7/29/07
Employees hired or promoted to Full Time Clerk posilions on or after 7/29/07 will progress through the above scale dated 7/29/07 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire or promotion.
Full Time Clerks with base wage rates below $8.50 will advance to $8.50 on 7/29/07 and shall advance through the scale dated 7/29/07 at six (6) month intervals utilizing the date of 7/29/07.
41
ARTICL!; 46 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS - CONTINUED
46.7 PART TIME CLERKS:
	Hired Before 8/2/01	Hired 8/2/01 -12/31/05	1/1/06	1/1/07
Step 1	$6.25	$6.25	$6.75	$7.25
Step 2	$6.50	$6.50	$7.00	$7.50
Step 3	$6.75	$6.75	$7.25	$7.75
Step 4	$7.00	$7.00	$7.50	$8.00
Step 5	$7.25	$7.25	$7.75	$8.25
Step 6	$7.50	$7.50	$8.00	$8.50
Step 7	S7.75	$7.75	$8.25	
Step 8	$8.00	$8.00		
Step 9	$8.25	$8.25		
Step 10	$8.50			
Part 'lime Clerks hired before 8/2/01 will continue to advance to the n xt highest wage rate called for in the abo\e scale at six (6) month intervals from the dale oftheir ast increase.
Part Time Clerks hired 8/2'01 through 12/31/05 will continue to advam e Io the next highest
wage rate called for in the above scale at six (61 month intervals from date o hire.
EFFECTIVE 1/1/06
Part Time Clerks hired on or after 1/1/06 will progress through the abov< -cale dated 1/01/06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire.
Part Time Clerks with base wage rates below $6.75 will advance to $6.71 on 1/1/06 and shall
advance through the scale dated 1/1/06 at six (6i month intervals utilizing the '.late of 1/1/06.
EFFECTIVE 1/1/07
Part 'l ime Clerks hired on or after 1/1/07 will progress through the abov scale dated 1/1/07 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire.
Part Time Clerks with base wage rales below $7.25 will advance to $7.25 on 1/1/07 and shall
advance through the scale dated 1/1/07 at six <6) month intervals utilizing, the late of 1/1/07.
42
ARTICLE 46 - WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS C( 1NJTNUI ■ 1)
46.8 (JJSTt)MER SERVICE CLERKS:
	Hired		
	Before		
	1/1/06	JLL116	L'l 07
	1 -		
Step 1	$6.15	$6.75	$7.15
Step 2	$6.30	$6.00	$7.30
Step 3	$6.50	$7.10	$7 50
Step 4	$6.70	$7.30	
Step 5	$6.00		
Step 6	$7.10		
Customer Service Clerks hired before 1/1/06 will continue to advance to the next highest wage rale called lor in the above scale at six (6) month intervals from the dale of their last increase.
EFFECTIVE 1/1/06
Customer Service Clerks hired on or alter 1/L06 will progress through the above scale dated 1/01/06 at six (6) month intervals from date of hire.
Customer Service Clerks with base wage rales below $6.75 will advance to S6.75 on 1/1/06 and shall advance through the scale dated 1'1-06 at six (6) month intervals utilizing the date of 1'1/06.
EFFECTIVE 1/L07
Customer Service Clerks hired on or after 1/1'07 will progress through the above scale dateil 1/1/07 at six (6) month intervals from dale of hire.
Customer Service Clerks with base wage rates below $7.15 will advance to $7.15 on 1/1/07 and shall advance through the scale dated 1/1/07 al six (6) month intervals utilizing the date of 1/1/07.
43
ARTICLE 46- WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS CONTINUED
46.9 LEAD CLERKS:
'Rhe Compare may designate Ilie 11»llowing Lead Clerk positions:
Butcher Block Lead
Captain's Choice Lead
Floral Lead
Photo One Lead
Bulk Food Lead
(las Shop Lead
Customer Service Lead
Employees designated as such shall receive the appropriate full or par: i ime clerk rale plus a twenty-five cent (2'ct per hour premium. Such positions may be ere ted and tilled where employees classified as Department Managers vacate their positions.
44
ART1CLE47
TERM OF agreement
47.1	This agreement shall remain in effect from January S. 21)06 until 11:59 pan.. August 2, 200S.
47.2	Either parly desiring lo terminate this Agreement or to negotiate changes in this Agreement shall give notice lo the other party in writing at least sixty (60} days prior to the expiration date hereof. If such notice is not given as above, the Agreement shall be automatically renewed without change for a period of one (I ) year. In the event either party serves such notice of a desire to negotiate changes in the Agreement, it is mutually agreed that the Employer and the Union, without undue delay, shall begin negotiations on the proposed changes and that pending results of negotiations neither party shall change the conditions existing under the contract.
47.3	This Agreement cancels and supersedes all previous .Agreements between the parties hereto:
FOR
FOR THE UNION:
FRANK C. DERISO
JOHN F. BARRETT
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT HUMAN RESOURCES
POLAK
DIRECTOR OF LABOR RELATIONS
PRESIDENT
SECRETAR Y/TREASURER
AREA DIRECTOR
45
TOPS MARKETS, LLC
ROCHESTER DIVISION AREA STORES AS C)l; I V’06
LOCATION	ADDRESS	ern STATE, zip CODE
401)	710 Lake Avenue	Roch iter. NY 14613
401	450 West Avenue	Roehi aer. NY 1461 1
403	2345 Buffalo RoadTixIcy	Gales NY 14624
407	500 Elm Ridge ( enter Dr.	Rock ter, NY 14626
400	1455 Ridge Road East	lror.de |uoit, NY 14621
410	1 75 Winton Road	Roche ler, NY 14610
412	1900 Clinton Ave. South	Bright a . NY 14618
413	6272 E urn ace Road. Route 104	Oniarit NY 14519
414	1854 Empire Blvd.	Wehstr ; NY 14580
415	1100 .Ieflerson Road	Henne .a, NY 14623
417	1601 Penfield Road	Roches *r, NY 14625
418	3507 Mt. ReadLMniden	Roches v. NY 14616
419	Martin’s - 6720 Pitts lord/Palmyra Road	Eairpor NY 14450
430	Ri 5 & 20 Pyramid Mall	Geneva T'4Y 14456
431	270 East Main Street	.Axon N ’ 14414
432	5150 North Street	Canand; gua NY 14424
450	1800 Lake Road	Hamlin 'Y 14464
460	285 Upper Tails Road	Rochesit NY 14605
520	127 Eranklin Street	Dansvill NY 14437
542	830 Consumer Sq. Plaza. Rl 64	Elmira, f Y 14903
551	299 S. Main Street	Elmira. 8 Y 14904
46