AGREEMENT WITH
SHOP RITE
SUPERMARKETS, INC.
L o / A-r / 0
and
UKW
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO
Effective Date: March 31, 2002
Expiration Date: September 23, 2006
INDEX
ARTICLE PAGE
ACCESS TO STORES..................25	17
AGREEMENT..........................-	1
CHECK-OFF..........................3	1
DEATH IN FAMILY.................  21	16
DEFINITION OF STATUS...............5	2
DISCHARGE.........................13	12
EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS..............24	17
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE & ARBITRATION. . 27	18
HOLIDAYS...........................9	7
INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS.............23	17
INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE...............11	11
JURY DUTY.........................18	13
LAUNDRY AND EQUIPMENT.............26	18
LEAVE OF ABSENCE..................20	15
LEGAL SERVICE PLAN............... 32	20
LIE DETECTOR TESTS............... 35	22
MANAGEMENT CLAUSE..................4	2
MILITARY SERVICE..................17	13
NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS..........28	18
OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY...........7	4
PENSION PLAN......................31	19
PROBATIONARY PERIOD...............22	16
PROMOTIONS........................16	13
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL FUNDS. . . 33	21
RECLASSIFICATION..................12	11
SAVINGS.......................... 37	37
SENIORITY.........................14	12
SHOP STEWARDS.................... 34	22
SICK LEAVE........................19	14
STORE SIGNS.......................29	19
TERM OF AGREEMENT................ 38	38
TRANSFERS.........................15	13
UNION RECOGNITION..................1	1
UNION SHOP.........................2	1
VACATIONS.........................10	9
WAGES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS...... 36	22
WELFARE PLAN......................30	19
WORK SCHEDULE......................8	6
WORK WEEK AND HOURS................6	2
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, made this 8th Day of August, 2002, by and between the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 1500, chartered by the UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. AFL-CIO, with offices at 221-10 Jamaica Avenue, Queens Village, New York 11428, hereinafter referred to as the UNION" and SHOP RITE SUPERMARKETS INC., having its principal place of business at 244 Raritan Center Parkway, Edison, New Jersey 08818, hereinafter referred to as the "EMPLOYER".
WITNESSETH: That in consideration of mutual promises, covenants and conditions herein contained, and for other good and valuable considerations, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
UNION RECOGNITION
1.01 The Employer hereby recognizes the union as the exclusive bargaining representative for its supermarket employees, both full time, regular part time employees, working in the City of New York. Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties in New York as well as Pharmacists working in the City of New York, Nassau and Suffolk Counties exclusive of Meat and Appetizing Department employees, Store Managers, Assistant Store Managers. Supervisors, Security Guards and Stock takers. Part time employees covered under this contract shall be entitled to only those rights and benefits specifically provided for them in this Agreement,
ARTICLE-2
UNION SHOP
2.01 It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement, shall remain members in good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this Agreement, shall, as a condition of their continued employment by the Employer, become members of the Union on the thirty-first (31st) day following the beginning of their employment or the execution date of this Agreement, whichever is the later, and they shall thereafter maintain their membership in the Union in good standing during the term of this Agreement,
2.02 Any employee who is expelled from membership in this Union because of non-payment of dues or initiation fees to the Union which would subject the employee to discharge under the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, shall be subject to dismissal from employment within seven (7) days after receipt by the Employer, from the Union, of written notice setting forth such non-payment of dues or initiation fees.
ARTICLE.3.
CHECK-OEE
3.01 The Union shall provide the Employer with a duly executed authorization for check-off of dues and initiation fees signed by each employee who shall be subject thereto, and such authorization shall conform with the requirements of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, and the amendments thereto,
3.02 The Employer agrees to deduct union dues and initiation fees from the wages of the employees in the bargaining unit who provide the Employer with such written authorization.
3.03 Such deductions will be made weekly by the Employer from the wages of the employees in advance of the month due and will be transmitted.
to the Union by the tenth (IOth) day of the following month. If the Employer fails to remit the checked-off dues and initiation fees as provided in this paragraph by the fifteenth (1 Sth) day of the month due, the Union shall have the right to turn the matter over to an attorney to institute any proceedings deemed appropriate for collection, provided that the Union shall, prior to the said fifteenth (15th) day, orally notify the Employer of the delinquency. In the event the delinquency is turned over to an attorney for collection, the Employer agrees to be responsible for all reasonable collection expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees.
3.04 The Employer agrees to deduct weekly from the wages of those employees who have given proper authorization, such amounts due the Local 1500 Credit Union and remit same to said Credit Union on a monthly basis. The Employer's obligation to remit to the Local 1500 Credit Union shall be limited to the amounts, which it actually deducts from the employees' wages.
3.05 The Employer agrees to deduct weekly from the wages of those employees who have given proper authorization, such amounts due the Local 1500 ABC Fund and remit same to the Union on a monthly basis.
3.06 The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer in reliance upon such authorization and a list furnished to the Employer by the Union setting forth the amount of dues and initiation fees owing from each employee or for the purposes of complying with the provisions of any check-off authorizations.
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT CLAUSE
4,01 The Employer reserves the right to the operation of its business and the direction of its working forces, including, but not limited to, the establishment of the opening and closing time of stores, the fixing of employees starting and stopping hours, the assignment of work shifts, the right to hire, transfer, suspend, layoff, recall, promote, demote, discharge for good cause, discipline employees, relieve employees from duty because of lack of work, transfer employees from one store location to another assign employees, temporarily or permanently to any store departmen within the bargaining unit, and to change the type of work to be performed by an employee, subject however, to the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLED
DEFINITION OF STATUS
5.01 All employees regularly working thirty (30) or more hours per week shall be considered full-time employees.
5.02 All employees regularly working less than thirty (30) hours per week shall be considered part-time employees.
ARTICLE 6 WORK WEEK AND HOURS
Full Time Employees
6.01 Forty (40) hours shall constitute the regular work week for all regula full time employees covered herein, and it shall consist of five (5) eight (8 hour days.
6,02 In a week in which a holiday occurs, thirty-two (32) hours in four (4 eight (8) hour days shall constitute the regular work week for all sue employees.
2
art Time Employees
03 Part time employees, except those who are available on a limited basis ill be scheduled for no less than sixteen (16) hours per week and four (4) ours per day, except as provided in Article 5.05 below, provided they are vailable on a regular and continuing basis and further provided that they re available to work the Employer's schedule of hours and there is no drop a business.
dinimum Hours Schedule - Part-Time (Greenway Plaza Store Only)
lie part-time minimum hours scheduled for the two weeks of each month hat are the lowest volume weeks will be twelve (12) hours per week. For he remaining two higher volume weeks the part-time minimum hours cheduled shall be twenty (20) hours per week.
or months that have five (5) weeks, this additional mid volume week shall ave a minimum part-time schedule of sixteen (16) hours.
04 In a week in which a holiday occurs, part time employees if available, vill be scheduled for no less than sixteen (16) hours in addition to the oliday.
05 Part time employees under sixteen (16) years of age- "The parties gree that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, part time employees under sixteen (16) ears of age may be scheduled to work less than four (4) hours per day, but ot less than three (3) hours per day on those days and during those seasons school year) when to do so would be in violation of law or regulation".
art Time employees less than 18 years of age may be scheduled for 3 3/4 ours on days when school is in session (except Fridays & Saturdays). The art Time employees will receive a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period vithin 3 3/4 hours schedule and shall be scheduled for no less than sixteen 16) hours per week when available.
06 Regular part time employees who are temporarily assigned to full time vork at any time throughout the year, shall receive a minimum rate of 9.875 per hour, (effective 3/28/04 $10,375 per hour) or their regular part me rate of pay, whichever is higher, from the first scheduled full week of uch assignment. Part time employees hired on or after August 25. 2002 hall receive a minimum rate of $9,375 per hour, (effective 3/28/04 $10,375 er hour), or their regular part time rate of pay, whichever is higher. Such ates shall also apply during the period May 15th to September 15th with art time benefits.
07 Part time employees are to receive first preference for all full time emporary work assignments during the summer months and holiday easons.
08 Regular part time employees who are appointed to permanent full time vork shall receive half (1/2) credit for their length of continuous part time ervice for the purpose of determining their appropriate full time wage rate, fhey shall receive the minimum full time rate for after thirty (30) days and n addition shall receive twenty ($20) dollars for each twelve (12) months f part time services to determine their full time rate. Then after they shall eceive twenty ($20) dollars for each six (6) months of full time service but n no event can they exceed the applicable top rate for full time clerks on ayroll as of March 30, 2002.
09 Working hours shall be consecutive except for a meal period of sixty 60) minutes with flexibility in emergency situations, which shall not be bused. Meal periods shall be provided during such hours as the Employer nay designate and which shall not count in computing the number of hours vorked.
3
6.10 All employees are to receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period for eac four (4) hours of work. Employees may be required to punch time cards fo all rest periods.
ARTICLE 7 OVERTIME AND PREMIUM PAY
Full Time Employees
7.0	1 Full time employees shall receive overtime pay at the rate of time an one-half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess o eight (8) hours in one (1) day or forty (40) hours in one (1) week which shal not be pyramided.
7.0	2 Full time employees shall receive premium pay of seventy-five (,75e cents per hour for each hour worked before 7:00 A.M. and after 6:00 P.M if the hours so worked are within their regular forty (40) hour work week
7.0	3 Full time employees hired or reclassified on or after March 28, 1988 shall receive premium pay of seventy-five (.75c) cents per hour for eac hour worked before 6:00 A.M. and after 6:00 P.M. if the hours so worker are within their regular forty (40) hour work week.
7.0	4 Full time and part time employees shall work overtime as required bj the Employer. Reasonable notice shall be given as to overtime assignments
7.0	5 Full time employees hired after March 28, 1985, to work four (4) o more days per week on any shift starting between 12:00 P.M. and 3:30 P.M shall receive premium pay of one ($1.00) dollar per day.
7.0	6 Full Time employees hired or reclassified on or after June 21, 1998 shall receive premium pay of seventy-five (.75e) cents per hour for each hour worked before 5:00 A.M. and after 6:00 P.M. if the hours are worked within their regular forty (40) hour work week.
7.0	7 Full Time employees hired or reclassified after June 21, 1998 whose shift starts at 11:00 A.M. or later shall receive a premium of one ($1.00 dollar per shift premium from the first day of that shift.
7.0	8 The Employer, at its option, may schedule employees hired or converted to full-time on or after August 25, 2002 or presen full-time employees who volunteer to four (4) ten (10) hour shifts in a regular work week.
Full-time employees that volunteer for the four (4) ten (10) hour shifts schedule will be able to opt out provided they give the company a thirty (30) day advance notice.
All premiums currently paid will be paid.
Holidays and Compassionate Leave will be paid at ten hours for each day used.
Sick days. Personal days, and jury days will be drawn from the employees, accumulated bank of hours.
Department Heads are included in the four (4) day ten (10) hour straight-time program.
Employees on four (4) day, ten (10) hour straight-time shifts will be provided a fifteen (15) minute break before lunch and a twenty (20) minute break after lunch.
The Company has the right to discontinue this schedule at anytime. Employees affected will be given prior notice and will be scheduled for five (5) eight (8) hour days. Hours worked beyond ten (10) will be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) the employee's hourly wage. The introduction of this four (4) ten (10) hour day shift will not affect the
4
overtime provision for those full-time employees working the five (5) eight (8) hour shift.
Part Time Employees
7.0	9 Part time employees shall receive overtime pay at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) day.
7,10	Part time employees shall receive one and one-half (1 1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on their sixth (6th) day in a work week, excluding Sunday, provided that all other scheduled hours in the other five (5) days have been worked.
NIGHT CREW
7,11	Full time night crew clerks and chiefs shall receive ten (10%) Percent per week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage.
7.12	Part time employees who work on a night shift from 12:00 A.M. Midnight to 8:00 A.M. shall receive ten (10%) Percent per week above their regular applicable progression scale or wage.
7.13	An employee newly assigned to the night crew on or after March 28, 1988, shall receive a night shift premium of ten (10%) Percent of the employee's straight time rate of pay to a maximum of fifty ($50.00) dollars per week, which shall be in addition to the employee's straight lime rate of pay.
SUNDAY WORK
7.14	All employees shall receive double (2X) time their regular rate of pay for work performed on Sunday which shall not be considered part of the regular work week.
7.15	Full time employees hired on or after January 1, 1990, shall receive time and one half (1 1/2) their regular hourly rate of pay for work performed on Sunday, which shall not be considered part of the regular work week.
7.16	Part time employees hired on or after January 1, 1987, shall receive one and one half (I 1/2) times their regular hourly rate of pay for work performed on Sunday. Sunday shall not be considered as part of the regular work week.
7.17	Full time employees paid double time (2X) for Sunday work, if converted to part time status, shall continue to be paid double time (2X). Part time employees paid double time (2X) for Sunday work, if converted to full time status, shall continue to be paid double time (2X). Part time employees paid time and one half (1 1/2) for Sunday work if converted to full time status on or after March 28, 1988, shall continue to be paid time and one half (1 1/2). Full time employees hired on or after January 1, 1990, who shall be paid time and one half (1 1/2) for Sunday work, if converted to part time status, shall continue to be paid time and one half (1 1/2).
7.18	Effective January I, 1996 these Employees, full time or part time, who are receiving double time for work performed on Sunday shall receive a frozen premium rate which is equal to the hourly rate of pay they were earning as of January 1. 1996. In addition to this premium hourly rate they shall receive there regular hourly rate of pay for each hour of work performed on Sunday as their regular hourly rate increasing the frozen premium hourly rate shall remain the same, except that in the event of a reclassification from part time to full time, full time to part time department manager to full time or part time , full time to part time to department manager.
The frozen premium hourly rate will be equal to the hourly rate they are entitled to after reclassification to their regular hourly rate. Effective January I, 1996 the frozen premium hourly rate for a newly appointed 5
department head hired on or appointed on or after January I. 1996 shall be no less than $18.00 per hour in addition to their regular hourly rate for work performed on Sunday.
7.19	Employees shall not be required to work on Sunday. If the Employer is unable to staff a department on Sunday, employees shall be required to work in inverse order of seniority.
7.20	Full time and part lime employees shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on Sundays on a rotating basis by seniority when the store is open for business.
MINIMUM CALL-IN
7.21	Any full time employee who works on Sundays shall be scheduled for four (4) hours work, provided the store is open for such time and further provided the employee is available.
7.22	Any full time employee who works on a Holiday shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours, provided the store is open for such time and further provided the employee is available.
7.23	Full time and pan lime employees shall be given a reasonable opportunity to work on Holidays on a rotating basis, by seniority when the store is open for business.
7.24	Any full time night crew employee who works on Sundays or Holidays shall be scheduled for eight (8) hours work, provided the employee is available. However, night crew employees may be scheduled for four (4) hours on Sunday, provided the shift does-not begin prior to 5:00 A.M. If the shift begins prior to 5:00 A.M., the shift shall bedor eight (8) hours.
7.25	Night Crew - Sunday Schedules: - Any night crew employee who on a voluntary basis wishes to work less than eight (8) hours must sign a waiver giving up the right to the eight (8) hours of work on Sunday. In no event shall a night crew employee be scheduled for less than four (4) hours.
7.26	Any part time employee who works on Sundays or Holidays, shall be scheduled for four (4) hours work, provided the employee is available.
7.27	There shall be no split shifts.
7.28	There shall be no pyramiding or duplication of overtime and/or premium pay.
7.29	If the Employer is unable to staff the store on holidays, with volunteers, they shall have the right to schedule employees in the inverse order of seniority.
ARTICLES
WORK SCHEDULE
8.0	1 The Employer shall post a work schedule for all employees no later than 3:00 P.M. each Saturday for the following week. If an employee is off on Saturday, then this employee's schedule shall be posted no later than 3:00 P.M. each Friday. Changes may be made in this schedule in an emergency only with due notification to the Union.
6
ARTKL119
HQMDAXS
9.01 All full time employees hired on or before March 23. 1991 covered by this Agreement and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Year's Day Presidents Day Memorial Day Fourth of July
Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
9,02 All full time employees hired on or after March 24, 1991 and on or before June 18, 1994, covered by this Agreement and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Year's Day Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day
Presidential Election Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
In addition to the holidays listed in Article 9,02 above, full time employees hired on or after March 24, 1991 and on or before June 18, 1994 who have completed thirty (30) days employment prior to the annual date on which Presidents Day occurs, shall receive a personal holiday (eight (8) hours pay) in lieu of Presidents Day. Said personal holiday must be granted and taken prior to the end of each contract year.
9.03 Full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 shall, after ninety (90) days employment, receive one (1) personal day with pay and thereafter receive one (1) day for each succeeding three (3) month period for a total of four (4) days per contract year.
9.04 All full lime employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 covered by this agreement who have completed three (3) months of full time and who qualify, shall receive the following legal holidays with pay:
New Years Day Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day
Presidential Election Day (if registered voter) Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
In addition to the holidays listed in Article 9.04 above full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall receive after: one (1) year employment one (1) personal holiday plus their Birthday holiday.
After two (2) years employment one (1) additional personal holiday plus their anniversary of employment as a holiday.
After three (3) years employment three (3) additional personal holidays.
For employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 and who have worked three (3) months consecutively and who are reclassified from part time to full time and have President’s Day or a personal day in lieu of President's Day as a holiday. They shall receive only two (2) additional personal holidays upon completion of three (3) years of full time employment.
9.05 When one of the above holidays in 9.01, 9.02 and 9.04 above or 9.16, 9.17 and 9.19 below occurs on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday.
9.06 Full time employees who work on any of the above named legal holidays (as described in Article 8.01, 8.02 and 8.04 above) shall receive in addition to the holiday pay to which they are entitled, time and one half (1 1/2) their regular hourly rate for all hours worked on said holidays.
7
9.0	7 On Christmas Eve, one half of the full time crew shall be excused one (I) hour before the end of the shift and the other half of the full time crew shall be excused one (I) hour before the end of the shift for New Year’s Eve. This applies to those full time employees working on the aforementioned days. If the Employer decides to close one (I) hour earlier on any of the above days, that shall be the hour off.
9.0	8 If the store is open on New Year's Day, Easter Sunday, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day, the store will be staffed with volunteers, before requiring employees to work in the inverse order of seniority.
9.0	9 On those holidays when the store is not open for business, the entire night crew shall be given the option of working on the holiday at their straight time hourly rate as part of their regular work week. In that event, the night crew shall not be scheduled to work on the night of the holiday.
9.10	Personal holidays for all employees are to be assigned and taken or shall be paid for within thirty (30) days at the end of each contract year, provided that the employee is in the employ of the Employer at such time.
9.11	Only regular scheduled work days of the employee may be selected as personal holidays and only one (1) employee from a store shall be assigned a personal holiday on any one (1) day.
9.12	In assigning personal holidays, the Employer shall take into consideration, besides other factors, the convenience of the employee.
9.13	In order to qualify for holiday pay. full time employees shall work their regularly scheduled day before and their regularly scheduled day following the holiday and shall also work all their scheduled hours during the week in which the holiday occurs, unless such absence is excused by the Employer, which excuse shall not be unreasonably denied.
9.14	When a holiday occurs during the employee's vacation period, the employee's vacation shall be extended one (1) day, or at the option of the Employer, the employee shall receive eight (8) hours straight time pay in lieu of said holiday.
9.15	Should a regular full time employee's regularly scheduled day off fall on any of the above named holidays, said employee shall be granted another day off during the same week.
9.16	Part time employees hired on or before March 23, 1991 covered by this Agreement who have completed three (3) or more months of continuous employment with the Employer, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the following holidays:
New Year's Day	Labor Day
Presidents Day	Presidential Election Day
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Fourth of July	Christmas Day
9.17	Part time employees hired on or after March 24, 1991, on or before June 18, 1994 covered by this Agreement, who have completed three (3) or more months of continuous employment with the Employer, shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay based on their regular straight-time hourly wage rate for each of the following holidays:
New Year's Day	Presidential Election Day
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Fourth of July	Christmas Day
Labor Day
In addition to the holidays listed in Article 9.17 above, part time employees hired on or after March 24, 1991, who have completed three (3) months
8
nployment prior to the annua) date on which Presidents Day occurs, shall ceive a personal holiday (four (4) hours pay) in lieu of Presidents Day. id personal holiday must be granted and taken prior to the end of each ntract year.
18	In addition to the holidays set forth above, part time employees hired or before June 18, 1994 who have been in the employ of the Employer r six (6) consecutive months as regular part time employees shall be titled to one (1) personal day, namely, the employee's birthday and one ) additional personal holiday, namely, the employee's anniversary date of nployment. Said employees shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay ised on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for said holiday.
19	All part time Employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 covered by this greement who have completed four (4) or more months of continuous nployment with the employer shall receive four (4) hours holiday pay ised on their regular straight time hourly wage rate for each of the llowing holidays:
New Year's Day Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day
Presidential Election Day (If registered Voter) Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
i addition to the holidays listed in Article 9.19 above part time employees ired on or after June 19, 1994 shall receive After one (1) year employment ne (1) personal holiday. (Does not apply to any person receiving Presidents ay or a personal day in lieu of Presidents Day).
After two (2) years employment an additional personal holiday namely the employees birthday
After three (3) years employment an additional personal holiday namely the employees anniversary of employment.
20	The employee's birthday and anniversary holidays shall be assigned on he Monday following the week in which the birthday or anniversary ccurred except for holiday weeks, in which case said holidays shall be ssigned on the following Monday. Only one (1) employee from a store hall be assigned such holidays in any one (1) week.
21	Part time employees employed ninety (90) days, who work on any of he above named legal holidays (as described in Article 9.16, 9.17 or 9.19 bove) shall receive in addition to the holiday pay to which they are entitled, me and one half (1 1/2) their regular hourly rate for all hours worked on aid holidays.
22	To qualify for such holiday pay, regular part time employees shall work heir regularly scheduled day before and their regularly scheduled day oilowing the holiday and shall also work all their scheduled hours during he week in which the holiday occurs, unless such absence is excused by the Employer which excuse shall not be unreasonably denied.
),23 Any employee full time or part time hired on or before June,18, 1994 egardless of reclassification shall continue to receive as paid legal holidays he same paid legal holidays as they received prior to reclassification.
ARTICLE 10 VACATIONS
10.01 Regular full time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 who have completed twelve (12) consecutive months of full time employment hall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay - one (1) week of which is earned and may be taken after six (6) months.
9
10.02 Regular full time employees hired after June 19, 1994 who ha completed one (1) year of employment shall receive one (1) week vacati with pay. After two (2) years of employment two (2) weeks vacation wi pay-
10.03 Regular full time employees who have completed seven ( consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer, shall recei three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
10.04 Regular full time employees who have completed ten (1 consecutive years of full time employment with the Employer, shall recei four (4) weeks vacation with pay.
10.05 Regular full time employees who have completed twenty-five (2 consecutive years of full time employment shall receive five (5) wee vacation with pay.
10,06 All regular full time employees hired on or before June 18, 199 are eligible for one (I) weeks vacation shall be granted one (1) addition day of vacation with pay which may be granted at the time of their vacatio or at a time different from their vacation, or the employee may be paid on (1) additional day's pay in lieu thereof, at the discretion of the Employe All regular full time employees eligible for two (2) weeks vacation or mor shall be granted two (2) additional days vacation with pay which may b granted at the time of their vacation or at a time different from the vacation, or the employee may be paid two (2) .days pay in lieu thereof, a the discretion of the Employer.
10.07 Regular full time employees laid off by the Employer before th completion of their six (6) month qualifying period shall receive pro-rat vacation for each month of continuous service rendered except thos employees who have been discharged for good cause and/or hav voluntarily left their employment.
10.08 Regular full time employees resigning in good standing and wh have given proper notice, who have earned vacation weeks which have no been taken, will be paid for where six (6) month intervals have passed whe entitled to up to two (2) weeks vacation by virtue of length of service; fou (4) month intervals have passed when entitled to up to three (3) week vacation by virtue of length of service; and where three (3) month interval have passed when entitled to four (4) weeks vacation by virtue of length o service. Payment will include only for those full weeks that have thus been earned.
10.09 Regular part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 who have been continuously employed by the Employer for twelve (12 consecutive months or more and who have worked 800 hours or more during the year, shall be entitled to vacation as follows:
One (1) Year Two (2) Years Seven (7) Years Ten (10) Years Twenty-five (25) Years
Twenty five (25) hours Fifty (50) hours Seventy five (75) hours One hundred (100) hours One hundred & twenty five (125) Hours
10.10 Part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 who have completed two (2) years but less than four (4) years of part tine employment and who are reclassified to full time shall receive fifty (50) hours vacation until they are eligible to receive the full two weeks vacation as full time employees.
10,11 Regular part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 who have been continuosly employed by the employer for twelve (12)
10
nsecutive months or more and who have worked 800 hours or more .iring the year, shall be entitled to vacation as follows;
One (1) year
Two (2) years
Seven (7) years
Ten (10) years
Twenty-Five (25) years
Twenty (20) hours
Forty (40) hours
Seventy five (75) hours
One hundred (100) hours One hundred and twenty five (125) hours
112 Employees who do not meet the 800 hour requirement during the =ar, shall receive vacation based upon their total hours worked during the ear, divided by 52. For the purpose of computing "hours worked", all ours for which employees have been paid, including, but not limited to, oliday pay, vacation pay, sick leave pay, funeral leave, shall be included in aking such computation.
0.13 A part time employee with at least six (6) months continuous service rail receive a vacation entitlement on a pro-rata basis when permanently romoted to full time employment. Length of service for full time vacation ntitlement shall begin with the first (1st) day of full time employment.
0.14 Job classification premiums (excluding shift premiums) are to be eluded in vacation pay, for full time employees only. The Employer grees to issue separate checks for vacation pay.
0.15 The vacation benefits under this article shall not be payable to mployees discharged for good cause.
0.16 The Employer reserves the exclusive right to establish vacation ssignments. Such assignments, however, will be made with due onsideration for the seniority of the employee.
ARTICLE 11 INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE
1.01 Full time newly hired employees shall be given credit for a minimum f one (1) year's prior experience in the supermarket industry for the urpose of establishing the employee's wage rates only, provided that the xperience was earned within the preceding twelve (12) months and eclared on the employment application.
ARTICLE 12 RECLASSIFICATION
2.01 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall be placed n the part time new hire progression scale and shall be given credit for part me service on a two (2) month for one (1) month basis for the purpose of stablishing a wage rate. They shall receive the minimum part time rate for fter (30) days and in addition shall receive twenty (25c) cents for each six aonths (6) months of full time services to determine their part time rate, hereafter they shall receive twenty five (250 cents for each six months of art time services but in no event can they exceed the applicable top rate for art time clerks on payroll as of March 26, 1994.
2.02 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive ayment for earned and unused full time vacation. The employee shall eceive, after one (1) one year, part time vacation benefits based upon the mployee’s total length of service.
2.03 A full time employee who is reclassified to part time shall receive part me sick leave pro-rated for the balance of that sick leave year, based upon he employee’s total length of service. Thereafter, the employee shall eceive part time sick leave based upon the employee's total length of ervice.
II
12.04 A full time employee who is reclassified to pan time shall recei payment for earned and unused personal holidays.
12.05 Upon the reclassification of a full time employee to part time, t Employer shall make part time contributions on behalf of the employee the Welfare, Pension and Legal Funds, beginning the first (1st) day of t month following such reclassification.
ARTICLE 13 DISCHARGE
13.0	1 The Employer agrees not to discharge any employee who has bee continuously employed for a period of more than thirty (30) days, except f good cause.
13.0	2 Violation of Employer rules, incompetency, dishonesty, drinkin intoxicants during business hours, habitual absenteeism or latenes insubordination, mishandling of Employer property or funds, violation < Employer procedures for handling cash and/or receiving merchandis falsification of employment application, or any of them, shall be considere among, but not the only good causes justifying the discharge of a employee under this article.
ARTICLE 14 SENIORITY
14.0	1 Seniority shall be defined as continuous service within the bargainin unit of this Agreement and shall be controlling in the determination o layoff and recall. The Employer shall maintain separate seniority lists fo department heads (by department), classified positions, full time clerks, pa time clerks and porters. Layoff of all employees shall be made on the basi of seniority within each respective group as listed herein. Layoffs shall b made in the inverse order of seniority, and recall shall be made in the orde of seniority for a period of six (6) months only, and if employees are no recalled during the said six (6) month period, they shall thereafter b considered new employees if rehired.
14,0	2 There shall be four separate geographic areas for purposes of layoff
1.	Dutchess and Putnam Counties.
2.	Westchester County.
3.	New York City (5 Boroughs)
4.	Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
An employee may exercise his/her seniority over the least senior employe within his/her zone in his/her classification or the next lower classification provided the employee is capable to perform the work of the displace employee and is available to work the hours. If there is no less senio employee in the classification within his/her zone the employee maj exercise his/her seniority over the least senior employee in the next closes zone. In no event shall there be intermediate bumps. The new store intc which the employee bumps shall become his/her new home store for trave pay purposes.
14,03 Recalled employees shall have one (1) week after notice of recal within which to report for work, provided that they shall notify the Employer within forty-eight (48) hours after such notice that they wil return, and if they fail to return or to give such notice, they shall lose thei seniority.
14,04 Employees who are recalled from a layoff shall be reemployed at the same point in the progression rate range at which they were laid off, if at the time of their layoff they were in the progression rate range, otherwise, at the same salary they had been receiving prior to their layoff. Employees who
12
ave lost seniority, if rehired, shall be rehired as new employees at the ninimum of the progression rate range,
4.05 In the event of a store closing or layoff, the Employer will notify the Jnion two (2) weeks in advance, if possible, in writing, with a seniority list.
4,06 In the event the Employer closes a store, or stores, the layoff or ermination of employees covered by this Agreement occasioned thereby hall be accomplished on the basis of bargaining unit seniority in mployment.
4.07 In no event shall the closing of any store, or stores, owned and jperated by the Employer, nor any transfer by the Employer of any mployee from one store to another, in the bargaining unit, result in any loss Df seniority rights, except in the case of termination of employment as provided for in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15 TRANSFERS
15,01 The Employer shall have the right to transfer any of its employees Detween departments and/or stores as business may require.
15.02 Those employees who are transferred twenty (20) or more miles sach way shall be reimbursed at a rate of twenty-five (,25ft) cents per mile for every mile over twenty (20) miles in each direction. Tolls paid in case of ransfers shall be reimbursed regardless of mileage. In the event an employee is transferred by reason of a store closing, a general layoff, or a promotion, the transfer shall not be considered under this provision.
15.03 Those employees who are transferred more than fifteen (15) miles from their assigned stores, in cases of temporary transfers, shall receive two $2.00) dollars per day travel pay. Tolls paid in the case of temporary ransfers shall be reimbursed regardless of mileage. Temporary transfers shall be limited to a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
15.04 There shall be no travel pay if a transfer is voluntary.
15.05 The Employer will notify the Union and the employee in writing not ess than one (1) week (Full Time Employees) and three (3) days (Part Time Employees) prior to their being transferred. The Union shall be notified as soon as possible in the case of an emergency transfer.
ARTICLE 16 PROMOTIONS
16.01 Wherever possible, promotions shall be made by seniority, but the Employer shall have the final decision as to whether the employee should be promoted.
ARTICLE 17 MILITARY SERVICE
17,01 It is agreed that the Employer shall adhere to the reemployment provisions of the Military Service Act and any amendments thereto.
ARTICLE 18 JURYDUTY
18.01 Employees who have completed ninety (90) days of continuous service called for jury duty in a Court of Law, necessitating a loss of the employee's straight time scheduled working hours, shall be paid while on jury duty, less jury pay, not to exceed ten (10) working days in any contract year, (if Grand Jury, up to thirty (30) working days over the term of the Agreement). To be eligible for pay under this provision, the employee shall
13
present the jury service notice to the Employer at least seven (7) days befo the start of the term as a juror and shall present to the Employer a certifica of service showing dates, time of service and jury fees paid. Employee receiving jury duty pay from any other employer shall not be eligible t receive pay for jury duty under this Agreement.
18.02 Any employee called for jury duty, who, after having reporte for such jury duty is excused for the day after 1:00 P.M. shall not b required to report for work on that day.
18.03 When an employee on jury duty has served five (5) days during th week, he shall not be required to work on Saturday.
ARTICLE 19 SICK-LEAVE
19.0	1 All regular full time employees hired on or before March 23, 1991 shall after completing three (3) consecutive months of full time empioymen with the Employer, be eligible to receive in a calendar year, a maximum o ten (10) days sick leave with pay at their regular straight time rate of pay fo eight (8) hours for days they are absent from work due to illness.
19.0	2 Those employees hired on or before March 24, 1991, who are in th employ of the Employer in a regular full time capacity on the last day o each calendar year, and who have been employed in a regular full tim capacity for three (3) consecutive months or more during the calendar year shall be paid, on a pro-rata basis from their employment anniversary date for sick leave for which they were eligible during the said calendar year bu which they did not use. Such unused sick leave must be paid within thirty (30) days after the end of the calendar year
19.0	3 All regular full time employees hired on or after March 24, 1991 and on or before June 18, 1994, shall after completing three (3) consecutive months of full time employment with the Employer, be eligible to receive one (1) day paid sick leave (eight (8) hours payjfor each full month o employment, to a maximum of ten (10) days within the first calendar year of their employment. At the beginning of the second calendar year of their employment, all full time employees shall be entitled to the ten (10) days sick leave for each calendar year of their employment.
19.0	4 All regular full time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall after completing three (3) consecutive months of full time employment with the Employer be eligible to receive, one (I) day paid sick leave (eight (8) hours pay per day) for each full month of employment to a maximum of four (4) days in the first calendar year of their employment six (6) days sick leave (eight (8) hours pay per day) in the second calendar year of their employment and eight (8) days sick leave (eight (8) hours per day) in the third calendar year of their employment. After the completion of three (3) years employment ten (10) days sick leave (eight (8) hours pay per day) in each sick leave year.
19.0	5 At the end of each calendar year, full time employees shall be paid for any sick days which were earned and not taken, provided they are in the employ of the Employer in a full time capacity on the last day of each calendar year. Such unused sick leave must be paid within thirty (30) days after the completion of the calendar year.
19.0	6 Regular part time employees hired on or before June 18,1994 with one (1) year or more of continuous service, shall receive three (3) sick days in each calendar year starting with the first day of illness (four (4) hours per day, maximum twelve (12) hours per year).
19.0	7 Regular part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 with two (2) or more years of continuous service shall receive four (4) sick days
14
n each calendar year starting with the first (1st) day of illness (four (4) lours per day, maximum sixteen (16) hours per year),
9.08	Regular part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 with hree (3) or more years of continuous service shall receive five (5) sick days n each calendar year starting with the first (1st) day of illness (four (4) lours per day, maximum twenty (20) hours per year.)
9,09 Regular part time employees hired on or before June 18, 1994 with wo (2) or more consecutive years of service with the Employer, will receive iro-rata sick pay of their unused sick leave on the employee's next calendar ear. Thereafter such employees shall receive their unused sick leave at the nd of each calendar year.
9,10	Regular part time employees hired on or after June 19, 1994 shall eceive paid sick leave commencing with the first scheduled day's absence ue to illness on the following basis:
After one (1) year of continuous employment four (4) hours sick leave pay for each four (4) months of employment to a maximum of three (3) days, twelve (12) hours.
’ After two (2) years employment to a maximum of four (4) days sixteen hours.
After three (3) years employment five (5) sick days to a maximum of twenty (20) hours.
ay for unused sick leave at the end of three (3) years employment,
9.11	A part time employee who has completed three (3) months service at he time of reclassification, and who is promoted to a full time position, hall be eligible for full time sick leave benefits immediately upon the romotion. Such employee shall receive no payment for unused sick leave amed as a part time employee,
9.12	Any employee covered by this Agreement who falsifies sick leave or /ho knowingly tries to collect sick leave under false pretenses, shall be able to instant dismissal.
9.13	In the event of a permanent layoff, full time employees with six (6) r more consecutive months of service with the Employer will be paid fifty 50%) percent of their earned unused sick leave.
9.14	In order to be eligible for sick leave, all employees must notify the mployer of their inability to report to work no later than two (2) hours rior to their scheduled starting time on the first (1 st) day of absence, if ble, and as often as reasonably possible thereafter if such illness extends eyond one (1) day.
9.15	Employees injured on the job and unable to complete his or her day’s ork, shall be paid for the day, full time eight (8) hours, part time (4) hours.
9.16	A full time or part time employee, who retires from the Employer ith a pension from the Pension Fund, shall be paid on a pro rata basis for 1 sick leave for which the employee is eligible but did not use.
ARTICLE 20 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
D.01 Full Time and Part Time employees with more than one (1) year's rvice, requesting a leave of absence for reasons other than the employee's ness or injury, shall be given said leave of absence by the Employer at its le discretion, provided, however, that granting of such leave of absence all not be unreasonably withheld.
15
20.0	2 All requests for leave of absence shall be in writing and must tn submitted to the Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date o the commencement of the requested leave of absence. The employee sha be notified in writing with a copy to the Union if the requested leave i approved or denied. The notice shall specify the lime limit placed on a approved leave of absence. Advance written request for leave of absence i not necessary in case of family emergency. However, subsequent writte notice and request shall be given as soon as is reasonably possible.
20.0	3 A leave of absence granted by the Employer shall not constitute break in seniority but if the leave of absence exceeds three (3) months i duration, then service for purposes of progression increases, vacations an all other benefits required to be paid under this Agreement shall not b earned during said leaves.
20,04 The Employer shall make all contributions to all Funds required b this Agreement for any month in which the employee performs any work fo which monthly contributions are required before taking the leave and afte returning, but not for the months when no covered work is performed However, in the case of an employee's illness or injury, contributions fo Health and Welfare and Pension shall be made for a period not to excee three (3) months while the employee is absent from work.
20.05 An employee on an approved leave of absence will be automatical! terminated if:
(A)	. The employee does not return to work when the leave of absenc expires unless the Employer has agreed to an extension.
(B)	The employee works elsewhere while on leave without expres permission in writing from the Employer to be so employed.
20.06 An employee absent from work due to illness or injury shall retain hi seniority for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993
20.07 The Employer shall grant an employee a Family and Medical leave o absence under the act if qualified. The employer will determine eligibilit by the use of the rolling year.
ARTICLE-21
DEATH IN FAMILY
21,01 Regular full time employees, after thirty (30) days of employmen shall be entitled to three (3) days paid leave for all regularly scheduled wor days lost from the day of death in case of death in the immediate familj The "immediate family" is defined as the employee's parent, child, brothe sister, spouse or spouse's parent. Regular full time employees shall b entitled to one (1) day paid leave for a regularly scheduled work day lost t attend the funeral or memorial service of the employee's grandparen grandchild, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, nephew or niece.
21,02 Part time employees after thirty (30) days of employment shall b entitled to paid leave for the actual time lost, as set forth on the employee weekly work schedule, in case of death in the immediate family as provide for regular full time employees on a pro rata basis. Regular part tim employees shall be entitled to one (1) day paid leave, pro rated for the actus time lost on employee's regular work schedule, to attend the funeral o memorial service of the employee's grandparent or grandchild.
ARTICLE 22
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
22.01 Newlv hired employees, unless otherwise stated in the contrac provided, shall be on a thirty (30) day probationary period; such period sha
16
e extended by the number of working days on which the employee has not orked during said period. The Employer shall have the right to terminate le employment of any newly hired employee during said probationary eriod. The probationary period for new employees in new or remodeled tores shall be extended to sixty (60) days from date of employment.
2.02 Clerks promoted to a Department Head classification shall receive an ncrease of twenty ($20.00) dollars per week above the regular weekly wage or forty (40) hours, they were receiving at the time of such promotion or he difference between their then said regular weekly wage for forty (40) ours and the minimum wage for forty (40) hours then in effect in the department Head classification to which they have been promoted, vhichever is less. The increase shall be paid to such clerks during the robationary period of ninety (90) days, or until such probationary period is erminated by the Employer as herein provided, whichever first occurs. \fter the expiration of the ninety (90) days probationary period, (unless uch probationary period is terminated by the Employer, as herein rovided) the said clerks shall receive as their wage, the minimum regular veekly wage for the classification to which they have been promoted then n effect. In either of the two above instances, however, said increase shall ot be less than ten ($10.00) dollars above their previous regular weekly vage.
-2.03 At any time during the probationary period, the Employer shall have he right to terminate said probationary period and to revert and transfer the mployee in question to the status or classification in which they were prior o their promotion.
22.04 When an employee is newly hired in a Department Head classification, the Employer shall have the absolute right to terminate the employment of such employee at any time during the probationary period of ninety (90) days.
22.05 In the above instance, that is in the case of a promotion, or in the case of a newly hired employee, if the employee does not work continuously during such probationary period, the period shall be extended by the number of days which the employee has not worked during the probationary period.
22,06 Any temporary or relief department head who has been in that capacity for ninety (90) days or more within the previous twelve (12) months, shall not be required to sustain any additional trial periods upon being made a regular department head.
ARTICLEJ3 INDIVIDUAL AGREEMENTS
23,01 The Employer does hereby agree not to enter into any individual agreements with any of the employees covered hereunder which may conflict with, or modify any of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or to attempt or require any security of any sort from such employee.
ARTICLE 24
EMPLQYMENT-OF MINORS
24,01 The Employer does hereby agree not to employ any minors which shall constitute a violation of any provisions of the State or Federal statutes in such cases made and provided.
ARTICLE 25 ACCESS TO STORES
25.01 The Employer agrees to permit and authorize representatives of the Union to visit any of the Employer's places of business at any time during
17
normal working hours for the purpose of ascertaining whether th Agreement is being properly observed, provided that there shall be r interruption of, or interference with, the Employer's business.
ARTICLE 26
LAUNDRY AND EQUIPMENT
26.01 The Employer agrees to furnish to and for all employees covere herein, all aprons, uniforms, store coats and gowns and such tools and wor equipment as may be required by the Employer for the performances of a employee's duties,
ARTICLE 27
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
27.01 All disputes, differences or grievances arising out of th interpretation, application, breach or claim of breach of the provisions o this Agreement, shall be settled in the following manner:
(A)	Within two (2) calendar weeks of the occurrence of such dispute difference or grievance, authorized representatives of the Union and th Employer, shall in good faith, endeavor to adjust such dispute difference or grievance.
(B)	In the event that the matter is not adjusted in the above step, < representative of the Employer charged with the responsibility for labo relations and a duly designated representative of the Union shall attemp to adjust the same,
(C)	In the event the dispute, difference, or grievance still remain^ unadjusted after compliance with the above step, then such dispute difference, or grievance may be submitted to arbitration by either party not later than thirty (30) days after the occurrence to an arbitrator mutually selected by the parties or to the American Arbitration Association for its designation of an arbitrator, in accordance with its rules, to hear and determine the matter. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties. The expenses of the arbitration shall be borne equally between the parties.
(D)	The arbitrator shall not have the authority or power to arbitrate new provisions to this Agreement, or to arbitrate away either in whole or in part, any provision of this Agreement, nor shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, delete from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 28 NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS
28.01 There shall be no cessation of work, no strikes, no picketing, no slowdowns, no sitdowns or other interference with the operation of the Employer's business sanctioned by the Union, nor shall the Employer lock out for any cause whatsoever during the term of this Agreement.
28.02 The Union, by its officers, shall promptly make every effort to prevent and stop any cessation of work, strike, picketing, slowdown, sitdown or other interference with the operation of the Employer's business and shall order its members to return to work without delay.
28.03 An employee who engages in any such activity shall be subject to discipline, including termination by the Employer.
18
ARTICLED STQRESIGN.S
29.01 The Union shall furnish and the Employer shall display (he U.F.C.W. International Store Card in each of the Employer's stores, gratis, for the period of this Agreement. Such cards shall remain the property of the Union.
ART	ICLE 30 WELFARE PLAN
(A) Full-Time Employees
30.0	1 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $369.93 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
30.0	2 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective January 1, 2004 - $409.93 per month
Effective January I, 2005 - an additional payment of up to $35.00 per month for maintenance of benefits, if necessary
Effective January I. 2006 - an additional payment of up to $35.00 per month for maintenance of benefits, if necessary.
(B) Part Time Employees
30.03 The Employer agrees to contribute (he sum of $66.03 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund on behalf of each regular part time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed three (3) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. (The first of (he month following six (6) consecutive months of continuous employment on behalf of part time employees hired on or after June 21, 1998). Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month following the completion of such period.
30.04 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective January 1, 2004 - $84.53 per month
Effective January 1,2005 - an additional payment of up to $17.50 per month for maintenance of benefits, if necessary.
Effective January 1,2006 -an additional payment of up to $17.50 per month for maintenance of benefits, if necessary.
30.05 The amount of the monthly contributions to the UFCW Local 1500 Welfare Fund and the method of calculation, whereby a specific monthly sum is contributed for each class of employee, is a formula for providing gross income to the Fund and bears no relationship to the benefits provided.
ARTICLED PENSION PLAN
(A)	Full Time Employees
31.	01 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $ 155.00 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund on behalf of each regular full time
19
employee covered by the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (I st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
31.	02 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
January 1, 2004 - $204.60 per month
(B)	Part Time Employees
31.	03 The Employer agrees to contribute the sum of $51.67 per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Pension Fund, on behalf of each regular part time employee covered by the Agreement who has completed six (6) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of such period.
31.	04 Effective on the dates indicated, monthly contributions to provide such benefits as may be determined by the Trustees shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
January 1, 2004 - $68.19 Per Month
ARTICLE 32
LEGAL SERVICE PLAN
(A) Full Time Employees
32.01 The Employer agrees (o continue present contributions in the amount of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund on behalf of each regular full time employee covered under the Agreement who has completed thirty (30) days of service with the Employer. Such contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the calendar month next following the completion of thirty (30) days of such employment.
32.02 Effective on the date indicated below, monthly contributions to provide such benefits shall be in accordance with the following schedule: January 1, 2003 - $2.25 per month
32.03 Effective July 1,2003 and July 1,2004, and July 1, 2005 if necessary to maintain the present level of benefits, the monthly contribution as determined by the Trustees may be increased to an amount not to exceed $2.75 per month
(B) Part Time Employees
32.04 The Employer agrees to continue present contributions in the amount of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per month to the UFCW Local 1500 Legal Services Fund, on behalf of each regular part time employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of regular part time service with the Employer. Such contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month next following the completion of three (3) consecutive months of such employment.
Effective January 1. 2003 contributions on behalf of each part time employee covered by the Agreement will commence after the employee has completed six (6) months of service with the employer.
Contributions shall begin on the first (1st) day of the month following the completion of such period.
32.05 Effective on the date indicated below, monthly contributions to provide such benefits shall be in accordance with the following schedule: January 1,2003 - $2.25 per month
20
32.06 Effective July 1, 2003 and July 1, 2004, and July 1,2005 if necessary to maintain the present level of benefits, the monthly contribution as determined by the Trustees may be increased to an amount not to exceed $2.75 per month.
ARTICLE 33
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL FUNDS
33.01 There shall be no contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund for those employees working full time for the summer period of May 15th to September 15th, only, nor shall there be any change in part time contributions for part time employees working full time for the summer period only. Should such employees continue without interruption on a full time basis after the summer, the Employer shall pay as though there was no relief.
33.02 Contributions to the Welfare Fund, Pension Fund and Legal Services Fund shall be remitted by the Employer to the Fund's office on or before the twentieth (20th) day of each month.
33.03 Upon the failure of the Employer to make payment of any contribution within thirty (30) days of the date due, the Trustees shall be entitled at their sole option to take any action permitted by this Agreement, by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Funds or by law to collect said contribution, together with interest, liquidated damages as established by the Trustees, attorneys fees and court costs.
33,04 The Employer agrees that if it is delinquent in the payment of contributions to the Welfare Fund, to the extent that the Trustees have canceled the payment of benefits to said Employer's covered employees, the Employer will be responsible for all hospital, medical, surgical and other benefits that would have been paid by the Fund had the Employer's delinquency in making its contributions not resulted in the cancellation of any rights on the part of the Employer’s covered employees to receive any such benefits.
33.05 The Employer hereby accepts and ratifies the Agreements and Declarations of Trust, as amended from time to time, establishing the Funds as if they were set forth herein in full, and ratifies the designation of the Trustees thereunder. The Trustees have assumed ail responsibility for the administration of the Plans, and the Employer shall have no responsibility, except as herein provided.
33.06 The Employer shall make available to the Funds, any and all pertinent records of employees that the Funds may require to soundly and efficiently operate the Funds. The Trustees shall have the right to have the Employer's records audited by an accountant of the Funds' own choosing, at the Funds' expense.
33.07 In the event the Employer fails to make contribution or provide records as required herein, the Trustees may, despite any other provision of this Agreement, submit to arbitration any issue with regard to these provisions, before an arbitrator designated in accordance with the labor arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitrator shall, in the event a violation exists, make a finding and award, which shall direct payment to the Fund, including the costs of the arbitration, legal fees and audit expenses together with interest and liquidated damages as established by the Trustees.
33.08 Upon the written request of the Employer, the Trustees shall make annual financial reports to the Employer, which shall contain information relating to the application of the monies received and benefits paid by the Funds.
33.09 In the case of any employee’s illness or injury, contributions to the Welfare Fund and Pension Fund shall be made for a period not to exceed
21
three (3) months while (he employee is absent from work. In the case of an employee who is receiving Worker's Compensation benefits, contributions to the Welfare Fund shall also be made for the seventh (7th), eighth (8th) and ninth (9th) months of such absence.
33.10 The Employer shall make contributions to the Welfare Fund on behalf of each employee on family or medical leave under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), 29 U.S.A. S2601. et eq., for each month or partial month the employee is on such leave. The failure of an employee to return to work from such leave, within the meaning of 29 U.S.C. S2614 (c) (2), shall create no obligation on the part of the Union or the Welfare Fund to take any action to recover or to assist in the recovery of said contributions from said employee, nor will such failure to return to work relieve the Employer of its obligation to contribute to the Welfare Fund on behalf of said employee during the period specified in 29 U.S.C. S2614 (C)(1)
ARTICLE 34
SHOP STEWARDS
34.01 The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to have one (I) full time shop steward and one (1) part lime shop steward in each store.
34.02 The full time shop steward in each store shall not be transferred without prior notice to and discussion with the Union. ,
34.03 The Union will provide the Employer with a list of the'names of its authorized business representatives and shop stewards and will keep said list current.
34.04 The Employer will, with adequate notice, arrange for one (1) full time shop steward from each store to have the same scheduled day off once each year, with eight (8) hours pay, for the purpose of attending the Union's shop steward seminar.
34.05 Shop stewards shall not handle grievances and shall not interfere with the operation of the Employer's business, and shall not cause or engage directly or indirectly in any unauthorized strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or job actions.
ARTICLE 35 LIE DETECTOR TEST
35.01 Employees shall not be required to take lie detector tests.
ARTICLE 36
GROCERY MANAGERS SRS South (Staten Island, Bayshore and Uniondale) On Payroll March 30, 2002 shall receive the following base weekly wage rates:
Present	3/31/02 $30	3/30/03 $15	9/28/03 $15	3/28/04 $15	9/26/04 $10	3/27/05 $15	9/25/05 $15	2/26/06
$905								
& Over	$935	$950	$965	$980	$990	$1,005	$1,020	
$885	$915	$930	$945	$960	$970	$985	$1,000	$1,020
Minimum Weekly Wage Rates for Grocery Managers (SRS South) hired or appointed on or after March 31, 2002:
3/31/02	3/30/03	9/284)3	3/2X/CM	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	2/26/06
$905	$920	$935	$950	$960	$975	$990	$ t ,000
Department Heads- PRODUCE MANAGERS, FRONT END MANAGERS, DAIRY MANAGERS, NON-FOOD MANAGERS, Head Cashier, Frozen Food Mangers, Night Crew Chiefs who are receiving Dept.
22
Mgrs rate and BAKERY MANAGERS (SRS South) on payroll March 30, 2002, shall receive the following base weekly wage rates:
Present	3/31/02 $30	3/30/03 $15	9/28/03 $15	3/28/04 $15	9/26/04 $10	3/27/05 $15	9/25/05 $15
$900							
&Over	$930	$945	$960	$975	$985	$1,000	$1,015
$865	$895	$910	$925	$940	$950	$965	$980
2/26/06
$1,015
Minimum Weekly Wage Rates for Department Heads (SRS South) hired or appointed on or after March 31,2002:
3/31/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/2MM	9/2MM	3/27/05	9/25/05
$885	$900	$915	$930	$940	$955	$970
2M6
$980
Contract Extension Payout: AH Grocery Managers and Department Heads in SRS South on payroll as of August 29,2002 and remain on payroll as of March 25, 2006 shall receive a one (1) time contract extension payout of $650,00.
Department Heads- Grocery Manager. Produce Manager. Dairy Manager, Frozen Foods Manager. Front-End Manager, Head Cashier, Non-Foods Manager and Bakery Manager in SRS North on payroll as of September 21, 2002 the following base weekly wage rates:
Present	9/22/02	9/28/03	3/2 MM	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/06	8/20/06
	$30	$15	$15	$15	$10	$15	$15	
$900								
& Over	$930	$945	$960	$975	$985	$1,000	$1,015	
$865	$895	$910	$925	$940	$950	$965	$980	$1,015
Minimum weekly wage rates for Department Heads (SRS North) hired or appointed on or after September 22, 2002:
9/22/02	9/28/03	3/23/04	9/26/04
$885	$900	$915	$930
3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/06	8/20/06
$940	$955	$970	$980
Department Head Relief Premium:
An employee designated by the Employer to substitute for a department manager for five (5) days or more shall be paid as follows: Present full-time employees (SRS South only) who have relieved in the past will receive the difference between their weekly rate of pay and $865.00 per week. If employees that relieve make above $865.00 per week they shall receive a premium of $10.00 per week. New full-time employees, SRS North full-time employees and all present full-time employees that have never relieved before will receive the difference between their weekly rate of pay and $775.00 per week. Effective June 20.2004 this rate will increase to $825.00 per week. If employees that relieve make at or above these rates they shall receive a premium of $ 10.00 per week.
Effective June 21, 1998 Part Time employees who have never relieved a Department Manager prior to June 21. 1998 shall receive a minimum rate of $650.00 for five (5) days forty (40) hours for each week of relief.
WEEKLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL-TIME CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL March 30, 2002 (SRS South):
Full Time General Wage Increases (SRS South)
3/31/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/2 MM	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05
$30	$15	$10	$15	$10	$15	$10
Wage Progressions:
Present 3/31/02		9/22/02 3/30/03	9/28/03	3/2K/04	9/26/04 3/27/05 9/25/05			2/26/06
$820	$850	$865	$875	$890	$900	$915	$925	
$815	$845	$860	$870	$885	$895	5910	$920	$925
$810	$840	$855	$865	$880	$890	$905	$915	$925
$805	$835	$850	$860	$875	$885	$900	$910	$925
23
Present	3/31/02	5Z22ffl2 3Z.W03	9/28/03	3/2X/04	9/264)4	3/27/05	9/25/05	2/26/06
$800	$830	$845	$855	$870	$880	$895	$905	$925
$795	$825	$840	$850	$865	$875	$890	$900	$925
$790	$820	$835	$845	$860	$870	$885	$895	$900
$785	$815	$830	$840	$855	$865	$880	$890	$900
$780	$810	$825	$835	$850	$860	$875	$885	$900
$775	$805	$820	$830	$845	$855	$870	$880	$900
$770	$800	$815	$825	$840	$850	$865	$875	$880
$765	$795	$810	$820	$835	$845	$860	$870	$880
$760	$790	$805	$815	$830	$840	$855	$865	$880
$755	$785	$800	$810	$825	$835	$850	$860	$880
$750	$780	$795	$805	$820	$830	$845	$855	$880
$745	$775	$790	$800	$815	$825	$840	$850	$860
$740	$770	$785	$795	$810	$820	$835	$845	$860
$735	$765	$780	$790	$805	$815	$830	$840	$860
$730	$760	$775	$785	$800	$810	$825	$835	$860
$725	$755	$770	$780	$795	$805	$820	$830	$860
$720	$750	$765	$775	$790	$800	$815	$825	$840
$715	$745	$760	$770	$785	$795	$810	$820	$840
$710	$740	$755	$765	$780	$790	$805	$815	$840
$705	$735	$750	$760	$775	$785	$800	$810	$840
$700	$730	$745	$755	$770	$780	$795	$805	$840
$695	$725	$740	$750	$765	$775	$790	$800	$820
$690	$720	$735	$745	$760	$770	$785	$795	$820
$685	$715	$730	$740	$755	$765	$780	$790	$820
$680	$710	$725	$735	$750	$760	$775	$785	$820
$675	$705	$720	$730	$745	$755	$770	$780	$820
$670	$700	$715	$725	$740	$750	$765	$775	$800
$665	$695	$710	$720	$735	$745	$760	$770	$800
$660	$690	$705	$715	$730	$740	$755	$765	$800
$655	$685	$700	$710	$725	$735	$750	$760	$800
$650	$680	$695	$705	$720	$730	$745	$755	$800
$645	$675	$690	$700	$715	$725	$740	$750	$775
$640	$670	$685	$695	$710	$720	$735	$745	$775
$635	$665	$680	$690	$705	$715	$730	$740	$775
$630	$660	$675	$685	$700	$710	$725	$735	$775
$625	$655	$670	$680	$695	$705	$720	$730	$775
$620	$650	$665	$675	$690	$700	$715	$725	$750
$615	$645	$660	$670	$685	$695	$710	$720	$750
$610	$640	$655	$665	$680	$690	$705	$715	$750
$605	$635	$650	$660	$675	$685	$700	$710	$750
$600	$630	$645	$655	$670	$680	$695	$705	$750
$595	$625	$640	$650	$665	$675	$690	$700	$725
$590	$620	$635	$645	$660	$670	$685	$695	$725
$585	$615	$630	$640	$655	$665	$680	$690	$725
$580	$610	$625	$635	$650	$660	$675	$685	$725
$575	$605	$620	$630	$645	$655	$670	$680	$725
$570	$600	$615	$625	$640	$650	$665	$675	$700
$565	$595	$610	$620	$635	$645	$660	$670	$700
$560	$590	$605	$615	$630	$640	$655	$665	$700
$555	$585	$600	$610	$625	$635	$650	$660	$700
$550	$580	$595	$605	$620	$630	$645	$655	$700
$545	$575	$590	$600	$615	$625	$640	$650	$675
$540	$570	$585	$595	$610	$620	$635	$645	$675
$535	$565	$580	$590	$605	$615	$630	$640	$675
$530	$560	$575	$585	$600	$610	$625	$635	$675
$525	$555	$570	$580	$595	$605	$620	$630	$675
$520	$550	$565	$575	$590	$600	$615	$625	$650
$515	$545	$560	$570	$585	$595	$610	$620	$650
$510	$540	$555	$565	$580	$590	$605	$615	$650
$505	$535	$550	$560	$575	$585	$600	$610	$650
$500	$530	$545	$555	$570	$580	$595	$605	$650
$495	$525	$540	$550	$565	$575	$590	$600	$625
$490	$520	$535	$545	$560	$570	$585	$595	$625
$485	$515	$530	$540	$555	$565	$580	$590	$625
$480	$510	$525	$535	$550	$560	$575	$585	$625
$475	$505	$520	$530	$545	$555	$570	$580	$625
$470	$500	$515	$525	$540	$550	$565	$575	$600
$465	$495	$510	$520	$535	$545	$560	$570	$600
$460	$490	$505	$515	$530	$540	$555	$565	$600
24
Present	3/31/02	9/22/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/28/04	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	2/26/06
$455	$485		$500	$510	$525	$535	$550	$560	$600
$450	$480		$495	$505	$520	$530	$545	$555	$600
$445	$475		$490	$500	$515	$525	$540	$550	$575
$440	$470		$485	$495	$510	$520	$535	$545	$575
$435	$465		$480	$490	$505	$515	$530	$540	$575
$430	$460		$475	$485	$500	$510	$525	$540	$575
$425	$455		$470	$480	$495	$505	$520	$540	$575
$420	$450		$465	$475	$490	$500	$520	$540	$550
$415	$445		$460	$470	$485	$500	$520	$540	$550
$410	$440		$455	$465	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$405	$435		$450	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$400	$430		$445	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$395	$425		$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$390	$420		$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$385	$415	$420	$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$380	$410	$420	$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$375	$405	$420	$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
Or less									
Contract Extension Payout: All full-time clerks in SRS South on payroll as of August 29, 2002 and remain on payroll as of March 25, 2006 shall receive a one (1) lime contract extension payout of $650.00.
WEEKLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL-TIME CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL September 21, 2002 (SRS North):
	£ 9/22/02 $30	:ull Time General Wage Increases (SRS North)							
		9/28/03 3/28/04 9/26/04 3/27/05 9/25/05						3/26/06 $10	
		$15	$10	$15	$10	$15				
Wage Progressions:									
Present	9/22/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/28/04	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	: 3/26/06	8/20/06
$820	$850		$865	$875	$890	$900	$915	$925	
$815	$845		$860	$870	$885	$895	$910	$920	$925
$810	$840		$855	$865	$880	$890	$905	$915	$925
$805	$835		$850	$860	$875	$885	$900	$910	$925
$800	$830		$845	$855	$870	$880	$895	$905	$925
$795	$825		$840	$850	$865	$875	$890	$900	$925
$790	$820		$835	$845	$860	$870	$885	$895	$900
$785	$815		$830	$840	$855	$865	$880	$890	$900
$780	$810		$825	$835	$850	$860	$875	$885	$900
$775	$805		$820	$830	$845	$855	$870	$880	$900
$770	$800		$815	$825	$840	$850	$865	$875	$880
$765	$795		$810	$820	$835	$845	$860	$870	$880
$760	$790		$805	$815	$830	$840	$855	$865	$880
$755	$785		$800	$810	$825	$835	$850	$860	$880
$750	$780		$795	$805	$820	$830	$845	$855	$880
$745	$775		$790	$800	$815	$825	$840	$850	$860
$740	$770		$785	$795	$810	$820	$835	$845	$860
$735	$765		$780	$790	$805	$815	$830	$840	$860
$730	$760		$775	$785	$800	$810	$825	$835	$860
$725	$755		$770	$780	$795	$805	$820	$830	$860
$720	$750		$765	$775	$790	$800	$815	$825	$840
$715	$745		$760	$770	$785	$795	$810	$820	$840
$710	$740		$755	$765	$780	$790	$805	$815	$840
$705	$735		$750	$760	$775	$785	$800	$810	$840
$700	$730		$745	$755	$770	$780	$795	$805	$840
$695	$725		$740	$750	$765	$775	$790	$800	$820
$690	$720		$735	$745	$760	$770	$785	$795	$820
$685	$715		$730	$740	$755	$765	$780	$790	$820
$680	$710		$725	$735	$750	$760	$775	$785	$820
$675	$705		$720	$730	$745	$755	$770	$780	$820
$670	$700		$715	$725	$740	$750	$765	$775	$800
$665	$695		$710	$720	$735	$745	$760	$770	$800
$660	$690		$705	$715	$730	$740	$755	$765	$800
$655	$685		$700	$710	$725	$735	$750	$760	$800
$650	$680		$695	$705	$720	$730	$745	$755	$800
$645	$675		$690	$700	$715 15	$725	$740	$750	$775
Present	9/22/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/28/04	9/26AM	3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/06	8/205)6
$640	$670		$685	$695	$710	$720	$735	$745	$775
$635	$665		$680	$690	$705	$715	$730	$740	$775
$630	$660		$675	$685	$700	$710	$725	$735	$775
$625	$655		$670	$680	$695	$705	$720	$730	$775
$620	$650		$665	$675	$690	$700	$715	$725	$750
$615	$645		$660	$670	$685	$695	$710	$720	$750
$610	$640		$655	$665	$680	$690	$705	$715	$750
$605	$635		$650	$660	$675	$685	$700	$710	$750
$600	$630		$645	$655	$670	$680	$695	$705	$750
$595	$625		$640	$650	$665	$675	$690	$700	$725
$590	$620		$635	$645	$660	$670	$685	$695	$725
$585	$615		$630	$640	$655	$665	$680	$690	$725
$580	$610		$625	$635	$650	$660	$675	$685	$725
$575	$605		$620	$630	$645	$655	$670	$680	$725
$570	$600		$615	$625	$640	$650	$665	$675	$700
$565	$595		$610	$620	$635	$645	$660	$670	$700
$560	$590		$605	$615	$630	$640	$655	$665	$700
$555	$585		$600	$610	$625	$635	$650	$660	$700
$550	$580		$595	$605	$620	$630	$645	$655	$700
$545	$575		$590	$600	$615	$625	$640	$650	$675
$540	$570		$585	$595	$610	$620	$635	$645	$675
$535	$565		$580	$590	$605	$615	$630	$640	$675
$530	$560		$575	$585	$600	$610	$625	$635	$675
$525	$555		$570	$580	$595	$605	$620	$630	$675
$520	$550		$565	$575	$590	$600	$615	$625	$650
$515	$545		$560	$570	$585	$595	$610	$620	$650
$510	$540		$555	$565	$580	$590	$605	$615	$650
$505	$535		$550	$560	$575	$585	$600	$610	$650
$500	$530		$545	$555	$570	$580	$595	$605	$650
$495	$525		$540	$550	$565	S575	$590	$600	$625
$490	$520		$535	$545	$560	$570	$585	$595	$625
$485	$515		$530	$540	$555	$565	$580	$590	$625
$480	$510		$525	$535	$550	$560	$575	$585	$625
$475	$505		$520	$530	$545	$555	$570	$580	$625
$470	$500		$515	$525	$540	$550	$565	$575	$600
$465	$495		$510	$520	$535	$545	$560	$570	$600
$460	$490		$505	$515	$530	$540	$555	$565	$600
$455	$485		$500	$510	$525	$535	$550	$560	$600
$450	$480		$495	$505	$520	$530	$545	$555	$600
$445	$475		$490	$500	$515	$525	$540	$550	$575
$440	$470		$485	$495	$510	$520	$535	$545	$575
$435	$465		$480	$490	$505	$515	$530	$540	$575
$430	$460		$475	$485	$500	$510	$525	$540	$575
$425	$455		$470	$480	$495	$505	$520	$540	$575
$420	$450		$465	$475	$490	$500	$520	$540	$550
$415	$445		$460	$470	$485	$500	$520	$540	$550
$410	$440		$455	$465	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$405	$435		$450	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$400	$430		$445	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$395	$425		$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$390	$420		$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$385	$415	$420	$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$380	$410	$420	$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
$375	$405	$420	$440	$460	$480	$500	$520	$540	$550
Or less
WEEKLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL-TIME PORTERS ON THE PAYROLL March 21,2002 (SRS South)
Full-Time Porter General Wage Increases (SRS South)
3/31/02	9fUJ02	3/30/03	9/2W03	3/28/94	9/26AM	i(21Ki5	9/25/05
$20	$15	$10	$10	$10	$10	$10	$10
Wage Progressions:
Present	3/31/02	9/22/02	3/30/03	9/2JV03	3/2MM	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	2/26/06
$600	$620	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675	$685	$695
$595	$615	$630	$640	$650	$660	$670	$680	$690	$695
26
Present	3/31/02	5>/22A)2	3/30/03	9/284)3	3/28/04	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	2/26/06
$590	$610	$625	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675	$685	$695
$585	$605	$620	$630	$640	$650	$660	$670	$680	$695
$580	$600	$615	$625	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675	$695
$575	$595	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650	$660	$670	$675
$570	$590	$605	$615	$625	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675
$565	$585	$600	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650	$660	$675
$560	$580	$595	$605	$615	$625	$635	$645	$655	$675
$555	$575	$590	$600	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650	$675
$550	$570	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625	$635	$645	$650
$545	$565	$580	$590	$600	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650
$540	$560	$575	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625	$635	$650
$535	$555	$570	$580	$590	$600	$610	$620	$630	$650
$530	$550	$565	$575	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625	$650
$525	$545	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600	$610	$620	$625
$520	$540	$555	$565	$575	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625
$515	$535	$550	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600	$610	$625
$510	$530	$545	$555	$565	$575	$585	$595	$605	$625
$505	$525	$540	$550	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600	$625
$500	$520	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575	$585	$595	$600
$495	$515	$530	$540	$550	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600
$490	$510	$525	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575	$585	$600
$485	$505	$520	$530	$540	$550	$560	$570	$580	$600
$480	$500	$515	$525	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575	$600
$475	$495	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550	$560	$570	$575
$470	$490	$505	$515	$525	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575
$465	$485	$500	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550	$560	$575
$460	$480	$495	$505	$515	$525	$535	$545	$555	$575
$455	$475	$490	$500	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550	$575
$450	$470	$485	$495	$505	$515	$525	$535	$545	$550
$445	$465	$480	$490	$500	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550
$440	$460	$475	$485	$495	$505	$515	$525	$535	$550
$435	$455	$470	$480	$490	$500	$510	$520	$530	$550
$430	$450	$465	$475	$485	$495	$505	$515	$525	$550
$425	$445	$460	$470	$480	$490	$500	$510	$520	$550
Or less									
Contract Extension Payout: All full-time Porters in SRS South on payroll as of August 29, 2002 and remain on payroll as of March 25, 2006 shall receive a one (1) time contract extension payout of $650.00,
WEEKLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL-TIME PORTERS ON THE PAYROLL September 21, 2002 (SRS North)
Full Time Porter General Wage increases (SRS North)
9121m	3/30/03	SM	-V2W4	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/96
$20	$15	$10	$10	$10	$10	$10	$10
Wage Progressions:
Present	9/22/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/28/04	9/26/04 3/27/05		9/25/05	3/26/06	8/20/06
$600	$620	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675	$685	$695	
$595	$615	$630	$640	$650	$660	$670	$680	$690	$695
$590	$610	$625	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675	$685	$695
$585	$605	$620	$630	$640	$650	$660	$670	$680	$695
$580	$600	$615	$625	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675	$695
$575	$595	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650	$660	$670	$675
$570	$590	$605	$615	$625	$635	$645	$655	$665	$675
$565	$585	$600	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650	$660	$675
$560	$580	$595	$605	$615	$625	$635	$645	$655	$675
$555	$575	$590	$600	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650	$675
$550	$570	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625	$635	$645	$650
$545	$565	$580	$590	$600	$610	$620	$630	$640	$650
$540	$560	$575	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625	$635	$650
$535	$555	$570	$580	$590	$600	$610	$620	$630	$650
$530	$550	$565	$575	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625	$650
$525	$545	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600	$610	$620	$625
$520	$540	$555	$565	$575	$585	$595	$605	$615	$625
$515	$535	$550	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600	$610	$625
27
Present	9/22A>2	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/28/04	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/06	8/20/06
$510	$530	$545	$555	$565	$575	$585	$595	$605	$625
$505	$525	$540	$550	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600	$625
$500	$520	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575	$585	$595	$600
$495	$515	$530	$540	$550	$560	$570	$580	$590	$600
$490	$510	$525	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575	$585	$600
$485	$505	$520	$530	$540	$550	$560	$570	$580	$600
$480	$500	$515	$525	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575	$600
$475	$495	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550	$560	$570	$575
$470	$490	$505	$515	$525	$535	$545	$555	$565	$575
$465	$485	$500	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550	$560	$575
$460	$480	$495	$505	$515	$525	$535	$545	$555	$575
$455	$475	$490	$500	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550	$575
$450	$470	$485	$495	$505	$515	$525	$535	$545	$550
$445	$465	$480	$490	$500	$510	$520	$530	$540	$550
$440	$460	$475	$485	$495	$505	$515	$525	$535	$550
$435	$455	$470	$480	$490	$500	$510	$520	$530	$550
$430	$450	$465	$475	$485	$495	$505	$515	$525	$550
$425	$445	$460	$470	$480	$490	$500	$510	$520	$550
Or less									
WEEKLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES FOR FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME PHARMACISTS ON THE PAYROLL March 30, 2002 (SRS South):
EulECUP£-F’tETina£iSb
3/30/03	3/28/04	3/27/05
$80.00 Per Wk. $40.00 Per Wk. $40.00 Per Wk. $40.00 Per Wk.
Contract Extension Payout: All full-time Pharmacists in SRS South on payroll as of August 29, 2002 and remain on payroll as of March 25, 2006 shall receive a one (1) time contract extension payout of $650.00.
Part-Time Pharmacists
3Z31/02	3/30/03
$2.00 Per Hr.	$1.00 Per Hr.
3/28/04	3/27/05
$1.00 Per Hr. $1.00 Per Hr.
Contract Extension Payout: All part-time Pharmacists in SRS South on payroll as of August 29, 2002 and remain on payroll as of March 25, 2006 shall receive a one (1) time contract extension payout of $250.00.
MINIMUM WAGE RATES FOR FULLTIME PHARMACISTS - Hired on or after March 29, 1998:
3/31/02
$1240 Per Wk,
3/30/03
$1280.00 Per Wk.
3/28/04
$1320.00 Per Wk.
3A27/O5
$1360.00 Per Wk.
Any full lime Pharmacist hired at or above these minimum rates shall receive an increase of twenty dollars ($20) after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter shall receive the subsequent general wage increases provided for Pharmacists on payroll as of March 30, 2002.
MINIMUM WAGE RATES FOR PART TIME PHARMACISTS - HIRED ON OR AFTER MARCH 29, 1998:
m2	3/30/03	3/28/04	3/27/05
$32.75 Per Hr.	$33.75 Per Hr. $34.75 Per Hr. $35.75 Per Hr.
Any part time Pharmacists hired at or above these minimum rates shall receive fifty cents (.50^) per hour after thirty (30) days and thereafter shall receive the subsequent general wage increases for part time pharmacists on payroll as of March 30, 2002.
Supervising Pharmacist to receive a thirty dollar ($30.00) premium per week.
The Employer shall have the right to revise these rates upward, if the Employer believes this is necessary to meet competitive conditions.
28
HOURLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR PART-TIME CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL March 30, 2002 (SRS South):
Part Time Clerk General Wage Increases (SRS South)
3/31/02	3/30/03	9/28/03	3/2S/04	9/26AM	3/27/05	9/25/05
.50	.25	.15	.25	.15	.25	.25

3/31/02
$14.35 $14.30 $14.25
$14.20 $14.15 $14.10 $14.05 $14.00 $13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35
$13.30
9/22/02
Present $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80
$12.75 $13.25 $12.70 $13.20 $12.65 $13.15 $12.60 $13.10 $12.55 $13.05 $12.50 $13.00 $12.45 $12.95 $12.40 $12.90 $12.35 $12.85 $12.30 $12.80 $12.25 $12.75 $12.20 $12.70 $12.15 $12.65 $12.10 $12.60 $12.05 $12.55 $12.00 $12.50 $11.95 $12.45 $11.90 $12.40 $11.85 $12.35 $11.80 $12.30 $11.75 $12.25 $11.70 $12.20 $11.65 $12.15 $11.60 $12.10 $11.55 $12.05 $11.50 $12.00 $11.45 $11.95 $11.40 $11.90 $11.35 $11.85 $11.30 $11.80 $11.25 $11.75 $11.20 $11.70 $11.15 $11.65 $11.10 $11.60 $11.05 $11.55 $11.00 $11.50 $10.95 $11.45 $10.90 $11.40
■V30/03 9/28AL3 $14.60 $14.75 $14.55 $14.70 $14.50 $14.65 $14.45 $14.60 $14.40 $14.55 $14.35 $14.50 $14.30 $14.45 $14.25 $14.40 $14.20 $14.35 $14.15 $14.30 $14.10 $14.25 $14.05 $14.20 $14.00 $14.15 $13.95 $14.10 $13.90 $14.05 $13.85 $14.00 $13.80 $13.95 $13.75 $13.90 $13.70 $13.85 $13.65 $13.80 $13.60 $13.75 $13.55 $13.70 $13.50 $13.65 $13.45 $13.60 $13.40 $13.55 $13.35 $13.50 $13.30 $13.45 $13.25 $13.40 $13.20 $13.35 $13.15 $13.30 $13.10 $13.25 $13.05 $13.20 $13.00 $13.15 $12.95 $13.10 $12.90 $13.05 $12.85 $13.00 $12.80 $12.95 $12.75 $12.90 $12.70 $12.85 $12.65 $12.80 $12.60 $12.75 $12.55 $12.70 $12.50 $12.65 $12.45 $12.60 $12.40 $12.55 $12.35 $12.50 $12.30 $12.45 $12.25 $12.40 $12.20 $12.35 $12.15 $12.30 $12.10 $12.25 $12.05 $12.20 $12.00 $12.15 $11.95 $12.10 $11.90 $12.05 $11.85 $12.00 $11.80 $11.95 $11.75 $11.90 $11.70 $11.85 $11.65 $11.80
3/28AM $15.00 $14.95 $14.90 $14.85 $14.80 $14.75 $14.70 $14.65 $14.60 $14.55 $14.50 $14.45 $14.40 $14.35 $14.30 $14.25 $14.20 $14.15 $14.10 $14.05 $14,00 $13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05
$13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05
9/26/04 $15.15
$15.10 $15.05 $15.00 $14.95 $14.90 $14.85 $14.80 $14.75 $14.70 $14.65 $14.60 $14.55 $14.50 $14.45 $14.40 $14.35 $14.30 $14.25 $14.20 $14.15 $14.10 $14.05 $14.00 $13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45
$13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20
3/27/05 $15.40
$15.35 $15.30 $15.25
$15.20 $15.15
$15.10 $15.05
$15.00 $14.95
$14.90 $14.85
$14.80 $14.75 $14.70 $14,65
$14.60 $14.55
$14.50 $14.45
$14.40 $14.35
$14.30 $14.25 $14.20 $14.15
$14.10 $14.05
$14.00 $13,95
$13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75
$13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55
$13.50 $13.45
$13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25
$13.20 $13.15 $13.10
$13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90
$12.85 $12.80 $12.75
$12.70 $12,65 $12.60 $12.55
$12.50 $12,45
9/25705 $15.65
$15.60 $15.55
$15.50 $15.45
$15.40 $15.35 $15.30 $15.25 $15.20 $15.15 $15.10 $15.05 $15.00 $14.95 $14.90 $14.85 $14.80 $14.75 $14.70 $14.65
$14.60 $14.55
$14.50 $14.45
$14.40 $14.35 $14.30 $14.25 $14.20 $14.15 $14.10 $14.05 $14.00 $13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05
$13,00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85
$12.80 $12.75
$12.70
2/26/06
$15.65 $15.65 $15.65 $15.65 $15.65 $15.65 $15.50 $15.50 $15.50 $15.50 $15.50 $15.25 $15.25 $15.25 $15.25 $15.25 $15,00 $15.00 $15.00 $15.00 $15.00 $14.75 $14.75 $14.75 $14.75 $14.75 $14.50 $14.50 $14.50
$14.50 $14.50 $14.25 $14.25 $14.25 $14.25 $14.25 $14.00 $14.00 $14.00 $14.00 $14.00 $13.75 $13.75 $13.75 $13.75 $13.75 $13.50 $13.50 $13.50 $13.50 $13.50 $13.25 $13.25 $13.25 $13.25 $13.25 $13.00 $13.00
$13.00
29
Present 3/31/02
$10.85 $11.35 $10.80 $11.30 $10.75 $11.25 $10.70 $11.20 $10.65 $11.15 $10.55 $11.05 $10.50 $11.00 $10.45 $10.95 $10.40 $10.90 $10.35 $10.85 $10.30 $10.80 $10.25 $10.75 $10.20 $10.70 $10.15 $10.65 $10.10 $10.60 $10.05 $10.55 $10.00 $10.50 $9.95 $10.45 $9.90 $10.40 $9.85 $10.35 $9.80 $10.30 $9.75 $10.25 $9,70 $10.20 $9.65 $10.15 $9.60 $10.10 $9.55 $10.05 $9.50 $10.00 $9.45 $9.95 $9.40 $9.90 $9.35 $9.85 $9.30 $9.80 $9.25 $9.75 $9.20 $9.70 $9.15 $9.65 $9.10 $9.60 $9.05 $9.55 $9.00 $9.50 $8.95 $9.45 $8.90 $9,40 $8.85 $9.35 $8.80 $9.30 $8.75 $9.25 $8.70 $9.20 $8,65 $9.15 $8.60 $9.10 $8.55 $9.05 $8.50 $9.00 $8.45 $8,95 $8.40 $8.90 $8.35 $8.85 $8.30 $8.80 $8.25 $8.75 $8.20 $8.70 $8.15 $8.65 $8.10 $8.60 $8.05 $8.55 $8.00 $8.50 $7.95 $8.45 $7.90 $8,40 $7.85 $8.35 $7.80 $8.30 $7.75 $8.25 $7.70 $8.20 $7.65 $8.15 $7.60 $8.10 $7.55 $8.05 $7.50 $8.00 $7.45 $7.95 $7.40 $7.90
9/22/02 3/30/03
$11.60 $11.55 $11.50
$11.45 $11.40 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11.10 $11.05 $11.00 $10.95
$10.90 $10.85 $10.80
$10.75 $10.70
$10.65 $10.60 $10.55
$10.50 $10.45
$10.40 $10.35
$10.30 $10.25 $10.20
$10.15 $10,10
$10.05 $10.00 $9.95 $9.90 $9.85
$9.80 $9.75
$9.70 $9.65
$9.60 $9.55
$9.50 $9.45
$9.40 $9.35
$9.30 $9.25
$9.20 $9.15
$9.10 $9.05
$9.00 $8.95
$8.90 $8.85
$8,80 $8.75
$8.70 $8.65
$8.60 $8.55
$8.50 $8.45
$8.40 $8.35
$8.30 $8.25
$8.20 $8.15
9/28/03 3/28/04
$11.75 $12.00 $11.70 $11.95 $11.65 $11.90 $11.60 $11.85 $11.55 $11.80 $11.45 $11.70 $11.40 $11.65 $11.35 $11.60 $11.30 $11.55 $11.25 $11.50 $11.20 $11.45 $11.15 $11.40 $11.10 $11.35 $11.05 $11.30 $11.00 $11.25 $10.95 $11.20 $10.90 $11.15 $10.85 $11.10 $10.80 $11.05 $10.75 $11.00 $10.70 $10.95 $10.65 $10.90 $10.60 $10.85 $10.55 $10.80 $10.50 $10.75 $10.45 $10.70 $10.40 $10.65 $10.35 $10.60 $10.30 $10.55 $10.25 $10.50 $10.20 $10.45 $10.15 $10.40 $10.10 $10.35 $10.05 $10.30 $10.00 $10.25 $9.95 $10.20 $9.90 $10.15 $9.85 $10.10 $9.80 $10,05 $9.75 $10.00 $9.70 $9.95 $9.65 $9.90 $9.60 $9.85 $9.55 $9.80 $9.50 $9.75 $9.45 $9.70 $9.40 $9.65 $9.35 $9.60 $9.30 $9.55 $9.25 $9.50 $9.20 $9.45 $9.15 $9.40 $9.10 $9.35 $9.05 $9.30 $9.00 $9.25 $8.95 $9.20 $8.90 $9.15 $8.85 $9.10 $8.80 $9.05 $8.75 $9.00 $8.70 $8.95 $8.65 $8.90 $8.60 $8.85 $8.55 $8.80 $8.50 $8.75 $8.45 $8.70 $8.40 $8.65 $8.35 $8.60 $8.30 $8.55
9/26/0-4 3/27/05
$12.15 $12.40 $12.10 $12.35 $12.05 $12.30 $12.00 $12.25 $11.95 $12.20 $11.85 $12.10 $11.80 $12.05 $11.75 $12.00 $11.70 $11.95 $11.65 $11.90 $11.60 $11.85 $11.55 $11.80 $11.50 $11.75 $11.45 $11.70 $11.40 $11.65 $11.35 $11.60 $11.30 $11.55 $11.25 $11.50 $11.20 $11.45 $11.15 $11.40 $11.10 $11.35 $11.05 $11.30 $11.00 $11.25 $10.95 $11.20 $10.90 $11.15 $10.85 $11.10 $10,80 $11.05 $10.75 $11.00 $10.70 $10.95 $10.65 $10.90 $10.60 $10.85 $10.55 $10.80 $10.50 $10.75 $10.45 $10.70 $10.40 $10.65 $10.35 $10.60 $10.30 $10.55 $10,25 $10.50 $10.20 $10,45 $10.15 $10.40 $10.10 $10.35 $10.05 $10.30 $10,00 $10.25 $9.95 $10.20 $9.90 $10.15 $9.85 $10.10 $9.80 $10.05 $9.75 $10.00 $9.70 $9.95 $9.65 $9.90 $9.60 $9.85 $9.55 $9.80 $9.50 $9.75 $9.45 $9.70 $9.40 $9.65 $9.35 $9.60 $9.30 $9.55 $9.25 $9.50 $9.20 $9.45 $9.15 $9.40 $9.10 $9.35 $9.05 $9.30 $9.00 $9.25 $8,95 $9.20 $8.90 $9.15 $8.85 $9.10 $8.80 $9.05 $8.75 $9.00 $8.70 $8.95
9/25/05 2/26/06
$12.65 $13.00 $12.60 $13.00 $12.55 $12.75 $12.50 $12.75 $12.45 $12.75 $12.35 $12.75 $12.30 $12.50 $12.25 $12.50 $12.20 $12.50 $12.15 $12.50 $12.10 $12.50 $12.05 $12.25 $12.00 $12.25 $11.95 $12.25 $11.90 $12.25 $11.85 $12.25 $11.80 $12.00 $11.75 $12.00 $11.70 $12.00 $11.65 $12.00 $11.60 $12.00 $11.55 $11.75 $11.50 $11.75 $11.45 $11.75 $11.40 $11.75 $11.35 $11.75 $11.30 $11.50 $11.25 $11.50 $11.20 $11.50 $11.15 $11.50 $11.10 $11.50 $11.05 $11.25 $11.00 $11.25 $10.95 $11.25 $10.90 $11.25 $10.85 $11.25 $10.80 $11.00 $10.75 $11.00 $10,70 $11.00 $10.65 $11.00 $10.60 $11.00 $10.55 $10.75 $10.50 $10.75 $10.45 $10.75 $10,40 $10,75 $10.35 $10.75 $10.30 $10.50 $10.25 $10.50 $10.20 $10.50 $10.15 $10.50 $10.10 $10.50 $10.05 $10.25 $10.00 $10.25 $9.95 $10.25 $9.90 $10.25 $9.85 $10.25 $9.80 $10.00 $9.75 $10.00 $9.70 $10.00 $9,65 $10.00 $9.60 $10.00 $9.55 $9.75 $9.50 $9.75 $9.45 $9.75 $9.40 $9.75 $9.35 $9.75 $9.30 $9.50 $9.25 $9.50 $9.20 $9.50
30
Present	3/31/02	9/22/02	3/30/03	9/2S/03		9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	2776AX>
$7.35	$7.85		$8.10	$8.25	$8.50	$8.65	$8.90	$9.15	$9.50
$7.30	$7.80		$8.05	$8.20	$8.45	$8.60	$8.85	$9.10	$9.50
$7.25	$7.75		$8.00	$8.15	$8.40	$8.55	$8.80	$9.05	$9.25
$7.20	$7.70		$7.95	$8.10	$8.35	$8.50	$8.75	$9.00	$9.25
$7.15	$7.65		$7.90	$8.05	$8.30	$8.45	$8.70	$8.95	$9.25
$7.10	$7.60		$7.85	$8.00	$8.25	$8.40	$8.65	$8.90	$9.25
$7.05	$7.55		$7.80	$7.95	$8.20	$8.35	$8.60	$8.85	$9.25
$7.00	$7.50		$7.75	$7.90	$8.15	$8.30	$8.55	$8.80	$9.00
$6.95	$7.45		$7.70	$7.85	$8.10	$8.25	$8.50	$8.75	$9.00
$6.90	$7.40		$7.65	$7.80	$8.05	$8.20	$8.45	$8.70	$9.00
$6.85	$7.35		$7.60	$7.75	$8.00	$8.15	$8,40	$8.65	$9.00
$6.80	$7.30		$7.55	$7.70	$7.95	$8.10	$8.35	$8.60	$9.00
$6.75	$7.25		$7.50	$7.65	$7.90	$8.05	$8.30	$8.55	$8.75
$6.70	$7.20		$7.45	$7.60	$7.85	$8.00	$8.25	$8.50	$8.75
$6.65	$7.15		$7.40	$7.55	$7.80	$7.95	$8.20	$8.45	$8.75
$6.60	$7.10		$7.35	$7.50	$7.75	$7.90	$8.15	$8.40	$8.75
$6.55	$7.05		$7,30	$7.45	$7.70	$7.85	$8.10	$8.35	$8.75
$6.50	$7.00		$7.25	$7.40	$7.65	$7.80	$8.05	$8.30	$8.50
$6.45	$6.95		$7.20	$7.35	$7.60	$7.75	$8.00	$8.25	$8.50
$6.40	$6.90		$7.15	$7.30	$7.55	$7,70	$7.95	$8.20	$8.50
$6.35	$6.85		$7.10	$7.25	$7.50	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.30	$6.80		$7.05	$7.20	$7.45	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.25	$6.75		$7.00	$7.15	$7.40	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.20	$6,70	$6.75	$7.00	$7.15	$7.40	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.15	$6.65	$6,75	$7.00	$7.15	$7.40	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.10	$6.60	$6.75	$7.00	$7.15	$7.40	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.05	$6.55	$6.75	$7.00	$7.15	$7.40	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
$6.00	$6.50	$6,75	$7.00	$7.15	$7.40	$7.65	$7.90	$8.15	$8.50
Or less									
Contract Extension Payout: All pan-time Clerks in SRS South on payroll as of August 29, 2002 and remain on payroll as of March 25, 2006 shall receive a one (1) time contract extension payout of $250,00.
HOURLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES AND WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR PART-TIME CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL September 21, 2002 (SRS North):
Part Time Clerk General Wage Increases (SRS North)
9/22/02	9/28/03	3/28/04	9/2MM	3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/06
,50	,25	.15	.25	.15	.25	.25
Wage Progressions								
Present	9/22/02 3/30/03	9/28/03	3A28AM	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	3/26/06	8/20/06
$13.85	$14.35	$14.60	$14.75	$15.00	$15.15	$15.40	$15.65	
$13.80	$14.30	$14.55	$14.70	$14.95	$15.10	$15.35	$15.60	$15.65
$13.75	$14.25	$14.50	$14.65	$14.90	$15,05	$15.30	$15.55	$15.65
$13.70	$14.20	$14.45	$14.60	$14.85	$15.00	$15.25	$15.50	$15.65
$13.65	$14.15	$14,40	$14.55	$14.80	$14.95	$15.20	$15.45	$15.65
$13.60	$14.10	$14,35	$14.50	$14.75	$14.90	$15.15	$15.40	$15.65
$13.55	$14.05	$14.30	$14.45	$14.70	$14.85	$15.10	$15.35	$15.65
$13.50	$14.00	$14.25	$14,40	$14.65	$14.80	$15.05	$15.30	$15.50
$13.45	$13.95	$14.20	$14.35	$14.60	$14.75	$15.00	$15.25	$15.50
$13.40	$13.90	$14.15	$14.30	$14.55	$14.70	$14.95	$15.20	$15.50
$13.35	$13.85	$14.10	$14,25	$14.50	$14.65	$14.90	$15.15	$15.50
$13.30	$13.80	$14.05	$14.20	$14.45	$14.60	$14.85	$15.10	$15.50
$13.25	$13.75	$14.00	$14.15	$14.40	$14.55	$14.80	$15.05	$15.25
$13.20	$13.70	$13.95	$14,10	$14.35	$14.50	$14.75	$15.00	$15.25
$13.15	$13.65	$13.90	$14.05	$14.30	$14.45	$14.70	$14.95	$15.25
$13.10	$13.60	$13.85	$14.00	$14.25	$14.40	$14.65	$14.90	$15.25
$13.05	$13.55	$13.80	$13.95	$14.20	$14.35	$14.60	$14.85	$15.25
$13.00	$13.50	$13.75	$13.90	$14.15	$14.30	$14.55	$14.80	$15.00
$12.95	$13.45	$13.70	$13.85	$14.10	$14.25	$14.50	$14.75	$15.00
$12.90	$13.40	$13.65	$13.80	$14.05	$14.20	$14.45	$14.70	$15.00
$12.85	$13.35	$13.60	$13.75	$14.00	$14.15	$14,40	$14.65	$15.00
$12.80	$13.30	$13.55	$13.70	$13.95	$14.10	$14.35	$14.60	$15.00
$12.75	$13.25	$13.50	$13.65	$13.90	$14.05	$14.30	$14.55	$14.75
$12.70	$13.20	$13.45	$13.60	$13.85	$14.00	$14.25	$14.50	$14.75
31
Present 9/22A>2 3/30/03 9/24VO3
3/2H/04 9/26/CM 3/27A)5 9/25705 3/26/06 8/20/06
$12.65 $13.15 $12.60 $13.10 $12.55 $13.05 $12.50 $13.00 $12.45 $12.95 $12.40 $12.90 $12.35 $12.85 $12.30 $12.80 $12.25 $12.75 $12.20 $12.70 $12.15 $12.65 $12.10 $12.60 $12.05 $12,55 $12.00 $12.50 $11.95 $12.45 $11.90 $12.40 $11.85 $12.35 $11.80 $12.30 $11.75 $12.25 $11.70 $12.20 $11.65 $12.15 $11.60 $12.10 $11.55 $12.05 $11.50 $12.00 $11.45 $11.95 $11.40 $11.90 $11.35 $11.85 $11.30 $11.80 $11.25 $11.75 $11.20 $11.70 $11.15 $11.65 $11.10 $11.60 $11.05 $11.55 $11.00 $11.50 $10.95 $11.45 $10.90 $11.40 $10.85 $11.35 $10.80 $11.30 $10.75 $11.25 $10.70 $11.20 $10.65 $11.15 $10.60 $11.10 $10.55 $11.05 $10.50 $11.00 $10,45 $10.95 $10.40 $10.90 $10.35 $10.85 $10.30 $10.80 $10.25 $10.75 $10.20 $10.70 $10.15 $10.65 $10.10 $10.60 $10.05 $10.55 $10.00 $10.50 $9.95 $10.45 $9.90 $10.40 $9.85 $10.35 $9.80 $10.30 $9.75 $10.25 $9.70 $10.20 $9.65 $10.15 $9.60 $10.10 $9.55 $10.05 $9.50 $10.00 $9.45 $9.95 $9.40 $9.90 $9.35 $9.85 $9.30 $9.80 $9.25 $9.75
$13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13,20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05 $12.00 $11.95 $11.90 $11.85 $11.80 $11.75 $11.70 $11.65 $11.60 $11.55 $11.50 $11.45 $11.40 $11.35 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11,10 $11.05 $11.00 $10.95 $10,90 $10.85 $10.80 $10.75 $10.70 $10.65 $10.60 $10.55 $10.50 $10.45 $10.40 $10.35 $10.30 $10.25 $10.20 $10.15 $10.10 $10.05 $10.00
$13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05 $12.00 $11.95 $11.90 $11.85 $11.80 $11.75 $11.70 $11.65 $11.60 $11.55 $11.50 $11.45 $11.40 $11.35 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11.10 $11.05 $11.00 $10.95 $10.90 $10.85 $10.80 $10.75 $10.70 $10.65 $10.60 $10.55 $10.50 $10.45 $10.40 $10.35 $10.30 $10.25 $10.20 $10.15
$13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05 $12.00 $11.95 $11.90 $11.85 $11.80 $11.75 $11.70 $11.65 $11.60 $11.55 $11.50 $11.45 $11.40 $11.35 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11.10 $11.05 $11.00 $10.95 $10.90 $10.85 $10.80 $10.75 $10.70 $10,65 $10.60 $10.55 $10.50 $10.45 $10.40
$13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12,90 $12,85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05 $12.00 $11.95 $11.90 $11.85 $11.80 $11.75 $11.70 $11.65 $11.60 $11.55 $11.50 $11.45 $11.40 $11.35 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11.10 $11.05 $11.00 $10.95 $10.90 $10.85 $10.80 $10.75 $10.70 $10.65 $10.60 $10.55
$14.20 $14.15 $14.10 $14.05 $14.00 $13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13,70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05 $12.00 $11.95 $11,90 $11.85 $11.80 $11.75 $11.70 $11.65 $11.60 $11.55 $11.50 $11.45 $11.40 $11.35 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11.10 $11,05 $11.00 $10.95 $10.90 $10.85 $10.80
$14.45 $14.40 $14.35 $14.30 $14.25 $14.20 $14.15 $14.10 $14.05 $14.00 $13.95 $13.90 $13.85 $13.80 $13.75 $13.70 $13.65 $13.60 $13.55 $13.50 $13.45 $13.40 $13.35 $13.30 $13.25 $13.20 $13.15 $13.10 $13.05 $13.00 $12.95 $12.90 $12.85 $12.80 $12.75 $12.70 $12.65 $12.60 $12.55 $12.50 $12.45 $12.40 $12.35 $12.30 $12.25 $12.20 $12.15 $12.10 $12.05 $12.00 $11.95 $11.90 $11.85 $11.80 $11.75 $11.70 $11.65 $11.60 $11.55 $11.50 $11.45 $11.40 $11.35 $11.30 $11.25 $11.20 $11.15 $11.10 $11.05
$14.75 $14.75 $14.75 $14.50 $14.50 $14.50 $14.50 $14.50 $14.25 $14.25 $14.25 $14.25 $14.25 $14.00 $14.00 $14.00 $14,00 $14,00 $13.75 $13.75 $13.75 $13.75 $13.75 $13.50 $13.50 $13.50 $13.50 $13.50 $13.25 $13.25 $13.25 $13.25 $13.25 $13.00 $13.00 $13.00 $13.00 $13.00 $12.75 $12.75 $12.75 $12.75 $12.75 $12.50 $12.50 $12.50 $12.50 $12.50 $12.25 $12.25 $12.25 $12.25 $12.25 $12.00 $12.00 $12.00 $12.00 $12.00 $11.75 $11.75 $11.75 $11.75 $11.75 $11.50 $11.50 $11.50 $11.50 $11.50 $11.25
32
Present
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25
$8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05
$8.00
$7.95
$7.90
$7.85
$7,80
$7.75
$7.70
$7.65
$7.60
$7.55
$7.50
$7.45
$7.40
$7.35
$7.30
$7.25
$7.20
$7.15
$7.10
$7.05
$7.00
$6.95
$6.90
$6.85
$6.80
$6.75
$6.70
$6.65
$6.60
$6.55
$6.50
$6.45
$6.40
$6.35
$6.30
$6.25
$6.20
$6.15
$6.10
$6.05
$6.00 Or less
3/30/03
9/22/02
$9.70
$9.65
$9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40
$9.35
$9.30
$9.25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25
$8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05
$8.00
$7.95
$7.90
$7.85
$7.80
$7.75
$7.70
$7.65
$7.60
$7.55
$7.50
$7.45
$7.40
$7.35
$7.30
$7.25
$7.20
$7.15
$7.10
$7.05
$7.00
$6.95
$6.90
$6.85
$6.80
$6.75
$6.70
$6.65
$6.60
$6.55
$6.50
$6.75
$6.75
$6.75
$6.75
$6.75
9/28/03
$9.95 $9.90
$9.85
$9.80
$9.75
$9.70
$9.65
$9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40
$9.35
$9.30
$9,25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8,55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25
$8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05
$8.00
$7.95
$7.90
$7.85
$7.80
$7.75
$7.70
$7.65
$7.60
$7.55
$7.50
$7.45
$7.40
$7.35
$7.30
$7.25
$7.20
$7.15
$7.10
$7.05
$7.00
$7.00
$7.00
$7.00
$7.00
$7.00
3/28/04
$10.10 $10.05
$10.00
$9.95
$9.90
$9.85
$9.80
$9.75
$9.70
$9.65
$9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40
$9.35
$9.30
$9.25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25
$8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05
$8.00
$7.95
$7.90
$7.85
$7.80
$7.75
$7.70
$7.65
$7.60
$7.55
$7.50
$7.45
$7.40
$7.35
$7.30
$7.25
$7.20
$7.15
$7.15
$7.15
$7.15
$7.15
$7.15
9Z26AM
$10.35
$10.30 $10.25 $10.20 $10.15
$10.10
$10.05 $10.00 $9.95
$9.90
$9.85
$9.80
$9.75
$9.70
$9.65
$9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40
$9.35
$9.30
$9.25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25 $8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05 $8.00
$7.95
$7.90
$7.85
$7.80
$7.75
$7.70
$7.65
$7,60
$7.55
$7.50
$7.45
$7.40
$7.40
$7.40
$7.40
$7.40
$7.40
3Z27/05
$10.50
$10.45
$10.40
$10.35
$10.30
$10.25
$10.20
$10.15
$10.10
$10.05
$10.00
$9.95
$9.90
$9.85
$9.80
$9.75
$9.70
$9.65
$9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40
$9.35
$9.30
$9.25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25
$8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05
$8.00
$7.95
$7.90
$7.85
$7.80
$7.75
$7.70
$7.65
$7.65
$7.65
$7.65
$7.65
$7.65
$7.65
$7.65
9/25/05
$10.75 $10.70 $10.65
$10.60 $10.55
$10.50 $10.45 $10,40 $10.35 $10.30 $10.25
$10.20 $10.15 $10.10 $10.05 $10.00 $9.95
$9.90 $9.85
$9,80 $9.75
$9.70
$9.65 $9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40 $9.35
$9.30 $9.25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05 $9.00
$8.95
$8.90 $8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70 $8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50 $8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25 $8.20
$8.15
$8.10
$8.05
$8.00
$7.95
$7.90 $7.90
$7.90
$7.90
$7.90
$7.90 $7.90
$7.90
3/26/06
$11.00
$10.95
$10.90
$10.85
$10.80
$10.75
$10.70
$10.65
$10.60
$10.55
$10.50
$10.45
$10.40
$10.35
$10.30
$10.25
$10.20
$10.15
$10.10
$10.05
$10.00
$9.95
$9.90
$9.85
$9.80
$9.75
$9.70
$9.65
$9.60
$9.55
$9.50
$9.45
$9.40
$9.35
$9.30
$9.25
$9.20
$9.15
$9.10
$9.05
$9.00
$8.95
$8.90
$8.85
$8.80
$8.75
$8.70
$8.65
$8.60
$8.55
$8.50
$8.45
$8.40
$8.35
$8.30
$8.25
$8.20
$8.15
$8.15
$8.15
$8.15
$8.15
$8.15
$8.15
$8.15
8/20/06
$11.25
$11.25 $11.25
$11.25 $11.00
$11.00
$11.00 $11.00
$11.00 $10.75 $10.75 $10.75
$10.75
$10.75 $10.50
$10.50 $10.50
$10.50
$10.50
$10.25 $10.25
$10.25
$10.25 $10.25
$10.00
$10.00
$10.00 $10.00
$10.00 $9.75
$9.75
$9.75
$9.75
$9.75
$9.50
$9.50
$9.50
$9.50 $9.50
$9.25
$9.25
$9.25
$9.25
$9.25
$9.00
$9.00
$9.00
$9.00
$9.00
$8.75
$8.75
$8,75
$8.75
$8.75
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
$8.50
HOURLY ACROSS-THE-BOARD INCREASES FOR PART-TIME COURTESY CLERKS ON THE PAYROLL September 21,2002 (SRS North):
33
Duties of Courtesy Clerks: Will be limited to bugging, collecting shopping carts, cleaning around check stands, sweeping, replenishing bags, stocking magazines, candy and soda by check stands, displays by check stands and putting away overstock and throwbacks.
Part TUne-Courtesy Clerk General Wage Increases (SRS North) 9/224)2	9/28703	3/28704	9/26/04	3/27/05	9/25/05	3426/06	8/20/(16
.25	.10	.10	.10	.10	.10	.10	.15
WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME CLERKS
Hired on or after March 31, 2002 (SRS South) 3/31/02	6/?0/Q4
After Thirty Days	$395,00	$415.00
And will receive an additional increase of twenty ($20) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
Full time clerks hired on or after March 31,2002, shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum, or as a result of reclassification from full time to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on March 30, 2003, September 28, 2003, March 28. 2004, September 26. 2004, March 27. 2005 and September 25, 2005 if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks' rate of pay.
All new full time clerks hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) days rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase often ($10.00) dollars after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of twenty ($20) dollars after the completion of each six (6) months employment from date of hire.
WEEKLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME CLERKS
Hired on or after.September 22. 2002 (SRS North)
9/22/02	6/20/0-4
After Thirty Days	$395.00	$415,00
And will receive an additional increase of twenty dollars ($20) per week after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
Full time clerks hired on or after September 22, 2002. shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum, or as a result of reclassification from full time to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on September 28, 2003, March 28, 2004, September 26, 2004, March 27, 2005, September 25, 2005 and March 26, 2006, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks' rate of pay.
All new full time clerks hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) days rate, tn any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of ten ($10.00) dollars after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of twenty ($20) dollars after the completion of each six (6) months employment from date of hire.
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSION FOR PART TIME CLERKS
Hired on or after March 31.2002 (SRS South):
3/31/02	6/22/03	6/20/04
After Thirty Days $6.25	$6.50	$6.75
34
And will receive an additional increase of twenty five (.25(f) cents per hour after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from the date of hire.
Part time clerks hired on or after March 31, 2002. shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or as a result of reclassification from full time to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on March 30, 2003, September 28, 2003, March 28, 2004. September 26. 2004, March 27. 2005, and September 25, 2005, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks rate of pay.
All new pan time clerks hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of twenty five (.25e) cents per hour after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of twenty five (.250 cents after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSION FOR PART TIME CLERKS
Hjrgdjjn or after Sepiember.22.2002 (SRS North);
9/22/03	6/22/03	6/20/04
After Thirty Days $6.25	$6.50	$6.75
And will receive an additional increase of twenty five (25e) cents per hour after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from the date of hire.
Part time clerks hired on or after September 22, 2002, shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or as a result of reclassification from full time to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on September 28, 2003, March 28. 2004. September 26, 2004, March 27, 2005, September 25, 2005. and March 26, 2006, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top clerks rate of pay.
All new part time clerks hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of twenty five (.25<t) cents per hour after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of twenty five (,25tf) cents after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
WEEKLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME PORTERS
Hired on or after March 31. 2002 (SRS South)
3/31/02	6/20/04
After Thirty Days	$345.00	$365.00
And will receive an additional increase of fifteen ($15) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months employment from date of hire.
Full time porters hired on or after March 31, 2002, shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or as a result of reclassification from part time to full time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on September 22. 2002, March 30. 2003, September 28.2003, March 28,2004, September 26, 2004, March 27, 2005, and September 25, 2005, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top porters rate of pay.
All new porters hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) day rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of ten ($10.00) dollar after 35
thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of fifteen ($15.00) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire
WEEKLY WAGE PROGRESSIONS FOR FULL TIME PORTERS
Hired on or after September 22. 2002 (SRS North)
9/22/02	6/20/04
After Thirty Days	$345.00	$365.00
And will receive an additional increase of fifteen ($15) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months employment from date of hire.
Full time porters hired on or after September 22, 2002, shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or as a result of reclassification from part time to full time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on March 30, 2003, September 28, 2003, March 28, 2004, September 26. 2004, March 27, 2005, September 25, 2005 and March 26, 2006, if applicable, provided that in no event shall such employee exceed the top porters rate of pay.
All new porters hired at or above the minimum thirty (30) day rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of ten ($10.00) dollars after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of fifteen ($15.00) dollars per week after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSION FOR PART TIME COURTESY CLERKS
Hired on or after March 31, 2002 (SRS South):
3/31/02	6/22/03	6/20/04
After Thirty Days $5.75	$5.90	$6.05
And will receive an additional increase of fifteen (. 15?) cents per hour after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from the date of hire.
Part time courtesy clerks hired on or after March 31, 2002, shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or as a result of reclassification from full time to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on March 30, 2003, September 28, 2003, March 28, 2004. September 26. 2004, March 27, 2005 and September 25. 2005, if applicable.
All new part time courtesy clerks hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of fifteen (.15c) cents per hour after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of fifteen (. 15c) cents after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
HOURLY WAGE PROGRESSION FOR PART TIME COURTESY CLERKS
Hired on or after September 22. 2002 (SRS North):
9/22/03	6/22/03	6/20/04
After Thirty Days $5.75	$5.90	$6.05
And will receive an additional increase of fifteen (. 15c) cents per hour after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from the date of hire.
Part time courtesy clerks hired on or after September 22, 2002, shall not receive the general across-the-board wage increases. However, an employee
36
who reaches the top of the progression scale during the term of the Agreement as a result of having been hired above the minimum or as a result of reclassification from full lime to part time, shall be eligible to receive the across-the-board increases on September 28, 2003, March 28, 2004, September 26, 2004, March 27, 2005. September 25,2005. March 26, 2006 and August 20, 2006. if applicable.
All new part time courtesy clerks hired at or above the minimum rate, in any event, shall receive a minimum wage increase of fifteen (.15(C) cents per hour after thirty (30) days employment and thereafter they shall receive an additional increase of fifteen (.15e) cents after the completion of each six (6) months of employment from date of hire.
Duties of Courtesy Clerks: Will be limited to bagging, collecting shopping carts, cleaning around check stands, sweeping, replenishing bags, stocking magazines, candy and soda by check stands, displays by check stands and putting away overstock and throwbacks.
CLASSIFIED PREMIUMS - Per Week
Full time employees appointed as Full Time Head Courtesy, Full Time Scanner. Night Crew Chief*, and Bake Off Head Clerk shall receive a premium of fifteen ($15.00) dollars per week.
*(Employees in SRS South receiving Department Head rate shall continue to receive Department Head Rate and increases.)
Full time employees appointed as Head Floral Clerk, shall receive a premium of ten ($10.00) dollars per week.
An employee hired on or before March 23. 1991, designated by the Employer to substitute for the above classified employees for five (5) Days), or more, shall be paid the premium in addition to his or her wage rate.
In the event of an increase in the Federal or State Minimum Wage Rates, the thirty (30) day rate for newly hired part time employees shall be a minimum of twenty five (.25c) cents per hour above the new Federal or State Minimum Wage.
ARTICLE 37 SAVINGS
37.01 The parties hereto agree that should any article or subdivision of this Agreement be or become unlawful, invalid, ineffective or unenforceable by virtue of any acts, law or decisions of any established governmental agency or court, then any such article or subdivision shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any other article or subdivision thereof, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for its duration.
37
ARTICLE 38
TERM OF AGREEMENT
38.01 This Agreement shall be effective as of March 31, 2002 and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight, of September 23, 2006 and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the twenty-third (23rd) day of September, 2006 or any annual date of expiration thereafter, written notice by registered mail is given by either party to the other of a desire to amend or terminate this Agreement.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, they have affixed and signed signatures as the duly authorized and legal representatives of the Employer and the Union.
SHOP RITE
SUPERMARKETS INC.
U.F.C.W. LOCAL 1500
BY.
Kevin Mannix President
Lenny Salvo
Executive Vice President
38
ABC - Active Ballot Club
working men and women. ABC assists their campaigns and keeps them informed on the issues as organized labor sees them.
Today, there is a great need for labor to have a voice in political action. Help make sure our Union has that voice by joining ABC now.
Due to the many critical issues before Congress; state, city and local governments this year; it is important that we have sufficient funds to support our friends and defeat those candidates who do not support the working man and woman. We encourage all members to participate in the Active Ballot Club as a means of protecting our interests in the various governmental bodies and in the laws they pass that may affect our livelihoods.
If you haven’t already signed up, see your Union Representative or Service Representative. Sign up today!
Members employed by companies where there is no check-off will be able to purchase their ABC Membership Cards from their Union Representatives or shop stewards in the normal maimer.
Contributions of gifts to the
UFCW Active Ballot Club are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal tax purposes.
Be Informed!!!
www.UFCWI 500. rg
a VOICE for working America
LOCAL 1500
THE WEINGARTEN DECISION: KNOW YOUR RIGHTS!
In a court case known as N.L.R.B. Vs. Weingarten the U.S. Supreme Court ruled you have the right t< have your Union Representative present when yoi are interviewed by your employer, if you reasonably believe the interview may lead to disciplinary action.
YOUR RIGHTS UNDER WEINGARTEN ARE
1.	You have the right to request the presence of t Union Representative or Shop Steward during an; investigatory interview you reasonably believe migh result in disciplinary action.
2.	You have the right not to be interviewed until you Union Representative or Shop Steward is present.
3.	Your Union Representative or Shop Steward ma; assist you during the interview to organize ant explain your facts.
REMEMBER WEINGARTEN BEFORE YOU GIVE UP YOUR RIGHTS!
Fraternally, Frank Meehan, President
MEMBERS CAN CALL LOCAL 1500 REGARDING ANY MATTER 24 HOURS A DAY
800-522-0456

3m 4/04