
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 2006 JANITORS AGREEMENT April 10, 2006 through April 5, 2009 INDEX	(?o&
ARTICLES/PAGE I 1 Bargaining Unit	
II 1 Union Membership, Employer Rights and Check off III	2	Discharge and Discipline IV	3	Wages	
V	4	Most Favored Employer Clause	, VI	4	Workweek VII	6	Holidays	
VIII	8.	Vacations IX	9	Termination-Vacation Accrual-Final Paycheck X	9	Funeral Leave XI	9	Working Conditions XII	11 . Veterans' Rights XIII	11 Health and Welfare Funds	
XIV	13 Pension Plan XV	14 Health and Welfare - Pension Delinquencies	
XVf	15	Seniority XVII	16	Leaves of Absence XVIII	16 ; Strikes, Lockouts, Pickets XIX	17 Grievance Procedure and Arbitration XX	18	Joint Committee on Safety and Security XXI	19	Janitorial Contractors XXII	19	Multi-Purpose Buildings XXIII	20	Union Activities in Buildings XXIV	20	Election to Adopt or Withdraw from Contract XXV	20	Jury Service XXVI	20	Miscellaneous Provisions XXVII	21	Duration-Reopening LETTER OF	22 AGREEMENT SCHEDULES "A"	23 Member buildings	
J3-
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT BUILDING OWNERSAND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO
AND
BUILDING SERVICE DIVISION, SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1 JANITORIAL EMPLOYEES
April 10, 2006 through April 5,2009
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into by BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO, (thereafter designated as the '’Association'*) on behalf of such of its member buildings as are listed in Schedule "A" attached hereto, and BUILDING SERVICE DIVISION, SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1, (hereafter designated as the "Union”) covers wages, hours and working conditions for janitorial employees and working supervisors who are now or may hereafter be represented by said Union (hereafter designated as "employees") and who are now or may be employed by such members of the Association as now are or who may hereafter become parties hereto (hereafter designated as "Employers").
ARTICLE I	BARGAINING UNIT
The Employers recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive representative of the janitorial employees and working supervisors employed in the buildings which are now or may hereafter be covered by this agreement. Employers and employees shall not bargain independently of the Union with respect to wages, hours of employment or working conditions as provided in this Agreement; the right to bargain on behalf of all such employees is vested solely in the Union. All bargaining unit work, which the Employer controls, and which is performed within a building which is covered by this Agreement, shall be performed solely by employees within the bargaining unit set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE II	UNION MEMBERSHIP, EMPLOYER RIGHTS AND CHECK OFF
Section 1.	The right to employ and discharge for just cause shall be vested solely in the Employer. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as stipulating the number of employees to be employed by any building or as restricting the right of the Employer to adjust employee work assignments and/or reduce the working force to reflect changes in cleaning specifications and occupancy within the building and/or to accomplish legitimate operating efficiencies; provided, however, that the Employer shall not reduce the number of employees without prior written 10 day notice to the Union. If the Union believes that the changes or adjustments have resulted in the imposition of unreasonable work loads upon employees, it may file a grievance which shall be processed in accordance with Article XIX of this Agreement.
Section 2.	The Employer agrees not to discriminate against members of the Union nor to engage in unfair labor practices. On and after the thirty-first day following the execution of this Agreement, all employees who are then members of the Union, shall as a condition of employment, remain members of the Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement. All present employees who are not members of the Union and all employees employed after the date of this Agreement by employers covered by this Agreement shall, within 31 days after the date of their employment or the execution of this Agreement, whichever is the later, become members of the Union (unless they are already members) and all such employees shall, as a condition of their employment, remain members of the Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement. The term member or members in good standing shall be
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
limited to the payment of the initiation fees and dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership and shall be a financial obligation only.
Section 3.	The Employer agrees to deduct in the first month of each quarter, (and prior to the 20th day of such month) from the pay of every employee, who has executed and caused to be delivered to the Employer a written assignment, the regular quarterly dues and the initiation fee of the Union, if due and owing, which are necessary to keep such employee as a member in good standing in accordance with the Constitution and Bylaws of the Union, as certified to the Employer by the Union. Where the employee, who is on check off, has insufficient earnings during the first month of the quarter, the deductions shall be made by the employer from the next wage payment in accordance with billings furnished by the Union.
The Employer will submit such sums in total to the Secretary-Treasurer of Local 1 no later'than ten (10) days after such deduction was made. Where the employee, who is on check-off, has insufficient earnings during the first pay period in the month, the deductions shall be made by the Employer from the next wage payment in accordance with billings furnished by the Union. With each monthly check-off record, the Employer shall give the names, social security numbers and starting dates of all employees of the Employer who performed janitorial services in the building during the preceding month including, where known, their status as temporary, extra, substitute, or regular employees.
The Employer agrees that such deductions shall constitute Trust Funds and will be forwarded by the Employer to the Union within ten (10) days after such deduction is made. Any employer who, without a bona fide reason, intentionally fails to remit such deductions within thirty (30) days on two (2) occasions within any twelve (12) month period shall, in the event of any subsequent failure, be required to pay in addition to the delinquent amount, interest at the rate of two percent (2%) per month thereon, and liquidated damages at the rate of five percent (5%) per month thereon, as well as all costs incurred by the Union in recovering such delinquent amounts, including attorney and auditor fees and court costs.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability incurred by reason of such deductions.
Section 4. The Employer shall discharge an employee for non-payment of Union initiation fees or dues within ten (10) days after the Employer's receipt of written notice from the Union that such employee is not in good standing. Said notice shall state that the employee has previously been given fifteen (15) days’ written notice: (a) of the delinquency; (b) the amount and method of computation thereof; (c) that the employee is not in good standing; and (d) that discharge will result at the end of said fifteen (15) day period unless all arrears are paid. The Union will indemnify, defend and hold the Employer harmless against all liability, damages, claims and costs incurred by the Employer, including but not limited to court costs, judgments and attorney fees and expenses, by reason of the Employer’s compliance with this Section. The Union reserves the right, at its option and at its own expense, to appear and defend all such claims whenever suit is brought against the Employer. Employee protests of discharge for alleged non-payment of Union initiation fees or dues will not be subject to the grievance procedure or arbitration.
ARTICLE III	DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
Section 1.	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, no employee may be discharged, suspended, disciplined or otherwise penalized without just cause. The Employer agrees that all discipline should be progressive, absent compelling circumstances warranting immediate termination or acceleration of disciplinary penalties.
Section 2.	In cases where the Employer believes that an employee’s job performance has become
2
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
unsatisfactory, such as when an employee is believed to be careless or excessively absent or tardy, the Employer will notify the Union, in writing, of such belief and die Union and the Employer shall cooperate in investigating the matters and taking corrective measures, if warranted. If the Employer contemplates severe disciplinary action beyond a reprimand, then the Employer will notify the Union in writing of such belief and the Union will promptly acknowledge, in writing, receipt of such notice. The Union need not acknowledge receipt of simple warnings or reprimands in which the Employer does not state that severe disciplinary action is contemplated. No warnings or reprimands shall be considered for purposes of disciplinary action after twenty-four (24) months from the date of the warning or reprimand.
ARTICLE IV	WAGES
Section 1.
(a)	Employees covered by this Agreement who were employed by the Employer as of April 10, 2002 shall receive the following pay rates during the term of this Agreement:
For the period April 10, 2006 through April 8, 2007 - $13.80 per hour.
For the period April 9,2007 through April 6,2008 - $14.20 per hour. For the period April 7, 2008 through April 5,2009 - $14.55 per hour.
Employees who, as of the above effective dates, were receiving pay rates in excess of those provided by the previous agreement between the parties or this Agreement shall be entitled to receive the full amount of the hourly increases included in the above rates.
(b)	All other employees covered by this Agreement shall receive not less than the following rates of pay during the term of this Agreement:
During their 1st year of employment - $3.40 below the rate in paragraph (a) During their 2nd year of employment - $2.90 below the rate in paragraph (a) During their 3rd year of employment - $2.40 below the rate in paragraph (a) During their 4th year of employment - $1.90 below the rate in paragraph (a)
After completion of their 4th year of employment, such employees shall receive the full rate of pay set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c)	The Employer agrees that it shall not attempt to effectuate wage cost reductions by discharging employees covered by paragraph (a) in order to hire replacements covered by paragraph (b). Accordingly, the total number of employees in any building receiving pay rates pursuant to paragraph (b) shall not be increased as the result of the discharge of employees pursuant to Article III, Section 2.
Section 2.
(a)	There shall be a premium of fifty cents ($0.50) per hour paid when the following work is performed:
High level work - 12 feet and over from floor level
Furniture crating and uncrating Removal of tile affixed to floor Moving and storing of construction equipment and material Exterior metal refinishing - after one hour in one day - from first hour of work Loading and unloading of trucks and dock labor - after two hours in one day - from first hour of work
Moving furniture - after two hours in one day - from first hour of work
3
BOMA/CHICAGO -LOCAL 1-2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
Hand shoveling of snow
(b)	Demolition and the initial cleanup in connection therewith shall be at a rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular hourly rate.
(c)	Where an employee performs work described by this section for twenty (20) minutes or less per day, there shall be no adjustment in pay. Except as specifically provided herein, employees who perform work described by this Section for more than twenty (20) minutes in a day, shall be guaranteed appropriate pay therefore for a minimum of two (2) hours. No reassignment or change in duties being performed can be made for the purpose of downgrading an employee..
Section 3.	WORKING SUPERVISORS Working supervisors shall be paid the greater of (1) the hourly rate of the highest paid employee they supervise or their own job rate, if higher, plus the cents per hour they were over scale under the prior agreement; or (2) a minimum of twenty cents ($0.20) per hour above their own job rate, or twenty cents ($0.20) per hour above the hourly rate of the highest paid employee they supervise, whichever is higher. Salaried working supervisors are entitled to corresponding differentials.
Section 4.	CALL IN PAY An employee not scheduled to work on a Saturday or Sunday who is called in to work shall be given at least four (4) hours of work.
Section 5.	PAY PERIOD Employees shall be paid at their job location not less often than every two (2) weeks.
ARTICLE V	“MOST FAVORED EMPLOYER” CLAUSE
If, following execution of this Agreement, the Union enters into or remains a party to any collective bargaining agreement, written or oral, with another employer or group of employers employing employees in commercial office buildings in the Chicago central area (defined as the area West of Lake Michigan bounded by and including Roosevelt Road, Racine Avenue, and North Avenue) which provides for wage rates or economic fringe benefits (such as, but not limited to, health and welfare, pensions, holidays or vacations) which are more favorable to such employer than the corresponding provisions of this Agreement, the parties to this Agreement will promptly amend this Agreement to incorporate such more favorable provisions. The Union agrees to file with the Association a copy of each written and summary of each oral collective bargaining agreement it enters into with any other employer or group of employers employing employees in commercial office buildings in the above described Chicago central area within thirty (30) calendar days following the consummation of said agreements. If the Union believes that special circumstances exist, it may request that the Association’s Labor Committee waive the application of this Article in whole or in part as it would otherwise apply to an agreement with another employer or group of employers, and the Labor Committee shall have the authority, at its sole discretion, to grant or deny such requests.
ARTICLE VI	WORKWEEK
Section 1. The workweek for employees shall be from 35 to 40 hours to be worked in five consecutive days. An employee whose workweek is between 35 and 40 hours as of the effective date of this Agreement shall continue to maintain such workweek.
Section 2.	The workday (or night) shall not exceed one (1) hour in excess of actual working time.
Section 3.	The Employer guarantees thirty-five (35) hours of work to regularly employed employees
4
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
who are ready, willing and able to work such hours; provided, however, that Employers maintaining regular work weeks between 35 and 40 hours as of the effective date of this Agreement may continue to maintain such work weeks.
Section 4.	All work in excess of forty (40) hours in one workweek or all work in excess of the regular weekly schedule of the employees shall constitute overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate.
Section 5.	If an employee is required to work beyond his or her regularly scheduled hours in any day, he or she shall not be required to take compensative time off unless otherwise agreed to by the Employer and the Union, and he or she shall .be paid for the extra time, except that overtime payment is not required unless the employee’s total of work hours in that workweek is more than forty (40) hours, or in excess of the regular weekly schedule of the employee.
Section 6.	The Employer shall not unreasonably demand work in excess of regularly scheduled hours of any employee and the refusal of an employee to work more than twenty (20) hours of such excess time in any month shall not constitute grounds for discharge of such employee.
Section 7.	With the consent of the Union, the Employer may use a six day week, Monday through Saturday.
Section 8.	For the term of this Agreement, the presently scheduled hours of individual employees shall not be reduced without the written consent of the Union, but employees presently working more than forty (40) hours may, at the election of the Employer, be reduced to forty (40) hours per week.
Section 9.	All work done on Sunday shall be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate.
Section 10.	Overtime work shall be distributed equitably among employees able and qualified to perform the needed overtime work.
5
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1-2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
ARTICLE VII HOLIDAYS
Section 1.
The following days shall be observed as holidays for all employees except trainees during their first ninety (90) days of employment .
New Year’s Day	Mon, 1/1/07	Tues, 1/1/08	Thu, 1/1/09 :
Memorial Day	Mon, 5/29/06	Mon, 5/28/07	Mon, 5/26/08
Fourth of July	Tues, 7/4/06	Wed, 7/4/07	Fri, 7/4/08
Labor Day	Mon, 9/4/06	Mon, 9/3/07	Mon, 9/1/08
Thanksgiving Day	Thu, 11/23/06	Thu, 11/22/07	Thu, 11/27/08
Day after Thanksgiving Day or such other day		as may be mutually acceptable to the Employer	
and the Union Yz Day Christmas Eve*	(a)	Mon, 12/24/07	Wed, 12/24/08
Christmas Day	Mon, 12/25/06	Tues, 12/25/07	Thu, 12/25/08
!/z Day New Year’s Eve*	(b)		Mon, 12/31/07	Wed 12/31/08
Either Martin Luther King’s Birthday, Presidents’ Day, Lincoln’s Birthday, Good Friday^ or such other day as may be mutually acceptable to the Employer and the Union
* In lieu of Yz holidays on Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve, the Employer may elect to schedule full day holidays for some or all of its bargaining unit employees on Christmas Eve or on New Year’s Eve.
(a)	The Employer may designate any combination of the following dates as the Christmas Day and Christmas Eve holidays for some or all of its bargaining unit employees:
Christmas Dav	Christmas Eve
Monday, December 25,2006	Friday, December 22, 2006
Monday, December 25, 2006	Saturday, December 23,2006
Monday, December 25, 2006	Sunday, December 24, 2006
(b)	The Employer may designate any combination of the following dates as the New Year’s Day and
New Year’s Eve holidays for some or all of its bargaining unit employees:
New Year’s Dav	New Year’s Eve
Monday, January 1, 2007	Friday, December 29, 2006
Monday, January 1, 2007	Saturday, December 30,2006
Monday, January 1, 2007	Sunday, December 31, 2006
Each employee covered by this Agreement who has completed one (1) or more full years of service with the Employer shall, in each year of employment, receive two (2) personal holidays, one on a day mutually acceptable to the Employer and the employee, and the other on the employee's birthday or another day needed by the employee provided the employee has notified the Employer of the employee's need to be absent from work at least four (4) hours in advance of the employee's scheduled starting time.
Section 2.	Each regular employee shall be credited with the normal number of hours at straight time in his or her shift on each of such holidays and, in the case of those holidays which fall on what would have been the employee’s regular workday, such time shall be credited as time worked in computing overtime.
6
BOMA/CHICAGO-LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
Section 3.	When a holiday falls on an employee’s day off, he or she shall be credited with eight (8) hours at straight time (four (4) hours in the case of one-half day holidays). For employees who regularly work less than forty (40) hours per week, the credited hours shall be the number of hours of the employee’s regular daily shift, excluding Saturdays or short hour shifts; one-half that number in the case of one-half day holidays.
Section 4.	Employees required to work on holidays shall be paid extra for such hours worked at one and one-half times their regular hourly rate, in addition to the holiday pay, The Employer may schedule regular night shifts either at the beginning or end (but not both) of a calendar day designated as a holiday. Employees working on one of these regular shifts will not be considered to be working on a holiday even if some of the hours worked happen to fall on the calendar day of the holiday. Night shift employees working a regular night shift which is at the beginning of the calendar holiday will be deemed to celebrate their holiday at the end of that day, and vice versa.
Section 5.	To be eligible to receive holiday pay, the employee must have been employed by the Employer for at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the holiday and worked all of his or her scheduled hours on the employee’s last scheduled work day before and the employee’s next scheduled work day following the holiday, provided that tardiness of up to one hour or leaving work early (with the approval of the Employer) on either of such days shall not disqualify the employee from receiving holiday pay. Employees on approved leaves of absence or layoff who are otherwise eligible to receive holiday pay shall, upon their return to work, receive holiday pay for holidays occurring within ninety (90) days following their last previous day worked. Employees substituting for employees on approved leaves of absence shall not be eligible to receive holiday pay for the first ninety (90) days of said leaves of absence.
Section 6.	Any employee who habitually takes an extra day off in connection with the holidays provides for in this Article for reasons obviously not justified, shall be subject to a warning or reprimand, and thereafter to progressive discipline by the Employer.
Section 7.	The Union will, through its usual forms of communication and its stewards, urge all employee’s to provide the Employer with not less than two (2) calendar week’s advance notice of the date upon which the employee’s birthday falls.
Section 8.	If a regular pay day falls on a holiday, employees shall be paid on the day before the holiday and paychecks shall be dated accordingly.
ARTICLE VIII VACATIONS
Section 1. Regular employees who have been in the service of any building continuously for:
One year,	shall be given an annual vacation of	one week with pay;
Two years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	two weeks with pay;
Six years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	two weeks and one day with pay;
Seven years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	two weeks and two days with pay;
Eight years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	two weeks and three days with pay;
Nine years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	two weeks and four days with pay;
Ten years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	three weeks with pay;
Eighteen years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	four weeks with pay,
Twenty-five years,	shall be given an annual vacation of	five weeks with pay.
Section 2. An additional day’s vacation (or ‘/a day in the case of one-half day holidays) shall be
7
BOMA/CHICA GO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL A GREEMENT
allowed an employee whose vacation period includes one of the holidays listed in this Agreement.
Section 3, Service shall be deemed continuous notwithstanding leaves of absence for sickness, maternity or other reasons agreed to by the Employer.
Section 4.	A week’s vacation shall be computed upon the employee's regularly scheduled weekly hours of work for the fifty-two (52) weeks preceding his or her vacation. If an employee has worked less than fifty-two (52) weeks, such vacation shall be based upon the scheduled hours during the total number of weeks the employee has worked.
Section 5.	Vacation accrual shall be given to a regular employee so long as such employee is earned on the payroll of the Employer (even though no compensation is paid). No. vacation accrual is to be credited to a temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee; provided, however that any temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee who has been employed either by the Employer or by the janitorial contractor performing bargaining unit work for the Employer for more than twelve (12) consecutive months shall be eligible to receive vacation benefits. Vacation accrual for such temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee begins only at such time as the regular employee is dropped from the payroll or after twelve (12) consecutive months of employment by the Employer or by the janitorial contractor performing bargaining unit work for the Employer, whichever occurs first. An employee who is absent for 180 days or more shall not be eligible for paid vacation until he/she has returned to active employment for at least 90 days, unless the employee is permanently disabled.
Section 6. Vacation rights of employees shall not be affected by a change of ownership or management of the building so long as they remain in the employ of the new owners, or managers. Any employee employed by a contractor whose employment is terminated by reason of change of contractors during the employee’s first year of employment in a building and who is retained in the same building by the new contractor shall, upon completion of his or her full first year of employment in the building, be entitled to a full vacation with pay from the new contractor, less any vacation pay which may have been received by the employee from the displaced contractor.
Section 7.	For vacation scheduling purposes, an employee shall receive his or her vacation in accordance with seniority and in keeping with the normal vacation scheduling of the building or at such other time as may be mutually acceptable to the Employer and the employee.
Section 8.	Vacation checks shall be paid to the employee no later than the last scheduled day of work before the beginning of the employee’s scheduled vacation.
Section 9.	Each regular employee shall be credited with the normal number of hours at straight time in his or her shift on each of such vacation days and, in the case of those vacation days which fall on what would have been the employee’s regular workday, such time shall be credited as time worked in computing overtime.
Employees required to work on scheduled vacation day(s) shall be paid for hours worked on such day(s) at one and one-half times their regular hourly rate in addition to vacation pay; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply if the Employer and employee agree to reschedule the previously scheduled vacation day(s).
ARTICLE IX	TERMINATION-VACATION ACCRUAL-FINAL PAYCHECK
Section 1.	Any employee who has been in the service of an Employer for more than one year and
8
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
whose employment is terminated for any reason, shall be compensated on a pro rata basis, taking into account the employee’s accrued vacation, if any, and the period worked since the first or anniversary date of employment compared with the vacation to which the employee would be entitled if the employee worked the entire year.
Section 2.	Any employee shall receive his or her final paycheck in full at the time of separation, if possible, but in any case within five (5) days or at the next regular payday, whichever comes first.
ARTICLE X	FUNERAL LEAVE
The Employer agrees to pay employees covered by this Agreement for necessary absence on account of death in the immediate family, up to and including a maximum of three (3) scheduled workdays at straight time, provided the employee attends the funeral.
The term “immediate family" shall mean: current spouse, parent, step parent, child, step child, brother, sister, current father-in-law and mother-in-law, grandparent or grandchild. In the event the employee is unable to attend the funeral, the employee shall be allowed one day at straight time. One day’s pay at straight time shall be given on account of death of an employee’s current brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law. At the request of the Employer, the Employee shall furnish a death certificate or other acceptable verification of death and proof of relationship acceptable to the Employer.
ARTICLE XI	WORKING CONDITIONS
Section 1.	If uniforms are required, it is agreed that the Employers shall, at their own expense, furnish and maintain them. The employees on their part agree to take good care of such uniforms and to wear them only in the course of their duties during working hours and during lunch time. The Employer shall furnish rubbers to employees whose duties regularly require them to walk in water. If uniforms are furnished by the Employer, the Employer shall also furnish appropriate outdoor garments for snow removal or other outdoor work.
Section 2.	The Employers shall provide a clean, sanitary locker room area and lockers, with washing facilities, soap and towels. Each building shall provide and maintain an adequate first aid kit in the office of the building or some other central location.
Section 3.	The Employer shall furnish cleaning supplies in sufficient quantity and maintain all equipment in such state of repair as is required to perform the work assigned.
Section 4.	The Employers shall maintain comfortable working conditions and reasonable temperatures for all employees, including night crews in sealed buildings. The employer shall operate such heating and air conditioning equipment and/or fans, under its control, in order to maintain comfortable working temperatures in a manner consistent with the foregoing provision. Adequate lighting shall be provided in public areas to allow employees access to the areas they are to service.
Section 5.	It is agreed that there shall be no limitation on the type of work now being performed by any employee in a member office building.
Section 6.	Each employee shall be entitled to twenty (20) minutes of paid, nonworking time per day which shall be taken in two rest periods.
Section 7.	The Employer shall not impose an unreasonable workload upon any employee or add on
9
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
any duties over a reasonable work load. In the event an employee is absent the remaining employees may be temporarily assigned to do part of the work assignments of the absent employees but they shall not be expected to perform their regular full work loads and the extra work.. Employees shall.not be directed to do part of the work assignments of the absent employees unless and until they have first been instructed, in writing (and if reasonably practicable, in Spanish and/or Polish), as to what portions of their regular work assignment shall not be done in order to do the extra work. Copies of these instructions shill be provided to the steward and the building manager. If the instruction is not given in writing or if copies thereof are not provided to the steward, any discipline imposed upon employees for failure to perform the extra work shall be rescinded. The Employer shall either hire a temporary replacement or assign relief coverage (other than regularly-assigned cleaning employees) to perform the duties of any regularly-assigned general cleaning employee whose recurring job responsibilities cannot be postponed and who is absent for more than five (5) consecutive working days; provided, that in those buildings with regular, night general cleaning staffs of 40 or more employees, the Employer shall hire temporary, replacements or assign relief coverage if more than 20% or 12 employees (whichever is less) of the regularly-assigned night general cleaning staff employees are off due to previously scheduled absences;
Section 8.	No employee shall be required to perform any work under abnormally dangerous conditions, and a failure to perform work under such circumstances, shall not be considered a cause for discharge or discipline.
Section 9.	It is agreed that janitorial personnel will perform all traditional janitorial work which consists of general cleaning in and around the buildings.
It is recognized that certain tasks performed by janitorial personnel require added physical exertion, strength or dexterity. These tasks are as follows:
Heavy cleanup in connection with construction, painting and repair
Heavy trash removal
Furniture polishing
Metal polishing
High dusting with ladders
Hosing and sweeping of exterior sidewalks
Dismantling and cleaning of light fixtures
Operation of floor-type interior and exterior power machines, industrial-type vacuum cleaners, and wet pickup machines
Sweeping and dry mopping of public corridors outside of normal general cleaning assignment Washroom sanitation - hand scrubbing, hands and knees - (refers to washrooms outside of normal, general cleaning assignment) Washing drapes
Cleaning Venetian blinds (other than dusting)
Wet mopping - over 16 ounce mop
Low ladder work
Sustained washing and polishing of walls or ceilings
Marble maintenance, exclusive of washing
Interior metal refinishing
Operation of incinerators, balers and compactors
Removal of old carpeting
Janitorial personnel who have heretofore been performing routine Janitorial functions shall not be assigned to the foregoing duties or to the duties described in Article IV, Section 2, except on an emergency basis. Provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to restrict or
10
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
change existing building practices regarding assignment of janitorial personnel.
Section 10.	The Employer shall not require medical approval because of short term illness or disability up to and including five (5) working days, provided however, that when an employee is chronically absent, the Employer may require such medical approval.
ARTICLE XII	VETERANS’RIGHTS
The reemployment rights of employees, who are now or may later be in military service and the duties of the Employer in relation to them, shall be governed by the applicable provisions of Federal and State laws.
ARTICLE XIII	HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS
Section 1. For the period April 10, 2006 through June 30,2007, the Employer shall contribute $377.85 (three hundred seventy-seven dollars and eighty-five cents) each month on behalf of each employee on its active payroll to the Local 25 S.E.I.U. Welfare fund; provided, however, that the Employers’ contributions shall be prorated for those months in which employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article XVII, Sections 1 and 2 and Section 5 of this Article, respectively.
Section 2. For the period July 1,2007 through June 30,2008, the Employer shall contribute the amount of $386.52 (three hundred eighty-six dollars and fifty-two cents) each month on behalf of each employee on its active payroll to the Local 25 S.E.I.U. Welfare Fund; provided, however, that the Employers’ contributions shall be prorated for those months in which employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article XVII, Sections 1 and 2 and Section 5 of this Article, respectively.
Section 3. For the period July 1,2008 through April 5,2009, the Employer shall contribute the amount of $395.19 (three hundred ninety-five dollars and nineteen cents) each month on behalf of each employee on its active payroll to the Local 25 S.E.I.U. Welfare Fund; provided, however, that the Employers’ contributions shall be prorated for those months in which employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article XVII, Sections I and 2 and Section 5 of this Article, respectively.
Section 4.	The Employer adopts the provisions of and agrees to comply with and be bound by the Trust Agreement establishing the Local 25 SEIU Welfare Fund and all amendments thereto, and also hereby irrevocably designates as its representatives the Trustees named as Employer Trustees in said Agreement, together with their successors selected in the manner therein provided, and further ratifies and approves all matters heretofore done in connection with the creations and administration of said Trust and all actions to be taken by such Trustees within the scope of their authority.
Section 5.	Welfare Fund payments shall be continued on eligible employees when said employees are on a medical leave of absence up to the periods provided for in Article XVII, Section 1, or beyond that period for special reasons agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Welfare Fund payments shall be continued on eligible employees when said employees are on a personal leave of absence up to a period of ninety (90) days, or beyond that period for special reasons agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Beyond that time, the Welfare Fund payment shall be made for and on behalf of the temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee, but in no event shall contributions be made for both the eligible employee and the temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee; provided, however, that any temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee who
11
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
has been employed either by the Employer or by the janitorial contractor performing bargaining unit work for the Employer for more than twelve (12) consecutive months shall have contributions made on his/her behalf.
Section 6.	The Employer shall make remittances to the Welfare Fund on or before the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month following the month in which the work was performed.
Section 7.	With each report to the Welfare Fund, the Employer shall give the names, Social Security numbers and starting dates of new, regular employees and termination dates of regular employees.
Section 8.	Payments to the Welfare Fund shall be made on the prelisted remittance forms sent by the Fund Office, or reproduced records which give all of the required information in a form acceptable to the Fund. Failure to submit the required information in a form acceptable to the Fund will be subject to the arbitration.provisions of Article XIX.
12
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XIV PENSION PLAN
Section 1. For the period April 10, 2006 through April 5,2009, Employers shall contribute to the Local 25 SEIU and Participating Employers Pension Trust at the rate of $26.00 per week for each employee regularly scheduled to work thirty (30) or more hours per week who actually work at least 50% of the employee’s scheduled workweek. In the event such employee does not work at least 50% of the employee’s scheduled workweek, the Employer shall make contributions at the rate of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour for all hours actually worked. For employees not meeting the aforesaid conditions, contributions shall be made at the rate of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour worked for employees who actually worked less than 30 hours per week. Paid holidays, paid vacations and funeral absence (up to three working days) are deemed time worked for pension contribution purposes. The Union and the Employer shall endeavor to have the Trustees of the Pension Fund arrange to have the employee’s last employer notified when an employee makes application for a pension. In the event an employee works during his or her holiday or vacation, one payment to the Pension Fund is all that will be required.
Section 2.	Each Employer adopts the provisions of and agrees to comply with and be bound by the Trust Agreement establishing said Local 25 SEIU and Participating Employers Pension Trust, and all amendments thereto, and also hereby irrevocably designates as its representatives the Trustees names as Employer Trustees in said Agreement, together with their successors selected in the manner therein provided, and further ratifies and approves all matters heretofore done in connection with the creation and administration of said Trust and all actions to be taken by such Trustees within the scope of their authority, including the authority of the Trustees to restrict the benefit provisions with respect to a new employer group as provided by the Trust Agreement.
Section 3.	The Employer shall make remittances to the Pension Fund on or before the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month following the month in which the work was performed.
Section 4.	With each report to the Pension Fund, the Employer shall give names, Social Security numbers and starting dates of new, regular employees and termination dates of regular employees.
Section 5.	Payments to the Pension Fund shall be made on the prelisted remittance forms sent by the Fund Office, or reproduced records which give all of the required information in a form acceptable to the Fund. Failure to submit the required information in a form acceptable to the Fund will be subject to the arbitration provisions of Article XIX.
Section 6.	Pension fund payments shall be continued on eligible employees when said employees are on a medical leave of absence up to the periods provided for in Article XVII, Section 1, or beyond that period for special reasons agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Pension fund payments shall be continued on eligible employees when said employees are on a personal leave of absence up to a period of ninety (90) days, or beyond that period for special reason agreed to by the Employer and the Union.
Beyond that time, the Pension Fund payment shall be made for and on behalf of the temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee, but in no event shall contributions be made for both the eligible employee and the temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee; provided, however, that any temporary, extra, substitute, floater or vacation replacement employee who has been employed either by the Employer or by the janitorial contractor performing bargaining unit work for the Employer for more than twelve (12) consecutive months shall have contributions made on his/her behalf.
13
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XV	HEALTH AND WELFARE - PENSION DELINQUENCIES
Section 1.	The Employers recognize the necessity of making prompt Health and Welfare and Pension contributions to preserve the benefit standing of employees and ensure adequate funding of benefits. If an Employer remains delinquent in making payments to either the Welfare Fund dr the appropriate Pension Trust for a period of 10 days after written notice of delinquency is given to the building and the Association, or refuses to produce payroll records in accordance with the payroll audit provisions of the Trustees* collection policy, the Union may strike the building to enforce such payments or production of records without regard to the no-strike clause in Article XVIII or the grievance and arbitration procedure provided in Article XIX. The delinquent Employer shall also be,responsible for . reimbursement to employees of wages lost because of any strike action taken by the Union under this Article.
Section 2.	If the Trustees do not receive full amount of the Employer’s required Welfare Fund or Pension Trust contribution and the accompanying remittance form by the dates set forth in Article XIII, Section 6 and Article XIV, Section 3 with respect to which contributions are due, the Employer will be required to pay, in addition to the amount of such contribution, interest and liquidated damages at the < rates specified in the Trust Agreements on the unpaid amount, as well as accountants’ and attorneys’ fees and court costs, if any, incurred in effecting collection. The Employer acknowledges receipt of the Trust Agreements and represents to the Union and the Funds that it has read the interest and liquidated damages provisions and that the liquidated damages provision is a reasonable approximation of damages to the Funds which are difficult to ascertain. Employer further acknowledges that any right of the Trustees to waive interest or liquidated damages pursuant to the collection policy described in Section 3, below, shall not modify the Employer’s agreement that the maximum liquidated damages specified in the Trust are reasonable approximation of actual damages under all circumstances where the Employer is delinquent.
Section 3.	Employer acknowledges that the Trustees of the Funds have the Fiduciary obligation under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) to ensure prompt collection of Employer contributions and the resolution of delinquencies through the use of payroll audits and other enforcement procedures. Accordingly, the Employer hereby irrevocably designates as its representatives the Trustees named Employer Trustees of the Funds and their successors in connection with the adoption, amendment and administration of a collection policy setting forth payroll audit and collection procedures in accordance with the terms and conditions of ERISA prohibited transaction class exemption 76-1. Employer hereby consents to and agrees to be bound by the provisions of such collection policy, as amended, as though fully set forth in this Agreement.
14
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XVI	SENIORITY
Section 1.	The term “seniority” shall mean the length of service of a regular employee in a building; provided that new employees shall be considered probationary employees for the first 45 calendar days of employment. During their probationary period, employees shall have no seniority and may be laid off or terminated at the sole discretion of the Employer and such action shall not be subject to the grievance procedure of this Agreement. An employee’s seniority rights shall not be affected by a change of ownership or management of the building so long as said employee remains in the employ of the new owners or managers. The Employer agrees to notify the Union, in writing, promptly upon the consummation of any change in the ownership or management of the building. Seniority shall not be broken except by discharge for cause, resignation or layoff for more than one year (two years in the case of employees with ten or more years of service). The Employer shall post a seniority list in each building in a place accessible to all employees. Said list shall contain the names of all employees who have seniority as provided for herein and their respective seniority date; and shall be updated quarterly including a date prior to vacation scheduling. A copy of the seniority list shall be made available to the Union upon request.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to restrict the Employer’s right to temporarily assign employees among two or more buildings covered by collective bargaining agreements with the Union to which the same employer is signatory; provided, that such temporary assignments shall have no effect upon the employee’s seniority, and employees shall, during the period of such temporary assignments, continue to retain and accrue seniority and benefit eligibility as if they had not been temporarily assigned; provided further that such temporary assignment shall not be used for vacation replacement purposes during the months of May through September.
Section 2.	When it becomes necessary to reduce the working force, the last person hired shall be laid off first provided the employees to be retained have the ability to be trained to perform the available work; and the employee whose job assignment has been eliminated or combined shall be placed on the job assignment held by the least senior employee whose job assignment the impacted employee is capable of performing with minimal training. If the employee displaced by such reassignment is not the least senior employee in the building, he or she shall be placed on the job assignment held by the least senior employee in the building, provided he or she is capable of performing that job assignment with minimal training. Employees who cannot be placed on active job assignments in accordance with the foregoing shall be laid off. If the working force is thereafter increased, employees with seniority shall be recalled in the reverse order in which they were laid off, subject to the employee’s qualifications to perform the work for which they are being recalled. The Employer shall give not less than one (1) week’s notice of recall in writing to the employee’s last known address. A failure to report for work prior to expiration of such notice period shall result in the loss of all seniority rights under this Agreement. No notice of recall need be given in cases where the Employer and the Union agree to waive notice because it is apparent to them the particular employee will not return.
Section 3.	Whenever a vacancy occurs in any job covered by this Agreement, said job shall be posted for bidding in a conspicuous place and all employees may apply for the job. The posting shall contain a full description of the job duties, starting time and rate of pay. Seniority shall be the governing factor in filling the vacancy provided the employee has the ability to be trained to perform the job. For any vacancy not filled pursuant to the foregoing posting procedure, the Employer shall offer the position to qualified replacement employees who are then working in the Employer’s building before hiring new employees to fill the vacancy.
Section 4.	Selection and preference as to the time of taking vacations shall be granted to employees on the basis of seniority, except that a building may depart from seniority in vacation scheduling where it
15
BOMA/CHICAGO • LOCAL 1 ~ 2QQ6 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
is required in order to maintain normal operations of the building, in which event the Union shall be notified as soon as possible of the departure from seniority.
Section 5.	Union stewards shall have super-seniority for purposes of layoff and recall under Section 2 of this Article.
ARTICLE XVII	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	The Employer shall grant a leave of absence in writing because of illness or disability, substantiated by medical approval, upon the following schedule: under one year seniority, no leave; one year to three year’s seniority, six months’ leave; three years to five year’s seniority, nine months’ leave; after five years seniority, one year leave. By agreement between the Employer and the Union, employment of an employee on such leave of absence may be terminated. Upon return from such leaves, the employee shall return to the assignment previously being performed by the employee or in the event such assignment no longer exists, a substantially comparable position. Once an employee exhausts the leave pursuant to the schedule set forth above, he or she is not entitled to additional leave until after having worked continuously for additional twelve (12) months.
Section 2.	The Employer shall not unreasonably withhold the granting of a personal leave of absence submitted in writing for reasons other than illness or disability of up to fourteen (14) days after two (2) years and up to ninety (90) days after five (5) years of seniority. The Employer shall not be required to grant a personal leave of absence until after twenty-one (21) months have expired since an employee’s previous personal leave of absence. Failure to return to work without justifiable cause following a personal leave of absence will be grounds for termination.
Section 3.	An employee selected to represent the Union at conventions, conferences, collective bargaining, grievance and arbitration proceedings or for other Union business shall be granted a leave of absence for the period required to fully carry out said business.
Section 4.	During all such leaves of absence provided for in this Article, seniority shall continue to accumulate and accrue. By agreement between the Employer and the Union, employment of an employee on such leave of absence may be terminated.
Section 5.	The provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act, where more favorable, shall supercede the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE XVIII	STRIKES, LOCKOUTS, PICKETING
Section 1.	During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes, lockouts or picketing, nor shall there be any demonstrations or rallies of any kind inside any building, nor shall there be any handout or distribution of handbills or leaflets of any kind in any areas of the buildings, except janitorial break rooms, without the Employer’s consent.
Section 2.	No action or suit of any kind or description shall lie by the Association or any member thereof against the Union, or any officers, representative or agent thereof, because of a strike, work stoppage or picketing in violation of this Agreement if:
(a)	The Union has not authorized or instigated the strike, work stoppage or picketing,
(b)	The Union promptly denounces such strike, work stoppage or picketing and makes an earnest effort to terminate the same within a period of five days.
16
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
Section 3.	Refusal of any employee to cross a picket line established or maintained by a recognized labor organization shall not be grounds for discharge or disciplinary action provided that the Union has given the Employer at least 48 hours advanced written notice that there is a picket line which might be honored by bargaining unit employees. .
ARTICLE XIX	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
Section 1.	The procedure for handling a grievance pertaining to any difference or dispute which may arise under this Agreement shall be as follows:
STEP I
The aggrieved employee, accompanied by the steward, if the employee desires, shall consult with the employee’s foreman or immediate supervisor. If a group of employees are involved in the grievance, the steward shall represent the employees. In any event, since it is in the best interest of all concerned that a grievance be promptly and expeditiously resolved, an aggrieved employee and/or the steward of the employee or employees involved, shall present such grievance as soon as reasonably possible following the event which gives rise to its occurrence, or after such employee and/or the steward of the employee or employees involved first acquired knowledge concerning such event.
STEP II
If the matter is not settled in the first step and the Union wishes to further pursue it, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and presented to the building manager and, where applicable, the contractor within thirty (30) calendar days following the event which gave rise to its occurrence or after the employee or employees involved first acquired knowledge concerning such event. The foreman or immediate supervisor, together with the aggrieved employee, the steward, and a Union Representative shall discuss the grievance with the building manager and the contractor. The building manager or contractor shall give his or her written answer within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the written grievance.
STEP III
If the matter is not settled in the second step and the Union wishes to further pursue it, the Union shall, within fifteen (15) calendar days following its receipt of the building manager’s or contractor’s written answer, present the Association with a written request that the grievance be referred to a hearing before a Labor-Management Committee comprised of two members of the Association’s Labor Relations Committee and two representatives of the Union, which shall meet once each month at an established time and place. The Labor-Management Committee shall meet with the grievant (if requested by the Union), the building manager and, where applicable, the contractor. After hearing the positions of the parties, the Labor-Management Committee shall endeavor to determine,whether or not the Employer or, where applicable, the contractor has violated the Agreement as alleged in a timely grievance and, if the Committee determines that it has, what the remedy should be. The Labor-Management Committee may, by unanimous agreement, refuse to consider any documents which have not been presented to the Association for distribution to the members of the Committee prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. All decisions by the Labor-Management Committee shall require a unanimous agreement by all members of the Committee and such decisions shall be reduced to writing and shall be final and binding upon the Employer or, where applicable, the contractor, the employee(s) involved and the Union. In the event there is not a unanimous agreement, the matter shall be considered unresolved for purposes of Section 2 of this Article.
Unreasonable Workload Grievances. If they are not resolved in Step II within seven (7) calendar days following their presentation, grievances protesting disciplinary action because of failure to perform
17
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
assigned work which allege that such failure was caused by the imposition of an unreasonable work load in violation of Article XI, Section 7 may be appealed by the Union to a Special Workload Committee comprised of two members of the Association’s Labor Relations Committee and two representatives of the Union. The Special Workload Committee shall meet promptly with the grievant, the building manager and, where applicable, the contractor and endeavor to resolve the matter in a way acceptable to the Association and the Union. If the Special Workload Committee does not resolve the grievance at this meeting, the Union may demand that the matter be arbitrated, in the manner set forth in Section 2 of this Article.
Section 2.	If the matter is not resolved in the third step and the Union wishes to further pursue it, the Union shall, within thirty calendar (30) days after the grievance was heard by the Labor-Management Committee at the third step, serve a written demand for arbitration upon the Employer or, where applicable, the contractor. The grievance shall thereafter be submitted to an arbitrator who shall be selected by mutual agreement of the Employer or, where applicable, the contractor and the Union from the following panel (which may be added to hereafter upon agreement of the parties);
EDWIN BENN
STEVEN BIERIG
LISA SALKOVITZ KOHN
SINCLAIR KOSSOFF
MARTIN MALIN
ARTHUR MALINOWSKI
Robert McAllister
ROBERT PERKOV1CH JEANNE VONHOF
If the parties are unable to agree upon any one of the foregoing arbitrators, the parties shall alternately, strike one name from said list, and the last remaining name shall be the arbitrator selected to hear and decide the grievance. The compensation of the said arbitrator shall be paid one-half by the Employer or, where applicable, the contractor and one-half by the Union.
Section 3.	The award or decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Employer and employee(s) involved, and the Union. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, subtract from or alter the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.	If any Employer who is a party to this Agreement refuses to abide by an arbitration award made under this Article or refuses to abide by a written decision signed by representatives of the Employer and the Union which resolves any difference or dispute arising under this Agreement, the Union shall be relieved from the obligation of Article XVIII as to such Employer.
Section 5.	Grievances which are not presented or appealed within the time limits set forth in Sections 1 and 2 shall be considered withdrawn and abandoned. If there is not a timely answer to a grievance by the building manager or contractor in the second step of the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be automatically advanced to the third step.
ARTICLE XX	JOINT COMMITTEE ON SAFETY AND SECURITY
The Employer and the Union share a concern for the personal safety of janitorial employees during their work time in the buildings and in their travel to and from their work. Accordingly, a Joint Committee on Safety and Security is established consisting of three (3) members from the Union and three (3) members from the Association.
18
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 ■ 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
Such Joint Committee will work in cooperation with appropriate, City, County, State and Federal agencies in an effort to improve the security of employees during their travel to and from work and within particular buildings, in an effort to improve the security of employees at work, and to improve the relationship between Employers and the Union in dealing with problems of safety and security.
The Employer and Union share a concern for the safety of all janitorial employees in the event of emergencies within the buildings in which they work. The Employer shall comply with the City of Chicago’s Emergency Procedures Ordinance for High Rise Buildings with respect to emergency, safety and evacuation procedures.
ARTICLE XXI	JANITORIAL CONTRACTORS
The Employer, during the life of this Agreement, shall not contract for all or any part of the work being performed by employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement unless all employees currently employed shall be employed by any contractor or subcontractor as a condition of any contract or subcontract granted or permitted by the Employer; provided, however, that the Employer’s chosen contractor shall have the right to establish and apply reasonable employment criteria and decline to employ any individual who fails to meet such criteria; and provided further that the Employer’s chosen contractor shall have the right to adjust employee work assignments and/or reduce the working force to reflect changes in cleaning specifications and occupancy within the building and/or to accomplish legitimate operating efficiencies, so long as (1) such changes or adjustments have been approved by the Employer; (2) such changes or adjustments do not result in the imposition of unreasonable work loads upon the employees of the contractor working in the building; (3) the Union is given at least 10 days prior written notice of any planned reduction in the working force; and (4) upon adjustment, any description regarding the adjustment shall be given in Polish or Spanish if the employee does not speak English, and the Union agrees that, where such conditions have been met, it shall not attempt to bar or limit the exercise of such rights by the Employer’s chosen contractor in the building covered by this Agreement.
If the Employer shall, during the life of this Agreement, contract for all or any part of the work being performed by employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement, it shall include in its agreement with the contractor a provision binding the contractor to observe the economic terms and conditions of this Agreement such as wages, hours and fringe benefits, and the making of reasonable arrangements to guarantee the payment of contributions due by such contractor to the Health & Welfare and Pension Funds.
In the event that the Employer subcontracts to a contractor which is a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the Union, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be the only terms and conditions applicable to said contractor and its employees working in the Employer’s building notwithstanding the particular terms and conditions contained in the collective bargaining agreement between the Union and such contractor. Grievances alleging that a contractor is not faithfully observing the terms of this Agreement shall be processed in accordance with the grievance and arbitration procedures set forth in Article XIX. If it is determined in a written decision by the Labor-Management Committee in the third step or, if there is no such decision, in subsequent arbitration proceedings between the Union and the contractor that the grievance is well founded and the contractor thereafter refuses to implement the remedy imposed, the contract between the contractor and the Employer shall be terminated within sixty (60) calendar days after written notice by the Union to the Employer.
ARTICLE XXII	MULTI-PURPOSE BUILDINGS
In buildings used for more than one purpose, this Agreement shall apply only to janitorial employees
19
BOMA/CHICAGO-LOCAL 1-2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
who are employed in the office building portion of such building.
ARTICLE XXIII	UNION ACTIVITIES IN BUILDINGS
Section 1. The Employer shall permit the posting of Union bulletins in janitorial quarters and shall permit Union stewards reasonable freedom to perform their duties during working hours. Duly accredited representatives of the Union shall have reasonable access to timecards or sign in sheets for the current day applicable to employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 2. Duly accredited representatives of the Union may enter the building of the Employer during the working hours to observe working conditions and to confer with the employees under circumstances that are not disruptive to working schedules. When a Union Business Representative enters a building after normal business hours, he or she will register and identify himself or herself to building security, abide by security rules and contact the night supervisor. In the event the supervisor cannot be contacted and twenty (20) minutes have elapsed, the representative of the Union may proceed to confer with an employee or employees.
ARTICLE XXIV	ELECTION TO ADOPT OR WITHDRAW FROM CONTRACT
Regular members of the Association, other than those listed in Schedule “A” who, at the effective date or during the term hereof, elect to adopt this Agreement, shall notify the Association to that effect. It is understood that any Employer may be a party to this Agreement with respect to the building or buildings designated by said Employer without obligation on the part of said Employer as to any other building owned, managed or controlled by it. Notice of election to adopt this Agreement shall be made by members of the Association in writing and the Association in turn shall notify the Union. Such notice shall state the name and location of the building to which the election applies and the name of the Employer. In like manner, the Association shall notify the Union when any building ceases to be represented in the regular membership of the Association.
Withdrawal from membership in the Association does not release the building from its obligations under this Agreement. If any building, which is paying its employees wages higher than those provided in this Agreement, desires to adopt same, it shall not reduce such higher wages during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXV	JURY SERVICE
The Employer shall compensate the employee for the difference between the pay which such employee would normally receive, excluding overtime, and the amount received for jury service.
ARTICLE XXVI	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 1.	If any employer shall list job vacancies with an employment agency, said employer shall pay all the cost and charges of such agency.
Section 2.	If any law now existing or hereafter enacted, or any proclamation, regulation or edict of any national or state official or agency shall invalidate any portion of this Agreement, the entire Agreement shall not thereby be invalidated and either party hereto, upon request, may reopen for negotiation the invalidated portion. In the event agreement thereon cannot be reached within 30 days, either party may submit the matter to arbitration as herein provided.
Section 3.	This Agreement shall be construed as divisible as to each building and the failure of any
20
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
building to abide by the terms hereof shall not operate to terminate this Agreement as to any other building. No breach of this Agreement by an Employer shall operate to subject the Association or any other Employer to any legal liability.
Section 4.	Neither the Employer nor the Union will discriminate against applicants or employees with regard to employment, tenure or any other term or condition of employment in violation of any applicable law. Employees and management representatives will be treated with respect and dignity by all parties to this Agreement.
Section 5.	Although this Agreement states essential provisions covering wages, hours and working conditions applicable to all covered employees and buildings (Employers), it does not state each privilege, rule of the shop or working condition which employees in a particular building have enjoyed under the prior agreement or the particular working conditions actually in effect in each such building. The current Employer shall not use this Agreement as a reason for reducing or eliminating a beneficial working condition, rule of the shop or privilege, but the union shall not oppose any reasonable reduction or elimination of same.
ARTICLE XXVII	DURATION - REOPENING
This Agreement becomes effective April 10, 2006 and shall remain in full force and effect through April 5, 2009. For its duration, the parties hereto waive further collective bargaining on all appropriate subjects of bargaining, whether or not mentioned herein, except that this Agreement may be reopened for the limited purpose of making such changes as are required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act as subsequently construed by courts or appropriate governmental agencies.
Executed at Chicago, Illinois this *^^day of /W4/ , 2006.
BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS BUILDING SERVICE DIVISION, ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO	SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL
UNION, LOCAL 1
Ronald Vukas
Executive Vice President
21
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
LETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO AND SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1 JANITORIAL EMPLOYEES
This Letter of Agreement is made and entered into this day of {Atyf 2006, by and between BUILDING MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO (“BOMA/Chicago”) and SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1 (“Local 1”).
BOMA/Chicago and Local 1 are parties to a collective bargaining agreement effective April 10, 2006 through April 5, 2009, covering janitorial employees employed by certain member buildings of BOMA/Chicago (the “Janitorial Agreement”). By this Letter of Agreement BOMA/Chicago arid Local 1 acknowledge their understandings and agreements, reached during the course of negotiations; regarding the interpretation and application of the agreed-upon amendment to Article XXI of the Janitorial Agreement providing that an Employer’s chosen contractor “shall have the right to establish and apply reasonable employment criteria and decline to employ any individual who fails to meet such criteria.” '
BOMA/Chicago and Local 1 agreed that in those situations where the chosen contractor seeks to employ background checks to screen existing employees in the building, it may do so only if the background checks are requested by the building owner or manager and the Union is notified before the background checks are implemented. In addition, they agreed that if any employee is terminated as a result of such background checks, his or her termination will be subject to the grievance procedure.
Finally, BOMA/Chicago and Local 1 agreed that, while drug testing would be considered a reasonable criterion for initial employment under Article XXI, nothing contained therein would be deemed to permit the contractor to utilize recurring drug testing thereafter.
BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO
Ronald Vukas , Executive Vice President
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1
Thomas Balanoff, President
22
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
SCHEDULE "A"
Section 1. The foregoing agreement in its entirety shall apply to the following member buildings:
10 NORTH DEARBORN	10 N. Dearborn
10 SOUTH LASALLE STREET BUILDING	10 S. LaSalle St.
10 SOUTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA	10 S. Riverside Plaza
10 SOUTH WACKER	10 S. Wacker Dr.
100 NORTH LASALLE BUILDING	100 N. LaSalle St.
100 NORTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA	100 N. Riverside Plaza
100 SOUTH WACKER	100 S. Wacker Dr.
100 WEST MONROE	100 W. Monroe St.
101 NORTH WACKER	101 N. Wacker Dr.
11 EAST ADAMS	11 E. Adams St.
111 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD BUILDING	111 W: Jackson Blvd.
120 NORTH LASALLE STREET	120 N. LaSalle St.
120 SOUTH LASALLE BUILDING	120 S. LaSalle St.
122 SOUTH MICHIGAN	122 S. Michigan Ave.
123 NORTH WACKER	123 N. Wacker Dr.
125 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE	125 S. Wacker Dr.
131 SOUTH DEARBORN	131 S. Dearborn St.
135 SOUTH LASALLE STREET	135 S. LaSalle St.
142 EAST ONTARIO BUILDING	142 E. Ontario St.
150 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE	150 N. Michigan Ave.
150 NORTH WACKER DRIVE	150 N. Wacker Dr.
150 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE	150 S. Wacker Dr.
155 NORTH WACKER DRIVE	155 N. Wacker Dr.
161 NORTH CLARK	161 N. Clark St.
175 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD	175 W. Jackson Blvd.
180 NORTH LASALLE	180 N. LaSalle St.
180 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE BUILDING	180 N. Michigan Ave.
180 NORTH WABASH AVENUE	180 N. Wabash Ave.
19 SOUTH LASALLE	19 S. LaSalle St.
190 SOUTH LASALLE	190 S. LaSalle St.
20 NORTH CLARK	20 N. Clark St.
20 NORTH MICHIGAN	20 N. Michigan Ave.
200 NORTH LASALLE	200 N. LaSalle St.
200 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE BUILDING	200 S. Wacker Dr.
200 WEST ADAMS	200 W. Adams St.
200 WEST MADISON	200 W. Madison St.
200 WEST MONROE BUILDING	200 W. Monroe St.
203 NORTH LASALLE/LOOP TRANSPORTATION CENTER	203 N. LaSalle St.
205 WEST RANDOLPH BUILDING	205 W. Randolph St.
209 WEST JACKSON BUILDING	209 W. Jackson Blvd.
216 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD	216 W. Jackson
222 NORTH LASALLE AT WACKER	222 N. LaSalle St.
222 SOUTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA	222 South Riverside Plaza
225 WEST WACKER DRIVE	225 W. Wacker Dr.
225 WEST WASHINGTON BUILDING	225 W. Washington St.
231 SOUTH LASALLE	231 S. LaSalle St.
23
BOMA/CHICA GO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL A GREEMENT
247 SOUTH STATE STREET
25 EAST WASHINGTON STREET
29 EAST MADISON
29 SOUTH LASALLE BUILDING
30 NORTH LASALLE
30 SOUTH WACKER
30 WEST MONROE
300 EAST RANDOLPH
300 SOUTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA
300 SOUTH WACKER
300 WEST ADAMS BUILDING
303 EAST WACKER
303 WEST MADISON
311 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE
311 WEST MONROE STREET
33 NORTH DEARBORN
33 NORTH LASALLE STREET BUILDING
33 WEST MONROE BUILDING
332 SOUTH MICHIGAN
333 WEST WACKER
35 WEST WACKER DRIVE
350 WEST MART CENTER
401 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
444 NORTH MICHIGAN
500 WEST MONROE
515 NORTH STATE
525 WEST MONROE
541 NORTH FAIRBANKS
547 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD
55 EAST JACKSON
55 EAST MONROE BUILDING
55 WEST MONROE
550 WEST JACKSON BUILDING
550 WEST WASHINGTON
567 WEST LAKE STREET
600 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD
625 NORTH MICHIGAN
633 ST. CLAIR
645 NORTH MICHIGAN
65 EAST WACKER PLACE
676 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE
77 WEST WACKER BUILDING
820 WEST JACKSON
840 SOUTH CANAL
850 WEST JACKSON BOULEVARD
900 NORTH MICHIGAN
ABC, STATE LAKE BUILDING
ABN AMRO SERVICE CENTER AMERICAN DENTAL ASSOCIATION
AON CENTER
• 247 S. State St. ’	■
25 E. Washington St. >.
29 E. Madison St.
29 S. LaSalle St.
30 N. LaSalle St.
30 S. Wacker Dr.
30 West Monroe St. . ?
300 E. Randolph.
300 S. Riverside Plaza;
300 S. Wacker Dr.
300 W. Adams St
303 E. Wacker Dr.
303 W. Madison St?
311 S. Wacker Dr.
311 W. Monroe St.;
33 N. Dearborn St.
33 N. LaSalle St
33 W. Monroe St. ? / 332 S. Michigan Ave.
333 W. Wacker Dr. , 35 W. Wacker Dr.
350 W. Mart Center Dr.
401 N. Michigan Ave.
444 N. Michigan Ave.
500 W. Monroe St.
515 N. State St.
525 W. Monroe St.
541 N. Fairbanks Ct.
547 W. Jackson Blvd..
55 E. Jackson Blvd.
55 E. Monroe St.
55 W. Monroe St.
550 W. Jackson Blvd.
550 W. Washington
567 W. Lake St. .
600 W. Jackson Blvd.
625 N. Michigan Ave.
633 N. St. Clair Place 645 N. Michigan Ave..
65 E. Wacker Pl.
676 N. Michigan Ave.
77 West Wacker Dr.
820 W. Jackson
840 S. Canal
850 W. Jackson Blvd.
900 N. Michigan Ave.
190 N. State St.
5515 N. East River Rd.
211 E. Chicago Ave.
200 E. Randolph Dr.
24
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
AT&T CORPORATE CENTER AT FRANKLIN CENTER
BELL FEDERAL BUILDING
BORG-WARNER BUILDING
BROOKS BUILDING
BURNHAM CENTER
CANAL CENTER
CDW PLAZA
CHASE TOWER
CHICAGO PLACE
CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
CHICAGO UNION STATION BUILDING
CIVIC OPERA BUILDING
CNA
COLUMBIA COLLEGE
CONGRESS CENTER
COOK COUNTY ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
DEARBORN PLAZA
DEPAUL UNIVERSITY-LOOP CAMPUS
GENERAL GROWTH BUILDING
HAROLD WASHINGTON LIBRARY CENTER
HYATT CENTER
JOHN HANCOCK CENTER
KNIGHT BUILDING
LAKE SHORE PLACE
LAKESIDE TECHNOLOGY CENTER
LASALLE-WACKER BUILDING
MERCHANDISE MART
MONADNOCK BUILDING
OLD REPUBLIC BUILDING
OLYMPIA CENTRE
ONE EAST WACKER DRIVE
ONE FINANCIAL PLACE
ONE IBM PLAZA
ONE ILLINOIS CENTER
ONE MAGNIFICENT MILE
ONE NORTH FRANKLIN
ONE NORTH WACKER
ONE PRUDENTIAL PLAZA
ONE SOUTH DEARBORN
ONE SOUTH WACKER
QUAKER PLAZA
REALTOR BUILDING
RIVER CENTER
RIVER EAST PLAZA
ROBERT MORRIS CENTER
SANTA FE BUILDING
SEARS TOWER
THE CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE BUILDING
THE CHICAGO TEMPLE BUILDING
THE GARLAND BUILDING OFFICE CONDOMINIUM
227 W. Monroe St.
79 W. Monroe St.
200 S. Michigan Ave.
223 W. Jackson Blvd.
111 W. Washington St.
801 S. Canal St
120 S. Riverside Plaza
21 S. Clark
700 N. Michigan Ave.
220 S. Michigan Ave.
210 S. Canal St.
20 N. Wacker Dr.
333 S. Wabash Ave.
600 S. Michigan Ave.
525 W. Van Buren
69 W. Washington St.
20 W. Kinzie St.
25 E. Jackson Blvd. HON. Wacker Drive 400 S. State St.
71 S. Wacker Dr.
875 N. Michigan Ave.
549 W. Randolph St.
680 N. Lake Shore Dr.
350 E. Cermak 221 N. LaSalle St.
222 Merchandise Mart Plaza 53 W. Jackson Blvd.
307 N. Michigan Ave.
737 N. Michigan Ave. One E. Wacker Dr.
440 S. LaSalle St.
330 N. Wabash Ave. HIE. Wacker Dr.
980 N. Michigan Ave. One N. Franklin One N. Wacker Dr.
130 E. Randolph Dr.
1 S. Dearborn One S. Wacker Dr. 555 W. Monroe 430 N. Michigan Ave, 111 N. Canal St 401 E. Illinois St.
401 S. State St.
224 S. Michigan Ave.
233 S. Wacker Dr.
141 W. Jackson Blvd. 'll W. Washington St.
111 N Wabash Ave.
25
BOMA/CHICAGO - LOCAL 1 - 2006 JANITORIAL AGREEMENT
THE HARRIS BANK BUILDING
THE MARQUETTE BUILDING
THE MONROE BUILDING
THE TELEGRAPH BUILDING
THREE FIRST NATIONAL PLAZA
TWO FIRST NATIONAL PLAZA
TWO ILLINOIS CENTER
TWO NORTH LASALLE
TWO NORTH RIVERSIDE PLAZA
UNION TOWER
USG BUILDING AT FRANKLIN CENTER WRIGLEY BUILDING
115 S. LaSalle St.
140 S. Dearborn St.
104 S. Michigan Ave.
427 S. LaSalle St.
70 W. Madison'St.
20 S. Clark St.
233 N. Michigan Ave. . 1
2 N. LaSalle St. ' ’ :
2 N. Riverside Plaza 550 W. Van Buren St
222 W. Adams St-400-410 N.,Michigan Ave;
The parties hereto acknowledge that this Schedule A forms a part of the Agreement between the' ■_ Association and the Union executed at Chicago, Illinois this c?^Tlay of. /n^y.2006.
BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF CHICAGO
Ronald Vukas
Executive Vice President
BUILDING SERVICE DIVISION, .' SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATI AL
Thomas Balanoff
President
26