0
2005

Commercial Building AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
Local 32BJ Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO
AND
THE REALTY ADVISORY BOARD ON LABOR RELATIONS, INC.
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2004 TO DECEMBER 31, 2007
i/7-
INDEX
K SUBJECT
PAGE
I1 \ Absentee Workers Hours.......10,55-56
Adoption of Agreement............30-34
Arbitration.........................23-27
Attendance Bonus.......................46
Automation Employment Pool..........94-95
Better Conditions...................12-13
, Building Safety |! Bulletin Board . | Call-in Pay....
I Check-off..................
k) Classification of Buildings IbConirnon Disaster..........
tAS
bndemnation......
bntracting of Work
(Cost of Living......
Coverage of Agreement

............91
......83 ......57 ......6-7 ......49-51 ......97 ......47-48 ......8-11 ......52-53 1-2, 8-11,58-59 ......98 ......82 ......56,59-60 ).....92,95-96
.........52,63 ..........43-45
E | Cuspidors....................
| I Day of Rest..................
If/ Days Off....................
Death (in family, of employee)
I Differentials..................
r Disability Benefits Law.......
| Discharge...............
Discrimination........
| l Election Day..........
Elevator Conversion...
^^Elevatbr Starter........
^^wnployee Identification ^^®nployees’ Rooms........
14-15,22,61-62,98
..............88
..............68
........85,94-95
...........54,90
..............93
..............89
Continued
INDEX
SUBJECT
Employment Agency Fee......
Engineers..................
Experienced Employee.......
Eye Glasses................
Family and Medical Leave Act Fines .....................
Fire and Flood Call........
Fire Safety Director.......
Firemen..............
First Aid Kit........
Flexibility..........
Foreperson...........
Garnishments.........
Governmental Decrees Grievance Procedure... Guards...............
Handyperson..........
Hardship Buildings...
Health Fund..........
Hiring Hall..........
Holidays.............
Hours................
.54,56,90,99-100
..........52,90
..........34-36
.36-39,42-43 .88-89 .64-68 .53-58 ..........93 .75-78 .90-91 .92-93 .70-71,
Identification.......................
Injuries.............................
Job Definitions......................
Jury Duty............................
Layoff...............................
Leave of Absence.....................
Legal Assistance (building violations)
PAGE
....88
....64 ..72-74
....83 .46,77 ....87
....83 .58,90 .......79 .....83 .10-11 .52,90
....92
....96 .22-23
.75-7i
...8]
Continue
INDEX
SUBJECT	PAGE
Legal Fund............................42
Licenses..............................87
Life Insurance.....................12-13
Locker................................83
Lockout............................28-30
Luncheon Period....................54-55
Management Rights..................14-15
Matron................................90
Meal Allowance........................57
Medical Leave......................75-78
Method of Payment of Wages.........69-70
Military Service...................87-88
Multi-Employer Bargaining..........30-36
New Hire Rate......................72-73
Newly Constructed Buildings........32-33
Night Work............................56
Notice of Termination...........22,81,98
Others................................90
Overtime.....................53-58,67-69
Part-time Employee.........47,69-79,90-91
Patemity/Matemity Leave...............77
Pension Fund.................39-43,73-74
Permits...............................87
Personal Day..........................68
Political Contributions..............6-7
Picketing..........................28-30
Pregnancy Leave....................75-78
Premium Pay...............12,56-57,67-69
Promotion..........................71-72
Continued
INDEX
SUBJECT
PAGE
Pyramiding.............................64
Reason for Discharge...................22
Recall..............................74-75
Reducing Force.....................15-21
Rejection of Agreement.............33-34
Relief Employees......................69
Relief Periods.....................54-55
Remodeled Buildings................32-33
Reopenings......................39,96,99
Replacements.......................71-74
Resignation.....................61,84-86
Rest Room.............................83
Retirement..................39-43,	84-86
Safety.....................41,56,91,98
Sale....................30-36,47-49,86
Sanitary Arrangements...............83
Saving Clause..........................99
Schedules.....................12-13,68-69
Security Background Checks.............98
Seniority.......10-11,70-71,85-86
Service Center Visit.................  94
Sick Days...........................44-47
Statute of Limitations.................24
Strike.................................28-30
Subcontracting..........................8-11
Superintendents........................58-62
Supplemental Retirement & Savings Fund .....4243,73-74
Term of Agreement.....................99-101
Termination Pay........................84-86
Continued
INDEX
SUBJECT	PAGE
Tools..................................87
Training Fund..........................41
Training Program........................91
Transfer of Title..........30-36,47-48,86
Transportation Costs...................97
Trustees............................36-43
Unemployment Insurance Law..........43-45
Uniforms............................82-83
Union Insignia.........................83
Union Leave of Absence.................78
Union Recognition.....................1-8
Union Security........................1-8
Union Visitation.......................92
Vacancies...........................71-74
Vacation Replacement.............71,81-82
Vacations, Vacation Pay.............78-81
Voting Time............................68
Wages.........,...............51-60,63-64
Wage Differentials...............52,63-64
Wage Rates........................107-111
Weather Conditions.....................96
Work Clothes...........................83
Working Conditions (Supt.).........,60-62
Workers’ Compensation...............43-45
Workweek............................53-54
The REALTY ADVISORY BOARD ON LABOR RELATIONS, INCORPORATED (RAB), an incorporated multi-employer association, duly authorized and empowered to enter into this agreement for its members which appear on the list furnished to SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 32BJ, AFL-CIO (Union), and the Union, acting on behalf of its members and other building service employees to whom this agreement applies and for whom it is the collective bargaining agency, do hereby agree as of this 1st day of October 2004 as follows:
ARTICLE I
Union Recognition and Union Security
1.	The Union is recognized as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of all classifications of service employees at each building which is committed to this agreement in the City of New York, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess, Rockland, Orange and Sullivan Counties, New Jersey (north of Route 195), Connecticut, and in such other areas that may come within the geographical jurisdiction of the Union. This agreement shall apply to all classifications of service employees employed by the Employer. Article ll of this Agreement shall also apply to employees of cleaning and maintenance con
1
tractors who employ employees in any building committed to this Agreement working in any job category covered by this Agreement.
This Agreement shall include a classification for building Superintendent in buildings where the Superintendent has been covered by the RAB Commercial Building Agreement and those covered under the former Local 164/RAB Agreement.
Work performed pursuant to the terms of this collective bargaining agreement shall not be performed by persons not covered by the bargaining agreement except as provided in Article 11.
2.	There shall be a Union Shop throughout the term of this agreement in every building where there was a Union Shop under the 2002 Commercial Building Agreement and in other buildings whenever it is agreed or determined that a majority of the employees in such buildings are members of or have applied for membership in the Union.
The “Union Shop” requires membership in the Union by every employee in the building as a condition of employment after the thirtieth day following employment or the execution date of this agreement, whichever is later, or in the case of newly organized buildings, after the thirtieth day following agreement or determina
2
tion that a majority of the employees in such buildings are members of or have applied for membership in the Union, and requires that the Union shall not ask or require the Employer to discharge or otherwise discriminate against any employee except in compliance with law.
In the event the Union security provision of this agreement is held to be invalid, unenforceable or of no legal effect generally or with respect to any building because of interpretation or a change of federal or state statute, city ordinance or rule or decision of any government administrative body, agency or subdivision, the permissible Union security clause under such statute, decision or regulation shall be enforceable as a substitute for the Union security clause provided for herein.
3.	Whenever the Union files with the RAB and the Employer a claim that a majority of the employees in a building are members of or have made application for membership in the Union, the Union Shop requirement shall be made effective within fifteen (15) days thereafter, unless the Employer or the RAB, within ten (10) days, notifies the Union that it requires a determination of that claim.
4.	Upon receipt by the Employer of a letter from the Union’s Secretary-Treasurer requesting any employee’s discharge because he has not met the requirements of this Article, unless
3
the Employer questions the propriety of so doing, such employee shall be discharged within fifteen (15) days of said notice if prior thereto such employee does not take proper steps to meet said requirements. If the Employer questions the propriety of the discharge, he shall immediately submit the matter to grievance, and if not thus settled, to the Arbitrator for final determination. If it is finally settled or determined that the employee has not met the said requirements, he shall be discharged within ten days after written notice uf the final determination has been given to the RAB and the Employer.
The Employer shall be responsible for unpaid dues after receipt of notice provided for in this section and exhaustion of contractual remedies. The Employer’s obligation shall begin fifteen (15) days after such notice or, if the Employer questions the discharge, after the final determination of the arbitrator.
5.	The Union will hold the Employer harmless from any liability arising from a discharge asked by the Union pursuant to this Article provided the Employer has done nothing to cause or increase its own liability concerning removal of employees.
6.	During any period in which it is not established that a majority of the employees in a building are members of, or have made applica
4
tion for membership in the Union, it is agreed that all employees who, upon the date this agreement is signed for their building, are members of the Union in good standing in accordance with the Constitution and By-Laws of the Union, and ail employees who thereafter become members shall, as a condition of employment, remain Union members in good standing during the life of the agreement.
7.	Upon execution of this Agreement the Employer shall furnish the Union and the RAB with a complete list of the names, Social Security numbers and home addresses and job locations of all employees covered by this Agreement and shall notify the Union and the RAB of the names and Social Security numbers and home addresses and job location of each new employee thereafter employed.
The Employer shall notify the Union and the RAB in writing, as soon as a cancellation of an account becomes effective where Union members are employed and the Employer shall notify the Union when he acquires a new building service job.
8.	The Union shall have the right to inspect the Employer’s Social Security reports and all payroll records (except the salary of the nonunion Supervisors) in order to determine if this agreement is being complied with. The Union shall have the right to expedited arbitration in
5
the event an Employer fails to comply with this right of inspection. Inspections may also be made by the Union or the Arbitrator at the request of the RAB. The RAB may join the Union at all times, when such examination is made. All Benefit Trust Funds established under this agreement shall have the same right to inspect as the Union but shall also have the right to inspect Supervisor’s payroll records where Supervisors are covered by such Funds.
9.	Each Employer agrees to deduct the Union’s monthly dues, initiation fees, and all legal assessments from the pay of each employee from whom it receives written authorization and will continue to make such deductions while the authorization remains in effect.
The Employer hereby agrees to deduct voluntary political contributions based upon authorizations signed by the employees in accordance with applicable law.
Such deductions will be made from the pay for the first full pay period worked by each employee following the receipt of the authorization, and thereafter will be made the first payday each month, and forwarded to the Union not later than the twentieth day in each and every current month. Such deductions shall constitute trust funds while in the possession of the Employer.
6
If the Employer fails to remit to the Union the dues or other monies deducted in accordance with this section by the twentieth day, the Employer shall pay interest on such dues or other monies at the rate of one percent per month beginning on the twenty-first day, unless the Employer can demonstrate the delay was for good cause due to circumstances beyond its control. The interest shall not be assessed for an Employer's initial failure to deduct voluntary political contributions until thirty (30) days after the Employer has received written notice from the Union of its failure to deduct.
If a signatory does not revoke the dues authorization at the end of a year following the date of authorization, or at the end of the current contract, whichever is earlier, it shall be deemed a renewal of authorization, irrevocable for another year, or until the expiration of the next succeeding contract, whichever is earlier.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save such Employer and the RAB harmless from any liability incurred by reason of such deductions.
In keeping with the extension of Article I, Section 1, to include New Jersey, Connecticut, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess, Rockland, Orange and Sullivan counties in New York and the geographic jurisdiction of the Union, the RAB and the Union will establish a joint industry committee com
7
prised of at least 6 representatives from all sectors of the commercial and residential industry to meet on an ongoing basis, but not less than quarterly. The committee shall review and analyze prevailing market conditions, including wage and rental rates, and develop procedures for resolving Union organizational and representation disputes to minimize disruption and conflict and to promote stable and efficient labor relations and labor conditions.
ARTICLE II
Coverage of Agreement Sub-Contracting
1.	The Employer shall not make any agreement or arrangement for the performance of work and/or for the categories of work heretofore performed by employees covered by this agreement except within the provisions and limitations set forth below.
2.	The Employer shall give advance written notice to the RAB and the Union at least three (3) weeks prior to the effective date of its contracting for such services, or changing contractors, indicating the name and address of the contractor.
3.	The Employer shall require the contractor to retain all bargaining unit employees working
8
at the location at the time the contract was awarded and to maintain the existing wage and benefit structure. The Union may reject any contractor where the contractor has not made proper payments to the Health, Pension, Training, Legal and Supplemental Savings and Retirement Funds or has habitually failed to comply with labor agreements with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) covering other buildings in New York City in the industry. A rejection of a contractor shall not be arbitrary.
The Employer agrees that employees then engaged in the work which is contracted out shall become employees of the initial contractor or any successor contractor, and agrees to employ or re-employ the employees working for the contractor when the contract is terminated or cancelled. This provision shall not be construed to prevent termination of any employee’s employment under other provisions of this agreement relating to illness, retirement, resignation, discharge for cause, or layoff by reason of reduction of force; however, a contractor may not reduce force or change the work schedule without first obtaining written consent from the union, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
If the Union does not respond in writing to a contractor’s request to reduce the work force or
9
change the work schedules within four (4) weeks after written notification, or if the Union denies in whole or in part the contractor’s request, the contractor must, if it wishes to pursue the reduction in force or change in work schedule, invoke and conclude expedited arbitration as provided in Article VIII before implementing any such reduction or change.
If the contractor fails to comply with any agreement with the Union covering the work which was contracted out. the Employer shall be liable severally and jointly with the contractor for any and all damages sustained by the employees or the RAB as the result thereof, or for any unpaid Health, Pension, Training, Legal, and Supplemental Retirement and Savings contributions. The Employer’s liability shall commence the date it receives written notice from the Union or the RAB of the contractor’s failure to so comply.
4.	Any cleaning contractor who performs services for an owner and/or managing agent who is signatory to this agreement shall be entitled to the following provisions of this agreement at the signatory buildings: Seniority, Hours, Flexibility, Work of Absentees, and the right to the procedure of an expedited hearing with respect to the reduction in force procedures as provided in Section 3 of this article. Any other provisions concerning reduction in
10
force shall be those as set forth in the cleaning contractors contract with the Union.
5.	Whenever and wherever a contractor has the right to employ employees at wages, hours, terms and conditions different than those required by this contract (including without limitations, employees covered by Article XIII, paragraph 2, of the 2005 Cleaning Contractors Agreement with Local 32BJ and employees covered by Article XIII Paragraph 2 of the Independent Cleaning Contractors Agreement.) then the Owner and/or Agent performing such work may employ employees at the same wages, hours, terms and conditions as would be applicable to the contractor’s employees.
6.	This Article is intended to apply to all employees employed in any building committed to this Agreement and to categories of employees to the extent that such categories of employees are “fairly claimable” by the Union, within existing National Labor Relations Board case law. In the event that the application of this Article, or any part thereof, is held to be in violation of law, then this Article, or any part thereof, shall remain applicable to the extent permitted by law.
11
ARTICLE III
Wages, Hours & Working Conditions
1.	The wages, hours, terms and conditions of employment set forth in this agreement are hereby made part hereof.
2.	Except as otherwise provided herein, the wages set forth in Article XVII shall be effective as of October 1,2004, and all other terms and conditions shall become effective on the payroll date nearest to October 1.2004. As to all buildings later adopting this agreement, it shall take effect in accordance with Article X.
3.	No provision of this agreement shall be construed so as to lower any employee’s wage. If employees in any building had in effect on January 1,2002, a practice of terms or conditions better than those provided for herein, applicable generally to them for wages, hours, sick pay, vacations, holidays, premium pay for Saturday and/or Sunday work, relief periods, jury duty or group life insurance, such better terms or conditions shall be continued only for employees employed by the Employer on January 1,2002. Any employee who acquired a better term or condition after January 1,2002, shall continue to receive same. The arbitrator may relieve the obligations in the preceding sentences if enforcement would work an undue
12
hardship, injustice or inequity upon the Employer.
A change of schedules or duties except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Article, so long as required relief and luncheon periods are reasonably spaced, shall not violate this Section, provided the employee, the Union and the RAB are given at least one week’s advance written notice and such change is reasonable. However, every employee presently working a regular Monday through Friday workweek (and if such employee leaves his job for any reason whatever the person who fills his position) shall receive premium pay at time and one-half the regular straight-time hourly rate for any work performed by him on a Saturday or Sunday.
4.	All new employees may be offered and assigned to any cleaning duty in the building, provided that it does not exceed a reasonable day’s work.
Present office cleaning employees may be assigned to any cleaning duty on office floors provided (1) that the Employer give the Union three (3) weeks written notice of any new assignments except for temporary assignments, and (2) that the Employer shall not assign employees to workloads or work duties requiring unusual physical exertion, strength or dexterity. This provision shall not be applied by the Employer to substantially increase present
13
workloads or to substantially alter duties so as to require the employee to perform more than a reasonable day’s work.
If the Union grieves and/or arbitrates a dispute pursuant to this provision, the Employer in such arbitration shall have the burden of showing that only a reasonable day’s work as provided above is required of the employee.
ARTICLE IV
Management Rights
1.	The Union recognizes management’s rights to direct and control its policies subject to the obligations of this agreement.
2.	Employees will cooperate with management within the obligations of this agreement to facilitate efficient building operation.
3.	If any employee is unjustly discharged, he shall be reinstated to his former position without loss of seniority or rank and without salary reduction. The Joint Industry Grievance Committee or the Arbitrator may determine whether, and to what extent, the employee shall be compensated by the Employer for time lost.
4.	If an employee is removed from a location at the demand of a customer, the Employer may remove the employee from further employment at that location, provided there is a good faith reason to justify such removal, apart
14
from the demand itself. Unless the Employer has cause to discharge the employee, the Employer will place the employee in a similar job at another facility within the same county covered by this Agreement, without loss of entitlement seniority or reduction in pay or benefits and pay Displacement Pay to such employee equivalent to the Termination Pay Schedule set forth in Article XIX, Sec. 21 (a), but not less than two (2) weeks pay.
In the event an employee is transferred to another building and is not filling a vacant position, the Employer shall seek volunteers on the basis of seniority within the job title. If there are no volunteers, the junior employees shall be selected for transfer and receive the same Displacement Pay and protection afforded to the transferred employee.
ARTICLE V
Reduction in Force
1.	The Employer shall have the right to reduce its work force in the following circumstances, provided that it can establish that the changes listed below eliminate an amount of work similar to the proposed reduction in worker hours:
15
(a)	A change in work specifications or work assignment which results in a reduction of work
(b)	Elimination of all or part of specified work
(c)	Vacancies in building
(d)	Reconstruction of all or part of building
(e)	The tenant performing the work itself
(f)	Introduction of technological advances
(g)	Change in the nature or type of occupancy
2.	If the Employer desires to reduce its work force he is required, in addition to their accrued vacation credits and termination pay, if any, to give employees employed for one (1) year or more one (1) week’s notice of layoff or discharge, or in lieu thereof, an additional week’s pay. The Employer shall give four (4) weeks written notification to the Union and the RAB.
The Employer shall include in such notification the following:
(a)	Reason for reduction, specifying whether the reduction is being made pursuant to one or more of the reasons set forth in this Article.
(b)	If reduction is office cleaning work, notification should include work schedules showing hours, cleaning area footage and fre
16
quency of cleaning existing prior to the reduction and after the reduction.
(c)	If other work, notification should include the precise work to be eliminated, setting forth the man-hours spent on each task to be eliminated and the change in schedules and duties of remaining employees resulting from the reduction in force.
(d)	If the reduction is due to technological advances, the notice shall describe the technological advance; how it will reduce work, the number of man-hours or reduced work and the change in schedules and duties of remaining employees resulting from the reduction in force.
3.	In the event that a reduction in the work force is effected and the reason for the reduction in the work force ceases to exist, then the Employer shall reinstate the work force that existed prior to the reduction in force.
4.	If the Union grieves or arbitrates a dispute pursuant to this provision, the following shall apply:
(a)	The arbitration shall be expedited and in no event shall be scheduled and heard later than seven (7) calendar days after the Union’s request for arbitration.
17
(b)	The Employer shall affirmatively demonstrate that it has eliminated an amount of work similar to the reduction in worker hours.
(c)	The arbitrator shall issue his award within seven (7) calendar days after the close of the hearing.
(d)	There shall be no adjournments granted without mutual consent.
5.	(a) The Employer shall have the right to reduce the work force among employees working in its building pursuant to Article II of the Collective Bargaining Agreement provided that it can establish that the changes listed below eliminate an amount of work similar to the proposed reduction in worker hours:
(i)	vacancies in building;
(ii)	reconstruction of all or part of building;
(iii)	the tenant performing the work itself.
The Employer shall give four (4) weeks written notification to the Union and the RAB of any reduction in force. The notice should include the specific reason for the reduction and the number of worker hours being reduced.
Upon request of the Union, additional information with respect to changes in work assignments occasioned by the reduction shall be provided.
18
In the event that the four weeks notice provided for herein is not given and the Employer lays off employees pursuant to this provision, the Employer shall pay an amount equal to the laid-off employees’ wages and fringe benefits (including, but not limited to Pension, Health, Training, Legal and Supplemental Retirement and Savings Fund Contributions, Holidays, Vacation, Sick Pay and Premium Pay) for the period beginning with the layoff until four (4) weeks after the Employer notifies the Union or the issuance of a final arbitration award, whichever is sooner, but in no event less than four (4) weeks, even if the layoff is upheld by the arbitrator.
In the event that a reduction in work force is implemented and the reason for the reduction ceases to exist, the work force that existed prior to the reduction shall be restored.
(b) In the event that the Employer desires to implement a reduction in work force among employees working in its building pursuant to Article II of this agreement for any reason set forth in Article V, subsection 1, that is not provided for elsewhere, it may do so provided that it can demonstrate to a special committee consisting of the President of the Union, or his designee, and the President of the RAB, or his designee, that such reduction is justified. In making its determination, the Committee shall
19
existing productivity levels in the building and any other factors which the Committee may deem relevant. No reduction may be implemented without the unanimous agreement of the Committee. The decision of the Committee shall be final and binding and not reviewable under the arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
The Committee shall be convened upon the written request of the Employer. The written request must be made to the President of the Union and the President of the RAB by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). The Committee must be convened within sixty (60) days of the receipt of such written request. In the event that the Committee is not convened in the sixtieth (60th) day and the Employer is still requesting a reduction in force, it shall serve another written notice on the Committee members by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) that it intends to implement the reduction within ten (10) days. If the Committee does not convene within ten (10) days after such notice (except for adjournments requested by the Employer) the reduction in force may be implemented in such manner as provided herein .whether the requested reduction is accompanied by a corresponding reduction in work, existing productivity levels in the building and any other factors which the Committee may deem rele
20
vant. No reduction may be implemented without the unanimous agreement of the Committee. The decision of the Committee shall be final and binding and not reviewable under the arbitration provisions of this Agreement
This provision shall apply to all employees employed pursuant to Article II of this Agreement notwithstanding any provisions of any other collective bargaining agreement.
6. In the event that the four weeks notice provided for herein is not given and the Employer lays off employees pursuant to this provision, the Employer shall pay an amount equal to the laid-off employees’ wages and fringe benefits (including, but not limited to Pension, Health, Training, Legal and Supplemental Retirement and Savings Fund Contributions, Holidays, Vacation, Sick Pay and Premium Pay) for the period beginning with the layoff until four (4) weeks after the Employer notifies the Union or the issuance of a final arbitration award, whichever is sooner, but in no event less than four (4) weeks, even if the layoff is upheld by the arbitrator.
The fact that payment of employees’ wages and fringe benefits are provided for herein shall in no way be construed as a limitation of the arbitrator’s power and authority under other provisions of this Agreement.
21
ARTICLE VI Reason for Discharge
Any employee who is discharged shall be furnished a written statement of reason(s) for such discharge no later than five (5) working days after the date of discharge.
ARTICLE VII
Grievance Procedure
There shall be a Joint Industry Grievance Committee and a grievance procedure:
1.	To try to decide all issues not covered by, and not inconsistent with, any provision of this agreement and which are not required to be arbitrated under its terms.
2.	To try to decide without arbitration any issues between the parties which under this agreement they must submit to the Arbitrator.
3.	The grievance may first be taken up between the representative of management and a representative of the Union. If it is not settled, it may be filed for arbitration.
4.	All Union claims are brought by the Union alone and no individual shall have the right to compromise or settle any claim without the written permission of the Union.
22
5.	Any matter submitted to arbitration shall be simultaneously submitted to the Joint Industry Grievance Committee,
6.	The Committee shall be composed of representatives of the Union and the RAB, who may be present at any meeting. If the Committee meeting is not held before the arbitration date, the meeting will be cancelled. It shall be the function of the Committee to seek and encourage settlement of all disputes brought before it.
7.	Any grievance, except as otherwise provided herein and except a grievance involving basic wage violations and Pension, Health, Legal, Training and Supplemental Savings and Retirement contributions, shall be presented to the RAB in writing within 120 days of its occurrence, except for grievances involving suspension without pay or discharge which shall be presented within 45 days, unless the Employer agrees to an extension. The Arbitrator shall have the authority to extend the above time limitations for good cause shown.
ARTICLE VIII
Arbitration •
1.	A Contract Arbitrator shall have the power to decide all differences arising between
23
the parties as to interpretation, application or performance of any part of this agreement, and such other issues as are expressly required to be arbitrated before him, including such issues as may be initiated by the Trustees of the Funds.
2.	A hearing shall be initially scheduled within two (2) to fifteen (15) working days after either the Union or the RAB has served written notice upon the Office of the Contract Arbitrator, with copy to the other party, of any issue to be submitted. The Arbitrator’s oathtaking, and the period, and the requirements for service of notice in the form prescribed by statute are hereby waived. A written award shall be made by the Arbitrator within ten (10) days after the hearing closes. If an award is not timely rendered, either the Union or the RAB may demand in writing of him that the award must be made within ten (10) more days. If no decision is rendered within that time, either the Union or the RAB may notify the Arbitrator of the termination of his office as to all issues submitted to him in that proceeding. By mutual consent of the Union and the RAB, the time of both the hearing and decision may be extended in a particular case. If a party, after due written notice, defaults in appearing before the Arbitrator, an award may be rendered upon the testimony of the other party.
24
No more than one adjournment per party shall be granted by the Arbitrator without consent of the opposing party.
There shall be an expedited arbitration procedure where the contract so provides which shall require the Arbitrator to hear and determine the matter within four (4) weeks after the demand for arbitration is filed.
Due written notice means mailing, faxing or hand delivery to the address of the Employer furnished to the Union by the RAB.
In the event that the Union appears at an arbitration without the grievant, the Arbitrator shall conduct the hearing, provided it is not adjourned. The Arbitrator shall decide the case based upon the evidence adduced at the hearing.
3,	The procedure herein with respect to matters over which a Contract Arbitrator has jurisdiction shall be the sole and exclusive method for the determination of all such issues, and the Arbitrator shall have the power to award appropriate remedies, the award being final and binding upon the parties and the employee(s) or Employer(s) involved. Nothing herein shall be construed to forbid either party from resorting to court for relief from, or to enforce rights under, any award. In any proceeding to confirm an award of the Arbitrator,
25
service may be made by registered or certified mail, within or without the State of New York, as the case may be.
4.	Should either party fail to abide by an arbitration award within two weeks after such award is sent by registered or certified mail to the parties, either party may, in its sole and absolute discretion, take any action necessary to secure such award including but not limited to suits at law. Should either party bring such suit, it shall be entitled, if it succeeds, to receive from the other party all expenses for counsel fees and court costs.
5.	Grievants attending grievances and arbitrations shall be paid for their regularly scheduled hours during such attendance.
6.	If a grievant requires an employee of the building to be a witness at the hearing and the Employer adjourns the hearing, the employee witness shall be paid by the Employer for his regularly scheduled hours during attendance at such hearing. This provision shall be limited to one employee witness.
7.	The RAB shall be deemed a party to any proceeding under this article.
8.	The parties have agreed to an Office of the Contract Arbitrator-Building Service Industry. The Union and the RAB have appointed the following Panel of Arbitrators:
26
John Anner Stuart Bauchner Noel Berman Nicholas Cooney John Dorsey Howard C. Edelman Robert J. Herzog Theodore H. Lang Marilyn M. Levine Randi Lowitt Earl Pfeffer William Schecter Bernard Young
Upon thirty (30) days written notice to each other, either the Union or the RAB may terminate the services of any Arbitrator on the panel. Successor or additional Arbitrators shall be appointed by mutual agreement of the Union and the RAB. In the event of the removal, death or resignation of all of the Arbitrators, the successors or temporary substitute shall be chosen by the Union and the RAB. If the parties are unable to agree on a successor, then the Chairman of the New York State Employment Relations Board shall appoint a successor after consultation with the parties.
The cost of the Office of the Contract Arbitrator shall be shared in a manner determined by the Union and the RAB.
27
ARTICLE IX
No Strikes or Lockouts
1.	There shall be no work stoppage, strike, lockout or picketing except as provided in Sections 2,3, and 4 of this Article. If this provision is violated, the matter may be submitted immediately to the Arbitrator.
In the event of an alleged violation of this Article, the RAB or the Union may, by hand delivery or by facsimile, request an immediate arbitration. The Office of the Contract Arbitrator shall schedule a hearing on the alleged violation within 24 hours after receipt of said notice. The Arbitrator shall issue an award determining whether or not said alleged strike or lockout is in violation of the collective bargaining agreement and award appropriate remedy. This is a procedural provision intended only to bring the arbitration on more quickly.
2.	If a judgment or Arbitrator’s award against the Employer for Health, Pension, Training, Legal and Supplemental Retirement and Savings Fund payment or wages or an award or judgment against a contractor for these or other payments is not complied with within three (3) weeks after such award is sent by registered or certified mail to the Employer or contractor at his last known address, the Union may order a stoppage of work, strike or
28
picketing in the building involved to enforce the award or judgment, and it may also thereby compel payment of lost wages to any employee engaged in such activity. Upon compliance with the award and/or judgment and payment of lost wages, such activity shall cease.
3.	Except as otherwise provided in this Article, should either party fail to abide by an arbitration award within three (3) weeks after such award is sent by registered or certified mail to the parties, either party may, in its sole and absolute discretion, bring an action at law to enforce such award. Should either party commence such suit, it shall be entitled, if it succeeds, to receive from the other party all reasonable expenses for counsel fees and court costs. Should either party fail to abide by an arbitration award and fail to commence an action in court to vacate such award within three (3) weeks after such award is served as provided above, the aggrieved party shall have the right to strike and compel payment of lost wages to any employee engaged in strike activity or lockout without affecting the other terms and conditions of the Agreement.
4.	The Union may order a work stoppage, strike or picketing in a building where work previously performed by members of the Union or within the Union’s jurisdiction is being performed by persons outside of the bargaining unit anywhere in the building, provided that 72
29
hours written notice is given either by hand delivery or by facsimile to the Employer and the RAB of the Union’s intention to do so.
5.	The Union shall not be held liable for any violation of this Article where it appears that is has taken all reasonable steps to avoid and end the violation.
ARTICLE X
Multi-Employer Bargaining
1.	Employers on the Master List submitted by the RAB to the Union at the commencement of the negotiations shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
All buildings listed by the RAB must pay scale wages and other terms and conditions of employment in accordance with the RAB Agreement prior to the expiration of this agreement except that in Nassau and Suffolk Counties wage rates and benefit fund contributions shall be negotiated separately.
2.	If there is a bona fide sale or other transfer of title of any member building, or a change of control through a lease, or in the case of non-corporate ownership, if any person or persons completely divest themselves of ownership or control by any arrangement, the successors in ownership or control may, unless
30
they have otherwise indicated their intention not to be bound by this agreement, join the RAB and adopt the contract within 45 days after such acquisition, provided:
(a)	The building is not already bound by another agreement.
(b)	Written notice is given to the Union within 5 days after joining the RAB. Notice shall be given by hand delivery or postmarked not later than the fifth business day.
(c)	If the building was covered by an agreement, (1) during such period there is no layoff or change in wages, hours, terms or conditions of employment therein; (2) the new owner or transferee recognizes employee seniority and vacation status; (3) all obligations to employees, and those pursuant to the Health, Pension, Training, Legal and/or Supplemental Retirement and Savings Funds, are fully paid up to the transfer date; and (4) provision is made to pay retroactively any wage underpayments resulting from the building’s improper classification under Article XVI. Any adoption by the Employer shall be deemed to be effective on the date of sale.
(d)	A building being converted to cooperative or condominium ownership shall be treated as a newly acquired building upon the effective date of the declaration of the cooperative or
31
condominium plan or transfer of title, or upon the transfer of shares to the first cooperative owners or the sale of first condominium unit, whichever is later.
(e)	Any Employer signatory to an agreement with the Union other than this Agreement shall remain bound to the terms of that agreement until its expiration date. If such Employer joins the RAB, it may adopt the RAB contract and be fully covered by the terms of the RAB Agreement after expiration of its other agreement and before execution of a new contract provided:
(1	) Notice in writing is given to the Union of such adoption prior to the expiration of the other contract,
(2	) Such Employer is not in default under the other contract, and
(3	) The RAB approves such membership.
3.	With respect to newly organized, newly constructed buildings, or remodeled buildings that are tenant occupied, the Employer shall have forty-five (45) days to file a commitment to this Agreement after the Union serves a representation notice on the employer with a showing of majority status of the existing employees, with a copy to the RAB.
32
Where the time limits provided for in this Article are not complied with, this Agreement shall not be applicable to such building unless the Union agrees to same in writing.
4.	This Article notwithstanding, the Union may refuse to accept any building: (a) until it represents a majority of the building service employees; (b) where contributions for Pension, Health, Training, Legal and/or Supplemental Retirement and Savings Funds are in default for three (3) months or more from the date payment was due; (c) where an award of the Arbitrator has not been complied with; (d) the Employer is in violation of an existing labor agreement with the Service Employees International Union elsewhere in the City of New York, the counties of Nassau or Suffolk; or (e) the Union may not refuse to accept a building where during the term of this or the preceding Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Employer has taken a building whose employees are represented by the Union and in which building it has instituted a reduction in force or changed existing conditions of employment, provided that the Employer has done so in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement. This provision shall not be construed as relieving the Employer from any other obligations under this Agreement. The right of refusal shall not be exercised in order to require the building to become a party to any
33
other agreement. Before so refusing any building or taking any further action, the Union shall notify the RAB in writing.
5.	In the event that the Union enters into a contract, or contracts, or enters into renewals or modifications of a contract, or contracts with any Employer(s) covering commercial buildings which contain new or revised economic terms or other conditions which are effective on or after October 1,2004, which economic terms or conditions are more favorable to such Employees) than the terms contained in this Agreement, the RAB and all its member buildings shall be entitled to and may have the full benefit of any and all of such more favorable terms, upon notification to the Union. This provision may be waived in writing for good cause shown by the President of the RAB or his designee and the President of the Union or his designee.
Upon request of the President of the RAB, the Union shall provide copies of any agreements outside of Brooklyn, Manhattan, Staten Island or Queens that are more favorable to the Employer than the terms of this Agreement.
In buildings where wage rates under the category of “others” prior to October 1,2004, were lower than those provided for in the 2002 Commercial Building Agreement, wage increases agreed to by the Union and the Employers covering said buildings on or after
34
October 1, 2004, shall not be construed as “more favorable” within the meaning of this Article unless the percentage increase in wages of the “others” category is lower than that provided for in this Agreement. This provision shall not apply to:
(a)	Newly organized buildings during their first contract period;
(b)	Buildings in bankruptcy;
(c)	Buildings in receivership;
(d)	Employees who are solely and exclusively security guards;
(e)	One-person buildings; and
(f)	Hardship buildings granted relief in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(g)	Buildings located outside Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island.
The Union shall furnish the RAB a list of present agreements which are more favorable to the Employer than this Agreement.
Any Employer claiming financial hardship in operating a building may request a hearing before a Special Committee consisting of the President of the Union or his designee and the President of the RAB or his designee. At such hearing, the Employer shall present proof of financial hardship, including, without limita
35
tion, financial statements. The Committee may grant or deny in whole or in part relief from the provisions of this contract. This provision shall not be subject to grievance and arbitration.
ARTICLE XI
Health, Pension, Training, Legal And Supplemental Retirement and Savings Funds
A.	HEALTH FUND
1.	The Employer agrees to make payments into a health trust fund, known as the “Building Service 32BJ Health Fund,” to cover employees covered by this agreement who work more than two (2) days in each workweek, including such employees of other Employers in or connected with the industry for whom contributions are paid, with health benefits under such provisions, rules and regulations as may be determined by the Trustees of the Fund, as provided in the Agreement and Declaration of Trust; provided, however, that the Employer may, by making the required payments into the Fund, cover such other of his employees as he may elect, and provided such coverage is in compliance with law and the Trust Agreement.
Employees who are on workers’ compensation or who are receiving disability benefits or
36
disability pension shall be covered by the Health Fund until they may be covered by Medicare or thirty months from the date of disability, whichever is earlier.
In no event shall any employee who was previously covered for Health Benefits lose such coverage as a result of the change in this provision, and the Employer shall be obligated to make contributions for such employees.
2.	Effective January 1,2005, the Employer shall contribute to the Fund $8,710.64 per year for each employee, payable when and how the Trustees determine, to cover employees and their dependent families with health benefits as agreed by the collective bargaining parties, and under such provisions, rules and regulations as may be determined by the Trustees.
For the period October 1,2004 to December 31, 2004 (the “stub period”), there shall be a one time lump sum payment of $494.00 that shall be paid by the Employer for each covered employee at any time between October 1,2004 and March 31,2005 (the accrual date). Only one Employer shall be required to make the contribution for any covered employee for the stub period, which, unless the contribution is made earlier, shall be the Employer of the employee as of the accrual date.
37
3.	Effective January 1,2006, the rate of contribution to the Fund shall be $9,750.64 per year.
4.	Effective January 1,2007, the rate of contribution to the Fund shall be $10,790.64 per year.
5.	Except as qualified by Article III, Section 3, of this agreement with respect to group life insurance, any Employer who has a plan in effect prior to the effective date of this agreement which provides health benefits, the equivalent or better than, the benefits provided for herein, and the cost of which to the Employer is at least as great, may cover his employees under its existing plan or under this Fund. If the Trustees decide the existing plan does not provide health benefits superior to one or more types of health benefits under this Fund, the Employer may participate in the Fund wholly, or partially for hospitalization and/or surgical coverage, and make its payments to the Fund in the amount determined by the Trustees uniformly for all similarly participating Employers.
If any future applicable legislation is enacted, there shall be no duplication or cumulation of coverage and the parties will negotiate such changes as may be required by law.
38
6.	If during the term of this agreement, the Trustees find the payment provided herein is insufficient to maintain benefits and adequate reserves for such benefits, they shall require the parties to increase the amounts needed to maintain such benefits and reserves. In the event the Trustees are unable to reach agreement on the amount required to maintain benefits and reserves, the matter shall be referred to arbitration.
The President of the Union and the President of the RAB may determine, in their discretion, prior to the beginning of the contract years beginning January 1, 2006, and January 1, 2007, to divert any portion of the scheduled increases in the annual rate of Employer Health Fund contributions to the Training Fund and/or the Legal Fund.
B.	PENSION FUND
1.	The Building Service 32BJ Pension Fund shall continue in force and effect in accordance with its provisions, which include the power of its Trustees to revise the amounts of the pension benefits and the conditions under which benefits will be paid, and to continue to cover such employees of other Employers in or connected with the industry for whom contributions are paid, provided such coverage is in compliance with law and the Trust Agreement.
39
Employees unable to work and who are on disability benefits or workers’ compensation shall continue to accrue pension benefits during the periods of disability up to six (6) months or the period of the disability whichever is sooner.
2.	Effective January 1,2005, the Employer shall pay into the Fund the sum of $43.75 per week for every regular employee as defined in the Building Service Pension Plan, as it may be amended, except as provided in Section 3 hereof.
Effective January 1, 2006, the Employer shall pay into the Fund the sum of $49.75 for every regular employee.
Effective January 1, 2007, the Employer shall pay into the Fund the sum of $58.75 for every regular employee.
3.	If the Employer has in effect a pension and retirement plan which has been determined to provide benefits equivalent or superior to those provided under the Building Service 32BJ Pension Plan, it may continue such plan provided it continues to provide retirement benefits equivalent or superior to the benefits that are provided under the Building Service 32BJ Pension Plan during the term of this agreement, and it shall be relieved of any obligation to make payments into the Fund.
40
4.	If the Employer has an existing plan as referred to above, it shall not discontinue or reduce benefits without prior Trustee approval and shall remain obligated to the employee(s) for whatever benefits they may be entitled.
5.	In no event shall the trustees or any of them, the Union or the RAB, directly or indirectly, by reason of this agreement, be understood to consent to the extinguishment, change or diminution of any legal rights, vested or otherwise, that anyone may have in the continuation in existing form of any such Employer pension plan, and the Trustees or any of them, the Union and the RAB shall be held harmless by an Employer against any action brought by anyone covered under such Employer’s plan asserting a claim based upon anything done pursuant to Section 4 of this Article. Notice of the pendency of any such action shall be given the Employer who may defend the action on behalf of the indemnitee.
C.	TRAINING, SCHOLARSHIP AND SAFETY FUND
The Employer agrees to contribute to a Fund which will be administered as part of the Thomas Shortman Training, Scholarship and Safety Fund. Effective January 1,2005, the rate of contributions to the Thomas Shortman Fund shall be $145.60 per year for each employee.
41
D.	GROUP PREPAID LEGAL FUND
Effective January 1, 2005, the Employer agrees to contribute $223.60 per year to the Prepaid Legal Fund payable as the Trustees determine.
E.	SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS FUND (SRSF)
Effective January 1, 2005, the Employer shall contribute $13.00 per week per employee into the SRSF.
F.	PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL
FUNDS
1.	If the Employer fails to make required reports or payments to the Funds, the Trustees may in their sole and absolute discretion take any action necessary, including but not limited to immediate arbitration and suits at law, to enforce such reports and payments, together with interest and liquidated damages as provided in the Funds’ trust agreements, and any and all expenses of collection, including but not limited to counsel fees, arbitration costs and fees and court costs.
Any Employer regularly or consistently delinquent in Health, Pension, Legal, Training or Supplemental Retirement and Savings Fund payments may be required, at the option of the Trustees of the Funds to provide the appropri
42
ate Trust Fund with security guaranteeing prompt payment of such payments.
2.	The Trustees of the Funds shall make such amendments to the Trust Agreements, and shall adopt such regulations as may be required to conform to applicable law, and which shall in any case provide that employees whose work comes within the jurisdiction of the Union (which shall not be considered to include anyone in an important managerial position) may only be covered for benefits if the building in which they are employed has a collective bargaining agreement with the Union. Any dispute about the Union’s jurisdiction shall be settled by the President of the Union and the RAB’s President.
3.	Employees hired on or after April 1, 1996, shall have a waiting period of three months before becoming eligible to be participants in the Funds and no contribution shall be made on behalf of the employees over the three-month period.
ARTICLE XII Disability Benefits Law Unemployment Insurance Law
1.	The Employer shall cover its employees so that they shall receive maximum weekly
43
cash benefits provided under the New York State Disability Benefits Law on a non-contrib-utory basis, and also under the New York State Unemployment Insurance Law, whether or not such coverages are mandatory.
2.	Failure to so cover employees makes the Employer liable to an employee for all loss of benefits and insurance.
3.	The Employer will cooperate with employees in processing their claims and shall supply ail necessary forms, properly addressed, and shall post adequate notice of places for filing claims.
4.	If the employee informs the Employer he is requesting workers’ compensation benefits, then no sick leave shall be paid to such employee unless he specifically requests in writing payment of such leave. If an employee informs the Employer he is requesting disability benefits, then only five days sick leave shall be paid to such employee (if he has that amount unused) unless he specifically requests in writing payment of additional available sick leave.
5.	Any employee required to attend his Workers’ Compensation hearing shall be paid for his regularly scheduled hours during such attendance.
44
6.	Any cost incurred by the Union to enforce the provisions of this article shall be borne by the Employer.
7.	The Parties agree to establish a committee under the auspices of the Building Service 32BJ Health Fund to investigate and report on the feasibility of self-insuring disability and unemployment benefits.
ARTICLE XIII
Sickness Benefits
1.	Any regular employee with at least one (1) year of service (as defined in Section 4 below) in the building or with the same Employer, shall receive in a calendar year from the Employer ten (10) paid sick days for bona fide illness.
Any employee entitled to sickness benefits shall be allowed four (4) single days of paid sick leave per year taken in single days. The remaining six (6) days of paid sick leave may be paid either for illnesses of more than one (1) day’s duration or may be counted as unused sick leave days.
The employee shall receive the above sick pay whether or not such illness is covered by the New York State Disability Benefits Law or the New York State Workers’ Compensation
45
Act; however, there shall be no pyramiding or duplication of Disability Benefits and/or Workers’ Compensation Benefits with sick pay.
2.	An employee absent from duty due to illness only on a scheduled workday immediately before and/or only on the scheduled workday immediately after a holiday shall not be eligible for sick pay for said absent workday or workdays.
3.	Employees who have continued employment to the end of the calendar year and have not used all sickness benefits shall be paid in the succeeding January, one full day’s pay for each unused sick day.
Any employee who has a perfect attendance record for the calendar year shall receive an attendance bonus of $125.00 in addition to payment of the unused sick days.
For the purpose of this provision—perfect attendance shall mean that the employee has not used any sick days; except that any sick day or unpaid leave that qualifies under the Family and Medical Leave Act shall not be considered in determining perfect attendance.
If an Employer fails to pay an employee before the end of February, then such Employer shall pay one additional day’s pay unless the Employer challenges the entitlement or amount due.
46
4.	For the purpose of this Article, one (1) year’s employment shall be reached on the anniversary date of employment.
Employees who complete one (1) year of service after January 1, shall receive a pro rata share of sickness benefits for the balance of the calendar year.
A “regular” employee shall be defined as one who is a full- or part-time employee employed on a regular schedule. Those employed less than forty (40) hours a week on a regular basis shall receive a pro rata portion of sickness benefits provided herein computed on a forty (40) hour workweek.
5.	All payments set forth in this Article are voluntarily assumed by the Employer, in consideration of concessions made by the Union with respect to various other provisions of this agreement, and any such payment shall be deemed to be a voluntary contribution or aid within the meaning of any applicable statutory provisions.
ARTICLE XIV
Building Acquisition by Public Authority
Where a building is acquired by a public authority of any nature through condemnation,
47
purchase or otherwise, the last owner shall guarantee the payment of termination pay and of accrued vacations due to the employees up to the date of transfer of title. The Union will, however, seek to have such authority assume the obligations for payments. If unsuccessful and the last owner becomes liable for such payments, the amounts thereof shall be liens upon any condemnation award or on any amount received by such last owner.
ARTICLE XV
Sale or Transfer of Building
In the event an Employer intends to terminate his employer-employee relationship under this Agreement, then the Employer shall give the Union and the RAB reasonable written notice prior to the effective date thereof, and upon the request of the Union the Employer shall meet with the Union to negotiate the impact of such termination upon the employees involved. The obligation to negotiate shall be subject to arbitration but failure to agree on the impact shall not be subject to arbitration.
In the event of a change of Employers in a building, the RAB shall use its best efforts to have the succeeding Employer join the RAB and become bound by the terms of this Agreement.
48
In the event an Employer terminates an employee or employees because of a change in ownership, operation or control of a building or buildings, and such employee(s) are not offered employment or are not employed by the succeeding Employer in the building or buildings at the then existing wages, hours and working conditions, the terminated employee(s) shall receive severance pay in the amount of six (6) months’ pay, in addition to any other accrued payments due under this Agreement.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to limit or diminish in any way the Union’s right to enforce this agreement against any transferee pursuant to applicable law concerning rules of successorship or otherwise; nor limit or diminish in any way the Union’s or any employee’s right to institute proceedings pursuant to the provisions of State or Federal labor relations laws, or any statutes, rules or regulations which may be applicable.
ARTICLE XVI
Building Classifications
1.	Buildings are classified as A, B, or C buildings according to the following definitions:
49
a)	Class A building—Gross area of more than 280,000 square feet.
b)	Class B building—Gross area of more than 120,000 and not over 280,000 square feet.
c)	Class C building—Gross area of less than 120,000 square feet.
2.	Gross area of a LOFT building is the sum total of areas existing on the various floors of a loft building, including the basement space, but excluding that portion of the penthouse used for the machinery and appurtenances of the building and that portion of the basement used for the public utilities and general operation of the property.
Gross area of an entire floor shall be computed by measuring from the inside plaster surfaces of all exterior walls of space encompassed in a tenant’s premises, including columns, corridors, toilets, slop sinks, elevator shafts, etc., except that space reserved for the fire tower court.
3.	Gross area of an OFFICE building is the sum total of areas existing on the various floors of the building, including the basement space, but excluding that portion of the penthouse used for the machinery and appurtenances of the building and that portion of the basement
50
used for the public utilities and general operation of the property.
Gross area of an entire floor shall be computed by measuring from the inside plaster surface of all exterior walls of space used by the tenant on the floor, including columns and corridors, but excluding toilets, porters’ closets, slop sinks, elevator shafts, stairs, fire towers, vents, pipe shafts, meter closets, flues and stacks, and any vertical shafts and their enclosing walls. No deductions shall be made for columns, pilasters, or projections necessary to the building.
ARTICLE XVII Wages and Hours
1. (a) Effective January 1,2006, each employee covered hereunder shall receive a wage increase of $.25 for each regular straight-time hour worked.
(b)	Effective July 1, 2006, each employee covered hereunder shall receive a wage increase of $.175 for each regular straight-time hour worked.
(c)	Effective January 1, 2007, each employee covered hereunder shall receive a wage increase of $.25 for each regular straight-time hour worked.
51
(d)	Effective July 1, 2007, each employee covered hereunder shall receive a wage increase of $.25 for each regular straight-time hour worked.
(e)	Additionally, the minimum hourly rate differential for handypersons, forepersons, starters (which shall include all employees doing similar or comparable work by whatever title known), shall be increased by $.025 effective January 1, 2006, an additional $.025 effective July 1, 2006, an additional $.025 effective January 1, 2007, and an addtional $.025 effective July 1,2007, for each regular straight-time hour worked.
Minimum wage rates shall be increased accordingly to reflect the above increases in each category of work.
(f)	Effective January 1,2006, in the event that the percentage increase in the cost of living [Consumer Price Index for the City of New York-Metropolitan Area (New York-New Jersey) Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers] from November 2004 to November 2005, exceeds 6.5%, then, in that event, an increase of $.10 per hour for each full 1% increase in the cost of living in excess of 6.5% shall be granted effective for the first full workweek commencing after January 1,2006. In no event shall said increase pursuant to this provision exceed $.20 per hour. In computing
52
increases in the cost of living above 6.5%, less than .5% shall be ignored and increases of .5% or more shall be considered a full point. Any increases hereunder shall be added to the minimum.
Effective January 1,2007, in the event that the percentage increase in the cost of living [Consumer Price Index for the City of New York-Metropolitan Area (New York-New Jersey) Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers] from November 2005 to November 2006 exceeds 6%, then, in that event, an increase of $.10 per hour for each full 1% increase in the cost of living in excess of 6% shall be granted effective for the first full workweek commencing after January 1,2007. In no event shall said increase pursuant to this provision exceed $.20 per hour. In computing increases in the cost of Jiving above 6%, less than .5% shall be ignored and increases of .5% or more shall be considered a full point. Any increases hereunder shall be added to the minimum.
2. (a) The standard workweek shall consist of five (5) consecutive days Monday through Sunday and shall not exceed eight (8) hours in any one day.
Overtime at the rate of time and one-half the regular straight-time hourly rate shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8)
53
hours per day or forty (40) hours per week, whichever is greater. A paid holiday shall be considered as a day worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay. There shall be no split shifts.
(b)	Employees on the payroll on or before January 1, 1978, shall not have their scheduled hours reduced. Employees on the payroll on or before January 1, 1978, shall not have their scheduled hours increased by more than one (1) hour a day without written consent of the Union. Where feasible the additional hour shall be applied to the first part of the work schedule. The Employer shall give the Union three (3) weeks written notice of any change of scheduled hours except in case of temporary changes. This provision shall not prevent the Employer from working employees overtime. Employees employed after January 1, 1978, shall work such hours as may be assigned by the Employer provided they are not less than five (5) hours a day and five (5) consecutive days a week except for guards as defined in this agreement.
(c)	The weekly working hours for elevator operators and starters shall include two twenty (20) minute relief periods each day, but shall exclude luncheon recess of not less than forty-five (45) minutes or more than one (1) hour each day.
54
Employees, other than those referred to in the paragraph above, the majority of whose hours fall between 7 P.M. and 6 A.M., shall receive a fifteen (15) minute relief/lunch period. At the option of the Employer, the employees who work seven (7) hours or more per day shall, in addition to their regular pay for scheduled hours, receive either additional straight-time pay for one-half (1/2) hour or be relieved one-half (1/2) hour earlier. For those employees working six (6) hours per day, they shall receive an additional twenty-five (25) minutes straight-time pay or be relieved twenty-five (25) minutes earlier. For those employees working five (5) hours per day, they shall receive an additional fifteen (15) minutes straight-time pay or be relieved fifteen (15) minutes earlier. This change shall in no way affect the overtime provisions of the contract, nor affect the Employer’s right to reschedule hours to provide necessary continuity of coverage.
(d)	Where through absenteeism there are insufficient employees to service the building the Employer may (1) request employees to work additional time over and above their work schedule on a voluntary basis or (2) employ additional or extra employees to perform the work. Additional time over and above the normal work schedules shall not be mandatory unless the Employer cannot satisfactorily fill
55
the work requirements on a voluntary basis. In such event, work over and above the regular work schedule shall be assigned in reverse order of seniority.
(e)	Every employee shall be entitled to two (2) consecutive days off in any seven (7) days, and any work performed on such days shall be considered overtime and paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
(f)	No employee shall have his working hours reduced in order to effect a corresponding reduction in pay. This provision shall not apply to relief employees.
3.	The Employers in the industry shall meet and confer with the Union to attempt to reschedule employees’ quitting time to enable groups of night workers, when practicable, to leave work during times so that they can arrive home safely. Upon failure to agree, the matter may be referred to RAB and the Union collective bargaining committees for further discussion.
4.	Saturday and Sunday are premium days for all employees (excluding guards hired on or after January 1, 1978) and work performed on such days shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular straight-time hourly rate of pay.
56
In determining whether an employee’s work shift is to be considered as falling on Saturday or Sunday, for the purpose of premium pay, it is understood that the meaning of Saturday or Sunday work shall be the same as now applies or, where there is no such practice, shall be based upon the holiday premium pay practice.
5.	Any employee called in to work by the Employer for any time not consecutive with his regular schedule shall be paid for at least four (4) hours of overtime.
6.	Employees required to work overtime shall be paid at least one hour at the overtime rate, except for employees working overtime due to absenteeism or lateness.
7.	Any employee who has worked eight hours a day and is required to work at least four hours of overtime in that day, shall be given a $15.00 meal allowance.
8.	Any employee classified as “other” who substitutes for an absent “foreperson” for more than four (4) hours shall receive the “foreperson” wage rate for the entire shift.
Any employee who spends one full week or more performing work in a higher paying category shall receive the higher rate of pay for such service.
57
9.	No overtime shall be given for disciplinary purposes. An Employer shall not require an employee to work an excessive amount of overtime.
10.	The Employer agrees to use its best efforts to provide a minimum of sixteen hours off between shifts for its employees.
11.	The regularly assigned Fire Safety Director, appointed by the Employer and certified by the Fire Department, shall he naid a lump-sum bonus of $500.00 per year on December 1 of each calendar year. This shall not include a relief person or temporary replacement.
If more than one person serves in the same Fire Safety Director position during the year, the bonus shall be pro-rated.
The Employer shall have the right to designate the Fire Safety Director.
ARTICLE XVH1 Superintendents
A.	COVERAGE
This article shall apply only to Commercial Building Superintendents who were previously covered by a collective bargaining agreement
58
between Local 164, Service Employees International Union, and their Employer(s).
B.	WAGES AND HOURS
Effective January 1,2006, Superintendents covered by this Agreement shall receive a $12.50 weekly wage increase.
Effective July 1,2006, Superintendents covered hereunder shall receive a weekly wage increase of $9.50.
Effective January 1,2007, Superintendents covered hereunder shall receive a weekly wage increase of $12,50.
Effective July 1, 2007, Superintendents covered hereunder shall receive a weekly wage increase of $12.50.
Minimum wage rates shall be increased accordingly to reflect the above increases.
Cost of living increases, if any, granted to employees under Article XVII of this Agreement shall be granted to the Superintendents in the same amounts and on the same effective date.
The Superintendent shall be entitled to two (2) days off in each workweek, one of which shall be Sunday, and any work performed on either of these days shall be paid for at the rate
59
of time and one-half the regular straight-time rate for all hours worked.
Saturday shall continue to be a premium day and any work performed on this day shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half the regular straight-time hourly rate of pay.
C.	WORKING CONDITIONS
1.	Any replacement Superintendent shall receive the contract wage, except where it includes extra pay attributable to years of service, special competence or special consideration beyond job requirements.
2.	The Superintendent shall not be required to: (a) renew cables on elevators or build block or hollow tile walls, (b) run elevators except during relief period, lunch period, and emergencies and except that in any building employing three or less employees during the daytime, exclusive of the Superintendent, the Superintendent in such buildings shall do all the duties which he has heretofore been accustomed to do, (c) do any porter work except in a building employing three employees or less during the daytime, exclusive of the Superintendent, in which case he should continue to do work he has heretofore performed, (d) perform work on a scaffold that is not directly over a roof, setback, or within the building, (e) perform work on the inside of any fuel oil,
60
pressure or hermetically sealed tank, (f) build cutting tables, machine stands or dress racks, or (g) do any work that conflicts with State, Federal or Municipal laws.
3.	The Superintendent shall not be penalized or discriminated against for attending arbitrations, hearings or meetings, but this privilege shall not be construed so as to interfere with the orderly operation of the building.
4.	There may be added to the duties of the Superintendent more or less miscellaneous and relief work for which his additional compensation distinguishes him from other classes of workers on the premises, subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures provided herein.
5.	The Arbitrator may consider exceptional cases in which the Union claims that excessive work or the utilization of unique skills or painting is required of the Superintendent and may relieve the Superintendent of, or require additional compensation for, such excessive work.
6.	No Superintendent leaving his position of his own accord shall be entitled to accrued vacation allowance unless he has given the Employer at least thirty (30) days written termination notice.
7.	The Union may question the propriety of the termination of the Superintendent’s services and demand his reinstatement to his job or
61
severance pay, if any, as the case may be, by filing a grievance under Article VII of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall give due consideration to the Superintendent’s management responsibilities and to the need for cooperation between the Superintendent and the Employer.
8.	No provision of this Agreement shall be so construed as to reduce the wages or lower the rate of pay of the Superintendent or to lower or worsen the terms or conditions of his employment. This provision shall not be construed as to in any way prevent the exercise by the Employer of his normal management prerogatives to make changes in equipment, schedules, shifts, number of employees and duties necessary and incident to the operation, maintenance and servicing of the building not inconsistent with the letter or the spirit of any other specific provision of this Agreement.
9.	Wherever a conflict may exist between the 2002 Commercial Building Agreement and terms of this article, the terms of this article shall prevail.
62
ARTICLE XIX
General Clauses
1.	Differentials
Existing wage differentials among classes of workers within a building shall be maintained.
It is recognized that wage differentials other than those required herein may exist or arise because of wages above the minima required by this Agreement. No change in such differentials shall be considered a violation of this Agreement unless it appears that it results from an attempt to break down the wage structure for the building.
Where an employee possesses considerable mechanical or technical skill and devotes more than 75% of his working time in the building to work involving such skill, the wage rate shall be determined by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union. Such employee shall receive a wage of not less than ten ($10) dollars per week above the contract minimum rate for a handyperson.
If the Employer and the Union cannot agree upon the rate of pay of such an employee, or in cases where an obvious inequity exists by reason of an employee’s regular application of specialized abilities in his work, the amount or correctness of the differential may be determined by grievance and/or arbitration.
63
Notwithstanding the above, it is understood that licensed engineers covered under this Agreement shall constitute a separate bargaining unit and receive the same wages and benefits as paid to engineers under the Realty Advisory Board (RAB) Agreement covering licensed engineers in New York City except that Pension, Health, Legal and Training Fund contributions shall continue to be paid under the terms of this Agreement.
2.	Pyramiding
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime pay, sick pay, holiday pay or any other premium pay. If more than one of the aforesaid are applicable, compensation shall be computed on the basis giving the greatest amount.
3. Holidays
The following are the recognized contract holidays:
Holidays	2005	2006	2007
New Year’s Day	December 31 (2004} January 2		January 1
	Friday	Monday	Monday
Washington’s Birthday	February 21	February 20	February 19
	Monday	Monday	Monday
Good Friday	March 25	April 14	April 6
	Friday	Friday	Friday
Memorial Day	May 30	May 29	May 28
	Monday	Monday	Monday
Independence Day	July 4	July 4	July 4
	Monday	Tuesday	Wednesday
Labor Day	September 5	September 4	September 3
64
Holidays
2005
2006
2007
Columbus Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After
Thanksgiving
Christmas Day
Floating Holidays:
Martin Luther King
Yom Kippur
Eid al-Fitr
Monday
October 10 Monday November 24 Thursday
November 25 Friday
December 26 Monday
Monday
October 9
Monday November 23
Thursday
November 24
Friday December 25
Monday
Monday
October 8
Monday November 22
Thursday
November 23
Friday
December 25
Tuesday
January 17	January 16
Monday	Monday
October 13	October 2
Thursday	Monday
November 3	October 24
Thursday	Tuesday
January 15 Monday September 22 Monday October 13 Saturday
There shall be one additional holiday in each contract year, which shall be Martin Luther King’s Day, Eid al-Fitr or Yom Kippur or a personal day at the option of the employee. The personal day shall be scheduled in accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4) below.
In buildings where the major occupants are operating on Good Friday and/or the day after Thanksgiving, Lincoln’s Birthday and/or Veterans Day may be substituted for such days provided notice is given to the Union and the RAB on or before March 1 of each year.
The Employer shall post a holiday schedule on the bulletin board and it shall remain posted throughout the year.
65
Washington’s Birthday, Good Friday, Columbus Day and the day after Thanksgiving may be treated as personal days rather than fixed holidays under the following conditions:
(1)	Prior to February 1 each year, each building may designate one or more such days as a personal day upon written notice to the Union and the employees. Failure to so designate shall be deemed agreement to leave such days as fixed holidays.
(2)	Each building designating such days as personal days may upon thirty (30) days written notice to the Union and the employees, change such designation and make the day a fixed holiday. Employees who have received a personal day for such holiday shall be employed on such holiday at time and one-half.
(3)	Employees entitled to personal days may select such day or days off on five (5) days notice to the Employer provided such selection does not result in a reduction of employees in the building below 75% of the normal work staff. Such selection shall be made in accordance with seniority.
(4)	Employees entitled to personal days who do not use such day or days in a calendar year must use such day or days off during the first six months of the following year provided, however, that the Employer informs in writing
66
both the employee and the Union by January 31 of such succeeding year that such days are available and will be lost if not used prior to July 1 of that year.
Employees shall receive their regular straight-time hourly rates for the normal eight (8) hour working day not worked, and if required to work on a holiday, shall receive in addition to the pay above mentioned, premium pay at the rate of time and one-half their regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for each hour worked, with a minimum of four (4) hours premium pay. Any employee who is required to work on a holiday beyond eight (8) hours shall continue to receive the compensation above provided for holiday work, namely pay at the regular straight-time rate plus premium pay at time and one-half the regular straight-time rate.
Any regular full-time employee ill in any payroll week in which a holiday falls is entitled to holiday pay or corresponding time off (meaning one day) if he worked at least one day during the said payroll week.
Any regular full-time employee whose regular day off, or one of whose regular days off falls on a holiday, shall receive an additional day’s pay therefor, or, at the option of the Employer, an extra workday off within ten (10) days immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday. If the employee receives the extra day off before the
67
holiday and his employment is terminated for any reason whatever, he shall not be required to compensate the Employer for that day,
4.	Voting Time
Any employee who is required to work on Election Day and gives legal notice shall be allowed two (2) hours off, such hours to be designated by the Employer, while the polls are open,
5.	Personal Day
All employees shall receive a personal day in each contract year. This personal day is in addition to the holidays listed in paragraph 3 above. The personal day shall be scheduled in accordance with the following provision:
Employees may select such day off on five (5) days notice to the Employer provided such selection does not result in a reduction of employees in the building below 75% of the normal work staff. Such selection shall be made in accordance with seniority.
6.	Schedules
Overtime and premium work shall be evenly distributed so far as is compatible with the efficient operation of the building, except where Saturday or Sunday is a regular part of the workweek. Preference for premium work shall
68
be given to the regular full-time employees of the building.
7.	Relief Employees
Relief or part-time employees shall be paid the same hourly rate as full-time employees in the same occupational classification.
8.	Method of Payment of Wages
All wages, including overtime, shall be paid weekly in cash or by check, with an itemized statement of payroll deductions.
If a regular payday falls on a holiday, employees shall be paid on the day before.
Employees paid by check who work during regular banking hours shall be given reasonable time to cash their checks exclusive of their break and lunch period. The Employer shall make suitable arrangements at a convenient bank for such check cashing.
In the event an Employer’s check to an employee for wages is returned due to insufficient funds on a bona fide basis twice within a year’s period, the Employer shall be required to pay all employees by cash or certified check.
The Employer may require, at no cost to the employee, that an employee’s check be electronically deposited at the employee’s
69
designated bank. The Union shall be notified by the Employer of this arrangement.
The parties agree to establish a committee to study the possibility of permitting bi-weekly payment of wages at the discretion of the Employer, and subject to applicable law.
9.	Seniority and Layoff
For purposes of layoff and recall, all employees covered by this agreement shall be placed on building seniority lists based upon their date of employment in the building and department or job classification.
In the event of layoff due to reduction of force, the inverse order of departmental or job classification seniority shall be followed, except as provided in Termination Pay, General Clause 21, with due consideration for efficiency and special needs of a department.
In the event that an employee is assigned to another job classification and there is a reduction in force in that department or job classification, the employee shall have the right to exercise his total building seniority to return to his former department or job classification.
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed in such a manner as to permit an employee to bump a less senior employee working for another Employer in the same building.
70
For all other purposes, seniority of an employee shall be based upon total length of service with the Employer or in the building, whichever is greater.
The seniority date for all positions under the agreement shall be the date the employee commenced working in the building for the agent and/or owner regardless of whether there is a collective bargaining agreement and regardless of the type of work performed by the employee.
10.	Replacement, Promotions, Vacancies, Trial Periods, and Newly Hired Employees
a.	In filling vacancies or newly created positions in the bargaining unit, preference shall be given to those employees already employed in the building, based upon the employee’s seniority, but training, ability and appearance, where required, shall also be considered.
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed in such a manner as to entitle an employee to fill a vacancy or newly created position with another Employer in the same building.
Anyone employed as an extra or contingent with substantial regularity for a period of four (4) months or more shall receive preference for steady employment.
71
If a present employee cannot fill the job vacancy, the Employer must fill the vacancy in accordance with the other terms of this collective bargaining agreement.
In the event that a new classification is created in a building, the Employer shall negotiate with the Union a wage rate for that classification.
There shall be a trial period for all newly hired employees for sixty (60) calendar days.
b.	Effective February 4, 1996, a New Hire employed in the guard or “other” category shall be paid a starting rate of eighty percent (80%) of the minimum regular hourly wage rate, and notwithstanding Article XVII, Section 1, the rates for the thirty month new hire period shall reflect annual increases of 80% of the annual increase.
Upon completion of thirty (30) months of employment, the new hire shall be paid the full minimum wage rate.
This provision shall not apply to any experienced employee (“Experienced Employee”) who was employed in the New York City Building Service Industry (“Industry”) as of February 3, 1996. Experienced employee shall be defined as a person who has worked in the Industry for a period of at least thirty (30) days within the twenty-four (24) months immedi
72
ately preceding hiring (excluding employment as a vacation relief).
No experienced employee may be terminated or denied employment for the purpose of discrimination on the basis of his/her compensation and/or benefits.
The Union may grieve such discrimination in accordance with the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Agreement (Article VII and Article VIII).
If the arbitrator determines an experienced employee has been terminated or denied employment because of such discrimination, the arbitrator shall:
(1)	In case of termination—reinstate the experienced employee with full back pay and all benefits retroactive to date of experienced employee’s discharge.
(2)	In case of failure to hire—If the arbitrator determines that an experienced employee was not given preference for employment absent good cause, he or she shall direct the employer to hire the experienced employee with full back pay and benefits retroactive to date of denial of hire.
No contribution shall be made to the Building Service Pension Fund or to the Supplemental Retirement and Savings Fund on behalf of a new hire, until the new hire
73
has completed two (2) years of employment. Contributions shall be made for an experienced employee in accordance with the other provisions of this agreement.
11.	Recall
Any employee who has been employed for one (1) year or more in the same building and who is laid off, shall have the right of recall, provided that the period of layoff of such employee does not exceed six (6) months. Recall rights apply to all vacant, permanent positions and temporary positions if it is expected that the temporary position will last for a period of at least sixty (60) days. Recall shall be in the reverse order of laid-off employees’ departmental seniority. The Employer shall notify the last qualified laid-off employee of any job vacancy by certified mail, return receipt requested, at his last known address, of any job vacancy. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the Union. The employee shall then be given seven (7) days from the date of mailing of the letter in which to express in person or by registered or certified mail his desire to accept the available job. In the event any employee does not accept recall, successive notice shall be sent to qualified employees until the list of qualified employees is exhausted. Upon reemployment, full seniority status, less period of layoff, shall be credited to the employee. Any
74
employee who received termination pay and is subsequently rehired shall retain said termination pay and for purpose of future termination pay shall receive the difference between what he has received and what he is entitled to if terminated at a future date. Any vacation monies paid shall be credited to the Employer against the cunent vacation entitlement. Further, in the event an Employer or agent has a job vacancy in a building where there are no qualified employees on layoff status, the Employer or agent shall use its best efforts to fill the job vacancy from qualified employees of the Employer or agent who are on layoff status from other buildings.
12.	Leave of Absence and Pregnancy Leave
a.	Once during the term of this Agreement, upon written application to the Employer and the Union, a regular employee who works five (5) days per week and at least five (5) hours per day and has been employed in the building for five (5) years or more shall be granted a leave of absence for illness or injury not to exceed six (6) months.
The leave of absence outlined above is subject to an extension not exceeding six (6) months in the case of bona fide inability to work whether or not covered by the New York State Workers’ Compensation Law or New
75
York State Disability Benefits Law. When such employee is physically and mentally able to resume work, that employee shall on one (1) week’s prior written notice to the Employer be then re-employed with no seniority loss.
In cases involving on-the-job injuries, employees who are on medical leave for more than one year may be entitled to return to their jobs if there is good cause shown.
b.	Once during the term of this Agreement, upon written application to the Employer and rhe Union, a regular employee who works five (5) days per week and at least five (5) hours per day and has been employed in the building for two (2) years but less than five (5) years shall be granted a leave of absence for illness or injury not to exceed sixty (60) days. When such employee is physically and mentally able to resume work, that employee shall on one (1) week’s prior written notice to the Employer be then re-employed with no seniority loss.
c.	Any employee on leave due to workers’ compensation or disability shall continue to be covered for health benefits without the necessity of payment to the Employer in accordance with Article XI Paragraph A, Sub-paragraph 1.
d.	In cases of pregnancy, it shall be treated as any other disability suffered by an employee in accordance with applicable law.
76
e.	In buildings where there are more than three (3) employees, an employee shall be entitled to a two-week leave of absence without pay for paternity/maternity leave. The leave must be taken immediately following the birth or adoption of the child.
f.	Once every five (5) years upon six (6) weeks written application to the Employer., a regular employee who works five (5) days per week and at least five (5) hours per day and has been employed at the building for five (5) years or more shall be granted a leave of absence for personal reasons not to exceed four (4) months. Upon returning to work, the employee shall be re-employed with no loss of seniority.
Any employee requesting a personal leave of absence shall be covered for health benefits during the period of the leave provided the employee requests health coverage while on leave of absence and pays the Employer in advance for the cost of same.
Any time limitation with regard to the six weeks written application shall be waived in cases where an emergency leave of absence is required.
g.	Any Employer who is required by law to comply with the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), shall comply with the requirements of said act.
77
h.	The RAB will encourage its members to cooperate in granting leaves of absence for Union business.
13.	Vacations and Vacation Relief Employees
a. Every employee with substantial continuity in any building or by the same Employer shall receive each year a vacation with pay, as follows:
Employees who have worked:
6 Months..................3	working days
1 Year..........................2	weeks
5 Years.......................  3	weeks
15 Years..........................4	weeks
21 Years........................21 working	days
22 Years........................22 working	days
23 Years........................23 working	days
24 Years........................24 working	days
25 Years..........................5	weeks
Length of employment for vacation shall be based upon the amount of vacation an employee would be entitled to on September 15th of the year in which the vacation is given, subject to grievance and arbitration where the result is unreasonable.
78
Regularly employed part-time employees shall receive proportionate vacation allowances based on the average number of hours per week they are employed.
Firemen who have worked substantially one (1) firing season in the same building or for the same Employer, when laid off, shall be paid at least three (3) days’ wages in lieu of vacation.
Firemen who have been employed more than (1) full firing season in the same building or by the same Employer shall be considered full-time employees in computing vacation.
Regular days off and contract holidays falling during the vacation period shall not be counted. If a contract holiday falls during the employee’s vacation period, he shall receive an additional day’s pay therefore, or, at the Employer’s option, an extra day off within ten (10) days immediately preceding or succeeding his vacation.
Vacation wages shall be paid prior to the vacation period unless otherwise requested by the employee, who is entitled to actual vacation and who cannot instead be required to accept money.
Any Employer who fails to pay vacation pay in accordance with this provision where the vacation has been regularly scheduled shall pay
79
an additional two (2) days pay for each vacation week due at that time.
When compatible with the proper operation of the building, choice of vacation periods shall be according to building seniority and confined to the period beginning April 1 st and ending September 15th of each year. These dates may be changed and the third vacation week may be taken at a separate time by mutual agreement of the Employer and employee.
The fourth and fifth week of vacation may, at the Employer’s option, be scheduled, upon two (2) weeks’ notice to the employee, for a week or two weeks other than the period when he takes the rest of his vacation.
Any employee leaving his job for any reason, shall be entitled to a vacation accrual allowance computed on his length of service as provided in the vacation schedule based on the elapsed period from the previous September 16th (or from the date of his employment if later employed) to the date of his leaving. Any employee who has received a vacation during the previous vacation period (April 1st through September 15th) and who leaves his job during the next vacation period under circumstances which entitle him to vacation accrual rights, shall be entitled to full vacation accrual allowances instead of on the basis of the elapsed period from the previous September
80
16th. Any employee who has received no vacation and has worked at least six (6) months before leaving his job shall be entitled to vacation allowance equal to the vacation allowance provided above.
No employee leaving a position voluntarily shall be entitled to accrued vacation unless he gives five (5) working days’ termination notice.
Any Employer assuming this Agreement shall be responsible for payment of vacation pay and granting of vacations required under this Agreement which may have accrued prior to the Employer taking over the building less any amounts paid or given for that vacation year. In the event that the Employer terminates its Employer-employee relationship under this agreement and the successor Employer does not have an agreement with the Union providing for at least the same vacation benefits, the Employer shall be responsible for all accrued vacation benefits.
b. A person hired solely for the purpose of relieving employees for vacation shall be paid 60% of the minimum applicable regular hourly wage rate. Should a vacation relief employee continue to be employed beyond five months, such employee shall be paid the wage rate of a new hire or experienced person as the case may be. If a vacation replacement is hired for a permanent position immediately after working as
81
a vacation replacement, such employee shall be credited with time worked as a vacation replacement toward completion of the 30-month period required to achieve the full rate of pay under the “New Hires’’ provision.
In the event that the arbitrator finds that an Employer is using this rate as a subterfuge, such arbitrator may, among other remedies, award full pay from the date of employment at the applicable hiring rate.
No contribution to any Benefit Funds shall be made for a vacation relief person.
14.	Day of Rest
Each employee shall receive at least one (1) full day of rest in every seven (7) days.
15.	Uniforms and Other Apparel
Uniforms and work clothes where they have been required by the Employer or where necessary for the job shall be supplied and maintained by the Employer. All uniforms shall be appropriate for the season.
It is understood that where the Employer does not require uniforms, the employees shall be free to wear suitable clothing of their choice. Employees doing outside work shall be furnished adequate wearing apparel for the purpose.
82
In buildings of 500,000 square feet or more, the Employer shall be required to furnish uniforms and work clothes.
16.	First Aid Kit
An adequate and complete first aid kit shall be supplied and maintained by the Employer in a place readily available to all employees.
17.	Fire and Flood Call
Employees on fire and/or flood call shall be reimbursed for all loss of personal effects incurred in the line of duty.
18.	Eye Glasses and Union Insignia
Employees may wear eye glasses and the Union insignia while on duty.
19.	Bulletin Board
A bulletin board shall be furnished by the Employer exclusively for Union announcements and notices of meetings.
20.	Sanitary Arrangements
Adequate sanitary arrangements shall be maintained in every building, and individual locker and key thereto and rest room key, where rest room is provided, and soap, towels and washing facilities, shall be furnished by the Employer for all employees. The rest room and locker room shall be for use of employees servicing and maintaining the building.
83
21.	Termination Pay
(a) In case of termination of employment because of the employee’s physical or mental inability to perform his duties, or from reduction in force occurring for reasons other than conversion of elevators to automatic operations, he shall receive, in addition to accrued vacation, termination pay according to years of service in the building or with the same owner, whichever is greater, as follows:
Employees with:	Pay:
5 but less than 10 years...1 week’s wages
10 but less than 12 years..2 weeks’ wages
12 but less than 15 years..3 weeks’ wages
15 but less than 17 years..6 weeks’ wages
17 but less than 20 years..7 weeks’ wages
20 but less than 25 years..8 weeks’ wages
25 or more..................10 weeks’ wages
An employee physically or mentally unable to perform his duties may resign and receive the above termination pay if he submits written certification from a physician of such inability at the time of termination. In such event, the Employer may require the employee to submit to a medical examination by a physician designated by the Employer at the expense of the Employer to determine if in fact the employee is physically or mentally unable to perform his duties. If the Employer’s designated physician disagrees with the physician’s certification sub
84
mitted by the employee, the employee shall be examined by a physician designated by the Medical Director of the Building Service Local 32BJ Health Fund to make a final and binding determination whether the employee is physically or mentally unable to perform his duties.
(b) In case of termination of employment because of conversion of elevators to automatic operation, the employee shall receive, in addition to accrued vacation, termination pay according to years of service in the building or with the same Employer, whichever is greater, as follows:
Employees with:	Pay:
5 but less than	10 years..2 weeks’ wages
10 but less than	12 years..4 weeks' wages
12 but less than	15 years..5 weeks’ wages
15 but less than	17 years..7 weeks’ wages
17 but less than	20 years..8 weeks’ wages
20 but less than	22 years..9 weeks’ wages
22 but less than	25 years.10 weeks’ wages
25 or more.................11 weeks’ wages
(c)	The right to accept termination pay and resign where there has been a reduction in force shall be determined by seniority, i.e., termination pay shall be offered to the most senior employee, then to the next most senior employee, and so on until accepted. If no
85
employee accepts the offer, the least senior employee or employees shall be terminated and shall receive any applicable termination pay.
(d)	“Week’s pay” in the above paragraphs means the regular straight-time weekly pay at the time of termination. Jf the Employer offers part-time employment to the employee entitled to termination pay for the period of his full-time employment, and if he accepts such part-time employment, he shall be considered a new employee for seniority purposes. Where an employee was placed on a part-time basis or suffered a pay reduction because of a change in his work category prior to February 1, 1966, and did not receive termination pay based upon his former pay, “week’s pay” shall be determined by agreement, or through grievance and arbitration.
(e)	Any employee accepting termination pay who is rehired in the same building or with the same Employer shall be considered a new employee for all purposes except as provided in the Recall clause.
For the purposes of this section, sale or transfer of a building shall not be considered a termination of employment so long as the employee or employees are hired by the purchaser or transferee, in which case they shall retain their building seniority for all purposes.
86
22.	Tools, Permits, Fines and
Legal Assistance
All tools, of which the Superintendent shall keep an accurate inventory, shall be supplied by the Employer. The Employer shall continue to maintain and replace any special tools or tools damaged during ordinary performance of work but shall not be obligated to replace “regular” tools if lost or stolen.
The Employer shall bear the expense of securing or renewing permits, licenses or certificates for specific equipment located on the Employer’s premises, and will pay fines and employees’ applicable wages for required time spent for the violation of any codes, ordinances, administrative regulations or statutes, except any resulting from the employees’ gross negligence or willful disobedience.
The Employers shall supply legal assistance where required to employees who are served with summons regarding building violations.
23.	Military Service
All statutes and valid regulations about reinstatement and employment of veterans shall be observed.
The Employers and the Union will cooperate in effort to achieve the objectives of this provision. They shall also consider the institution of plans to provide training of employees to
87
improve their skills and to enter into employment in the industry.
24.	No Discrimination
There shall be no discrimination against any present or future employee by reason of race, creed, color, age, disability, national origin, sex, union membership, or any characteristic protected by law, including, but not limited to, claims made pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the New York State Human Rights Law, the New York City Human Rights Code or any other similar laws, rules or regulations. All such claims shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure (Articles VII and VIII) as the sole and exclusive remedy for violations. Arbitrators shall apply appropriate law in rendering decisions based upon claims of discrimination.
25.	Placement}Employment Agency Fee
No employee shall be employed through a fee-charging agency unless the Employer pays the full fee.
In the event the Union shall establish a Hiring Hall, upon sixty (60) days written notice to the RAB, the foregoing paragraph shall be replaced with the following paragraph:
88
The Employer agrees that in the event he shall require employees in the classifications of employment covered by the Agreement, he shall hire such employees from a Hiring Hall operated by the Union. The Hiring Hall shall refer only qualified applicants on the basis of their total industrywide seniority. In the event the Hiring Hall is unable to supply satisfactory applicants to the Employer within three (3) working days following the request, the Employer shall be free to hire in the open market. The facilities of the Hiring Hall operated by the Union shall be made available to both members and non-members of the Union. The Union warrants that in the operation of said Hiring Hall and in referrals to the Employer, it will not discriminate against any individual applicant for employment.
26.	Employees' Rooms
Any employee occupying a room or apartment on the Employer’s property may be charged a reasonable rental therefore, unless such occupancy is a condition of employment, in which case no rent shall be charged.
If the Employer terminates the services of an employee occupying living space in the building, the Employer shall give the employee thirty (30) days’ written notice to vacate, except where there is a discharge for a serious breach of the employment contract.
89
27.	Definitions
Elevator Starter—chief responsibility is to direct elevator operations and traffic in the building and does not normally operate an elevator.
Handyperson—possesses a certain amount of mechanical or technical skill and devotes more than fifty (50) percent of working time in a building to work involving such skill.
Foreperson—differs from a porter or cleaning person in that the main responsibility is io direct cleaning operations.
Guard—an employee whose function is to enforce rules to protect the property of the Employer or to protect the safety of persons on the Employer’s premises and whose duties shall not include the work performed under any other job classification covered in this agreement.
Others include elevator operators, porters, porter/watchmen, cleaning persons, matrons, security porters, fire safety directors, exterminators, and all other service employees employed in the building under the jurisdiction of the Union except those other classifications specified above.
A “regular full-time employee,” unless otherwise specified, shall be defined as one who is
90
regularly scheduled to work at least five days per week and at least five hours per day.
All reference to the male gender shall be deemed to include the female gender.
28.	Required Training Programs
The Employer shall compensate any employee now employed in a building for any time required for the employee to attend any instruction or training program in connection with the securing of any license, permit or certificate required by the Employer for the performance of duties in the building. Time spent shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
29.	Building Safety and Security
The RAB and Union shall establish a joint labor-management committee on building safety and security.
The Committee shall meet at least quarterly to discuss security and safety procedures, training for building staff, contracting protocols, integration with fire, police emergency professionals and other steps designed to maximize tenant and employee safety.
91
30.	Garnishments
No employee shall be discharged or laid off because of the service of an income execution, unless in accordance with applicable law.
31.	Death in Family
A regular employee with at least one (1) year of employment in the building shall not be required to work for a maximum of three (3) days immediately following the death of a parent, brother, sister, spouse or child, and shall be paid regular, straight-time wages for any such three (3) days on which he was regularly scheduled to work, or entitled to holiday pay.
With respect to grandparents, the Employer shall grant a paid day off on the day of the funeral if such day is a regularly scheduled workday.
32.	Union Visitation
Any business agent or other duly authorized representative of the Union shall have access to the buildings or sites where union members are employed to determine whether the terms of this agreement are being complied with. Access shall be granted only if there is prior notice to the Employer and such access does not interfere with the work being performed at the building.
92
33.	Jury Duty
Employees who are required to qualify or serve on juries shall receive the difference between their regular rate of pay and the amount they receive for serving on said jury with a maximum of three (3) weeks in any calendar year.
Pending receipt of the jury duty pay, the Employer shall pay the employee his regular pay on his scheduled payday. As soon as the employee receives the jury duty pay, he shall reimburse his Employer by signing the jury pay check over to the Employer.
Employees who serve on a jury shall not be required to work any shift during such day. If an employee is a weekend employee and assigned to jury duty, he shall not be required to work the weekend.
In order to receive jury duty pay. the employee must notify the Employer at least two (2) weeks before he is scheduled to serve.
If less notice is given by the employee, the notice provision regarding change in shift shall not apply.
34.	Identification
Employees may be required to carry with them and exhibit proof of employment on the premises.
93
35.	Service Center Visit
Every full-time employee who has been employed in the building for one (1) year or more shall be entitled, upon one (1) week’s notice to his Employer, to take one (1) day off in each calendar year at straight time pay to visit the office of any one of the benefit funds for the purpose of conducting business at the benefit office.
Such employee shall receive an additional one (1) day off with pay to visit the benefit fund office if the office requires such n visit
In the event that an employee chooses to visit any one of the benefit fund offices after having used up his entitlement pursuant to the above two (2) paragraphs, he may use any of his sick days for that purpose.
To receive payment for such day(s), the employee shall exhibit a signed statement from the benefit fund office.
36.	Automation Employment Pool
The President of the Union, or the Vice President, and the Executive Vice President of the RAB, or his designee, may constitute a committee to formulate and effectuate a plan for providing employment in the industry for employees represented by the Union with long service who have lost their jobs because of
94
conversion to automatic elevators or other mechanical devices at a time when they are approaching the age and service requirements to become eligible for pension benefits.
This committee may arrange to list such employees in a special “Automation Employment Pool,” giving preference for employment to the extent practicable, in the order of their requirements for pension benefit to fill an available vacancy consistent with physical and/or mental ability and the necessary experience. The committee may, to the fullest extent possible, obtain and keep current information as to vacancies in employment and of new jobs available in RAB member buildings covered by this agreement.
The committee may also consider the institution of plans to provide training of employees to improve their skills and to enter into employment in the industry.
The Employer and the Union will cooperate with the committee in its effort to achieve the objectives of this provision.
37.	Death of Employee
If any employee dies after becoming entitled to, but before receiving, any wage or pay hereunder, it shall be paid to his estate, or pursuant to Section 1310 of the New York Surrogate’s Court Procedure Act, unless otherwise pro
95
vided herein. This shall not apply to benefits under Article XI where the rules and regulations of the Health and Pension Fund shall govern.
38.	Government Decrees
If because of legislation, governmental decree or order, any increase or benefit herein provided is in any way blocked, frustrated, impeded or diminished, the Union may upon ten (10) days’ notice require negotiation between the parties to take such measures and reach such revisions in the contract as may legally provide substitute benefits and improvements for the employees, at no greater cost to the Employers. If they cannot agree, the dispute shall be submitted to the Arbitrator.
In the event that any provision of this contract requires approval of any government agency, the RAB shall cooperate with the Union with respect thereto.
39.	Weather Conditions
Where extreme cold or hot weather causes hardship to the employee in the performance of his normal duties, the Union has the right to request the Employer to revise work schedules so as to give the employee such advantage of retained heat or cold as may be compatible with the efficient operation of the building.
96
40.	Common Disaster
There shall be no loss of pay as a result of any Act of God or common disaster causing the shutdown of all or virtually all public transportation in the City of New York, making it impossible for employees to report for work, or where the Mayor of the City of New York or the Governor of the State of New York directs the citizens of the City not to report for work. The Employer shall not be liable for loss of pay of more than the first full day affected by such Act of God or common disaster. Employees necessary to maintain the safety or security of the building shall be paid only if they have no reasonable way to report to work and employees refusing the Employer’s offer of alternate transportation shall not qualify for such pay. The term “public transportation” as used herein shall include subways and buses.
41.	Transportation Costs
The RAB will encourage its members to adopt a qualified transportation fringe benefit program pursuant to which employees may pay for certain qualified transportation costs (e.g. transit passes, qualified parking) on a pre-tax basis, to the extent permitted by law. The RAB will make information available to its members that is necessary to assist them in adoption and implementation of the program.
97
42.	Cuspidors
Employees will not be required to clean cuspidors.
43.	Security Background Checks
All employees shall be subject to security background checks at any time. An employee shall cooperate with an Employer as necessary for obtaining security background checks. Any employee who refuses to cooperate shall be subject to termination. Employees who fail such security background check shall be subject to termination.
For the purpose of this provision, just cause to terminate an employee who has failed a security background check exists only if it is established that one or more of the findings of the background security check is directly related to his/her job functions or responsibilities, or that the continuation of employment would involve an unreasonable risk to property or to the safety or welfare of specific individuals or the general public or constitute a violation of any applicable governmental rule or regulation. If the customer determines that the employee has failed a security background check, but the Employer lacks cause for termination under this provision, the terms of Article IV, Section 4 shall apply.
98
44.	Saving Clause
If any provision of this agreement shall be held illegal or of no legal effect, it shall be deemed null and void without affecting the obligations of the balance of this agreement.
45.	Complete Agreement
This Agreement constitutes the full understanding between the parties and, except as they may otherwise agree, there shall be no demand by either party for the negotiation or renegotiation of any matter covered or not covered by the provisions hereof.
ARTICLE XX
Terms of Agreement and Renewals
This agreement shall be effective October 1, 2004, and continue in full force and effect up to and including December 31, 2007, for all employees except guards and superintendents formerly covered under the Local 164/RAB Agreement.
With respect to guards, this agreement shall continue until February 29, 2008, but all economic terms negotiated between the RAB and the Union in the successor agreement to this contract shall be retroactive to January 1,2008, if the contract shall so provide, or whatever
99
date provided in the contract for all other employees.
With respect to superintendents formerly covered under the Local 164/RAB Agreement, this agreement shall continue until January 31, 2008.
Upon the expiration date of this agreement, the same shall continue in full force and effect for an extended period until a successor agreement has been executed. During the extended period, all terms and conditions shall be in effect and the parties shall negotiate for a successor agreement retroactive to the expiration date. AU provisions and improvements in such successor agreements shall be retroactive unless such agreements shall otherwise provide.
In the event the parties are unable to agree upon the terms of a successor agreement, cither party upon three (3) days written notice to the other party may cancel this agreement. Such cancellation shall not apply to Article XV, for a period of six (6) months after the expiration date of the contract.
Sixty (60) days before said expiration date, the parties shall enter into direct negotiations looking towards a renewal agreement.
If fifteen (15) days before this agreement expires, the parties shall not have been able to
100
agree upon the terms of a new agreement, both parties will thereupon confer with the New York State Employment Relations Board for the purpose of conciliating their differences.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
REALTY ADVISORY BOARD ON LABOR RELATIONS INCORPORATED
James F. Berg President
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 32BJ, AFL-CIO
Michael Fishman President
101
October 1,2004
Michael Fishman
Local 32BJ.SEIU
101 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York
Re:	Retirement Study Committee
Dear Mike:
The parties agree to establish a committee to study the definition of e,'°’b'l>tv for a dkabi 1 itv retirement pension and the applicable and appropriate level of benefits to accompany any such modification,
James F. Berg
President, RAB
AGREED:
Michael Fishman
President, Local 32BJ, SEIU
October 1,2004
Michael Fishman
Local 32BJ, SEIU
101 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York
Re:	Reduction in Force Special Committee
Dear Mike:
This will confirm our understanding during our recent negotiations that the Union and the RAB reaffirm their commitment to the Special Committee process set forth in Article V of the Commercial Building Agreement and in Article XIII of the Contractors Agreement.
Upon the request of the President of the RAB, the Special Committee shall meet on at least a quarterly basis.
Sincerely,
James F. Berg
President, RAB
AGREED:
Michael Fishman
President, Local 32BJ, SEIU
103
October 1,2004
Michael Fishman
Local 32BJ.SEIU
101 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York
Re:	Maintenance of Benefits
Dear Mike:
The benefit plan under the Building Service 32BJ Health Fund shall be amended as follows:
Beginning July 1,2005, and each six months thereafter, the Trustees shall review statements of expenses incurred (including without limitation the amortization of any loan to the Fund) and projected costs as prepared by Fund consultants dated and attached hereto. In the event that at any such six month interval expenses and costs have exceeded the projections, the Trustees shall implement cost saving measures sufficient to eliminate the first ten million dollars (annualized) of any such deficit, with a maximum of twenty million dollars during the term of the 2005 Commercial Bargaining Agreement.
The Trustees shall not implement any increases in Employer contributions pursuant to Article XIA section 6 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement until
104
the terms of the preceding paragraph have been implemented.
Sincerely,
James F. Berg
President, RAB
AGREED:
Michael Fishman
President, Local 32BJ, SE1U
105
October 1,2004
Michael Fishman
Local 32BJ.SEIU
101 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York
Re:	Security Background Checks
Dear Mike:
This will confirm our understanding during our recent negotiations that an Employer may not invoke Article XIX (General Clauses) (Security background checks) in connection with a Social Security "no match" letter.
Sincerely.
James F. Berg
President, RAB
AGREED:
Michael Fishman
President, Local 32BJ, SEIU
106
MINIMUM WAGE RATES
January 1, 2005 - December 31, 2005
OFFICE BUILDINGS
	Regular Hr. Rate	Overtime Hr. Rate	8 Hour Rate	40 Hour Rate
Class A				
Handypersons	$20,398	$30,597	$163,184	$815.92
Forepersons	$20.2855	$30.4283	$162,284	$811.42
Starters	$20.2855	$30.4283	$162,284	$811.42
Others	$18,573	$27.8595	$148,584	$742.92
’Guards	$17,116	$25,674	$136,928	$684.64
Class B				
Handypersons	$20,367	$30.5505	$162,936	$814.68
Forepersons	$20.2545	$30.3818	$162,036	$810.18
Starters	$20.2545	$30.3818	$162,036	$810.18
Others	$18,542	$27,813	$148,336	$741.68
‘Guards	$17,116	$25,674	$136,928	$684.64
Class C				
Handypersons	$20,323	$30.4845	$162,584	$812.92
Forepersons	$20.2105	$30.3158	$161,684	$808.42
Starters	$20.2105	$30.3158	$161,684	$808.42
Others	$18,498	$27,747	$147,984	$739.92
’Guards	$17,116	$25,674	$136,928	$684.64
LOFT BUILDINGS
Handy persons	$20,348	$30,522	$162,784	$813.92
Forepersons	$20.2545	$30.3818	$162,036	$810.18
Starters	$20.2545	$30.3818	$162,036	$810.18
Others	$18,542	$27,813	$148,336	$741.68
’Guards	$17,116	$25,674	$136,928	$684.64
Class B Handypersons	$20,275	$30.4125	$162.20	$811.00
Forepersons	$20.2055	$30.3083	$161,644	$808.22
Starters	$20.2055	$30.3083	$161,644	$808.22
Others	$18,493	$27.7395	$147,944	$739.72
’Guards	$17,116	$25,674	$136,928	$684.64
Class C Handypersons	$20,152	$30,223	$161,216	$806.08
Forepersons	$20.0645	$30.0968	$160,516	$802.58
Starters	$20.0645	$30.0968	$160,516	$802.58
Others	$18,452	$27,678	$147,616	$738.08
‘Guards	$17,116	$25,674	$136,928	$684.64
• Guards hired before January 1,1978, shall receive the rate of “Others."
107
MINIMUM WAGE RATES January 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006
	OFFICE BUILDINGS				
	Regular Hr.	Overtime Hr.	8 Hour	40 Hour	
	Rate	Rate	Rate	Rate	
Class A					
Handypersons	$20,673	$31.0095	$165,384	$826.92	
Forepersons	$20.5605	$30.8408	$164,484	$822.42	
Starters	$20.5605	$30.8408	$164,484	$822.42	
Others	$18,823	$28.2345	$150,584	$752.92	
'Guards	$17,366	$26,049	$138,928	$694.64	
Class B					
Handy persons	$20,642	$30,963	$165,136	$825.68	■J
Forepersons	$20.5295	$30.7943	$164,236	$821.18	
Starters	$20.5295	$30.7943	$164,236	$821.18	
Others	$18,792	$28,188	$150,336	$751.68	
‘Guards	$17,366	$26.u4y	$138,928	$694.64	
Class C					
Handypersons	$20,598	$30,897	$164,784	$823.92	
Forepersons	$20,4855	$30.7283	$163,884	$819.42	
Starters	$20.4855	$30.7283	$163,884	$819.42	
Others	$18,748	$28,122	$149,984	$749.92	
'Guards	$17,366	$26,049	$138,928	$694.64	
	LOFT BUILDINGS				
Class A					
Handypersons	$20,623	$30.9345	$164,984	$824.92	
Forepersons	$20.5295	$30.7943	$164,236	$821.18	
Starters	$20.5295	$30.7943	$164,236	$821.18	
Others	$18,792	$28,188	$150,336	$751.68	
'Guards	$17,366	$26,049	$138,928	$694,64	
Class B					
Handypersons	$20,550	$30,825	$164.40	$822.00	
Forepersons	$20.4805	$30.7208	$163,844	$819.22	
Starters	$20.4805	$30.7208	$163,844	$819.22	
Others	$18,743	$28.1145	$149,944	$749.72	
’Guards	$17,366	$26,049	$138,928	$694.64	
Class C					
Handy persons	$20,427	$30.6405	$163,416	$817.08 x	
Forepersons	$20.3395	$30.5093	$162,716	$813.58 <	
Starters	$20.3395	$30.5093	$162,718	$813.58 1 j	■
Others	$18,702	$28,053	$149,616	$748.08 \1	
’Guards	$17,366	$26,049	$138,928	$694.64	
* Guards hired before January 1,		1978, shall receive the rate of "Others."			
108
MINIMUM WAGE RATES
July 1, 2006 -December 31, 2006
OFFICE BUILDINGS
	Regular Hl Rate	Overtime Hr. Rate	8 Hour Rate	40 Hour Rate
Class A				
Handypersons	$20,873	$31.3095	$166,984	$834.92
Forepersons	$20.7605	$31.1408	$166,084	$830.42
Starters	$20.7605	$31.1408	$166,084	$830-42
Others	$18,998	$28,497	$151,964	$759,92
.’Guards	$17,541	$26.3115	$140,328	$701.64
Class a				
Handypersons	$20,842	$31,263	$166,736	$833.68
Forepersons	$20.7295	$31.0943	$165,836	$829.18
Starters	$20.7295	$31.0943	$16? .836	$829.18
Others	$18,967	$28.4505	$151,736	$758.68
’Guards	$17,541	$26.3115	$140,328	$701.64
Class C				
Handypecsons	$20,798	$31,197	$166,384	$531.92
Forepersons	$20.6855	$31.0283	$165,484	$827.42
Starters	$20.6855	$31.0283	$165,484	$827.42
Others	$18,923	$28.3845	$151,384	$756.92
‘Guards	$17,541	$26.3115	$140,328	$701.64
LOFT BUILDINGS
Class A
Handypersons	$20,823	$31.2345	$166,584	$832.92
Forepersons	$20.7295	$31.0943	$165,836	$829,18
Starters	$20.7295	$31.0943	$165,836	$829.18
Others	$16,967	$26.4505	$151,736	$758.68
’Guards	$17,541	$26.3115	$140,328	$701.64
Class B Handypersons	$20.75 $20.6805	$31,125	$166.00	$830.00
Forepersons		$31.0208	$165,444	$827.22
Starters	$20.6805	$31.0208	$165,444	$827.22
Others	$18,918	$28,377	$151,344	$756.72
’Guards	$17,541	$26.3115	$140,328	$701.64
Class C . Handypersons	$20,627	$30.9405	$165,016	$825.08
\ Forepersons	$20.5395	$30.8093	$164,316	$821.58
J Starters	$20.5395	$30.8093	$164,316	$821.58
/ Others	$18,877	$28,3155	$151,016	$755.08
’Guards	$17,541	$26.3115	$140,328	$701.64
• Guards hired before January 1,1978, stall receive the rate of “Others."
109
MINIMUM WAGE RATES
January 1, 2007 - June 30, 2007
OFFICE BUILDINGS
	Regular Hr. Rate	Overtime Hr. Rate	8 Hour Rate	40 Hour Rate
Cl&te A Handypersons	$21,148	$31,722	$169,184	$845.92
Forepersons	$21.0355	$31.5533	$168,284	$841.42
Starters	$21.0355	$31.5533	$168,284	$841.42
Others	$19,248	$28,872	$153,984	$769.92
"Guards Plrtiin O	$17,791	$26.6865	$142,328	$711.64-
uiass D Handypersons	$21,117	$31.6755	$168,936	$844.68
Forepersons	$21.0045	$31.5068	$168,036	$840.18
Starters	$21,0045	$31.5068	$168,036	$840.18
Others	$1rt n<7	$28.8255	$153,736	$768.68
"Guards	$17,791	$26.6865	$142,328	$711,64
Class C Handypersons	$21,073	$31.6095	$168,584	$842.92
Forepersons	$20.9605	$31.4408	$167,684	$838.42
Starters	$20.9605	$31.4408	$167,684	$838.42
Others	$19,173	$28.7595	$153,384	$766.92
"Guards	$17,791	$26.6865	$142,328	$711.64
LOFT BUILDINGS
Class A
Handypersons Forepersons Starters Others
"Guards
Class B
Handypersons Forepersons Starters Others
"Guards
Class C
Handypersons Forepersons Starters Others
"Guards
$21,098
$21.0045
$21.0045 $19,217
$17,791
$21,025 $20.9555 $20.9555
$19,168
$17,791
$20.8145
$20.8145
$19,127 $17,791
$31,647 $31.5068 $31.5068 $28.8255 $26.6865
$31.5375 $31.4333 $31.4333 $28,752 $26.6865
$31,353 $31.2218 $31.2216 $28.6905 $26.6865
$168,784 $168,036 $168,036 $153,736 $142,328
$168.20
$167,644 $167,644
$153,344 $142,328
$167,216 $166,516 $166,516 $153,016 $142,328
$843.92
$840.18
$840.18
$760.68
$711.64
$841.00
$838.22
$838.22
$766.72
$711.64
$836.08 z-$832.58< $832,581
$765.08\
$711.64 ''
* Guards hired before January 1,1978, shall receive the rate at "Others.”

110
MINIMUM WAGE RATES
July 1, 2007 - December 31, 2007
_________________OFFICE BUILDINGS
Class A	Regular Hr. Rate	Overtime Hr. Rate	8 Hour Rate	40 Hour Rate
‘ -Handypersons	$21,423	$32.1345	$171,384	$856.92
J Forepersons	$21.3105	$31.9658	$170,484	$852.42
L .Starters	$21.3105	$31.9658	$170,484	$852.42
■Others	$19,498	$29,247	$155,984	$779.92
■Guards	$18,041	$27.0615	$144,328	$721.64
■lassB FHandypersons	$21,392	$32.0880	$171,136	$855.68
| Forepersons	$21.2795	$31,9193	$170,236	$851.18
I. Starters	$21.2795	$31.9193	$170,236	$851.18
1 Others	$19,467	$29.2005	$155,736	$778.68
■Guards	$18,041	$27.0615	$144,328	$721.64
■lass C 1 Handypersons	$21,348	$32,022	$170,784	$853.92
’ Forepersons	$21.2355	$31.8533	$169,884	$849.42
Starters	$21.2355	$31.8533	$169,884	$849.42
. Others	$19,423	$29.1345	$155,384	$776.92
“Guards	$18,041	$27.0615	$144,328	$721.64
LOFT BUILDINGS
Glass A
Handy persons	$21,373	$32.0595	$170,984	$854.92
Forepersons	$21.2795	$31.9193	$170,236	$851.18
Starters	$21.2795	$31.9193	$170,236	$851.18
Others	$19,467	$29.2005	$155,736	$778.68
'Guards Glass B	$18,041	$27.0615	$144,328	$721.64
Handypersons	$21.30	$31.95	$170.40	$852.00
Forepersons	$21.2305	$31.8458	$169,844	$849.22
Starters	$21.2305	$31.8458	$169,844	$849.22
Others	$19,418	$29,127	$155,344	$776.72
’Guards Class C	$18,041	$27.0615	$144,328	$721.64
Handypersons	$21,177	$31.7655	$169,416	$847.08
Forepersons	$21.0895	$31.6343	$168,716	$843.58
Starters	$21.0895	$31.6343	$168,716	$843.58
Others	$19,377	$29.0655	$155,016	$775.08
‘Guards	$18,041	$27.0615	$144,328	$721.64
* Guards hired hefare January 1. 1978, shall receive the rate of “Others."
Ill
2005
Commercial Building AGREEMENT
MINIMUM WAGE RATES 2005-2007 (See Pages 102-106)
LOCAL 32BJ, SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION
AFL-CIO
101 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10013-1906
(212) 388-3800
REALTY ADVISORY BOARD ON LABOR RELATIONS, INC.
292 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10017 (212) 889-4100
^>36