Agreement 2, ?oa between
Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc,
and
United Food and Commercial Workers, International Union
AFL-CIO, CLC, on behalf of its local
Union No. 222
Dakota City, Nebraska
August 8, 2004 Through
August 9, 2009
8
C
66
Index
Article Contents	12a&S
Agreement.......................................El
1	Recognition.....................................El
II	Authorized Dues Deductions.......................El
III	Purpose of Agreement.............................E2
IV	Non-Discrimination...............................E2
V	Management Rights...............................E2
VI	Company and Union Responsib i li ties............E3
VII	Hours of Work...................................E3
VIII	Guarantee........................................E5
IX	Vacation.........................................E6
X	Rest Periods....................................E8
XI	Meals............................................E8
XII	Holiday Pay......................................E9
XIII	Equipment Furnished by the Company..............E10
XIV	Overtime Work...................................Ell
XV	Seniority.......................................E12
XVI	Leave of Absence................................El8
XVII	Grievance Procedure............................E19
XVI11	Advise of Reason for Discipline.................E21
XIX	Military Service................................E21
XX	Military Summer Encampment......................E22
XXI	Jury Duty.......................................E22
XXII	Funeral Leave..................................E22
XXIII	Insurance/Medical Benefits......................E23
XXIV	Bulletin Boards.................................E26
XXV	Wage Rates.....................................E26
XXVI	Wage Rate Classification -
New or Changed Job Content.....................E27
XXVII	Subcontracting..................................E27
XXVIII	Safety Committee...............................E28
XXIX	Waiver, Enter Agreement and Severability.........E30
XXX	Duration of Agreement..........................E32
Appendix — Job Grades..........................E33
Index (continued)
Memoranda of Understanding:
Active Ballot Check off.........................E40
Ergonomics......................................E4l
Hides/Tannery Division..........................E42
Job Elimination,.,,........................,...... ,E43
New Year’s Eve Schedule.........................E44
Quick Start.....................................E45
Schedule Notification.........................  E46
Vacation Checks.................................E47
Union Visitation................................£48
Stock Purchase Plan.............................E49
Immigrant Workers Rights........................E51
Pay Check Shortages.............................E52
Push & Transfer & Unload ! Luggers..............E53
Maintenance Training Program....................E54
Job Overload....................................E59
Dakota City Restricted Duty Jobs................E60
Change in Bargaining Unit.......................E62
Multi-Cultural Diversity Fund.......-.........EG 3
-Ell-
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., Dakota Dunes, South Dakota, (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO & CLC, (hereinafter referred to as the Union), on behalf of its Local Union, 222.
ARTICLE I RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO & CLC, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agency for all Company employees in the bargaining unit, which includes all production and maintenance employees including Processing Division, Slaughter Division, Hides/Tannery Division at the Company’s Dakota City, Nebraska, plant, but excluding all office clerical employees, storeroom employees, nurses, buyers, salesmen, professional employees, beef graders, quality control, guards, scale operators (those currently excluded) and hot scalers, drum operator, chrome recovery operator, splitter operator, shaver operator, protocon operators, Company trainers, computer technicians, and supervisors as defined in the Act.
ARTICLE II AUTHORIZED DUES DEDUCTIONS
Section 1:	The Company will withhold from the employee’s pay such amounts as he or she shall authorize in writing as provided by applicable statutes and laws for union dues and the same shall be remitted to the financial secretary of this Local Union marked for deposit only.
Section 2:	Duration and/or revocation procedures shall be conducted in accordance with applicable labor laws.
Section 3:	Neither the Union, its officers, nor its members shall intimidate or coerce employees to cause them to join the Union; nor shall the Company discourage Union membership.
Section 4:	The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, suits or other forms of liability arising out of the deduction of money for Union dues, assessments, and initiation fees from a member’s pay.
-El-
ARTICLE III
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
Section I:	It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement shall promote and improve the industrial and economic relationships between the Company, the Union, and its members as set forth herein; and to set forth herein rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties hereto.
Section 2:	It is recognized by both parties that they have mutual interest and obligation in maintaining friendly cooperation between the Company and the Union which will permit safe, economical, and efficient operation of the plant.
ARTICLE IV NON-DISCRIMINATION
The Company agrees not to discriminate against any employee or applicant of the Company regardless of race, sex, color, creed, nationality, disability, veteran status, religious beliefs, or membership in the Union.
The Union recognizes the Company’s obligation to make reasonable accommodations to the disability of applicants and/or employees in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. In the event such a proposed accommodation is in conflict with any provision of this agreement, the Company and Union shall meet to discuss such accommodation. However, no such accommodation shall result in any employee being displaced from an owned job.
ARTICLE V MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section Is The management of the plant, control of the premises and the direction of the working force - including the right to hire, suspend, discipline or discharge for cause; to assign to jobs; to transfer, promote or demote employees; to increase and decrease the working force; to determine job loads, production standards, and rules applicable to the employees; to determine, rc-determine, adjust, or modify, job loads, production standards, and all rules of conduct and safety applicable to employees and others; products to be handled, produced or manufactured; the schedules of production; and the methods, processes, and means of production or handling; as well as the right to determine the qualifications and ability of employees — are vested exclusively in the Company provided this will not be used for
-£ 2-
the purpose of discrimination against any employee or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2; Supervisors or other personnel may perform any duties that are necessary in the conduct of the business, provided they are not used to replace bargaining unit personnel on a permanent basis.
ARTICLE VI
COMPANY AND UNION RESPONSIBILITIES
Section 1:	During the term of this Agreement there shall be no strike, no sympathy strike, stoppage, slowdown, deliberate withholding of production, or suspension of work on the part of the Union, its members, or any individual covered by this Agreement, or lockout on the part of the Company. In the event of a breach of this provision, the Union shall immediately declare publicly that such action is unauthorized and shall promptly order its members to resume their normal duties notwithstanding the existence of any picket line. The Union further agrees that it will in no way interfere with the business of the Company by sanctioning or conducting a boycott on the handling of goods procured from a source or destined to a point where labor controversy may exist.
Section 2:	The Company shall have the right to determine the discipline given an employee or employees for breach of this Article. The severity of the discipline imposed for such violation shall not be subject to arbitration; the Union shall, however, have the right to grieve the question of fact as to whether or not an employee or employees have breached the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE VII
HOURS OF WORK
Section 1:	The work week for payroll purposes shall start at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and end at midnight Saturday evening.
Section 2:	Hours of work shall be scheduled in line with production requirements and employees will be notified in advance of changes in shift schedules. Employees shall be required to work the hours scheduled by the Company; however, the Company will not schedule work in excess of ten (10) hours per day with the exception of loading, unloading, ground beef and maintenance personnel. It is understood, however, that work already in progress will be completed. With respect to loading, unloading, ground beef and maintenance
-E3-
personnel, all work beyond twelve (12) hours would be worked on a voluntary basis.
Section 3: Time and one-half (1-1/2) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any day. Time and one-half (1-1/2) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any one week. For purposes of computing overtime (11/2 times), hours of pay for an observed Holiday falling on Monday through Friday shall be counted as time worked up to a maximum of eight (8). Work time will be computed from the time employees on a position commence their work until the time worked is stopped at a position, and will be computed to the nearest minute.
Section 4:	Employees who are called to work outside their regular work schedule after once going home for the day and not at a time when such work merges with their regular shift shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay in lieu thereof. However, in the event an employee is called back after clocking out and before leaving the premises, he or she shall be paid “straight through” as though he or she had not punched out.
Section 5:	Employees, other than part-time employees, working on holidays shall receive their regular holiday pay, [eight (8) hours straight time pay] and shall be paid two (2) times their regular rate for work actually performed on such holidays.
Section 6:	Employees, other than part-time employees, working on Sunday (with the exception of regularly scheduled maintenance, personnel necessary for shipping in the Processing Division, and yards) shall be compensated at twice (2) their regular hourly rate. Regularly scheduled maintenance, personnel necessary for shipping in the Processing Division, and yards, shall be compensated at twice (2) their regular hourly rate for work performed on the day designated as Sunday in lieu of calendar Sunday.
Section 7:	All regular full-time employees who work between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will be paid fifteen cents ($.15) per hour over their regular rate for such hours worked, except that no premium will be paid if the starting time is less than forty-six (46) minutes prior to 6:00 a.m.
Section 8:	For the purpose of the Agreement, Sunday shall be the twenty-four (24) hour period starting at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and Saturday shall be the twenty-four (24) hour period starting at 12:01 a.m. on Saturday.
Section 9:	For the purpose of computing pay for hours worked on Saturday, Sunday, or paid holidays, a shift cutting across two calen
-E4-
dar days shall be created as work on rhe day on which the shift begins. However, in rhe event the shift exceeds eight (8) hours, such hours over eight (8) shall be compensated on the basis of the applicable rate for the calendar day on which such hours are worked. It is understood that, in the case of an employee working a double shift, hours worked on the other shift shall be counted toward the above eight hours.
Section 10:	Premium pay will not be pyramided.
ARTICLE VIII GUARANTEE
Section 1:	The Company will provide each regular full-time employee, other than maintenance employees, thirty-six (36) hours of pay at the employees straight time hourly rate which will be scheduled Monday through Saturday. Regular full-time maintenance employees will be guaranteed thirty-six (36) hours of pay in six (6) days for each week of employment. Hours employees are absent for any reason will be deducted from such thirty-six (36) hours. The Guarantee will also be reduce by eight (8) hours for each full shift on which the plant or a division of the plant is unable to operate because of storm, flood, fire, explosion, power failure, strikes, or boycotts by any labor union or the National Farmers Organization or similar groups, or other unusual emergencies.
Section 2:	The guaranteed work week shall apply only to those regular full-time employees who have completed three (3) months of employment prior to the commencement of that payroll week.
Section 3:	Regular full-time employees called to work will be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours of work or pay in lieu of work unless the plant is unable to operate because of contingencies enumerated in Section 1 above. However, if employees are notified in sufficient time of a cancellation of scheduled work, call-in pay shall not be paid. For purposes of sufficient time referred to above, it shall be sufficient to notify the news media by. 10:00 p.m. for the Morning Shift of the following day and by noon with respect to the Afternoon Shift for the same day. Where feasible, the Company will provide earlier notification. The Company will notify the news media (specifically, TV Channel 4, KTIV, and radio station KSUX, FM 105.70 at the times noted above. The Company also will attempt to notify other radio and television stations in the area; however, it is understood that it is only required to make notification as listed above to fulfill its obligation under this section. It is understood that although the
-E5-
Company has made timely notification to the media, it is beyond our control when the notification might be broadcast.
Section 4:	Employees displaced or recalled because of the operations of the seniority provisions of the Agreement shall receive pay for only those hours worked in the week of such displacement or recall.
Section 5:	The Company may notify employees of a shorter work week on or by noon Friday of the prior week, in which event the guarantee shall be reduced to thirty-two (32) hours of pay at their straight rime rare. While this notice may be given whenever necessary, the number of weeks in each year of the labor agreement in which the employees will actually be paid less than the guarantee in Section 1 above shall not exceed twelve (12) weeks in each department separately.
ARTICLE IX VACATION
Section 1:	Regular full-time employees who complete one (1) year of full-time service with the Company will be granted one (1) week of paid vacation. The first one (1) week of vacation may be taken at any time, with Management approval, during the second year of service. One (1) week’s vacation pay shall be equal to two percent (2%) of the annual earnings as indicated by the previously issued FORM W-2 - U.S. Treasury Department, or forty (40) hours of pay at straight time hour rates - whichever is greater. Employees who complete three (3) full years of service will be granted two (2) weeks of paid vacation. The first two (2) week vacation may be taken at any time, with Management approval, during the fourth (4) year of employment. Employees who complete ten (10) full years of service will be granted three (3) weeks of paid vacation. The first three (3) week vacation may be taken at any time, with Management approval, during the eleventh (11) year of employment. Employees who complete (20) full years of service will be granted four (4) weeks of paid vacation. The first four (4) week vacation may be taken at ay time, with Management approval during rhe twenty-first (21) year of employment. Employees with three (3) or more years of service may use one (1) of their weeks of earned vacation (forty [40] hours) in single vacation day increments. Employees electing this option must have management approval at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance. Hours paid for single vacation days will not count toward rhe calculation of weekly overtime. Where the word ‘'service” is used in this Section, it shall mean employment subsequent to February 18, 1966.
-E6-
Section 2:	To qualify for a paid vacation, the employee must have passed his or her anniversary date and have worked at least twenty-six weeks during the preceding anniversary year. For the purpose of this section only, a week in which the employee works at least one (1) day will be counted as a week “worked.” Employees who work less than twenty-six (26) weeks in prior year will not be eligible for any earned vacation benefits.
Section 3:	Employees who have qualified for a vacation under Section 2 at the time their employment is terminated will be paid for such vacation earned but not taken.
Section 4:	The vacation time of each employee will be assigned within a department on a divisional seniority basis. Notice of vacation scheduling will be posted by November 15th. Scheduling will commence December 1 and will be completed by December 31 for the coming year. However, it is recognized the employer must approve the vacation schedule in order to insure regular and efficient production.
Section 5:	Employees who file a timely request (two weeks in advance) shall receive their vacation on the payday immediately preceding the commencement of their vacation.
Section 6:	The Company may elect to close the plant for a vacation period whereby all employees (excepting maintenance and material handling employees) may take their vacation at one time. Such vacation period shall be scheduled on or before March 1st of each calendar year and the time scheduled shall be during summer school vacation. Maintenance and material handling employees required to work during the time the plant is closed for vacation will be scheduled for vacation at another time during the year.
Section 7:	If a recognized holiday occurs during a scheduled vacation, and an additional day of vacation will be granted. This extra day may be taken at the time of vacation or may be scheduled later if approved by the supervisor. This applies to all recognized holidays.
Section 8:	Vacation for employees leaving for military service will be provided in the following manner;
(a)	An employee who has worked at least twenty-six (26) weeks in his or her second anniversary or subsequent anniversary years and who leave for military service during that anniversary year shall be provided vacation pay.
(b)	An employee leaving for military service in his or her second or subsequent anniversary years and who does not qualify for a vacation under the above section shall be provided a pro rate vacation.
-E7-
Section 9:	An employee who retires at the age of fifty-five (55) or older with at least fifteen (15) years of continuous service and gives two (2) weeks notice during his/her anniversary year will receive prorata vacation pay.
(a) Pro-rata vacation credit will be earned in the following manner; One (1) day of vacation pay for each twenty-five (25) calendar days of employment.
ARTICLE X REST PERIODS
Section 1: Each employee will be granted a paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, prior to the lunch period and a second fifteen (15) minute break in the event the day’s work schedule exceeds eight (8) hours and four (4) minutes. In the case of an employee working a double shift, he or she shall receive the second break after the first shift and thereafter he or she shall follow the regular schedule of the shift on which he or she is working; time between shifts in excess of the fifteen (15) minute paid break shall be without pay. The first scheduled rest period for the Processing Division will be scheduled, by department, between two (2) hours and two and three-quarter (2-3/4) hours from the feed of the main chain in Middle Meats and feed of the chuck chain in Outside Meats, except for the Material Handling Department (in Processing Division-General) where rest periods will be based upon the starting time of the individual employee. The first scheduled rest period for the Processing Division (Extension) will be scheduled between two (2) hours and two and three-quarter (2-3/4) hours from the starting time of the chuck, saw in the Extension. The first scheduled rest period for the Slaughter Division will be scheduled between two (2) and two and three-quarter (2-3/4) hours from the employees starting time, except for the Kill Floor Department where rest periods shall be scheduled nor earlier than two (2) hours nor later than two and three-quarter (2-3/4) hours from the starting time for the job in the center of the chain, currently the Tie Down.	U
ARTICLE XI MEALS
Section 1:	Employees in the Processing Divisions shall have a lunch period scheduled, by department, between four and one-half (4 1/2) hours and five and one-fourth (5 1/4) hours from the feed of the main chain in Middle Meats and feed of the chuck chain in Outside Meats, except for the Material Handling Department (in Processing
-E9-
Division-General), where lunch periods shall be based upon the starting time of the individual employee. Processing Division-Extension employees shall have a lunch period scheduled between four and one-half (4 1/2) hours and five and one-fourth (5 1/4) hours from the starting time of the chuck saw in the Extension. Slaughter Division employees shall have a lunch period scheduled between four and one-half (4 1/2) hours and five and one-fourth (5 1/4) hours from the employees starting time, except for the Kill Floor Department where lunch periods shall be scheduled not earlier than four and one-half (4 1/2) hours nor later than five and one-quarter (5 1/4) hours from the starting time of the job in the center of the chain, currently the Tie Down.
Section 2:	In the event the shift does not exceed five and one-half (5 1 /2) hours, no lunch period shall be provided.
Section 3; Employees who work in excess of ten (10) consecutive hours in any day shall, in addition to their regular pay, receive Three Dollars ($3.00) for the purpose of purchasing a meal. A fifteen (15) minute paid break will be provided except in the case of an employee working a double shift where the provisions of Article X shall prevail.
ARTICLE XII HOLIDAY PAY
Section 1: The following days shall be observed as paid holidays: New Year’s Day, Presidents’ Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve Day, Christmas Day, and the employee’s birthday*.
* Employees hired after August 8, 2004 will not be eligible for the Birthday Holiday Section 2: All regular full-time employees shall receive eight (8) hours straight time pay for each of the above holidays providing they have met the following qualifications: (a) An employee must work the full preceding work day before and the foil work day following a holiday, or be on a previously (twenty-four [24] hours prior to the holiday) excused absence to receive holiday pay. Such excuse must be in writing from the employee’s supervisor. However, such holiday pay shall be paid to all employees who are laid off or on an authorized leave of absence (this includes compensable injuries) and otherwise qualify who have worked anytime the week before the holiday, the week of the holiday, or the week after the holiday. It is further agreed that in the event an employee is injured on the job the day before or the day
-E9-
after the holiday preventing completion of the scheduled work day a forfeiture of holiday pay will not occur providing the employee is otherwise eligible for holiday pay.
(a)	The Company may excuse an absence or tardiness for purposes of this Article only, and pay the holiday pay in cases where the Plant Personnel Manager and Plant Manager, in their sole discretion, deem the reason for absence or tardiness and the individual’s overall attendance, as deserving an exception to the above rule.
(b)	When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. Those employees having a designated Sunday will observe the following day (whether worked or not worked) as Monday.
(c)	When an employees birthday falls on a scheduled workday, the employee may volunteer to accept eight (8) hours straight time pay for the birthday holiday in lieu of the time off. The employee, to be eligible for this option, must notify the Company at least one (1) week in advance and must otherwise qualify for holiday pay. If the employee selects this option, the eight (8) hours pay will be added to the paycheck for the birthday week and the employee will be expected to work the scheduled hours.
(d)	When an employee’s birthday falls on another day observed as a paid holiday, the employee will receive an additional day off on the scheduled workday before or after the holiday, as determined by management.
ARTICLE XIII
EQUIPMENT FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY
Section 1:	The Company will furnish reasonable and adequate quantities of the following equipment:
A.	Steel, corborundum stones, pouches, mesh gloves, knives and safety equipment to all employees requiring them.
B.	Steel toed boots for shacklers only
C.	All boots and aprons to gutters required while working on the gut table.
D.	Maintenance hand tools and equipment as required.
E.	Cotton gloves.
F.	The Company will furnish frocks for all jobs designated by the Company. The Company agrees to furnish up to two (2) white uniforms per year for designated jobs and Up to six (6)
-E10-
aprons, where required.
The Company will redistribute available uniforms in addition to the two (2) allowed and agrees to look at a few jobs that may require more uniforms per year due to the nature of the work.
Employees will be required to wear uniforms/frocks where designated by the Company.
G,	Chaps to designated Material Handling employees.
H.	Coveralls for Material Handling employees to be distributed at a rate of One (1) per anniversary year.
I,	A pool of Company coveralls will be made available, on a daily checkout basis, as weather conditions dictate, for all complex maintenance and yards Team members,
J.	Sanitary boots for all tram dock employees required to wear boots.
K.	The Company agrees to furnish up to six (6) aprons per year for saw operators in Processing, where required.
Section 2:	The Company shall launder employees’ Company issued outer work clothes.
Section 3:	The employee shall be responsible for the safe and efficient use of all equipment furnished by the Company and, if such equipment is lost or maliciously destroyed, the employee shall be accountable and the Company may then charge rhe employee (at Company cost) and deduct the cost from the employees wages.
Section 4:	The Company will provide an employee or employees to sharpen knives for all employees required to use knives.
ARTICLE XIV OVERTIME WORK
Overtime work in a department shall be divided as fairly and as equally as possible among qualified production employees in rhe department. With respect to maintenance personnel, overtime shall be divided as equally as possible among qualified employees within the following skill classifications: general maintenance, reftigeration, electrician, scale mechanic. Forklift mechanics, material handling mechanics and special crew will be equalized separately within each respective group. It is understood and agreed that such equalization cannot be affected on a daily, weekly, or even monthly basis, but efforts will be made to change any such imbalance over reasonable periods of time.
-E 11 -
ARTICLE XV SENIORITY
Section 1: It is the policy of the Company to follow seniority in order that full-time employees with the greatest amount of service shall have the greatest amount of employment security and opportunity for promotion.
However, efficient operation of the plant and fairness to all requires that physical fitness and ability be considered as well as seniority in all matters covered in this Article. Full-time employees with the greatest seniority shall have preference in layoffs, call backs, promotions, demotions, and transfers to available permanent vacancies.
Section 2s Seniority shall be applied on a divisional basis within the plant, and shall under no circumstances overlap from one division to another, except where the provisions of Sections 21, 22, 23, 26, 27 and 28 shall apply. The divisions for seniority purposes are:
1.	Slaughter Division
2.	Processing Division
3.	Hides/Tannery Division
4.	Complex Maintenance Division
Section 3:	Seniority shall be established on the basis of continuous full-time service with the Company at its Dakota City plant and in no instance shall seniority predate the first day of production operations at the plant, such date being February 18, 1966. A full-time employee, after three (3) months shall be a regular employee and shall have seniority. Prior to attaining seniority, an employee is known as a probationary employee. If during probation six (6) consecutive days or more are missed for any reason, or if six (6) consecutive days or more are spent on a restricted duty assignment, all days absent and all days (not to exceed thirty [30] days) spent on restricted duty will be added to extend the probationary period of the concerned employee. It is understood that rhe Company may, at its sole discretion, discipline or terminate a probationary employee and that no grievance concerning such discipline or termination shall be filed or processed in his or her behalf. Where an employees probation is extended beyond three (3) months, as previously described, such extension shall apply only for the purpose of evaluation for retention as a regular employee and shall not affect the employee’s eligibility for benefits.
Section 4:	Seniority operates both on a departmental and divisional basis.
Employees, upon attaining sixty (60) days of seniority with the Company, shall have the right to bid jobs under the provisions of this Article,
-E12-
A.	Departmental seniority units for the Slaughtering Division are established as follows:'
All, including Kill Floor, Hot Offal, Clean-Up, Yards, Cold Offal, Box Shop, Freezer Loadour, Loading, Sales Cooler, Knife Room, Transfer, Rendering, and Laundry.
B.	Departmental seniority units for the Processing Division are established as follows:
Production (including Processing and Extension), Material Handling, Shipping, Knife Room and Box Shop.
C.	Departmental seniority units for rhe Hides/Tannery Division are established as follows:
1.	Production
2.	Maintenance
D.	Departmental seniority units for the complex Maintenance Division are as follows:
All, including Mechanical, Electrical, Building Maintenance, Refrigeration, Scales/Elect tonics, Maintenance janitor, Painter, Paunch Burner and Filter Changer.
Section 5:	Each employee is assigned to a department unit of a Division and shall have such departmental seniority as shall be credited and accumulated from the first date he or she entered the department unless such departmental seniority be relinquished under other provisions of this Article.
Section 6s Promotions shall be made within each department. An opening shall be posted for a period of one (1) week starting Wednesday at 9:00 a.m. With consideration for physical fitness and ability, the job shall be awarded within seven (7) working days to the depanmental senior employee who has bid the job. In the event a successful bidder has not been placed on the newly bid job within fifteen (15) days of the award, he or she shall be paid the rate of the new job on the fifteenth (15) day and thereafter until moved co the newly bid job. The employee will be given a reasonable period of time co demonstrate proficiency. At the time an employee has qualified for a newly bid job, he or she shall be paid the rate of that job and shall be considered a permanent transfer. Production jobs which are vacated as a result of bidding will be posted when the individual who leaves the job has qualified on his or her newly bid job. Maintenance jobs which are vacated as a result of bidding within or to maintenance will be posted when the successful bidder is moved and the Company has a reasonable belief that the employee will qualify on the newly bid job.
-E 13-
In an effort to keep newly bid jobs awarded in a timely fashion, the Superintendent will meet with one (1) steward from each division (Slaughter, Processing, Extension, Hides) twice each month to review the aging report on bid jobs. The General Manager will meet with one (1) steward from each division (Slaughter, Processing, Extension) and Personnel once each month to review the Aging Report on bid jobs. Such meeting shall also be held and conducted in the Hides plant by the Hides Plant Manager.
Section 7: Departmental vacancies not filled from within rhe department will be offered for bid on the basis of divisional seniority. An employee transferring into a new department will forfeit his or her former departmental seniority at the time the employee qualifies on the new job and will receive seniority in the new department based on his or her divisional seniority date.
Section 8; An employee who is qualified in a new department and is then disqualified will revert back to his or her former department with full seniority as if he or she had never left. However, the employee shall not displace any person from a bid job but shall be placed on available work.
Section 9: The successful bidder on the job posting at the time the posting is taken down will be required to accept the job and shall make a sincere effort to learn the job. The employee must either qualify or disqualify before being allowed to bid again. An employee who self-disqualifies will be restricted from all bidding for twelve (12) months from the date of the bid award. For all purposes of this Article, Disqualification will be considered a bid.
Section 10; Temporary vacancies, such as vacancies caused by sickness, leave of absence, vacation, etc., will not be offered. The Company will observe, insofar as is feasible, the principle of “senior may, junior must: in utilizing this specific provision.
Section 11; Once disqualified from a bid job, an employee will not be allowed to bid the same job for a period of six (6) months.
Section 12:	Jobs will be posted for bidding on the following basis: When they are vacated by layoff, discharge, resignation, permanent transfer of the job holder to another job, or creation of a new permanent job.
Section 13:	All job postings shall state the job title, department, a brief description of principal duties, and the rate for the job.
Section 14:	A successful bidder on a lateral or downward bid shall be restricted from any further bidding for twelve (12) months from the date of such bid. For purposes of lateral and down bidding,
-EW-
a bid from a job to which the employee has been assigned will be included if the employee is bidding co a job at or below the job grade of the job assigned.
Section 15:	A first assignment to a job shall be considered a bid for the purposes of this Article if the employee had the right to bid a job and did not exercise that right.
Section 16:	Seniority lists for divisions and departments shall be maintained on bulletin boards and shall be republished each month and a copy will be furnished to the Union.
Section 17:	An employee shall forfeit his or her employment for the following reasons:
A.	Voluntarily quitting.
B.	Discharge for proper cause.
C.	Being absent for five (5) consecutive days without proper notification to the employer.
D.	Overstaying a leave of absence without justifiable cause.
E.	Absences, including layoffs or leave of absence in excess of 12 months.
E Failure to report from layoff within seven (7) days after written notice has been sent by certified mail to the last known address on the Company records. Upon request, the Company will grant a further four (4) day extension of time.
G.	Full settlement with an employee for total disability.
H.	Retirement.
Section 18:	Absences in excess of twelve (12) months due to illness or injury shall cause an employee to forfeit his or her employment; however, insurance benefits other than the employee coverage related to the specific Illness or injury which caused the sick leave will be terminated at the end of twelve (12) months. The Company and the Union may extend this time in cases where it appears the employee will be able to return to work in a short period.
Section 19:	Employees on an authorized leave of absence as set forth in Article XVI, shall retain and accumulate seniority during such leave.
Section 20:	Part-time employees will receive the applicable starting rate of the job performed, if qualified, but will not receive any fringe benefits granted full-time employees, nor will they have seniority.
Section 21:	Layoff from any division shall be established on the basis of service within the division, that is, the last employee hired
-E 15-
shall be the first placed in layoff status provided that each job must be filled by a person capable of performing the work in a satisfactory manner. For the purposes of a layoff, A shift and B shift Processing will be considered as separate departments.
Section 22: In the event of layoff due to a reduction in force, an employee shall be permitted to displace in reverse order of his or her progression the holder of a job in the department who is junior using divisional seniority. If a previously owned job (or jobs) in a department is not available on a divisional seniority basis, the employee may notify the Company of his or her desire to displace the junior person in the department using divisional seniority. When notified, the Company will on a one time basis assign an available job with consideration for physical fitness and ability. This assignment will not be considered as a bid. Jobs not filled by reverse progression of a job holder or assignment during a layoff will be posted for bidding. After two (2) days, the employee must demonstrate proficiency or will be disqualified and permitted co displace the junior employee in the division, again considering physical fitness and ability. If the employee does not notify the Company that he or she desires to displace the junior employee in the department, the employee may displace the junior employee in rhe division from a pervious held job in reverse order of his or her progression and then the junior employee still working in the division. An employee who is displaced from his or her bid job during a layoff and who is rhe successful bidder on another job in the same division or one who has been displaced from a bid job may elect to retain the newly bid job or return to his or her previous bid job when it becomes available.
If none of the foregoing options are available, an employee may displace the junior employee in the other division providing he or she has at least one (1) years seniority and the layoff is in excess of four (4) weeks. The employee must be able to perform the job in a reasonable period of time. However, employees will perform their presently assigned duties necessary to complete a shut down of the plant.
Section 23: An employee who shall transfer to another division as allowed above (Section 22) shall have his or her former division seniority applied to the new division. However, it is understood that an employee shall be restricted from bidding for sixty (60) days from the date of transfer. In the event that an employee who has entered a new division as outlined above returns to his or her old division, the employee shall be credited for the purposes of division seniority the time worked in the division which he or she had entered due to a
-E 16-
layoff. An employee who has transferred to a new division as a result of a layoff must return to his or her old division when the employee’s job becomes available.
Section 24; When recalling employees on layoff, they shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff.
Section 25:	Employees with six (6) months of seniority shall have the right to bid to another shift.
Section 26:	Employees may bid to another division under the following limits:
A.	An employee shall be limited to one such bid award during the term of this Labor Agreement.
B.	Such bid awards shall be made where there is no successful department or division bidder.
C.	The bidding employee must have six (6) or more months of service.
D.	The bid award shall cause the employee a twelve (12) month freeze from bidding.
E.	The limitation of bid awards out of a division shall be established as follows, and there will be no carryover from month to month:
Processing	-5 per month
Extension	-2 per month
Slaughter	-2 per month
Hides	-1 per month
Complex Maintenance	-1 per month
E Department and Division seniority shall transfer in full upon qualification and the employee shall be considered as though he or she had been originally hired in the new division.
G. Where permanent medical restrictions indicate, an employee will be given an opportunity to assume an unfilled job in another division and F above shall apply.
Section 27:	Beyond the provisions of Section 26 above, employees within the Processing and Slaughter Divisions may bid to the Complex Maintenance Division, based on divisional seniority, where there is no successful bidder within the Complex Maintenance Division. Such a bidder must satisfy the entry requirements of the Maintenance Training Program.
Section 28:	An employee who is qualified on a bid or assigned job and where the job is eliminated, or where the rare is reduced in accordance with other terms of this Agreement, shall be offered the
-E17-
choice of returning to their prior-held bid (or assigned) job, seniority permitting, to replace the least senior person in the department, or taking available work in the department. Any restriction on bidding in effect at that time will be removed. Where the employee elects to take available work in the department, his/her rate of pay shall be maintained until the employee bids a job or the expiration of sixty (60) days, whichever is sooner. Any employee displaced under this section shall have any existing bidding restriction removed and shall be allowed to bid.
ARTICLE XVI
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1:	The Company may grant leaves of absence to employees who request same for personal reasons. Such leaves shall not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into self-employment. Such leaves shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
Section 2:	Union Leaves - Employees, not exceeding five (5), chosen by the Union to attend Union conventions and conferences, shall be granted leaves of absence upon one (1) week’s advance written request to the Plant Manager, for periods not to exceed two (2) weeks. Such leave shall be without pay. The Company will grant full-time Union leave without pay or benefits for up to four (4) employees to serve as officers or employees of Local 222 and two (2) employees selected by the Union to serve in the status of International Representative. The leave granted will not exceed the period of the current labor agreement. It is understood that the four (4) employees serving as officers or employees of Local 222 shall not engage in organizing work at anyTyson plant at any location other than Dakota City.
Section 3; Consistent with the requirements of the “Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993,” and any regulations adopted as a result of the Act, the Company will grant “Family and/or Medical” leaves of absence of up to twelve (12) weeks during any twelve (12) month period to “eligible employees” for purposes covered by the Act. Leaves of absence for medical reasons in excess of twelve (12) weeks may be granted, subject to the limitations on loss of employment contained in Article XV. It is understood that management has the right to determine that the returning employee is physically able to perform the work in a safe manner. In granting these leaves, the Company may require use of accrued paid benefits before an employee is placed on
— E 18-
unpaid leave as allowed by the Act, All other terms and conditions of these leaves will be governed by the Act and implementing regulations.
Section 4:	When a leave has been appropriately requested and granted under this Article, such employee shall retain and accumulate seniority
Section 5:	Employees eligible for funeral pay as described in Article XXII may request a personal leave, not to exceed five (5) consecutive working days (except with approval of Management for additional time) provided the funeral is at least five hundred (500) miles from the Dakota City plant,
ARTICLE XVII
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1: Should any disputes arise between the Company and the Union, the Company and its employees, or between employees of the Company based on the language and/or interpretation of the Agreement or violation of the Agreement’s terms, such disputes shall be pursued only through the grievance-arbitration clause set forth in this Agreement,
Should the Union or any individual employee desire to process a grievance pertaining to the violation of the Agreement, or violation of employee’s working conditions, the matter shall be handled according to the following steps. In the event of disciplinary action involving a discharge, it is understood that a grievance which may be filed will commence at the Step III level within ten (10) working days of knowledge.
Step 1 — The employee involved, with a Union representative if the employee so desires, shall present the matter verbally), to the department or shift Superintendent affected within three (3) working days of the knowledge of the incident. The department or shift Superintendent shall answer the employee, within three (3) working days.
Step 2 — If the matter is not settled in the first step, the Union shall present the matter to the Personnel Director and the department or shift Superintendent. Grievances in this step must be presented in writing within ten (10) days after the answer of the first step. The Personnel Director shall have five (5) working days in which to give an answer in writing to the Union. The affected steward and employee shall present the grievance on their own time.
- E 19 -
Step 3 - If the matter is not settled in the second step, the Un ton shall present the matter to the Plant Manager. Grievances in this step must be presented in writing within six (6) working days after the answer in the second step. The Plant Manager shall have five (5) working days within which to give an answer in writing to the Union. The affected steward and employee shall present the grievance on their own time.
PRE-ARBITRATION HEARING
Section 2: If the matter is not settled in the third step, the Union shall present the matter to the Company Industrial Relations Division. Grievances in this step must be presented in writing within six (6) working days after the answer at the third step. The Company Industrial Relations Division shall have five (5) working days within which to give the Union an answer in writing. The affected steward and employee shall present the grievance on their own time. If the grievance is not resolved in this step, the grievance may be submitted to an impartial arbitrator to be selected by mutual agreement of the parties. A written request for arbitration shall be made within seven (7) days of the Pre-Ar bit ration answer. A written request for arbitration shall be made within thirty (30) days of the written notification that the Union wishes to arbitrate. If such written request is not made within the thirty (30) day time limit to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service the grievance shall be ended and the subject matter of the grievance shall be settled. Either party shall have the right to request a list of seven names from rhe Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and strike names to determine which one shall set on the arbitration. The arbitrator's decision in the grievance shall be final and binding upon the employee(s) involved and upon the parties to this Agreement, provided the Arbitrator shall not have authority other than to apply the terms and conditions specifically set forth in the Agreement. It is recommended that the Arbitrator shall submit the decision, in writing, within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the hearing or hearings as the case may be. The compensation and necessary expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
Section 3:	The parties agree that the time allowed to process a grievance is adequate. If the Union fails to process a grievance in the time specified herein, the grievance is ended. However, if either party requests a reasonable extension, the time limit specified for any step of the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement of the
-E20-
Company and the Union Representative involved in that step. Such agreement must be in writing, for a definite time period, and signed by each representative. In the event the Company fails to answer the grievance in the specified time period, the grievance shall automatically advance to the next step.
The Company shall make every effort to release affected stewards and witnesses to attend the grievance meeting at the request of the Union. It is understood that if an individual employee wishes to pursue a grievance, he or she may do so under the aforementioned procedure. Should an individual process his or her own grievance, a Union representative shall receive copies of all grievance answers and shall have the right to be present at such meeting.
Section 4:	In the event an employee is reinstated by an arbitrator, the maximum Liability of the Company shall be the employee’s lost IBP earnings reduced by all compensation received by the employee during the discharge period from other employment, unemployment compensation, workers compensation or other earnings.
ARTICLE XVIII
ADVISE OF REASON FOR DISCIPLINE
Section 1:	In the event an employee is placed upon an indefinite suspension, the Company shall within five (5) working days inform the employee of the reason for discipline and what form of discipline shall be administered. It is understood that some cases require investigation and that the full five (5) days is needed, but the Company agrees that this provision should not be used to delay action unnecessarily. The Union also agrees that the Company may inform the Union of cases that require more than five (5) days and the Union will agree to extend the time in such cases to a mutually agree upon date.
Section 2:	When a decision is made regarding disciplinary action, the Company shall impose such action in a prompt manner.
Section 3s In the event of an investigation of wrong doing, an employee who has a legitimate reason for believing that he or she may be subject to disciplinary action may request Union representation by a steward of choice, if available, within the concerned department.
ARTICLE XIX MILITARY SERVICE
RIGHT TO REEMPLOYMENT. An employee who leaves or has left a position in the employ of the Company to enter upon active service in the Armed forces of the United States, has the right to be
-E21 -
reemployed by the Company, when such employee has completed his or her military obligation, with full seniority and rights as provided for under Section 9 of the Universal Military Training and Service Act.
ARTICLE XX
MILITARY SUMMER ENCAMPMENT
Regular Full-time employees on the active payroll will be granted a leave of absence upon request where they are required to participate in summer encampment training as a member of the National Guard or any U.S. Military Reserve as provided for by the laws of Nebraska.
ARTICLE XXI JURY DUTY
Section 1:	An employee called to jury duty in the county, state, or Federal courts shall be excused for jury service on presenting the summons requiring such duty to his or her Supervisor.
Section 2:	A regular full-time employee will be paid the difference between jury pay and the scheduled hours he or she would have worked up to a maximum of eight (8) for each full day of jury service when it falls on a scheduled work day. If the employee is dismissed from jury service during his or her normal scheduled hours, the employee will be expected to notify the Supervisor or the Personnel Office as to his or her availability for work.
Section 3:	The employee shall endorse and turn over to the employer the jury pay check except the employee may retain any pay provided for travel expenses, and in turn will be paid by the employer the amount of his or her regular straight time earnings.
Section 4:	Jury duty for all purposes will be considered a day worked.
ARTICLE XXII FUNERAL LEAVE
Section 1: Absences due to the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family will be treated as an excused absence, A regular full-time employee so absent will be paid during rhe period of such absence on the following basis.
I.	In the event of death of an employees mother-in-law or father-in-law living in the employee’s household, or the death of rhe employee’s spouse, father, mother, brother, sister, or child (including legally adopted children), the employee will be paid the number of hours his or her gang
-E22-
works, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours in any one day for each of three (3) consecutive days (one of which must be the day of the funeral) on which the gang works. For purposes of this Article, Sunday will not be considered as breaking “consecutive days.” Such pay shall not be included in the computation of overtime pay. In order to be eligible for funeral pay, the employee must attend the funeral. The Company reserves the right to require verification.
2.	In the event of death of an employees mother-in-law or father-in-law living outside the employee’s household, the employee will be paid the number of hours his or her gang works, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours in any one day for each of two (2) consecutive days (one of which must be the day of the funeral) on which the gang works. Such pay shall not be included in the computation of overtime pay. In order to be eligible for funeral pay, the employee must attend the funeral. The .Company reserves the right to require verification.
3.	In the event of death of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent or grandchild, the employee will be paid the number of hours his or her gang works, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours for the day of the funeral. Such pay shall not be included in the computation of overtime pay. In order to be eligible for funeral pay, the employee must attend the funeral. The Company reserves the right to require verification.
4.	In the event of the death of a close friend, the Company will endeavor to release the concerned employee to attend the funeral. Such leave shall not be paid,
5.	An employee who finds it will be necessary to be absent will notify his or her Supervisor as soon as possible.
6.	An employee who is unable to attend the Funeral for reasons of proximity of the location of the funeral shall receive one (1) day of pay at eight (8) hours straight time rate for mourning purposes.
ARTICLE XXIII INSURANCE/MEDICAL BENEFITS
Effective January 1st, 2005, the Company will make available for regular full-time team members the following comprehensive benefit program. The following coverage’s will commence on the
-E23-
first day of the month following completion of 3 months of full-time employment and will terminate on the team member’s last day of employment (unless extended or converted, to the extent permissible), A team member hired on or after January 1st, 2Q05 will automatically be enrolled for single, basic coverage if other coverage has not been elected by returning a completed Group Health Plan Enrollment Form before his or her eligibility date.
1.	Basic Medical Coverage under Group Health Plan, with $1 Million Life Time Maximum
2,	Prescription Drug Card
3.	Company-Paid Term Life Insurance
4.	Company-Paid Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
5.	Retiree Health Insurance Plan
The following additional coverage’s will commence at no additional cost on the first day of the month following 6 months of participation in Medical Coverage under the Group Health Plan and will terminate on the team members last day of employment (unless extended, to the extent permissible).
1.	Dental
2,	Vision
Comp any-Paid Short Term Disability Insurance will be available after 1 year of full-time service.
The following optional coverage’s are available for additional cost to the team member and will terminate on the team member’s last day of employment (unless converted, to the extent permissible).
1.	Voluntary Life Insurance - available on the first day of the month following 3 months of full-time service.
2.	Voluntary Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance - available on the first day of the month following 3 months of full-time service,
3.	Long Term Disability Insurance — available after 1 year of full-time service.
A team member's payroll deductions for single or family coverage under the Group Health Plan for Basic Medical (with $1 million life time maximum), Dental, Vision, Prescription Drug Card Coverages, Company Paid Life, Company Paid Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Short Term Disability will equal 25% of the total cost of the selected coverage. Premium Plan coverage cost more. Payroll deductions for team members will be re-determined each calendar year. If the Group Health Plan’s expenses increase, the
-E24-
payroll deductions for coverage will most likely increase. A trailing 12 month-period of Group Health Plan expenses is used to calculate payroll deductions for team members, as determined at rhe end of rhe Company’s fiscal year each September, Based on that expense experience, the Company establishes new payroll deduction levels for team members effective January 1 for the calendar year commencing on that date.
Team members on any type of leave of absence will be required to pay their benefit contributions during any such period of absence in order to maintain their benefit coverages.
The attached Benefit Plan Designs provide only general descriptions of the benefits mentioned above. The foil terms and conditions of each type of benefit are governed by formal plan documents which will govern in the event of any conflict or discrepancy with the general descriptions provided in the Benefit Plan Designs. Copy of all plan documents may be obtained by contacting the Corporate Benefits Department.
The employer reserves the right to change carriers andfor third party administrators or become insured during this term of agreement.
The Company reserves the right during the term of this Agreement to modify the design features of the group health plan only to incentivize employees to use certain medical providers.
Any changes to benefits and plans covered by this Article will be mutually agreed upon by the parties.
RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN:
Effective January 1, 2005 the Company agrees to make available the following Retirement Savings Plan to cover employees in the Dakota City plant bargaining unit.
1.	Employees are eligible to participate on the first day of the month following the month coincident with or following three (3) months of full-time service.
2.	Employees can save from 2 to 60 percent, up to IRS limitations, of their pay on a pre-tax basis.
3.	After completion of one (1) year of service, the Company will match, dollar-for-dollar, the employees’ contribution up to three (3) percent of pay Plus, the company will match half (1/2) of the employees further contributions up to the next two (2) percent of pay.
4.	Employees are immediately one-hundred percent (100%)
-E25-
vested in their and the Company’s contributions,
5.	Generally, there are three (3) ways in which an employee can receive their accounts: 1) distributions when employment ends; 2) withdrawals; and 3) loans. Withdrawals and distributions are subject to income taxes.
6.	Distributions — An employee will receive their account when their employment ends. The employees’ beneficiary will receive the account if rhe employee dies. If the employee is married, the spouse is automatically the beneficiary, unless the spouse signs a waiver. If no beneficiary is chosen, the account will go to the employees’ spouse or estate, in that order, When an employee receives payment, twenty percent (20%) will be withheld for income taxes. The employee may delay paying raxes on distribution by rolling it over into another qualified plan or into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA).
ARTICLE XXIV BULLETIN BOARDS
There shall be at all times maintained in the plant a bulletin board for use by the Union. Notices may be posted on such bulletin board for such matters as Union meeting, social affairs, recreational affairs and Union elections and appointments. Other notices may be posted subject to the approval of rhe management as to their contents.
ARTICLE XXV WAGE RATES
Section 1:	The starting rate for employees hired in the Dakota City plant for the term of this agreement will be $9.00 (to be a minimum) with employees receiving a twenty cent ($.20) increase every three (3) months until reaching base.
Section 2:	Effective the date of this labor agreement, the base labor rate of pay shall be:
	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3	Year 4	Year 5
Slaughter Division	$11.00	$11.20	$11.45	$11.70	$11.95
Processing Division	$10.82	$11.02	$11.27	$11.52	$11.77
HidesZTannery	$10.82	$11.02	$11.27	$11.52	$11.77
(Change)	($.60)	($.20)	($.25)	($.25)	($.25)
-E26-
Section 3:	During the term of this labor agreement, rates for Maintenance employees will be as follows;
MO	M3	M4	M5	M6	M7	E7	R7
$11.00	$11.00	$11.00	$12.20	$12.75	$14.45	$15.45	$15.45
(Change)	($.80)	($.40)	($.15)	($.55)	($.60)	($1.25)	($1.25)	($1.25)
* Maintenance levels Mi through R7 shall receive the same contractual increases as production in years 2,3,4 and 5.
ARTICLE XXVI WAGE RATE CLASSIFICATION -NEW OR CHANGED JOB CONTENT
When the Company establishes a new job classification, combines or separates the duties of existing classifications, or substantially changes the work content of an existing classification, ir will establish an appropriate hourly rate for rhe classification and notify the Local Union of such rate. Ir will be the intention of the Company to inform the Union of rate changes and reason for such changes in advance of actual installation. If the Union disagrees with that hourly rare, it may file a written grievance at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) days of such notification. The test of fairness of the Company's rate determination is whether it is in line with the existing rate structure of other jobs in the Division, giving proper consideration to the job content and skill involved. If a higher rare should be awarded, it would be paid from the date of the change.
ARTICLE XXVII SUBCONTRACTING
The parries to the Agreement have discussed subcontracting of work being performed by bargaining unit employees and agree as follows;
Both parties desire to minimize the effects of subcontracting on the job security of the employees and will work to that end.
When subcontracting of any existing operations becomes necessary or desirable, in rhe sole judgment of the management, the Company will notify the Union; however, the Company agrees it will not subcontract the operation of an entire department. If rhe Union desires to discuss the effects on the job security of the employees, the sanies will meet for that- purpose. The Company agrees to delay lay-ffs caused by subcontracting until ar least rwo (2) weeks subsequent - its notice to the Union of its intention so that the parties have ample ne to suggest methods of avoiding the layoffs or minimizing their jerse effects.
-E27-
ARTICLE XXVUI
SAFETY COMMITTEE
Section J: The Company and the Union recognize the priority and need for an effective, structured safety program to provide safe working conditions for ail employees.
The Joint Safety Program is designed to address al! health and safety working conditions within the plant, and both parties will constructively work together to improve rhe safety of the facility conditions or practices.
While the Company fully retains the right to select and utilize such outside consultants as it deems in its sole discretion, to be needed, rhe Company and rhe Union may discuss and, if mutually agreed, , select consultants to assist the parries in safety and health matters.
Section 2t The Company agrees that it has the sole responsibii-	<
ity to provide a safe workplace and to correct safety hazards. Nothing	’
in this Agreement shall imply that either the Local or International	'
Union has undertaken or assumed any portion of the responsibility.
In exercising its rights to manage the safety and health program in	.
the plant, the Company will continue to inform both management	I
and non-management employees that safety depends upon the petfor*	I
mancc of every person in their job duties.	’
Section 3; The Company will continue the current Safety Committees in each plant for the purpose of advising and assisting the Company in identification of safety hazards and to recommend solutions.
A.	The membership of the Safety Committee shall consist of Employee Representatives designated by the Local Union [membership shall consist of a minimum of eight (8) in the Slaughter Division; four (4) in Extension; seven (7) in the processing Division, and two (2) in Hides/Tannery Divisiortjand subject to replacement under such circumstances and conditions as the Local Union may determine, and representatives designated by Plant Management (one of whom shall be rhe person in charge of Maintenance at the plant), and subject to" replacement under such circumstances and conditions as the Plant Management may determine.
B.	The Safety Committee shall convene once each month anc: at such other times as the Safety Coordinator of the Plar^^^™ shall determine in order to carry out its functions. The duri— of the Committee shall include the review and investigate of safety practices and rules and health and safety conditit_
~£28-
in the plant and the handling of safety complaints. The company shall cooperate in including a representative designate by the'Union in all OSHA inspections, to the extent required by law or mutually agreed as beneficial to the safety effort.
Committee members will be permitted to make their own inspections of the plant conditions as ate reasonably needed (provided that this shall not be abused), subject to such controls as the Safety Coordinator may impose. Working hours lost by Employee committee members in the performance of their duties as members of the Committee shall be compensated by the Company at their regular hourly rates.
C.	The Safety Committee shall review safety concerns and make recommendations to management as promptly as is feasible.
D,	The Company shall take minutes of the Joint Safety Committee meetings and promptly furnish copies of such minutes to the Local Union and to the employee members of the Safety committee.
E.	The Company will pay lost working time for bargaining unit Safety Committee members as may be necessary to attend safety training programs or seminars scheduled by management.
F.	The Company’s Safety Coordinator shall notify a designated Union Safety Committee member of the occurrence of any accident resulting in an injury causing an employee to be hospitalized overnight. The designated Union Safety Committee member and the Company’s Safety Director Coordinator shall review the circumstances causing the accident.
G.	The Union will consult with management on the appointment of a new safety committee member.
Section 4; In the event an employee detects what he or she believes to be a hazard to health and safety in his or her working area, the employee shall have the right to contact his or her immediate supervisor, who, if in agreement with the employee, shall take immediate action to eliminate the hazard. If the employee believes chat the hazard has not been eliminated, such employee shall have the right to contact an employee member of the plant Safety Committee, who shall then bring the matter to the attention of the Safety Coordinator or Plant Manager.
-E29-
Section 5:	The Company shall provide such training programs as management, in its sole discretion, decides are necessary to assure that each employee, in connection with his or her respective job, is adequately trained in the precautions and procedures required for safety and maintenance, handling and use of facilities, equipment, machinery, chemicals and apparatus. The recommendations of the Safety Committee shall be given consideration by management in this regard.
Section 6:	The Company shall provide to the Local Union a list of all known hazardous substances and processes in use in the plant, giving the chemical name and trade name of each, and stating the known dangers and harmful effects of each and the known threshold levels of measurements or other factors which may give rise to such dangers or effects.
Section 7t The Company will endeavor to keep rhe dispensary open during all production hours. The parties agree plant procedures should cover emergency first aid for accidents that might occur when no medical personnel are available on the premises.
Section 8: The Company and the Union recognize the complexity and importance of ergonomic issues in the meat industry. The Company has indicated its support for progress in this area and that significant attention will be given to this concern by management.
Section 9i The Company agrees to provide written notice to the union of any change of substance to this Program before the change is initiated in the event the Union wishes to discuss the proposed change.
ARTICLE XXIX
WAIVER, ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND SEVERABILITY
Section I:	ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This is the complete agreement providing all benefits to which any employee may be entitled, and it is expressly understood and agreed that the Company has no obligation to any employee or employees other than those specifically provided herein.
Section 2:	WAIVER, The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after and exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in the Agreement.
— E 30 ~
Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the term of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject matter not referred to or covered in this Agreement even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement,
Section 3:	AMENDMENTS, Any modification or supplement to this Agreement to be effective must be reduced to writing and executed by proper representatives of each party.
Section 4:	SEVERABILITY. If any Article or Section of this Agreement or any written amendment hereto shall be held invalid by operation of law or by tribunal of competent jurisdiction or if compliance with or enforcement of any Article or Section shall be restrained by such a tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement and of any written amendment hereto, or the application of such Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which such provision has been held invalid or to which compliance with or enforcement has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
-E3J -
ARTICLE XXX DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall become effective August 9> 2004, and shall remain in full force and effect until 11:59 p,m., Sunday, August 9, 2009. Eicher party may terminate the Agreement by giving written notice to the other on or before sixty (60) days prior to Sunday, August 9, 2009. If such notice is not given by either parry, this Agreement shall renew itself for successive one (I) year periods until such notice is given. Such notice shall be given by registered or certified mail.
Dared:
For the Company: Bruce L. Pautsch Thomas R. Trosper Mark Gordon Tom Dunlop	For the Union: Marvin Harrington Chuck Clayton Carmen Hacht Randy Peters Jeanne Harry
-E32-
APPENDIX - JOB GRADES SLAUGHTER
BASE:
Drive Carrie	Bag Tails
Wash Tallow Cars	Cleanup (Edible Rendering)
Cut Off Front Feet	Cleanup (Inedible Rendering)
Strap Cattle	Janitor (Day)
Squeegee	Yards Workers
Hang Plastic	Ours ide Cattle Drive
Box Maker	Water Pen Drive
Car Washer	Hold Cardboard
Hang Paper Towels	Blow Hocks
Remove Plastic	Pull Spina] Cords
Box Large Intestines	Box Small Intestines
GRADE ONE: Base + 5 cents	
Tail Washer	Steam Vacuum Operator
Haul Beef Feet Barrels	Wash, saw, remove toenails
Trim, pack beef feet	
GRADE TWO: Base + 10 cents	
Up Puller	Wash & Trim Tripe (Honeycomb)
Cut off Ears & Foreshanks	Condemned Room Operator
Ring Weasand	Save Sweetbreads
High Trim	Skin Livers
Pop Kidney	Save Lobe Meat
Scaler	Rai! Off Hot beef
Cut, switch and stamp Angus	Heartside Pack
Offal Load out	Push Beef (Rail On)
Tongue Trimmer	Rail On beef
Open & Dump Paunch	Head Trimmer (Glands)
Weasand Saver	Save tendons
Offal Transfer	Lipper
Head Splitter	Ante Mortem Worker
Save Brains & Pituitary Glands	Rendering Load out
Trim midlines	Lot Carrier
"heck puller	Box Head Product
(eartside Palletizer	Monitor Frigo
ick Inedible	Pack Cheekside
move sheath	Palletize Product
£33*
Tongues ide Pack	Split Face Plate
Wash Brains	Wash/Box Tongues
Rinse & Trim Tripe (Honeycomb) 1 st Hang Off
2nd Hang Off	Cheek Puller
Rotex Operator	Trim In cooler
GRADE THREE; Base + 20 cents	
Knocker/Shackler	McClure Knife
Rip Tails	Skirt Puller
Dehorn & Notch Ears	Tempter
Downpuller	Chiseier
Dejoint Heads	Checker
Drop & Hang Heads	Pull Jaw Meat
Clip & Flush Heads	Save Head Meat
Drop & Hang Tongues	Pluck Table
Dehorn & Trim Heads &	Separate Tie & Cur
Tongues	Flush Eg. Intestine
Bung Dtopper/Notch Tails	Pull Off Etver & Heart
Grub Rail	Debone Heart
Trim Eg. Intestine	Feed Strickler
Save Pancreas	Cook Small Intestine
Pull Off Round	Push & Space Hot Beef
Pull Off Paunch	Cut off Paunch - Cut Off Peck
Round Runner	Rod Weasand
Inspect Carcass and Wash	Roller Grade
Rail Off (2)	Roller Regard
Rail On	Cut Off Pizzle
Hooker	Raise Gullet
Cut Down	Leadsman Rendering {3 + 10 cents)
Plasma Operator	Belly Ripper
Saw Brisket	Whizzed Heads
Clipper	
GRADE FOUR; Base + 35 cents
Sticker	Hot	Scaler
1st Legger	2nd	Eegger
Mark Pattern	Side	Puller
Scaler	Airch Bone Cutter
Push Beef	Clear Necks
Lugging Buggy Operator	Pre-Gutter
Tag/Stamp Beef	Edible Fat Puller
-£34-
/
All Rend. Oper. (except Rotex) Remove Chain/2nd Legger
Puli Large Intestine
GRADE FIVE; Base + 50 cents
! Low Trim Rail Out Straight Knife Sharpener Low Backer Saw Cattle ’ Rib Cattle	Rum per Flanker Rim-Over Brisker Lugger Air Knife Sharpener Low Neck
GRADE SIX: Base + 70 cents
1st Butter Utility (Coolers)	2nd Butter
GRADE SEVEN: Base + Kill Floor Utility Person AHT (7 + 10 cents)	95 cents Gutter Splitter
PROCESSING BASE;
Trim Contamination Clean-up Haul Inedible Box Diaph ram Tissue Box Elephant Ears Check Ground Beef Rehang Round Box Tissue Packers Box Tun/Strap dump TB Control Switches Drop Chuck Transfer Bones Trolley Room Rework Clean Sht. Rib Bones Pick Trim	Drop Shank Bone 80/20 Packer (A) Forklift (Processing) Pack & Label Trim Vat Dumper Drop Kidney/Hanging Tender (A) Stuffers Pull Elephant Ear Trim & Pack Back Strap (A) Supply & Clean-up Reject Handler (A) Net & Stuff Supply & Reject Laundry Trim Kidney & Pack Kidney Pull Spinal Cords Hang Trolleys
Cleanup Gr. Beef & Lockers (B) Identify Boneout Hock Cutter	Drop Elephant Ears
-E35~
Trim Oyster	Boneguard
Relable Loop (A)	Rib Finger Trimmers
Dump Tubs	Whizzard Knife Operator
Feed plate skinner & plate slicer Swing-Off Rounds
Transfer/Sort Bones
Haul & load misc. to multivac Mark Elephant Ears Open laundry and lockers Trim Checkers
50/50 Extruder
8300 Operator Weight Box Finger Trim Swing Up Chuck Sinew Extractor
Feed Skinner
Trim arm to 80/20
Trim Boneless Short Rib
Spray Carcass
Cut Off Cod
Place Plate Bone on Beit
Box Diaphram Tissue
Trim upgrade
Anal Ray Operator Bag, box rib product
GRADE SIX; Base + 20 cents
Bone Forcshank or Hind
Product Stacker
Hand line Operator
Opcrate skinner / Gen, Laborer Pallet transfer Operator
Palletize / wrap / manifest Trim Shin & Shank
Trim Rib
Ri brail Liftermeat
Trim Flank
Trim Hanging Tender
Drop Brisket
Special Trim from Drops
Trim loin wing
Bone Loin Wing
Foreign object inspector Janitor
Monitor Bone Hole Pack split spare ribs Remove Bone Chp/Mark Rose Trim Strip Tails Set up/op/bag multivac Small Box Controller Hang Chuck Chains Cur off Paddle Bone Sort lean trimmings Transfer Product Trim chuck cap
Bag & Box Round Heel Muscle Bag Japanese Flapmeat Feed Bone to Protocon
Trim contamination/ pre ID Trim/bag miscellaneous product Bag Split Spare Ribs
Trim Rounds (Gsnek. or insides) Blender Operator Inventory & Feed Chain Push-Up Beef
Transfer & Rail Off
Cut & Swing Forequarter Rework I Stack off boxes Puil/Trim Liftermeat
Trim Clod
Chuck Short Rib
Split short rib / clean three bones Separate Kosher & Liftmeat Trim Skirts
Trim Briskets
Puli Flank
-E36-
Trim Loin Wing	Clean Brisket Bone
Pull Elephant Ear (B)	Trim Knuckles
Bone Arm	Trim Tops
Trim Strips	Seam Rounds
Clean Plate Bone	Grinder Operator
Trim Bottom Butts	Depal Operator
Trim Nose Brisket	Feed Chain (M.H.)
Bulk Scale	Accumulation Monitor
Case Sealer	Split Boneless Short Rib
Relabel Loop	Push & Transfer & Unload
Trim Bone-in Short Rib	Trim Flap Meat
Pull Plate Eye	Pull Round Eye
Trim Plate Eye	Trim Gooseneck, Eye, & Flat
Trim Short Loin	Drop Inside Skirts
Trim Round Heel Muscle	Knife Off Foreshank
Buggy Operator/Trim Contamination	Remove Belly Strap/Plate
Wedge	
GRADE FIVE: Base + 30 cents	
Mar, Hdlg. Equip, cleaner	Input Stack
Saw / Split spare rib	13-Rib
Drop Flank	Output Stack
PaJletizer Operator	Finger & Button Boner
Chuck Roller	Trim Karubi Plates
Load Boxes	Trim Tenderloin (A)
Split SR / Operate SR Saw	Carousel Operator
GRADE FOUR: Base + 48 cents	
Baader Operator	Bone Plates
Pull Kosher	Operate outside skirt skinner
Wing Saw	K-Pak Operator
Operate Skinner	
GRADE THREE: Base + 83 cents	
Pull Aitch Bones	Bone Brisket
Mark Paddle Bone	
GRADE TWO: Base+$L38	
Bone & Seam Rounds	Bone Ribs
Shell Saw	Well Saw
Strip Saw	Bone Tops
~ E 37 -
Chuck Saw
Rib Saw
Pull Knuckle
GRADE ONE: Base + $1.88 Pul! Butt Tender
Split Forequarter Hind Saw Chuck Boner
Pull clod
Pul! Tender
Utility Person
Operate Loin Dropper
LEADPERSON RATE:
Leadpersons, Assistant Hourly Trainers, and Spell Relief shall be 10 cents above the highest rate in the department. (Department means line.)
HIDES
Base (Same as Processing);
Load-Out
GRADE ONE: Base + 10 cents
Load-Out Scaler	Forklift
GRADE TWO; Base + 15 cents
Clean-Up	Chemical Coordinator
GRADE THREE; Base + 45 cents
Flesher
Tank Puller (Green) Grader (Green) Trim Heads Trim Teats/Shank Hang Heads
Trimmer
Receiving Coordinator
Open Shanks
Trim Foreshanks
Trim Tails
Forklift/Production Loadout
GRADE FOUR; Base +■ 55 cents
Wring Feed Blue Pullers
Grader (Cured) Hide Hanger Lime Hide Trimmer Tannery Ringer
Blue Stackers
Tank Puller (Cured)
Tiers and Carriers Operate Lime Deflesher Ha ng/Trim/Stack
-E38-
COMPLEX MAINTENANCE;
HIDES/TANNERY MAINTENANCE
SLAUGHTER GRADE BASE:
Maintenancejanitor	Painter
Filter Changer
SLAUGHTER GRADE FOUR:
Paunch Burner Operator
SLAUGHTER GRADE FIVE:
Kniferoom
Knifcroom/Urility Sharpener
OTHER:
Mechanical, Electrical, Building Maintenance, Refrigeration, Electronics/Scales in accordance with qualification and provisions of Maintenance Training Program. Grades contained in Article XXV.
-E39-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ACTIVE BALLOT CHECKOFF
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company, upon written authorization from an employee, shall deduct from the employee’s weekly pay the amount designated by the employ for Active Ballot Check-off (ABC) and promptly remit to the appropriate officer of the Union for ABC.
The Union shall indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgments or attachments, and from any other form of liability as a result of making any deduction in accordance with the foregoing authorization and assignment under the conditions permitted by law.
Dated:
For the Company:	For the Union;
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E40-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ERGONOMICS
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
Tyson recognizes the value of the existing ergonomics program. The Company anticipates continuing the programs outlined in the IBP Health and Safety Agreement and the Appendix. The Company has no current plans to discontinue these efforts during the term of the labor agreement. The Company agrees to provide written notice to the Union of any change of substance to the policies and programs developed as a result of this agreement before any change is initiated to afford the Union the opportunity to discuss the contemplated change.
Dated:
For the Company:
For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E41 -
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING HIDES/TANNERY DIVISION
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc,, Dakota Dunes, I SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and 1 Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company and Union have met and discussed the unique nature of the Hides/Tannery Division and have agreed as follows:
1)	Employees essential to the Tannery operation, known as the “blue crew” or “wring crew,” shall be subject to the designation of a day as Sunday in lieu of calendar Sunday, Work performed on such a designated Sunday shall be compensated at twice (2) the regular hourly rate.
2)	A plant closure for vacation as described in Article IX, Section 6, may not affect the Hides/Tannery Operation. Hides/Tannery employees who work during the time the main plant is closed for vacation will schedule vacation at another time during the year.
3)	Hours of work shall be scheduled in line with Article VII, Section 2. It is understood that hides are perishable and work in progress needs to be performed. If an emergency should arise, thus requiring the employees in the perishable work in progress (green and blue crews and skins) to work additional time, the Company will seek qualified workers from the plant to complete the work, using the senior may, junior must concept. The Company will endeavor to minimize the occurrence of these types of situations.
Dated:
For the Company:
For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
E42-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TRANSFER OF DEPARTMENT SENIORITY JOB ELIMINATION
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Mears, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009,
An employee who has held seniority in only one (1) department and whose job is permanently eliminated and he is transferred to a new department shall have his departmental seniority applied in the new department. A layoff is not a permanent job elimination.
Dated:
For the Company;	For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E43-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING NEW YEAR’S EVE SCHEDULE
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
k is understood that the Company will, to the extent business circumstances make it feasible, schedule work on December 31sc shift(s) such that the afternoon shift will get off early.
Dated;
For the Company:
For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E44-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING QUICK START
This memorandum is hereby made a part of rhe Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc,, Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
Quick Start shall also be paid to any employee who bids from a base job to a Quick Start eligible job and who has not been placed on the newly bid job within fifteen (15) days of the award, The parties have agreed to a race progression acceleration program, referred to as ' Quick Start”, “to waive the starting rate progression on a weekly basis for the employees who are performing qualified work on a graded job or higher and who meet the attendance criteria on a weekly basis.
For the purpose of Quick Start Qualification an employee must incur zero (0) points per the Company Attendance Policy to qualify for Quick Start in that week.
An employee shall become ineligible for Quick Start and therefore be paid under the regular progression where:
a)	A non-job owner who is displaced to a grade 0 job by the operation of the seniority article. (A temporary reassignment of a job owner will not cause a loss of Quick Start).
b)	An employee who is disqualified from a graded job and moved to a grade 0 job.
c)	The employee is moved to a grade 0 job to which the employee bid. (A bid to a graded or higher job, however, will not cause a loss of Quick Start ).
Vacation pay wifi be calculated at the Quick Stan rate, provided the employee qualifies for Quick Start the week prior to vacation.
The Company reserves the right to modify or terminate Quick Start anytime during the life of the Agreement. It is understood, however, that the employees who are participating in Quick Start at the time of such termination will continue to be paid in accordance with the Quick Starr program.
Dated:
For the Company;	For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E45-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING SCHEDULE NOTIFICATION
This memorand urn is hereby made a parr of rhe Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
With respect to the administration of Article VII, Hours of Work, of the current Labor Agreement, it is understood that production employees will be notified of the shift schedules by 12:00 noon of the preceding day for each shift. Hide/Tattnery employees will be notified no later than the end of their shift the preceding day. It is further understood that the Company may reduce or increase the posted hours due to unusual or unforeseen events at any time; however, the Company will make every effort to minimize such changes.
Dated:
For the Company:	' For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E46-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING VACATION CHECKS
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company will make vacation checks available on Thursday of each week for vacations to commence the following week or weeks.
The intent of this memorandum is to provide the Company with sufficient time on Friday to issue any missing checks.
Dated:
For the Company:
Mark Gordon
For the Union:
Marvin Harrington
~£47~
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
UNION VISITATIONSUBJECT; UNION VISITATION
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009. SUBJECT: UNION VISITATION
Union representatives shall have the right to visit the work place at any time during normal working hours provided such visits are not in any way disruptive, and do not in any way interfere with operations or the workforce. The Union will furnish to the Company a list of the Union officials or representatives who reasonably could be expected to visit the Plant during the term of this Agreement. Such officialsand/or representatives shall make arrangement and shall receive permission (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) in advance of the start of the visit. Such representatives shall observe all rules and procedures applicable to visitors. The Company shall have the option ro accompany Union representatives in any work area at any time the Company feels that such is desirable for the safety of any individual.
Dated;
For the Company;
For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
~£48~
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
TYSON FOODS, INC STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009,
The Company agrees to make available the Tyson Foods Stock Purchase Plan to cover employees in the Dakota City Plant bargaining unit.
a)	Employees are eligible to participate on the first day of the month following the month coincident with or following three (3) months of full-time service.
b)	Employees can contribute from one (1) to ten (10) percent of their pay or a dollar amount from $1.00 to $25.00 per week on an after tax basis.
c)	Tyson will purchase shares ofTyson Class a Common Stock. Employees shall receive quarterly statements.
d)	After successful completion of one (1) year of service, Tyson will make a contribution of the Retirement Savings Plan equal to fifty (50) percent of the employees’ contribution to the Stock Purchase Plan, Tyson's contribution will be made to rhe Retirement Savings Plan into the employees' 401 (k) accounts on a pre-tax basis.
e)	The Tyson stock the employee purchases will be available at the end of each quarter of the year The Tyson stock the Company purchases on the employees’ behalf in the Retirement Savings Plan will be subject to the 401 (k) withdrawal regulations.
f)	Employees shall have three (3) options under the plan. 1) Leave the stock in the Plan, to grow through dividend reinvestment, 2) Take the stock out of the Plan, or 3) Sell the stock through the Plan.
While Tysons stock has historically increased in value, there is no guarantee that it will increase in the future. Past performance is an indicator only and is not a guarantee of future performance, Tysons stock, like stock in any Company, can and will go up or down in value.
The Company reserves the right to modify the stock purchase plan at anytime during the fife of the Agreement.
-£4S»-
Dated:
For the Company:
For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E50-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING MEMORANDUM
OF UNDERSTANDING IMMIGRANT WORKER RIGHTS
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company agrees to provide rime-off to employees who must travel to the appropriate Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) office to attend appointments and-or secure necessary documents to maintain their work authorization, citizenship, etc.
The employee must present certification from the INS, which states the date and the time of the scheduled appointment as soon as practicable ro their immediate supervisor. The period of rime needed to attend the appointment or secure documents will be determined on a case-by-case basis with the Human Resources Manager making the final determination.
In the event an employee is terminated as a result of an expired work authorization, rhe Company will immediately inform rhe Local Union in writing. An employee, who has been terminated as a result of an expired work authorization will be given a reasonable amount of time (generally 30 days, but may be extended if the employee is diligent in their attempt to obtain work authorization) to present an updated work authorization and be considered for reinstatement with full seniority and benefits.
Dated;
For the Company:
For the Union;
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E51-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING PAY CHECK SHORTAGES
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
Payroll errors, of at least Fifty Dollars (50), will be corrected on Friday (the employee must report the discrepancy to the Supervisor by noon on Friday). All other payroll discrepancies will be corrected through retro active pay on the employees subsequent paycheck.
Dated:
For the Company:
Mark Gordon
For the Union:
Marvin Harrington
-E52-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING PUSH & TRANSFER & UNLOAD/LL'GGF.RS
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company and the Union agree to remove the position of lugger (Processing grade) from the job listings in the labor agreement. However, in the case of a mechanical malfunction or any other situation that would require physically carrying carcass beef, the Company agrees to pay the old lugger rate (Processing grade) provided such activity is performed for fifteen (15) minutes of greater.
Dated:
For the Company.
For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-£53-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING MAINTENANCE TRAINING PROGRAM
This memorandum is hereby made a pan of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9. 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The parties have met and discussed Maintenance Training ar the Dakota City facility and have agreed as follows.
PURPOSE OF PROGRAM
The purpose of the Dakota City Maintenance Training Program is io attract, develop, and retain specially skilled and safety-conscions maintenance personnel to support the Dakota City beef operation.
SCOPE OF PROGRAM
This Maintenance Training Program is applicable to all hourly maintenance personnel in the Dakota City plant, including the Complex Maintenance Division and those assigned to the Hides/ Tannery Division, but excluding painters, and janitors.
PROGRAM OVERVIEW
Upon acceptance to the Maintenance Department, following at least a sixty percent (60%) score on an aptitude test for the specialization sought, an employee enters a structured Maintenance training Program, broadly consisting of two segments, each containing four levels of instruction.
The first segment consists of Level 1, a general orientation, and Levels 2, 3 and 4 which consist of instruction in basic electri-cal/mechanical and safety skills. Training occurs both in the classroom and on the job.
It is expected that the employee will complete Levels I and 2 within the first ninety days with a pay increase to Maintenance Grade M3 at that time. Levels 3 and 4 require another ninety days of training with an increase to Grade M4 upon satisfactory completion.
The second segment of the Program, consisting of Levels 5, 6, 7, and 8, is designed to train the employee in one of five specialized areas: Mechanical, Electrical, Refrigeration, Building Maintenance, or Scales/Electronics. As in the first training segment, instruction occurs loth in the classroom and on the job. The employee is expected to atisfacrorily complete Levels 5 and 6 within another ninety days
-E54-
receiving a pay increase to Grade M5 at that time. Level 7 should then be satisfied within the next ninety days, with an increase in pay to Grade M6 upon completion.
Level 8 is optional but encouraged for the employee, with successful completion resulting in a pay increase to Grade M7 for Mechanical (General and Building) and R7 for Boiler Roundsmen and Refrigeration; and Electrical Grade E7 for Electricians and Scale/ Electronics.
While the training in Levels 5 through 8 is designed to be specialized, a certain amount of training in the other specialties is necessary in order to develop a well trained and safe maintenance employee. For this reason, certain parts of the Training Program require that an employee “understand,” while other parts require that the employee “be proficient.” The distinction is that “understand” denotes a level of training less than proficiency, but sufficient to make the employee knowledgeable and able to perform his specialty in a safe and efficient manner.
In all levels of the Training Program, each week of training will be checked off, signed, and dated by both the employee and supervisor. In addition, a written evaluation will be performed monthly by the supervisor until the employee attains Level 7•
Tests, which comprise a valuable evaluation tool, are also given throughout the Training Program, either in written or verbal form at the employee’s preference. Such tests must be passed at a minimum eighty percent (80%) for the employee to attain the level being sought.
All classes, evaluations, and tests, as well as on the job training, are performed in the workplace on Company time. Reading material is made available for the employee to take home to accelerate the training process, but such work at home is not required.
The employee’s work will be scheduled in accordance with both his skill level and training needs. Where possible, the employee will be assigned to work with a skilled fellow employee who will be able to assist in the training process.
In the foregoing manner, the Company seeks to develop a highly skilled, qualified, and safe Maintenance employee within a one yeat period.
RATES OF PAY
Job grades, skill levels and associated rates of pay under th— program shall be as follows:
-E55-
MO_____M3_____M4_____MS_____Mi_____MZ_____EZ_____BZ
$10.20	$10.60	$11.15	$11.65	$12.15	$13.20	$14.20	$14.20
New	$11.00	$11.00	$11.00	$12.20	$12.75	$14.45	$15.45	$15.45
(Change) ($.80)	($.40)	-($.15)	($.55)	($-60)	($1.25)	($1.25)	($1.25)
Maintenance levels M5 through R7 shall receive the same contractual increases as production in years 2, 3, 4, and 5.
LEVEL7PAY PROGRESSION
Maintenance personnel shall be expected to progress through the training levels and receive rate increases according to the following schedule. This schedule is a maximum timeframe and an employee may progress faster as his skill level permits.
Levels 1 and 2 in ninety days, then increased to Grade M3.
Levels 3 and 4 in next ninety days, then increased to Grade M4.
Levels 5 and 6 in next ninety days, then increased to Grade M5.
Level 7 in next ninety days, then increased to Grade M6.
Level 8, mechanical or electrical, Grades M7 and E7, are optional for the employee. R7 is optional for refrigeration and boiler roundsmen.
In the event a Maintenance employee fads to attain the levels as described above, the following shall apply:
•	Where Management has failed to provide the necessary training ro comply with the progression schedule, the employee shall receive the scheduled pay increase, Management will act to remedy the training deficiency, the employee will be tested, and then qualified or disqualified based on rhe test results.
*	Where the employee is progressing more slowly, not due to a deficiency in scheduled training, and where there is an expectation that the employee will be able to qualify, the employee will be counseled regarding his deficiencies, scheduled for additional training, and any proficiency pay increase withheld until the level is attained. The Union will be notified in writing when this occurs.
•	Where rhe employee is not expected to be able to qualify to Level 7, he or she will be disqualified.
-E56-
PROGRESS REVIEWS
Employees progressing through the Maintenance Training Program shall be reviewed no less than monthly prior to attaining Level 7.
This review shall include an assessment of skills gained; and assessment of deficient skills and a plan to correct the deficiencies; an evaluation of work habits, attitude, and attendance; an evaluation of safety habits and safety record; and any other topic appropriate to the employee.
Such evaluations shall be in writing and maintained in the personnel file,
SENIORITY
The operation of seniority within Maintenance shall be in accordance with rhe terms of the Labor Agreement. The following items are noted for clarification with regard to Maintenance.
•	An employee who has bld a job in Maintenance is not considered to be qualified until Level 7 proficiency is attained and, therefore, may not bid under the Agreement. For the same reason, a person bidding from another department or division shall not have seniority until Level 7 proficiency is attained.
•	Before award of a bid job to an employee outside of Maintenance, or co a Maintenance employee who is seeking to change categories, the employee must score at least sixty percent (60%) on an aptitude test for the specialty being sought.
•	A bid between shifts or categories covered by the Program will be considered lateral and no pay reduction will result.
•	Vacancies in the Maintenance Division will be filled on a senior may, junior must (“quick bid”) basis, utilizing division seniority, with the final vacancy placed up for inrer-divi-sional bid. “Quick bids" shall be considered only an exercise of seniority and shall not be subject to the freezing language contained elsewhere in the labor agreement.
•	Upon ratification, Complex Maintenance (except Hides/ Tannery Maintenance) will be considered to be a separate— division for seniority purposes and will contain the followinj^ skill categories:
1,	Electrician
2.	Mechanic
-E57-
3.	Refrigeration
4.	Building Maintenance
5.	Scales and Electronics
• Bids into the Complex Maintenance Division from the Slaughter and Processing divisions shall be permitted and seniority shall transfer upon qualification. An employee shall not be able to use Maintenance as a vehicle for moving from Slaughter Division to Processing Division or vice-versa.
ADDITIONS/DELETIONS/CHANGES
It is understood by the parties that the maintenance function is highly complex and subject to rapid technological change. It is therefore impossible in this book to list every activity, topic, machine, tool, etc. which may have a legitimate place in the training of maintenance personnel.
The Company agrees, however, to provide written notice to the Union of any change of substance to this Program before the change is initiated in the event the Union wishes to discuss the proposed change.
Dated;
For rhe Company:
Mark Gordon
For the Union:
Marvin Harrington
■F5S-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING JOB OVERLOAD
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company, during negotiations, reached an understanding with the Union that in the event an undue job load is believed to exist by the Union, the Company will agree to accept a grievance relating to such claimed job overload. The Company and the Union will attempt to resolve the issue in an amicable manner, it is understood by the parties, however, that this understanding does not impinge upon the prerogatives of management which are contained in Article V, Management Rights. Ir is further understood between the parties that this agreement in no manner imposes an obligation to formulate “standardized crewing” or “production quotas”.
Dated:
For the Company:	For the Union;
Mark Gordon	Marvin Harrington
-E59-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING DAKOTA CITY RESTRICTED DUTY POSITIONS
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc,, Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The parries agree that the following 89 jobs will be excluded from the bid process for use as rehabilitation assignments for employees placed on temporary restricted duty. It is also agreed, however, that no present job holder will be displaced by inclusion of his or her job on this list and that jobs so held will be vacated by attrition.
In utilizing these jobs for rehabilitation purposes, the Company agrees to make every effort to keep employees on their shift, depart-। ment and division, However, such temporary assignments of restricted duty may be made between shifts, departments or divisions when necessary’, based on the following order of criteria: 1) the employee’s restrictions; 2) the employees qualifications; 3) the availability of job (s); and 4) the employee's seniority' (senior may, junior must).
Where not temporarily filled by an employee on medical restriction, the following jobs will be filled by seniority (senior may, junior must) to the extent feasible.
PROCESSING	A	B	Total
TROLLEY MONITOR	0	0	0
FEED SKINNER	0	0	0
HANG CHUCK CHAINS	1	I	2
GROUND BEEF REWORK	1	1	2
INSPECT 73/27	4	4	8
BAG ROUGH MEAT	0	0	0
TRIM CONTAMINATION	2	2	4
TRIM OYSTERS	1	1	2
CLEAN UP GROUND BEEF	1	I	2
TILL TAGS	1	I	2
’ICKTRIM	8	6	14
)P ELEPHANT EAR PULLER	1	I	2
RIM UPGRADE -OM	2	2	4
ICK LEAN-BONE HOLE	I	1	2
ABEL TRIM BOXES	1	1	2
LUE/LABEL BOXES	I	I	2
CK LEAN	1	1	2
-E60-
IDENTIFY ABSCESS t CLEAN FOUR RIB BONES	1 ■ 3	. I 3	2 6
TRIM LEAN BONE HOLE	1	1	2
FEED PLATE SLICER	0	0	0
PLATE SKINNER	0	0	0
			60
EXTENSION-	A	B	Total
CLEAN FOUR RIB BONES	2	2	4
PICKTRIM/FAT	i	1	2
PICK TRIM	2	2	4
SKINNER OPERATOR	2	2	4
TRIM CONTAMINATION	1	2	3
			17
SLAUGHTER	A	B	Total
WASH TAIL	1	1	2
LOW WASH	1	1	2
BLOW HOCK	1	1	2
PACK LG. INTESTINES	0	0	0
PACK SM. INTESTINES	0	0	0
			6
HIDES			Total
JANITOR			1
LGT. CLEAN UP			1
CLEAN PARTS			1
STOCK PARTS			1 4
COMPLEX MAINTENANCE			Total
STOREROOM INVENTORY (PROC)			1
STOREROOM INVENTORY (SLAU)			1
			2
			89
Dated:
For the Company:	For the Union:
Mark Gordon	Marvin Harrington -E61-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING CHANGE IN BARGAINING UNIT
This memorandum is hereby made a part of rhe Labor Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes, SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
A total of three (3) welfare janitor positions will become part of the bargaining unit through attrition.
Dated:
For the Company:
Mark Gordon
For the Union:
Marvin Harrington
-E62-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento POSICIONES DE TRABAJOS RESTRINGIDOS EN DAKOTA CITY
Este memorindum es, por el presenre, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fccha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009-
Ambos partidos han acordado que los siguientes 89 trabajos no serin excluidos del proceso de apuestas y serin usados como trabajos astgnados para rehabilitacibn de empieados quienes son puestos en tra-bajo restringido. Tambibn se acordo, que el actual dueno tai puesto no scri desplazadode su trabajo por que su posicibn fur incluida en bsta Jisra y tales puestos serin hechos vacantes por forma de atricibn
Para utiiizar bstos puestos para los propdsitos de rehabilitacidn, la Compania a acordado a hacer todo lo posible para retener el empleado en su actual turno, departamento, y divisibn. Sin embargo, tales asigna-ciones cartas de trabajos restringidos pueden ser asignadas en diferente tumos, depanamentos o divisiones cuando es neccsario, y seri basado en ef siguiente criterio: 1) las restricciones del empleado; 2) las calificacio-nes del empleado; 3) la disponibilidad de trabajo (s); y 4) la senoria del empleado (bl con mas senoria puede, bl con men os senoria tiene que).
Cuando no son ocupados por un empleado con restricciones medicas, los siguientes trabajos serin Henados de acuerdo a senoria (el con mis senoria puede, bl con menos senoria tiene que) hasta un punto aceptable.
PROCESO	A	B	Total
TROLLEY MONITOR	0	0	0
FEED SKINNER	0	0	0
HANG CHUCK CHAINS	1	I	2
GROUND BEEF REWORK	I	1	2
INSPECT 73/27	4	4	8
BAG ROUGH MEAT	0	0	0
TRIM CONTAMINATION	2	2	4
TRIM OYSTERS	1	1	2
CLEAN UP GROUND BEEF	1	i	2
PULL TAGS	1	1	2
PICK TRIM	8	6	14
OP. ELEPHANT EAR PULLER	I	1	2
TRIM UPGRADE-OM	2	2	4
PICK LEAN-BONE HOLE	1	1	2
-S63-
LABEL TRIM BOXES	1	1	2
BLUE/LABEL BOXES	1	I	2
PICK LEAN	I	1	2
IDENTIFY ABCESS	1	I	2
CLEAN FOUR RIB BONES	3	3	6
TRIM LEAN BONE HOLE	1	1	2
FEED PLATE SLICER	0	0	0
PLATE SKINNER	0	0	0
			60
EXTENSION	A	B	Total
CLEAN FOUR RIB BONES	2	2	4
PICK TRI M/FAT	1	I	2
PICK TRIM	2	2	4
SKINNER OPERATOR	2	2	4
TRIM CONTAMINATION	I	2	3
			17
MATANZA	A	B	Total
WASH TAIL	1	I	2
LOW WASH	1	1	2
BLOW HOCK	1	1	2
PACK LG. INTESTINES	0	0	0
PACK SM. INTESTINES	0	0	0
			6
CUEROS	A	B	Total
JANITOR			1
LGT. CLEAN UP			1
CLEAN PARTS			1
STOCK PARTS			1
		4	
MANTENIMIENTO PARA EL COMPLEJO	A	B	Total
STOREROOM INVENTORY (PROCESO)			I
STOREROOM INVENTORY (MATANZA)			I
			2
			89
-S64-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento CAMBIO DEL GRUPO DE NEGOCIACIONES
Este memorandum es, por cl preseme, hecho pane del Acuerdo LaboraJ ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009,
Los tres (3) puestos de limpicza para las dreas de salud se hardn parte de la Unidn cuando hay atricidn.
Fecha;
Por La Corn pan fa;
Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S&&-
Fecha:
Pot La Compafiia:
Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S65-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING MULTI-CULTURAL DIVERSITY FUND
This memorandum is hereby made a part of the Laho Agreement between Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc, Inc., Dakota Dunes SD, for its Dakota City, Nebraska Plant, and the United Food and Commercial Workers, on behalf of its Local Union, 222, AFL-CIO & CLC, effective for the period August 9, 2004 to August 9, 2009.
The Company agrees to contribute 325,000 to a joint Multi Cultural Diversity Fund in the initial year of the new agreement. Each January 1, thereafter the Company will contribute additional monies The value of the Multi-Cultural Diversity Fund as of January 1 in each subsequent year of the agreement will be $25,000.
Dated:
For the Company:	For the Union:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-E63-
MEMORANDUM de f.ntendimiento FONDO DE DIVERSIDAD MULTICULTURAL
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerd Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 c agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
La Companla acuerda contribuir con $25,000 para ayudar Fondo de Diversidad Multicultural conjunto durante el ano inici del nuevo convenio. Cada 1 de enero y de ahi en mis, la Compafi contribuird con pagos adicionales. El valor del Fondo de Diversida Multicultural a partir del 1 de enero en cada ano subsiguiente al cor venio seed de $25,000. Este acuerdo laboral a sido rraducido en varic idiomas para la conveniencia de los empleados del grupo mediador. L Companfa y la Union han acordado que la versidn en ingles goberna en todos los asuntos.
-S67-
fNDICE
g§iigsg1§§g§ §Sa
Anfculo Provision Pdgina Indies	..................................................... Si
Acuerdo	....................................................Si
I	Reconocimienro.......................................SI
II	Aurorizacibn de Deducciones de	Cuotas.................Si
III	Propbsito del Acuerdo.................................S2
IV	Sin Discriminaci6n....................................S2
V	Derechos de Gerencia..................................S2
VI	Responsabilidades de la Compafiia de la Unibn.........S3
VII	Horas de Trabajo......................................S3
VIII	Garanda.................................................S5
IX	Vacaciones............................................S6
.	X	Perfodos de Descanso................................S8
Comidas...............................................S9
Dias Festivos Pagados................................S10
Equipo Facilitado por la Companfa...................S11
Trabajo de SobreTiempo...............................S12
Senorfa.............................................S12
Permiso de Ausencia.................................S19
Procedimiento de Quejas..............................S20
Notificacibn de la Razbn de	Disciplina...............S23
Servicio Militai.....................................S23
Campamento Militar del Verano........................S23
Servicio de Jurado...................................S24
Permiso por Funeral..................................S24
Beneficios Mbdicos/Aseguranza........................S25
Tabkin de Anuncios...................................S28
Escala del Sueldo....................................S28
Clasificacibn de la Escala del Sueldo-
Contiendo del Trabajo Nuevo o	Cambiado...............S29
Subcontratacibn......................................S29
Comte de Seguridad...................................S30
Renuncia de Derechos, Acuerdo Complete y Separaciones.......................................S32
Duracibn del Acuerdo.................................S34
.....................................................S35
-st-
Memorandum	“Active Ballot Checkoff”.................S42
Memorandum	Ergondtnico..............................S43
Memorandum	Division de Cuer/a/Cuniduria.............S44
Memorandum Traslado de Senoria Departamental
por eliminacidn del Trabajo...............S45
Memorandum Horario del Di'a Antes de Ano Nuevo..........S46
Memorandum	“Quick Start” - Avarice Rapido...........S47
Memorandum	Horario de Notificacion..................S49
Memorandum	Visitaciones de la Unidn.................S50
Memorandum	Cheques de Vacaciones....................S51
Memorandum Plan de Compra de Acciones
de Tyson Foods, Inc.......................S52
Memorandum	Derechos de Los Trabajadores Inmigrantes.S54
Memorandum	Errores en los Cheques de Pago...........S55
Memorandum	Push & Transfer & Un load/Luggers........S56
Memorandum	Entrenamiento deMantenimiento............S57
Memorandum	Exceso deTrabajo.........................S62
Memorandum Posicioncs de Trabajos Restringidos
en Dakota City............................S63
Memorandum	Cambio del Grupo de Negociaciones........S66
Memorandum	Fondo de Diversidad Multicultural........S67
ACUERDO
Este acuerdo es realizado entre Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc. Dakota Dunes, South Dakota, (de aqm' en adelante referida co mo la Compania) y el United Food & Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO & CLC, (de aquf en adelante teferida como la Unidn), en nombre de la Unidn Local, 222.
ART1CULOI RECONOCIMIENTO
La Compania reconoce al United Food and Commercial Workers International Union AFL-CIO & CLC, como la unica y exclusive agenda representativa para todos los empleados de la Compania en el grupo mediador cual incluye a todos los empleados de produccidn y mantenimiento, incluyendo la Division de Procesamiento, la Division de Matanza, la Division de Cuerfa/Curtiduria en la planta de Dakota City, Nebraska de la Compania, pero excluye a todos los empleados de oficina, empleados de almace'n, enfermeras, compradores, vendedorcs, empleados profesionales, calificadores de la carne de res, control de calidad, guardas, conserjefs) de la oficina, operadorcs de escala (aquellos normaimente excluidos), hot scalers, operadores del tambor, operadores en la recuperation de cromo, operadores de dcsollador, operadores de rasurar, operadores de protocon, entrenadores de la Compania, tdcnicos en computadoras, y supervisores como son definidos en el Acto.
ART1CULOII
AUTORIZACIOn DE DEDUCCIONES DE CUOTA
Seccidn 1: La Compania de tended del pago del empleado tales cantidades cuales el/ella autorizar por escrito como es proveido por las estaturas y leyes aplicables para cuotas de la Union y lo tnismo serd remitido a la secretaria financiera de esta Unidn Local sefialada para depdsito solamente.
Seccidn 2: Procedimientos de duration y/o revocation seran conducidos de acuerdo con las [eyes laborales aplicables.
Seccidn 3: Ni la Unidn, ni sus ofitiales, ni sus micmbros intimi-darin o forzardn a los empleados para hacerlos entrar a la Unidn; ni la Compania desanimard membrcsia a la Unidn.
Seccidn 4: La Unidn esti de acuerdo en indent nizar y preservar la Compafiia contra cualquier y todos los rcdamos, procesos u otras formas de obligatidn cuales se presentan de la deduction monetaria por las cuotas de la Unidn, tasaciones, y cuotas de iniciacidn de pago del miembro.
-Si-
ARTICULO III
propOsito del acuerdo
Section 1:	Es la intention y el propdsito de ambos partidos que este Acuerdo promoverd y mejorard las relaciones industriales y economicas entre la Compania, la Unidn, y sus mietnbros tai como aqui se establece; y establecen las escalas del sueldo, las horas de trabajo, y otras condiciones de empleo cuales scrdn observados por ambos partidos.
Seccidn 2; Es reconocido por ambos partidos que ellos tienen interns y obligation de man tenet amigable cooperation entre la Compania y la Union cual permititi un seguro., econdtnico y eftcietite funcionamiento de la planta.
ARTICULO IV SIN DISCRIMINAClON
La Compania acuerda que no se discriminar contra n ingun empleado o candidate de la Compania por consideracidn de raza, sexo, color, credo, nationalidad, incapacidad, su position de veterano milttar, su crcencia religiose o su membresia en la Unidn.
La Unidn reconoce la obligation de la Compania de haccr aco-modaciones razonabies para candidates y/o empleados incapatitados de acuerdo con el Acto de Americanos Incapatitados. En el evento que tai acomodatidn esta en conflicto con una provision de este acuerdo, ambas la Compania y La Unidn se juntarin para bablar sobre tai acomodacidn. Sin embargo, tai acomodacidn no causa rd que ningun empleado sea desplazado del puesto que es dueno de a travds de apuestas.
ARTICULO V
DERECHOS DE GERENCIA
Section 1: El manejo de la planta, control de la propiedad y la di recci bn de la fuerza laboral: incluye cl derecho de contratar, suspender, disciplinar o despedir a cualquier empleado cuando exista una causa para ello; asignar trabajos; transferir, avanzar o bajar de grado a los tra-bajadores; aumentar o disminuir el niimero de empleados; determinar la cantidad de trabajo, las normas de la production y las reglas aplicables a los empleados; determinar, re-determinar, ajustar, o modificar la cantidad de trabajo, normas de trabajos, y todas las reglas de conducta y de seguridad para los empleados y otros; los productos que deben ser manejados, produtidos o manufacturados; establecer los horarios de production, asi como los mdtodos, los proccsos o los medios de manejo y production; tambiOn puede, determinar las calificationes y la capati-
- S2 -
the purpose of discrimination against any employee or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2:	Supervisors or other personnel may perform any duties that are necessary in the conduct of the business, provided they are not used to replace bargaining unit personnel on a permanent basis.
ARTICLE VI
COMPANY AND UNION RESPONSIBILITIES
Section Is During the term of this Agreement there shall be no strike, no sympathy strike, stoppage, slowdown, deliberate withholding of production, or suspension of work on the part of the Union, its members, or any individual covered by this Agreement, or lockout on the parr of the Company. In rhe event of a breach of this provision, the Union shall immediately declare publicly that such action is unauthorized and shall promptly order its members to resume their normal duties notwithstanding the existence of any picket line. The Union further agrees that it will in no way interfere with the business of the Company by sanctioning or conducting a boycott on the handling of goods procured from a source or destined to a point where labor controversy may exist.
Section 2: The Company shall have the right to determine the discipline given an employee or employees for breach of this Article. The severity of the discipline imposed for such violation shall not be subject to arbitration; the Union shall, however, have the right to grieve the question of fact as to whether or not an employee or employees have breached the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE VII
HOURS OF WORK
Section Is The work week for payroll purposes shall start at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and end at midnight Saturday evening.
Section 2: Hours of work shall be scheduled in line with production requirements and employees will be notified in advance of changes in shift schedules. Employees shall be required to work the hours scheduled by rhe Company; however, the Company will not schedule work in excess of ten (10) hours per day with the exception of loading, unloading, ground beef and maintenance personnel. It is understood, however, that work already in progress will be completed. With respect to loading, unloading, ground beef and maintenance
-E3-
personnel, all work beyond twelve (12) hours would be worked on a voluntary basis.
Section 3: Time and one-half (1-1/2) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any day. Time and one-half (1-1/2) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any one week. For purposes of computing overtime (11/2 times), hours of pay for an observed Holiday falling on Monday through Friday shall be counted as time worked up to a maximum of eight (8). Work time will be computed from the time employees on a position commence their work until the time worked is stopped at a position, and will be computed to the nearest minute.
Section 4; Employees who are called to work outside their regu-lar work schedule after once going home for the day and not at a time when such work merges with their regular shift shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay in lieu thereof. However, in the event an employee is called back after clocking out and before leaving the premises, he or she shall be paid "straight through” as though he or she had not punched out.
Section 5t Employees, other than part-time employees, working on holidays shall receive their regular holiday pay, [eight (8) hours straight time pay] and shall be paid two (2) times their regular rate for work actually performed on such holidays.
Section 6s Employees, other than pan-time employees, working on Sunday (with the exception of regularly scheduled maintenance, personnel necessary for shipping in the Processing Division, and yards) shall be compensated at twice (2) their regular hourly rate. Regularly scheduled maintenance, personnel necessary for shipping in the Processing Division, and yards, shall be compensated at twice (2) their regular hourly rate for work performed on the day designated as Sunday In lieu of calendar Sunday.
Section 7:	All regular full-time employees who work between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will be paid fifteen cents ($.15) per hour over their regular rare for such hours worked, except that no premium will be paid if the starting time is less than forty-six (46) minutes prior to 6:00 a.m.
Section 8:	For the purpose of the Agreement, Sunday shall be the twenty-four (24) hour period starting at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and Saturday shall be the twenty-four (24) hour period starring at 12:01 a.m. on Saturday.
Section 9; For the purpose of computing pay for hours worked on Saturday, Sunday, or paid holidays, a shift cutting across two calen
-E4-
dar days shall be treated as work on the day on which the shift begins. However, in the event the shift exceeds eight (8) hours, such hours over eight (8) shall be compensated on the basis of the applicable rate for the calendar day on which such hours are worked. It is understood that, in the case of an employee working a double shift, hours worked on the other shift shall be counted toward the above eight hours.
Section 10: Premium pay will not be pyramided.
ARTICLE VIII GUARANTEE
Section Is The Company will provide each regular full-time employee, other than maintenance employees, thirty-six (36) hours of pay at the employee’s straight time hourly rate which will be scheduled Monday through Saturday. Regular full-time maintenance employees will be guaranteed thirty-six (36) hours of pay in six (6) days for each week of employment. Hours employees are absent for any reason will be deducted from such thirty-six (36) hours. The Guarantee will also be reduce by eight (8) hours for each full shift on which the plant or a division of the plant is unable to operate because of storm, flood, fire, explosion, power failure, strikes, or boycotts by any labor union or the National Farmers Organization or similar groups, or other unusual emergencies.
Section 2:	The guaranteed work week shall apply only to those regular full-time employees who have completed three (3) months of employment prior to the commencement of that payroll week.
Section 3:	Regular full-time employees called to work will be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours of work or pay in lieu of work unless the plant is unable to operate because of contingencies enumerated in Section 1 above. However, if employees are notified in sufficient time of a cancellation of scheduled work, call-in pay shall nor be paid. For purposes of sufficient time referred to above, it shall be sufficient ro notify the news media by 10:00 p.m. for the Morning Shift of rhe following day and by noon with respect to the Afternoon Shift for the same day. Where feasible, rhe Company will provide earlier notification. The Company will notify the news media (specifically, TV Channel 4, KTIV, and radio station KSUX, FM 105,70 at the times noted above. The Company also will attempt to notify other radio and television stations in the area; however, it is understood that it is only required to make notification as listed above to fulfill its obligation under this section. It is understood that although the
-es-
Company has made timely notification to the media, it is beyond our control when the notification might be broadcast.
Section 4:	Employees displaced or recalled because of the operations of the seniority provisions of the Agreement shall receive pay for only those hours worked in the week of such displacement or recall.
Section 5:	The Company may notify employees of a shorter work week on or by noon Friday of the prior week, m which event the guarantee shall be reduced to thirty-two (32) hours of pay at their straight time rate. While this notice may be given whenever necessary, the number of weeks in each year of rhe labor agreement in which the employees will actually be paid less than the guarantee in Section 1 above shall not exceed twelve (12) weeks in each department separately.
ARTICLE IX VACATION
Section 1: Regular full-time employees who complete one (I) year of full-time service with the Company will be granted one (1) week of paid vacation. The first one (1) week of vacation may be taken at any time, with Management approval, during the second year of service. One (1) week’s vacation pay shall be equal to two percent (2%) of the annual earnings as indicated by the previously issued FORM W-2 - U.S. Treasury Department, or forty (40) hours of pay at straight time hour rates ~ whichever is greater. Employees who complete three (3) full years of service will be granted two (2) weeks of paid vacation. The first two (2) week vacation may be taken at any time, with Management approval, during the fourth (4) year of employment. Employees who complete ten (10) full years of service will be granted three (3) weeks of paid vacation. The first three (3) week vacation may be taken at any time, with Management approval, during the eleventh (11) year of employment. Employees who complete (20) full years of service will be granted four (4) weeks of paid vacation. The first four (4) week vacation may be taken at ay time, with Management approval, during the twenty-first (21) year of employment. Employees with three (3) or more years of service may use one (1) of their weeks of earned vacation (forty (40j hours) in single vacation day increments. Employees electing this option must have management approval at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance. Hours paid for single vacation days will not count toward the calculation of weekly overtime. Where the word “service” is used in this Section, it shall mean employment subsequent to February 18, 1966.
-E6 -
veinte (20) anos de servicio scran dados cuarro (4) semanas de vacaciones pagadas. Las prim eras cuatro (4) semanas de vacaciones pueden ser tomadas cuando sea, con aprobacidn de Gerencia, durante el veinte-uno (21) ano de servicio, Empieados con tres (3) o mis afios de servicio pueden usar una (1) de sus semanas de vacaciones (cuaienta (40) boras) en incrementos de dias. Empieados eligiendo esta opcion tiene que tenet aprobacidn de gerencia con un anticipo de veinte-cuano (24) boras. Las horas pagadas para dfas de vacaciones individuates no contaran para los propdsitos de la calculaciones de sobre riempo para la semana. Donde quiera que la palabra “servicio” es usada en esta seccidn, significa empteo subsiguiente al 1S de febrero de 1966.
Seccidn 2: Para caiificar para vacaciones pagadas, el empieado tiene que haber pasado su fecha de aniversario y haber trabajado por de menos veinte-seis (26) semanas durante el ano precedente al aniversario. Para el propdsito de esta seccidn unicamente, una semana en que el empieado trabaja por de menos un (I) dia, sera conrada como una semana “trabajada". Empieados, quienes rrabajan menos de veinte-seis (26) semanas el ano anterior no sera elegibtes para los beneficios de vacaciones.
Seccidn Ji Empieados quienes califican para vacaciones bajo la Seccidn 2 cuando su empteo a terminado seran pagados por tales vacaciones ganados pero no usadas.
Seccidn 4: El tiempo de vacaciones de cada empieado sera asig-nado por departamento de acuerdo al base de senorfa divisional. Ei anuncio de las fechas de vacaciones sera anunciado el 15 de noviembre. La lists de fechas para las vacaciones del proximo ano se comenzaid el 1 ro de diciembrc y seed complecada para el 31 de diciembre. Pero, es reconocido que el empleador tiene que aprobar las fechas de vacaciones para asegura que la produccidn se manrenga regular y eficiente.
Seccidn 5: Empieados quienes piden con suficiente tiempo (dos semanas de anticipo) recibiran sus pago de vacaciones en el dia de pago inmediatamente precedente al comienzo de sus vacaciones.
Seccidn 6s La Compania puede elegir a cerrar la planta para un periodo de vacaciones donde rodos los empieados (con la excepcidn de los empieados de mantenimiento y del manejo de materiales) pueden comar sus vacaciones al mismo tiempo. Tai periodo de vacaciones sera fijado durance o antes del Ito de marzo de cada afio catendario y el tiempo fijado seed durante las vacaciones escolares del verano. Los empieados de mantenimtento y del manejo de materiales quienes son requerido trabajar durante el tiempo cuando la planta estd cerrada para vacaciones, recibiran sus vacaciones a otro tiempo durante el ano.
-S7-
Seccidn 7: Cuando un dia fesrivo cae durante el periodo de vaca-clones del empieado, se proporcionara otro dia adicional de vacaciones. El dia adicional puede ser usado con estas vacaciones o despu& con la aprobacidn de su supervisor. Esto aplica para todos los dias festivos del contrato.
se ]e paganin ocho (8) horas de pago regular en adicidn del pago de vacaciones. EI pago del dia festivo sera incluido en el cheque de vacaciones pagadas, si califica.
Secctdn 8: Vacaciones para empleados quienes son ausentes pot camplir con su servicio militar serdn proveidos de la siguiente manera:
a) Un empieado quien a trabajado por de menos veinte-seis (26) sentanas en su segundo aniversario de servicio o en adversaries posteriores y que se ausente para cumplir con su servicio militar durante ese aniversario rec ibid pago de vacaciones.
1.	Un empieado que se ausente para cumplir con su servicio militar dentro de su segundo aniversario de servicio o en los adversaries posteriores y no califica para vacaciones de acuerdo a la seccidn arriba recibird vacaciones en forma proportional.
Seccion 9; Un empieado, quien sc jubtla a la edad de cincuenta y cinco (55) o mis y con de menos quince (15) arios de empleo continue y proporciona un aviso de dos (2) semanas durante su ano de aniversario reci bi rd un pago de vacaciones proporcionales.
a) Acumulacidn de vacaciones pro pore ionales serd ganada de la siguiente manera; Un (1) dia de vacaciones pagadas por cada veinticinco (25) dias calendarios de empleo.
ART1CULO X
PERfODOS DE DESCANSO
Seccidn 1: Cada empieado sera garantizado un periodo de des-canso pagado de quince (15) minutos antes del periodo del almucrro y un segundo descanso de quince (15) minutos en el evento de que el horario de trabajo del dia excede ocho (8) horas y cuarto (4) minutos. En el caso de que un empieado trabaje un doble turno, cl u ella reci-bira el segundo descanso despu^s del primer turno y despuds seguira el horario regular del turno en el que esta trabajando; tiempo entre turnos que excede cl descanso pagado de quince (15) minutos serin sin pago. El primer periodo de descanso organizado para las Divisiones de Procesamiento serin fijados, por departamentos, entre las dos (2) horas y las dos horas y tres cuartos (2-3/4) des del comienzo de la linea mayor de “Middle Meats" y del comienzo de la linea de “chuck” en
-SB-
Carnes del Exterior, con ia exception del Departamento del Manejo de Material (en la Division General de Procesamiento) donde los periodos de descanso serin basados sobre el comienzo del empleado individual-mente, El primer periodo de descanso estipulado para la Division de Procesamiento (Extension) serf fijado entre dos (2) boras y dos horas y tres cuartos (2-3/4) des del comienzo del “chuck saw” en la Extension. El primer periodo de descanso estipulado para la Division de M atari za seed fijado entre las dos (2) horas y las dos koras y tres cuartos (2-3/4) des del comienzo del empleado, excluyendo el Departamento del Piso de Matanza donde ios periodos de descanso no serin fijados antes de las dos (2) horas y no mis tarde de las dos horas y ires cuartos (2-3/4) desde ia hora del comienzo del trabajo en ei centre de la lines, actualmente el “Tie Down”,
ARHCULOXI
COMIDAS
Seccidn 1: Empleados de las Divisiones de Procesamiento ten-dran un periodo de almuerzo fijado, por departamento, entre las cuatro boras y media (416) y cinco horas y cuarto &/->) des de! comienzo de la linea de “Middle Meats” y des del comienzo de la linea de “chuck” en Carnes del Exterior, con la excepctdn del Departamento del Manejo de Material (en la Division General de Procesamiento), donde los periodos del almuerzo serin basados sobre el riempo del comienzo del empleado individualmente. Empleados de la Divisirin de Ptocesamiento-Extcnsidn tendrdn un periodo de almuerzo fijado entre las cuatro horas y media (414) y cinco horas y cuarto (514) des del comienzo del “chuck saw" en la Extension. Empleados de la division de Matanza tendrdn un periodo de almuerzo fijado emre las cuatro horas y media (414) y las cinco horas y cuarto (5!4) des del comienzo de trabajo del empleado, excluyendo al Depanamenro del Piso de Matanza donde los periodos de almuerzo no serin fijados antes de las cuatro horas y media (4’4) ni mis tarde de las cinco horas y cuarto (514) desde el comienzo del trabajo cn el centro de la linea, actualmente el “Tie Down”.
Secdrin 2: En ci even to de que un rurno no exceda las cinco horas y media (514), ningun descanso para comer serd prove/do.
Scccion J; Empleados quiencs trabajan en cxceso de dice (10) horas consecutivas en cualquier dfa recibird, en adicirin del pago regular, tres drilares ($3.00) para el proprisito de compra una comida. Un periodo de descanso pagado de quince (15) minutos sera pravcido con la excepcidn de casos donde el empleado esta ttabajando un rurno doble en tai caso las condiciones del Artt'culo X prevaldriL
-S3-
ARTICULO XII DfAS FESTIVOS PAGADOS
Secci6n 1: Los siguienres dias serin considerados como dias fetivos: Afto Nuevo, Dia del Presidenre, Dia Memorial, Dia de la Independence, D£a del Trabajo, Dia de Dar Gracias, Nochebuena, Navidad y el dia de cumpleanos del empleado*,
* Empleados asfitratados despises de 8 de agosto de 2004 no serdn elegibles para el dia cumpleanos del empleado, Secddn 2: Todos los empleados regulates de ticmpo cotnplera recibirin ocho (8) boras de page regular para cada uno de los dias festivos descritos arriba proveido que han satisfacido las siguientes califi-caciones:
(a)	Un empleado tiene que trabajar completamente el dia anterior y el dia posterior del dia festive, o cstar en una ausencia excusada previamente (veimicuatro (24) horas antes del dia festive) para recibir el pago del dia festive, dal excusa tiene que set por esc ri to de su supervisor. Sin embargo, tai pa go del dia festivo sera pagado a todos los empleados que esrin “laid off’’ o en un permiso de ausencia (esto incluye lesioncs compen-sabies) y por eso califlca porque a trabajado durante cualquier tiempo de la semana antes del dia la festivo, la sematta del dia festivo o la semana despots del dia festivo. Es acordado que en el evento de que un empleado sea lesionado en el trabajo en el dia antes o el dia desptris del dia festivo, impidiendo la finalizacidn del dia de trabajo fijado, no perderi el pago del dia festivo p rove id o que cl empleado sea elegible para el dia festivo.
La Campania puede excusar una ausencia o retraso para propdsitos de este Articulo unicamente, y el pago por el dia festivo en casos donde el Gerente de Personal de la Planta y cl Gerente de la Planta, a su sola discrecion, creen que la razon para la ausencia o el rerraso y la cotnplera asistencia del individuo merece una excepcion a la regia descrita arriba,
(b)	Cuando un dia festivo cae en domingo, el siguiente lunes seri observado. Los empleados quienes tiene un domingo asignado, observarin el dia siguiente (hayan o no trabajado) como lunes,
(c)	Cuando el cumpleanos de un empleado cae en un dia de trabajo, el empleado puede aceptar voluntariamente echo (8) boras de pago regular por el dia festivo de su cumplcafios en
-STtJ-
lugar del dia litre. El empieado que clija esta opcidn dcbe notificarle a la Compania por de menos con una (1) semana de amicipacitin y tiene que calificar para el dia festive pagado. Si el empieado elige csta opci fin, las ocho (8) horas de pago'se le anadiran al cheque de pago de la semana de su cumpleanos y se esperard que el empieado trabaje las horas fijadas.
(d)	Cuando el cumpleanos de un empieado cae en otro dia observe do como un dia Fesrivo pagado, el empieado recibird un dia fibre adicional en el horario de trabajo antes o despots de el dt'a festive, segun la determinacidn de geren-cia.
ARHCULO XIII
EQUIPO FACILITADO POR LA COMPANfA
Seccion I: La Compania proporcionara las cantidades razonables y adecuadas del siguiente equipo:
A.	Chaira, piedras de carburando, boisilios, guantes de meraiicos, cuchilios, y equipo de seguridad para todos los empleados quienes lo requieran.
B.	Botas con pumas de aceto para “shaclders” unicamente.
C.	Todas las boras y delantales requeridos para los desrripadores mientras que esfen trabajando en la mesa de destripar.
D.	Equipo y herramientas manuales de mantenimiento como es necesario.
E.	Guantes de algoddn.
E La Compania proporcionard batas para todos los trabajos designados por la Compania. La Compania acuerda proporcionara hasta dos (2) uniformes blancos por ano para los trabajos designados y hasta seis (6) delantales don de es necesario.
La Compania redistribuira uniformes ciisponibies en adicidn a los dos (2) permitidos y acuerda arender a unos pocos trabajos cuales pueden requerir mas uniformes por ano debido a la naturaleza del trabajo.
Empleados seran obligados a llevar uniformes/batas en los lugares designados por la Compania,
G. Chapas para empleados designados del manejo de mareriales. H. Overoies para todos los empleados del Manejo de Materiales, serin proporcionados uno (1) cada ano aniversario.
i. Para los empleados de mantenimiento de la planra y corales, un surtido de cubre-todos “coveralls" se Kara disputable para
-Sir-
usar diariamente, cuando las condiciones del ambiente io ; requieren.
J.	Botas para todos los empieados del cram dock, quienes son requeridos usar boras.
K.	Hasta seis (6) delantales por ano para los operadores del serrucho en Proceso, si son requeridos usarlos.
Seccidn 2: La Compania iavanf la ropa exterior del trabajo de los empieados, que fue proporcionada por la Compania.
Seccidn 3: El empieado es responsable por la seguridad y el uso eficience de todo el equipo facilitado por la Compania y, si ral equipo se pierde o es destruido intencionalmente o maliciosamente, el empieado seed responsable y la Compania puede cobrarle al empieado (al coste de la Compania) y puede deducir ese costo de su sueldo.
Seccidn 4: La Compania proveerd a todos los empieados, cuchillos filosos para todos los empieados quienes requieran el uso de cuchillos.
AR77CCLOXIV
TRABAJO DE SOBRE TIEMPO
Trabajo de sobre tiempo en cada departamento sera dividido Io mas igualmenre y justamente posible enrre empieados calificados de produccidn en el departamento. Con respecto al personal de manten-imiento, el sobre tiempo sera dividido lo mas igualmente y justamente posible entre Jos empieados calificados dentro de las siguientes clasifi-caciones: Mantenimiento general, refrigeracidn, eleerricisra, mecinico de escaia. Mecdnicos de “forklift”, mecanicos del manejo de material y el grupo especial sera igualmente separado con respecto dentro de cada grupo. Es enrendido y acordado que tai igualizacidn no puede set afectado en un base diario, scmanal, o mensual, pero se trarara cambiar tales desproporciones dentro de un periodo razon able.
ARnCULOXV
SE&ORfA
Seccidn Is Es la pdiiza de la Compania de seguir la senoria para que Jos empieados de tiempo complete con la mayor cantidad de servicio tengan la mayor cantidad de seguridad de empleo y oportunidades de promociOn.
Sin embargo, el operacion eficiente de la planta y la justicia para todos requiere que la condici6n flsica y la habilidad, asi como senoria, sean consideradas para todas las materias cubiertas por esre Articulo. Empieados de tiempo compieta con ia mayor senoria cendrin prefercn-
-S12-
Acuerdo Laboral entre Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc.
y
United Food & Commercial Workers, International Union AFL-CIO, CLC, en nombre del Local Union, 222
Dakota City, Nebraska 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta 9 de agosto de 2009
MEMORANDUM DE ENTENDIMIENTO EXCESO DE TRABAJO
Esre memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc,, la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
La Companfa, durante negociaciones, Ilcg6 a un entendimiento con la Unidn que en un caso donde la Unidn cree que existe una carga de trabajo indebida, la Compania esta de acuerdo a aceptar una queja rela ci on ada con tai carga de trabajo indebida. La Companfa yla Unidn atentaran resolver el tema en una manera profesional. Es entendido ante ambos partidos, sin embargo, que este acuerdo no interfiere con las prerrogativas de la gerencia las citales son contenidas en Articulo V, Derechos de la Gerencia. Es tambidn entendido ante ambos partidos, que este acuerdo de ninguna manera impone una obligacidn de formulae “normas de personal” o “cuotas de produccidn.”
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Mark Gordon
Por La Uni6n:
Marvin Harrington
-S62-
1.	Elecrricista
2.	Mecanico
3.	refrigeracion
4.	Mantenimiento del Edificio
5.	Escalas y Electrdnica
•	Firrnas hacia la divisidn de Manrenimiento de las divisiones de Matanza o el Proceso serdn permttidas y senoria serd transferida al cumplir calificacidn. Un empleado no podra usar a Manrenimiento como vehlculo para moverse de la division de Matanza a Proceso o visc-versa.
ADICIONES/ELIMINACIONES/CAMBIOS
Es entendido ante ambos partidos que la funci on de man-renimiento es sumamente compleja y sujeta a cambios rapidos en tecnologfa. Es entonces imposible enlistar en este libro cada actividad, tema, maquina, herramienta, etc cual puede tener un lugar legitimo en el enrrenamiento de personal de manrenimiento.
La Compania esra de acuerdo en proveer noticia por escrito a la Union de cualquier cambio con sustancia a este programa antes de que sea iniciada en caso de que la Union desee discutir el cambio antes.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Mark Gordon
Por La Uni6n:
Marvin Harrington
— SGI —
REVISIONES DE PROGRESO
Empleados progresando sobre el programa de entrenamiento de Mantenimiento serin revisados nada menos que mensualmente antes de obtener el nivel 7-
Esta revisidn debt incluir una medida de las habilidades obteni-das; y una medida de habilidades deficientes y un plan para corregir tales deficicncias; una evaluation de costumbres de trabajo, actitud, y asistencia; una evaluation de costumbres de seguridad y archives de seguridad; y cualquier otro tema apropiado para cl empieado.
Tai evaluation sera hecha por escrito y se ma nt endri en el archive de Personal.
SE&IORIDAD
El proceso de sefioria dentro de mantenimiento seri de acuerdo a los tOrminos del contrato laboral, Los siguientes puntos son notados para propdsitos de clarification con respecto a mantenimiento.
•	Un empieado que ha firmado un trabajo en mantenimiento no se considera calificado hasta que haya obtenido el nivel 7 y entonces no puede firmar trabajos de acuerdo a los terminus de cl contrato laboral. Bajo la misma razOn, una persona firmando de otro departamento o division no tendri sefioria hasta que es obtenido el nivel 7.
•	Antes de que se le asigne un trabajo de mantenimiento a un trabajador de afuera del departamento y ha un empieado de mantenimiento que busca un cambio de categorfa, el empieado debe satisfacer de perdida un 60% de un examen de aptitud para la espedalidad que se busca.
•	Una firma de un trabajo entre turnos o categorfas cubierto por el programa seri considerado lateral y no resultara en una reduccidn de salario.
•	Vacancias dentro de la division de Mantenimiento seran satisfechas bajo una concepto de mayor puede, menor debe (“quick bid”), utilizando sefiorfa divisional, con la vacancia final siendo abierta para firmas ent re-division ales.	Quick
bids serin considerados solamente en ejercicio de senorfa y no serin sujetos a los tdrminos de congelamiento contenido dentro este acuerdo laboral.
•	Al ratificarse, Mantenimiento (excepto Mantenimiento de Cucros) seri considerada una division distinta para propbsi-tos de senorfa y contendra las siguientes categorfas de habilidades:
-seo-
SUELDOS
Grades de page, niveles de habilidad, y sueldos bajo el pro-grama serdn lo siguiente;
MO	M3	M4	M5	M6	M7	E7	R7
Actual	$10.20	$10.60	$11.15	$11.65	$12.15	$13.20	$14.20	$14.20
Nuevo	$11.00	$11.00	$11.00	$12.20	$12.75	$14.45	$15.45	$15-45
(Cambio)	($.80)	($.40)	-($.15)	($.55)	($.60)
*Los sueldos de los nivels de mantenimiento para M5-R7; aumentardn cada ano igual que los de production en el 2,3,4 & 5 ano.
\
NIVEL/PROGRESlON DE PAGO
Se espera que el Personal de Mantenimiento progreso sobre los niveles de entrenamiento y reciba aumentos de sueido de acuerdo a lo siguiente. Esto indicado abajo es un tiempo maximo y un empleado puede progresar mas rd pi do como sus habilidades permitan.
Niveles 1 y 2 en 90 di'as, luego aumenta a M3.
Niveles 3 y 4 en los siguientes 90 di'as, luego aumenta a M4. Niveles 5 y 6 en los siguientes 90 di'as, luego aumenta a M5. Nivel 7 en 90 dfas, luego aumenta a M6.
Niveles 8, mecanica o electrdnica, Grados M7 y E7, son opcio-nales para el empleado.	*
R7 es opcional para refrigeracidn y boiler roundsmen.
En cl evento de que un empleado de mantenimiento fracase en satisfacer los niveles definidos arriba, lo siguiente se aplicara:
•	Donde la Gerencia a fracasado en proveer el entrenamiento necesar io para cumplir con la progrcsidn, el empleado recibira el aumento en sueido programado, la Gerencia reaccionara para corregir la deficiencia en entrenamiento, el empleado tomara una prueba, y luego sera caiificado o descalificado basado sobre los resultados.
•	Donde el empleado este progresando muy despacio, no debido a una deficiencia en el entrenamiento programado, y donde hay una esperanza que el empleado podra calificar, se hablara con el empleado tocante sus deficicncias, serd programado para entrenamiento adicional, y cualquier aumento en sueido sera detenido hasta que cl nivel sea obtenido. Se le avisara a la Unidn por escrito cuando esto suceda.
•	Donde no se espera que cl empleado califtque a nivel 7, el o ell a sen! descalificado.
-S59-
electricidad, refrigeracidn, mantenimiento de la instalacidn, o pesas/elec-tr6nica. Iguai como en el primero segmento de entrenamiento, ensenaza ocurre en la clase y en el trabajo. El empieado es espectado completar Niveles 5 & 6 dentro de noventa di'as y a ese tiempo recibird un aumento de pago a un Grado de Mantenimiento de M5. Nivel 7 debe entonces ser satisfecho dentro de los siguientes 90 dlas, con un aumento en sueldo cudndo se cumpla grado M6,
Nivel 8 es optional pero sugerido para el empieado, con un aumento a grado M7 cuando cumple exitosamente el entrenamiento para mecdnica (general y building) y R7 para boiler roundsman y refrigeracidn; y grado eldctrico E7 para electricistas y escalas/elec-trdnica.
Mientras el entrenamiento de niveles 5 a 8 es destgnado ser especial izado, una cierta cantidad de entrenamiento en otras especial-idades es necesario en orden de producir personal de mantenimiento bien entrenado y seguro. Por esta razdn, ciertas partes de el programa de entrenamiento requieren que el empieado “entienda” cuando otras secciones requieren que el empieado sea “proficiente.” La distinci6n es que “entender” denota una calidad de entrenamiento menos que “proficiente”, pero suficiente para preparar a el empieado para que puede desempenar su trabajo en una manera segura y eficiente.
En todos los niveles de el programa de entrenamiento, cada semana de entrenamiento seri revisada, y firmada con una fecha por el empieado y su Supervisor. Tambien, una evaluation por escrito serd hecha por el supervisor hasta que el empieado obtenida el nivel 7-
Pruebas, cuales son una medida de evaluaci6n valuable, tam-bidn son dadas a traves de el programa entero, por escrito o en forma verbal cual sea preferida por el empieado. Tales pruebas deben ser sat-isfechas a un 80% para que el empieado obtenga el nivel que busca.
Toda ciase, evaluation, o prueba as( como el entrenamiento en el trabajo, son desempefiadas en el lugar de trabajo durante tiempo de la Compania. Material por escrito serd disponible para que el empieado lleve a casa para acelerar el proceso de entrenamiento, pero tai trabajo en el hogar no es requerido.
El trabajo de el empieado seed programado de acuerdo con su nivel de habilidades y su necesidad para entrenamiento. Donde posible, el empieado serd asignado a trabajar con una persona con experiencia quien pueda asistir con el proceso de entrenamiento.
De la misma manera, la Compania espera desarrollar un empieado de Mantenimiento con habilidades, calificado, y seguro dentro de un ano.
-S5S-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento ENTRENAMIENTO DE MANTENIMIENTO
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
Ambos partidos se han juntado y han tenido discusiones sobre el Entrenamiento de Mantenimiento en la instalaci6n de Dakota City y han acordado hacer Io siguiente.
PROPdSI IX) DEL PROGRAMA
El propdsito del Programa de Entrenamiento de Mantenimiento para Dakota City es para atraer, desempenar y retener un personal espe-cializado con capacidades y que son cuidadosos para apoyar las funciones de la planta de res en Dakota City.
INTENCIONES DEL PROGRAMA
El Programa de Entrenamiento de Mantenimiento es aplicable a iodo el personal de mantenimiento de la planta en Dakota City, esto incluyc la Division de Mantenimiento para la Instalacidn y aquellos asignados a la Division de Cueros/Curtiduna, sin embargo, se exciuira los pintores, conserves, y el cuarto de cuchillos.
RESUMEN DEL PROGRAMA
Cuando es aceptado al Departamento de Mantenimiento, despuds de calificar con un resultado de sesenta por ciento (60%) o mis en el examen de aptitud para la especializacidn que busca, el empleado comienza un programa disenado para el entrenamiento de personal de mantenimiento, sobre dos segmentos extensos, cada un conticne cuarto niveles de instrucciones.
El primer scgmento consistc de Nivel 1, una introduccion general, y Niveles 2,3 y 4 cuales consistcn de instrucciones basicas en electrictdad/ mecdnica y seguridad. El entrenamiento ocurre en la dase de instruccidn y en el trabajo.
El empleado es espectado completar Niveles 1 & 2 dentro de los primeros noven ta dias y a esc tiempo recibira un aumento de pago a un Grado de Mantenimiento de M3. Niveles 3 & 4 requieren orros noventa dias de entrenamiento con un aumento a Grado M4 cuando los completa satis factoriamente.
El segundo segmcnto del Programa, consistede Niveles 5,6,7, y 8, es disenado para entrenar en una de cinco Areas especializados; mecdnica,
-S57-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento PUSH & TRANSFER & UNLOAD/LUGGERS
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la plants en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009,
La Compania y cl Sindicato cstan de acuerdo a quitar la position de lugger (de grado en proceso) de la lists de trabajos en el acuerdo laboral. Sin embargo, en los casos de una mala funcidn o cualquiera otra situatidn cual requiere de fi'sicamente cargando un canei de res, la Compania acepta pagar el sueldo previo de lugger (de grado en proceso) siempre y cuando que se desempena por Io menos quience (15) minutos de esa funcidn.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S56-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento ERRORES EN LOS CHEQUES DE PAGO
Este memorandum es, por ei presence, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta ei 9 de agosto de 2009-
Errores de nomina, de al menos $50.00 seran corregidos el viernes (el empleado debe reportar el error a su supervisor antes de mcdiodta, el viernes). Cualquiera otra discrepancia seed cortegida a travds de pago retroactive en el siguiente cheque de pago del empleado.
Fecha;
Por La Companfa;
Mark Gordon
Por La Union;
Marvin Harrington
-S55 —
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento
DERECHOS DE LOS TRABAJADORES INMIGRANTES
Este memordndum es, por el presenre, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral cute Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
La Compania acuerda proporcionar tiempo lib re a los empleados que deban viajar para concurrir a la oficina de Servicios de Inmigracidn y naturalizacidn (INS) con el fin de asistir a citas y/o obtener los documents necesarios para mantener la correspondiente autorizacidn de trabajo, ciudadanfa, etc.
El empieado en cuestidn debera presentar un certificado emitido por el INS, el cual debe establecer la fecha y la hora de la cita pro-gramada. Esto deberd presentarse Io mis ripido posible al supervisor inmed iato. El Gerente de recursos humanos debera determinar el periodo de tiempo necesario para asistir a la cita o para obtener los documents segun cada caso en particular y, de acuerdo con Io anali-zado, debera adernds tomar la determination final.
En caso que el empieado sea despedido por causa del ven-cimiento de su autorizacion de trabajo, la compania deberi informar inmediatamente y por escrito a la Unidn local. Un empieado que haya sido despedido por causa del vencimiento de su autorizacion de trabajo recibira una cantidad de tiempo razonable (en general seran 30 dias, pero esta cantidad podra extenderse si el empieado es diligente en su intento de obtener una autorizacion de trabajo) para presentar una autorizacion de trabajo actualizada y sera asimismo considerado para ser reincorporado con beneficios y senorfa completes.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:	Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon	Marvin Harrington
-S54-
Compra de Acciones de Tyson Foods, Inc, durante el plazo del con-trato laboral.
Fecha:
Por La Com pan fa:
Mark Gordon
Por La Unidn:
Marvin Harrington
-S53-
MEMORANDUM DE ENTF.NDIMIENTO
PLAN DE COMPRA DE ACCIONES DE TYSON FOODS, INC
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc,, la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009,
La Compafila acuerda proporcionar el siguiente Plan de Compra de Acciones de Tyson Foods que cubrird a todos los empleados de la unidad de negociacidn de la planta Dakota City.
a). Los empleados son elegibles para participar el primer dia del mes posterior a los meses que coincidan con o posterior al periodo de tres (3) meses de servicio de tiempo completo.
b), Los empleados podrdn contnbuir donando desde un uno (l) a un diez (10) por ciento de su paga o enttegando desde $1,00 a $25.00 por semana despues de impuestos,
c)	. Tyson comprard las acciones correspondientes a Acciones ordinarias clase A de Tyson, Los empleados recibirdn informes trimesrrales.
d)	. Luego de la exitosa fmalizacidn de un (1) ano de servicio, Tyson realizard una contribucidn al Plan de ahorro para pension que equivaldrd al cincuenta (50%) por ciento de las contribuciones de los empleados al plan de compra de acciones, La contribucidn realizada por Tyson al Plan de ahorro para pension se efectuard denrro de la cuenta 401 (k) de los empleados antes de los impuestos,
e)	. Las acciones de Tyson adquiridas por el empleado estardn disponibles al finalizar cada trimestre de) ano. Las acciones de Tyson adquiridas por la Compania en rep resen tacidn del empleado en relacibn al Plan de ahorro para pensidn estarin sujetas a las normas de rctiro 401 (k).
f)	. Los empleados tendrdn tres (3) opciones bajo este Plan. 1) Dejar las acciones en el Plan para que las misrnas crezcan mediante la rcinvcrsidn de dividcndos, 2) Retirar las acciones del Plan o, 3) Vender las acciones a travds del Plan.
Mientras las acciones de Tyson han aumentado su valor histdri-camente, no existe n ingun tipo de garantla de que las misrnas se incre-menten en el future. El desempeno pasado es un sdlo un indicador, no una garantla de desempeno future. Las acciones de Tyson, al igual que las acciones de cualquier compania, podrdn aumentar o disminuir su valor.
La Compafila man tiene el derecho de hacer cambios al Plan de
-S52-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento CHEQUES DE VACACIONES
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo LaboraJ ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
La Compania Kara disponiblc los cheques de vacaciones el jueves de cada semana para vacaciones cuales comienzan la semana o semanas siguientes.
El intento de este memorandum es de proveer la Compania con suficiente tiempo el viernes para entregar los cheques cuales faltan.
Fecha:
Por La Compania;
Por La Uniin:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S5J -
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento VISITACIONES DE LA UNION
Este memorandum es* por el presents, hecho parte del Acuerdt Laboral ettte Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planra en Dakota City, y e United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 d< agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009-
Los representantes de la unidn tendrdn derecho a visitar el lugar de trabajo en cualquier momento durante las horas de trabajo normales, siempre y cuando dichas visitas no resulten perjudiciales ni interfieran con las operaciones o con la fuerza laboral. La union ent regard a la Compafifa una lista de los diferentes funcionarios y representantes sindicales que podrlan visitar la planta durante el fermino de este convenio. Dichos funcionarios y/o representantes deberdn realizar los arregios correspondientes y debenin recibir autorizacidn (que no sea negada sin fundamentos) con anticipation respecto del comienzo de la visira. Estos representantes deberdn observar las rcglas y los proccdi tnicntos aplicables a los visirantes. La Compania debera contar con ia opcidn de acompanar a los rep-resentanres de la unidn en cualquier area de trabajo, en cualquier momento que la Compania considere que esto es necesario para la seguridad de cualquier individuo.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Por La Unidn;
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S50-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento HORARIO DE NOTIFlCAClCN
Este memorandum es, por ei presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral enre Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc,, la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
Con respecto al administracidn del Artfculo VII, Horas de Trabajo, del presente Acuerdo Laboral, es entendido que los empieados de produccidn serin notificados del horario del turno para las 12:00 de la tarde del dia antes de cada turno. Empieados de Cuerfa/Curtidurla serin notificados no mas tarde del termino de su turno del dia antes de tai cam bio. Tamblyn es entendido que ia Compania puede reducir o aumentar las horas estipuiados por causa de eventos con son fiiera del normal o no son provistos a cualquier tiempo; pero, la Compania hard el esfuerzo de minimizar tales cam bios.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Mark Gordon
Por La Union:
Marvin Harrington
-S49-
la vida del presence convento. No obstante, se entiende que [os emple^™ dos que participan en este programa al mo memo de dtcha terminacid continuarln recibiendo una paga de acuerdo con este programa d^— Comienzo ripido.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-849-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento “QUICK START'
AVANCE RAPIDO
Este memorandum es, por cl presence, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral enre Tyson Fresh Mears, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta ei 9 de agosto de 2009.
Comienzo rdpido tambi^n sera pagado a cualquier empieado quien hace una apuesta de un trabajo de base a un trabajo que es elegible para Avance Ripido y quien no ha sido recientemente puesto en un trabajo de oferta dentro de los ulrimos quince (15) dias de la asignacibn.
Las partes han acordado poner en prdctica un programa de aceler-acidn de progresidn de tasa, de aqui en adeiante denominado “Comienzo rapido”. El rnisrno tiene como objetivo determinar la progresidn de la tasa de comienzo semartalmence para aquellos empieados que realizan trabajo calificado como trabajo de grado uno (1) o mis alto y para quienes semanalmente cumplen con los criterios de asisrencia.
Para fines de los requisites necesarios para este programa de Comienzo rdpido, cl empieado debe incurrir en cero (0) puntos de acuerdo con la Polftica de asistencia de la Compania para asi poder calificar para el programa en esa semana.
El empieado podrd ser no elegible para el programa de Comienzo rapido, razdn por la cual recibiri un pago de acuerdo con la progresidn normal cuando:
a)	. Un poseedor de ningun empieo es trasiadado a un puesto de grado 0 de acuerdo con el artlculo de antigiiedad. (La reasig-nacidn temporal de un empieado no causard una pdrdida del programa de Comienzo rapido).
b)	. Un empieado descalificado de un trabajo calificado por grado y trasiadado a un trabajo de grado 0.
c)	. El empieado es trasiadado a un trabajo de grado 0 para el cual dicho empieado se ha ofrecido. (Sin embargo, un ofre-cimiento para ocupar un trabajo de un grado mas alto no causara una pe'rdida del programa de Comienzo rdpido).
La paga por vacaciones se calculard segtin la tasa propia del programa de Comienzo rapido, siempre y cuando el empieado califique para dicho programa la semana anterior a las vacaciones.
La Compania se reserva el derecho de modificar o dar por termi-nado el programa de Comienzo rdpido en cualquier momento duranre
-S47~
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento HORARIO DEL DtA ANTES DE ANO NUEVO
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral entc Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la ptanta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
Es entendido que la Compania hard, a un extreme razonable de las circunstancias de negocios, un horario de trabajo para el turno(s) del 31 de dictembre en tai forma de que el turno de la tarde saldra temprano.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S46-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento TRASLADO DE SENORTa DEBWTAMENTAL POR ELIMINATION DEL TRABAJO
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
Un empleado quien a retenido sefioria unicamente en un (1) departamento y su trabajo es eliminado permanentemente y a sido transferido a un departamento nuevo tendri su sefioria departamental aplicado en su nuevo departamento. Un “layoff” no es una eliminacidn permanente.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Por La Compafi/a:
Por La Unidn:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
-S-T5-
MEMORANDUM DE ENTEND1M1ENTO DIVISION DE CUERIAiCURTIDURfA
Esrc memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Mears, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
La Compafila y la Unifin se han juntado y han discutido la natu-raleza sin igual de la Division de Cueria/Curtiduria y han acordado Io siguiente:
1)	Empleados esenciales a la operacifin de Curtiduria, conocidos como el "blue crew" o el “wring crew”, setan sujetos a la dcsignacifin de un dia para domingo en lugar del domingo calendario, Trabajo realizado en ral domingo designado sera compensado doble (2) la escala horario regular.
2)	Un clausura de la planta para vacaciones como es descriro en Articulo IX, Seccifin 6, puede no afectar a las Operaciones de Cueria/Curtiduria. Empleados de Cuerfa/Curtidurfa quienes trabajan durante el tiempo que la planta principal esta cerrada para vacaciones tomaran sus vacaciones a otro tiempo durante el ano.
3)	Las horas de trabajo serin estipulados con respecto al Articulo VII, Section 2. Es entendido que cueros son frdgil y trabajo en progreso necesita ser realizado. Si una emergencia ocurre, requiriendo que los empleados en el proceso del trabajo fragii (los grupos verdes y azules y pieles) trabajen por un tiempo adicional, la Compania buscari empleados calificados de la planta para completar el trabajo, usando el concepto de el empleado con mis Senoria puede, el empleado con menos Senoria debe. La Compania tratara de minimizar la ocurren-cia de estos tipos de situaciones.
Fecha:
Por La Compania;
Por La Unifin:
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
~S44~
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento ERGONOMICO
Este memorandum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.
Tyson reconoce el valor del programa crgondmico existente. La Compania anticipa la continuacidn de Jos programas d escri tos en el Acuerdo de Salud y Seguridad de Tyson y el Apdndice. La Compania no tiene planes corrientcs para descontinuar estos esfuerzos durante el plazo de este acuerdo laboraJ. La Compania esta de acuerdo de proveer una noticia por escrito a la Uni6n de cualquier camhio de substancia a las pdlizas y programas hechos como un resultado de este acuerdo antes de cualquier cambio es iniciado para provcerle a la Unidn un oportunidad para discutir el cambio en consideracidn.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Por La Unidn;
Mark Gordon
Marvin Harrington
~S43-
MEMORANDUM de entendimiento “ACTIVE BALLOT CHECKOFF”
Este memordndum es, por el presente, hecho parte del Acuerdo Laboral ente Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc., la planta en Dakota City, y el United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, con fecha del 9 de agosto de 2004 hasta el 9 de agosto de 2009.	,
La Compania con autorizacidn del empleado por escri to, deduciH del pago por semana la cantidad designado por el empleado para e “Active Ballot Checkoff-(ABC)” y lo entregar rdpidamente al oficial apropiado de la Unidn para ABC.
La Uni6n indemnixar y preservar La Compania contra cualquiet reclame, audiencias, jutcios, o en relacion, y de cualquier otra forma de obligacidn como un resultado de hacer una deduction de acuerdo con la provista autorizacidn y asignacidn baja las co nd ic tones permit idos pot ley.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Mark Gordon
Por La Union:
------------------------------1
Marvin Harrington
-S42-
Mantenimiento del Complejo;
Mantenimiento de Cueria /Curtidurfa
Grado Basico de Matanza
Conserve de Mantenimiento Pintor
Fiber Changer
Grado Cuarto de Matanza
Operador de “Paunch Burner”
Grado Cinco de Matanza
Kniferoom	Kniferoom/Utility Sharpener
Otro:
Mechanical, Electrical, Building Maintenance, Refrigeration, Electron ics/Scales de acuerdo a la calificacidn y provisiones del Programa de Entrenamiento para Mantenimiento. Grades contenidos en Artfculo XXV.
- S41 ~
Shell Saw Strip Saw Chuck Saw Rib Saw	Well Saw Bone Tops Puli Knuckle
GRADO UNO: Base + $1.88	
Pull Butt Tender	Pull clod
Split Forequarter	Pull Tender
Hind Saw	Utility Person
Chuck Boner	Operate Loin Dropper
Escala de "Leadperson”	
“Leadpersons”, Asistente Entrenadores de hora, y “Spell Relief"	
tendrdn 10<t mas del mas alto escala en el departamento. (Departamento	
significa fmea).	
Cutros	
Base (El mismo como en Proceso)	
Load-Out	
GRADO UNO: Base + 10<t	
Load-Our Scaler	Forklift
GRADO DOS: Base + 15«	
Clean-Up	Chemical Coordinator
GRADO TRES: Base + 45<t	
Flesher	Trimmer
Tank Puller (Green)	Receiving Coordinator
Grader (Green)	Open Shanks
Trim Heads	Trim Foreshanks
Trim Teats/Shank	Trim Tails
Hang Heads	Forldift/Production Loadout
GRADO CUARTO + 55<t	
Wring Feed	Blue Stackers
Blue Pullers	Tank Puller (Cured)
Grader (Cured)	Tiers and Carriers
Hide Hanger	Operate Lime Deflesher
Lime Hide Trimmer	Hang/Trim/Scack
Tannery Ringer	
-S40-
Bone Loin Wing
Trim Loin Wing Pull Elephant Ear (B) Bone Arm
Trim Strips
Clean Plate Bone
Trim Bottom Butts
Trim Nose Brisket
Bulk Scale
Case Sealer
Relabel Loop
Trim Bone-In Short Rib
Pull Plate Eye
Trim Plate Eye
Trim Short Loin
Trim Round Heel Muscle
Pull Flank
Clean Brisket Bone Trim Knuckles
Trim Tops
Seam Rounds Grinder Operator Depal Operator Feed Chain (M.H.) Accumulation Monitor Split Boneless Short Rib Push & Transfer & Unload
Trim Flap Meat Pull Round Eye Trim Gooseneck, Eye, & Flat Drop Inside Skirts Knife Off Foreshank
Buggy Operator/Trim Contamination Remove Belly Strap/Plate Wedge
GRADO CINCO: Base + 30C Mat. Hdlg. Equip, cleaner Saw/Spiit spare rib Drop Flank
Palletizer Operator
Chuck Roller
Load Boxes
Split SR/Operate SR Saw
GRADO CUARTO: Base + 48C Baader Operator
Pull Kosher
Wing Saw
Operate Skinner
GRADO TRES: Base + 83<t Pull Aitch Bones
Mark Paddle Bone
GRADO DOS: Base + $1.38 Bone & Seam Rounds
Input Stack
13-Rib
Output Stack
Finger & Burton Boner
Trim Karubi Plates Trim Tenderloin (A) Carousel Operator
Bone Plates
Operate outside skirt skinner K-Pak Operator
Bone Brisket
Bone Ribs
-S39-
Hock Cutter
Trim Oyster
Relable Loop (A)
Dump Tubs
Feed plate skinner & plate slicer Transfer/Sort Bones
Haul & load misc, to multivac
Mark Elephant Ears
Open laundry and lockers
Trim Checkers
50/50 Extruder
8300 Operator
Weight Box Finger Trim
Swing Up Chuck
Sinew Extractor
Feed Skinner
Trim arm to 80/20
Trim Boneless Short Rib
Spray Carcass Cut Off Cod Place Plate Bone on Belt
Box Diaphram Tissue
Trim upgrade
Anal Ray Operator
Bag, box rib product
GRADO SEIS: Base + 204
Bone Foreshank or Hind
Product Stacker
Hand line Operator
Operate skin ne r/Gen. Laborer
Pallet transfer Operator
Palletize/wrap/manifest Trim Shin & Shank
Trim Rib
Ribtail Liftermear
Trim Flank
Trim Hanging Tender
Drop Brisket
Special Trim from Drops
Trim loin wing
Drop Elephant Ears Boneguard
Rib Finger Trimmers
Whizzard Knife Operator Swing-Off Rounds
Foreign object inspector
Janitor
Monitor Bone Hole Pack split spare ribs Remove Bone Chp/Mark Rose Trim Strip Tails Set up/op/bag multi vac Small Box Controller Hang Chuck Chains Cut off Paddle Bone Sort lean trimmings
Transfer Product
Trim chuck cap
Bag & Box Round Heel Muscle Bag Japanese Flapmeat Feed Bone to Protocon Trim contamination/ pre ID Trim/bag miscellaneous product Bag Split Spare Ribs
Trim Rounds (Gsnek. or insides) Blender Operator Inventory & Feed Chain Push-Up Beef Transfer & Rail Off
Cut & Swing Forequarter Rework/Stack off boxes Pull/Trim Liftermeat
Trim Clod
Chuck Short Rib
Split short rib/clean three bones Separate Kosher & Liftmeat Trim Skirts
Trim Briskets
-S38-
Lugging Buggy Operator Tag/Stamp Beef All Rend. Oper. (except Rotex) Pull Large Intestine	Pre-Gutter Edible Fat Puller Remove Chain/2nd Legger
GRADO C1NCO: Base + 504 Low Trim Rail Out Straight Knife Sharpener Low Backer Saw Cattle Rib Cattle	Rumper Flanker Rim-Over Brisket Lugger Air Knife Sharpener Low Neck
GRADO SEIS: Base + 704 Isr Butter Utility (Coolers)	2nd Butter
GRADO SIETE; Base + 95<t Kill Floor Utility Person AHT (7+10 cents)	Gutter Splitter
PROCESO BASE: Trim Contamination	Drop Shank Bone Clean-up	80/20 Packer (A) Haul Inedible	Forklift (Processing) Box Diaphram Tissue	Pack & Label Trim Box Elephant Ears	Vat Dumper Check Ground Beef	Drop Kidney/Hanging Tender (A) Re hang Round	Stuffers Box Tissue	Pull Elephant Ear Packers	Trim & Pack Back Strap (A) Box Tun/Strap dump TB	Supply & Clean-up Control Switches	Reject Handler (A) Drop Chuck	Net & Stuff Transfer Bones	Supply & Reject Trolley Room	Laundry Rework	Trim Kidney & Pack Kidney Clean Sht. Rib Bones	Pull Spinal Cords Pick Trim	Hang Trolleys Cleanup Gr. Beef & Lockers (B) Identify Boneout	
-S37-
Tongueside Pack	Split Face Plate
Wash Brains	Wash/Box Tongues
Rinse & Trim Tripe (Honeycomb) 1 st Hang Off	
2nd Hang Off	Cheek Puller
Ro tex Operator	Trim In cooler
GRADO TRES: Base + 20<t Knocker/Shaclder	McClure Knife
Rip Tails	Skirt Puller
Dehorn & Notch Ears	Templet
Downpuller	Chiseler
Dejoint Heads	Checker
Drop & Hang Heads	Pull Jaw Meat
Clip 8c Flush Heads	Save Head Meat
Drop 8c Hang Tongues	Pluck Table
Dehorn 8c Trim Heads &	Separate Tie & Cut
Tongues	Flush Lg. Intestine
Bung Dropper/Notch Tails	Pull Off Liver & Heart
Grub Rail	Debone Heart
Trim Lg. Intestine	Feed Strickler
Save Pancreas	Cook Small Intestine
Pull Off Round	Push & Space Hot Beef
Pull Off Paunch	Cut off Paunch - Cut Off Peck
Round Runner	Rod Weasand
Inspect Carcass and Wash	Roller Grade
Rail Off (2)	Roller Regard
Rail On	Cut Off Pizzie
hooker Cut Down	Raise Gullet
Leadsman Rendering (3 + 10 cents)	
Plasma Operator	Belly Ripper
Saw Brisket Clipper	Whizzed Heads
GRADO CUARTO: Base +	35<t
Sticker	Hot Scaler
1 st Legger	2nd Legger
Mark Pattern	Side Puller
Scaler	Aitch Bone Cutter
Push Beef	Clear Necks
-S36-
APENDICE - TRABAJO DE GRADO MATANZA
BASE: Drive Cattle	Bag Tails
Wash Tallow Cars	Cleanup (Edible Rendering)
Cut Off Front Feet	Cleanup (Inedible Rendering)
Strap Cattle	Janitor (Day)
Squeegee	Yards Workers
Hang Plastic	Outside Cattle Drive
Box Maker	Water Pen Drive
Car Washer	Hold Cardboard
Hang Paper Towels	Blow Hocks
Remove Plastic	Pull Spinal Cords
Box Large Intestines	Box Small Intestines
GRADO UNO: Base + 5<t Tail Washer	Steam Vacuum Operator
Haul Beef Feet Barrels Trim, pack beef feet	Wash, saw, remove toenails
GRADO DOS; Base + 10« Up Puller	Wash & Trim Tripe (Honeycomb)
Cut off Ears & Foreshanks	Condemned Room Operator
Ring Weasand	Save Sweetbreads
High Trim	Skin Livers
Pop Kidney	Save Lobe Meat
Scaler	Rail Off Hot beef
Cut, switch and stamp Angus	Heartside Pack
Offal Load out	Push Beef (Rail On)
Tongue Trimmer	Rail On beef
Open & Dump Paunch	Head Trimmer (Glands)
Weasand Saver	Save tendons
Offal Transfer	Lipper
Head Splitter	Ante Mortem Worker
Save Brains & Pituitary Glands	Rendering Load out
Trim midlines	Lot Carrier
Cheek puller	Box Head Product
Heartside Palletizer	Monitor Frigo
Pack Inedible	Pack Cheekside
Remove sheath	Palletize Product
-S35 -
ARTICULOXXX DL’RAClfjN DEL ACUERDO
Este Acuerdo tomara efecto el 9 de agosto de 2004, y permanecerd esforzado y efectivo hasta las 11:59 de la noche del domingo 9 de agosto de 2009. Cualquier partido puede terminar con este Acuerdo dando notificacidn escrita al otro partido sesenta (60) d(as o mas dfas antes del domingo 9 de agosto de 2009. Si tai notificacidn no es dada pot nin-guno de los partidos, este Acuerdo se renovard por pen'odos sucesivos de un (1) ano, hasta que tai notificacidn es hecha. Tai notificacidn deberd ser entregada por corrco registrado o certificado.
Fecha:
Por La Compania:
Bruce L. Pautsch
Thomas R. Prosper
Mark Gordon
Tom Dunlop
Por La Unidn:
Marvin Harrington
Chuck Clayton
Carmen Hacht
Randy Peters
Jeanne Harry
-S34-
Section 2: RENUNCIA DE DERECHOS. Los partidos recono-cen que durante las negociaciones que han dado como resulrado el presente acuerdo, que cada uno tenia el derecho y oportunidad sin limi-taciones de hacer demandas y propuestas con respecto a cualquier tema o asunto no impedido por la ley del drea del mediador colectivo, y que la comprensifin y los acuerdos que han llegado ambos partidos a despuds de ejercer tai derecho y oportunidad formando parte de este Acuerdo.
Por eso, la Compafila y la Unifin, para el plazo de este Acuerdo, en forma de voluntad y sin calificacifin renuncian sus derechos, y cada uno esta de acuerdo que el otro no sera obligado a hacer negocios col-ectivos con respecto de cualquier tema o asunto referido o cubierto por este Acuerdo o con respecto de cualquier tema o asunto no referido o cubierto por este Acuerdo, aunque tales temas o asuntos al tiempo de negociar o de firmar este Acuerdo no estaban reconocidas o contempia-das.
Seccidn 3: ENMIENDAS. Cualquier modiftcacidn o agtegado a este Acuerdo, para ser efectivo deberd ser hecho por escrito y ser Uevado a cabo por Los representantes apropiados de cada partido.
Section 4s SEPARACIONES. Si cualquier Articulo o Secci fin de este Acuerdo o cualquier enmienda escrita seed declarado invdlido por la operacifin de la ley o por cualquier tribunal de jurisdiccidn competente o si el rendimicnto o la cjecucifin de cualquier Articulo o Section foeran restringidos por tai tribunal pendiente de una determination final sobre su validez, el resto de este Acuerdo y de cualquier enmienda incluida en eL o la apticacidn de cal Articulo o Seccfon a otras personas y circun-stancias que aquellas a las que tai condition a sido declarada invalida o las que el rendimicnto o la ejecutifin hayan sido restringidos, no seran afectadas en modo alguno.
-S3?-
el riesgo. Si el empleado cree que ese riesgo no a sido eliminado, dicho empleado tend rd el derecho de conractar un empleado del miembro del Co mi cd de Seguridad de la Planta, quidn enronces lievara el asunto al Coordinador de Seguridad o el Gerente de Planta.
Seccidn 5: La Compania proveerd tales programas de entrenamiento como gerencia, a su sola discrecidn, decide que es necesario para asegurar que cada empleado, en conexidn con su trabajo respectivo, es entrenado adecuadamente en las precauctones y procedimientos requeridos para seguridad y manejo y uso de facilidades, equipo, maquinaria, quimicos y aparatos. Las recomendaciones del Co mitt: de Seguridad serin dados consideration por parte de Gerencia en este asunto.
Secddn 6: La Compania proveerd a la l/nidn Local una lista con todas las sustancias y procesos peligrosos conocidos en uso en la planta, dando el no mb re qufmico y el nontbre de la marca de cada una, y detallando los peligros conocidos y los efectos danosos de cada una y los niveles de medidas peligrosas u ottos facto res que pueden causar tales peligros o efectos.
Secci6n 7: La Compania intentard por mantener abierto el dispensario durante todas las horas de production. Los partidos acu-erdan que los procedimientos de la Planta deberian cubrir la asistencia primaria de emergencias para accidentes que pueden ocurrir cuando no hay personal medico disponible en las premisas.
Seccidn 8: La Compania y la Unidn reconocen la complejidad y la importancia de las temas ergo nd micas de la industria de carne. La Compafifa a indicado su apoyo para el progreso en esta drea y que se dard a este asunto una atencidn significante por gerencia.
SeccuSn 9: La Compania esta de acuerdo de proveer un noti-cia por escrito a la Unidn de cualquier cambio de significante a este Programa antes de que el Cambio se realiza en el evento de que la Union desea discutir los cambios propuestos.
ARTTCULO XIX
RENUNCIA DE DERECHOS, ACUERDO COMPLETO Y SEPARACIONES
Seccidn 1: ACUERDO COMPLETO. Este es el acuerdo com-pleto que provee todos los beneficios a cualquier empleado que puede tenet derechos y es expresamente comprendido y acordado de que la Compania no tiene obligaciones con cualquier empleado o empleados que no sc hayan previsto especificamenre aqui.

obligaciones del Comit^ incluiran la rcvisidn y investigacidn de Las practical y reglas de seguridad y las candiciones de salud y seguridad en la planta y en el manejo de las quejas sobre seguridad. La Compania cooperara incluyendo un rep-resenrante designado por la Unidn en todas las inspecciones de OSHA, hasta el grado requerido por la ley o acordado mutuamente que es beneficioso para el mantenimiento de la seguridad.
Miembros del Comit^ serin permitidos hacer sus propias inspecciones de las con dici ones de la planta como se necesiten razonablemente (prove id o que esto no sea abusivo), estan do sujetos a tales controles como el Coordinador de Seguridad pueda imponer. Las horas de trabajo perdidas por los empleados cuales son miembros del comiti en la realizacion de sus obligaciones como miembros del Comiti seran compensadas por la Compania a su cscala horario regular.
C.	Ei Comiti de Seguridad revisara lo concerniente a la seguridad yhard recomendaciones degerencia tan pronto como sea fact-ible.
D.	La Compania tomara minutos de las juntas del Comite de Seguridad Unido y facilitara prontamenre copies de tales minutos a la Unidn Local y a Los empleados cuales son miembros del Comite de Seguridad.
E.	La Compania pagara el tiempo de trabajo perdido por los miembros del Comitd de Seguridad de la unidad mediador cuando sea necesario para asistir a un programa de entre-namiento de seguridad o seminarios organizados por geren-cia.
F.	EI Coordinador de Seguridad de la Compania notificard a un miembro del Cornice de Seguridad designado por la Unidn de cualquier accidente que haya rcsultado en una lesidn cual a causado la hospitalizacidn por una noche de un empieado. El miembro del Comity de Seguridad designado por la Unidn y cl Director de Seguridad de la Compania revisardn las circun-stancias que han causado el accidente,
G.	La Union consultard con gerencia sobre la seleccion de miembros nucvos del comit£ de seguridad.
Seccidn 4; En el caso de que un empieado detecte lo que d cree que es un riesgo para la salud y la seguridad del area de trabajo, tendra el derecho de contactar con su inmediato supervisor, quien, si estd de acuerdo con el empieado, tomara accidn inmediatamente para eliminar
-S31 -
ARTICULO XXVIII COMITE DE SEGURIDAD
Seccidn 1: La Compania y la Union reco nocen la ptioridad y necesidad para un programa de seguridad efecrivo y estructurado para proveer condicioncs del trabajo seguras para todos los empieados.
El Programa de Seguridad Unido es designado para ocuparse de todas las condicioncs de salud y de seguridad del trabajo dentro la planta, y ambos partidos trabajardn constructivamente juntos para mejorar la seguridad de las con die tones o las prdeticas de la facilidad.
Micntras que la Compania retiene completamente el derecho de seleccionar y utilizar consultants exteriores cuando !o vea, a su sola discrecidn, necesario, la Compania y la Union pueden discut ir y, se acuerdan mutuamente, seleccionar las consultantes para asistir a ambos partidos sobre los materias de seguridad y de salud.
Section 2: La Compania acuerda que es su entera responsabili-dad de proveer de un lugar de trabajo seguro y para corregir los riesgos de seguridad. Nada en este acuerdo implicara que la Unidn Local o International a comprometido o asumido cualquier parte de dicha responsabilidad. Llevando a cabo sus derechos de dirigir el programa de seguridad y de salud en la pianta, la Compania continuard informando ambos a los empieados de gerencia y no de gerencia cuales seguridad depende de la realization de cada persona en sus obligaciones del trabajo.
Seccidn 3: La Compania continuara manteniendo los normales Comitds de Seguridad de cada planta para el propdsito de aconsejar y asistir a la Compania en la idenrificacidn de riesgos de seguridad y recomendar soluciones.
A.	La membrasia del Comite de Seguridad consistira de Representantes del Empieado dcsignados por la Union Local (membrasia consistird con un mintmo de ocho [8] en la Division de Matanza; cuatro (4) en la Extension; siete (7) en la Divisi6n de Procesamiento y dos (2) en Cueria/Curtidun'a) y estan sujetos al reemplazo bajo tales circunstancias y condi-ciones que la Unidn Local pueda determinar, y representames dcsignados por la Gerencia de la Planta (uno de cual sera la persona de cargo del Mantenimiento de la planta), y sujeto al reemplazo bajo tales circunstancias y condicioncs como la Gerencia de la Planta pueda determinar.
B.	El Comitd de Seguridad se juntara una vez cada mes y tantas otras veccs como el Coordtnador de Seguridad de la Planta determine en orden para llevar a cabo sus funcioncs. Las
-S30-
* Los sueldos de los nivels de mantenimiento para M5-R7: aumentardn cada ano iguai que los de production en el 2,3.4 & 5 ano.
ARTICULO XXVI
CLASIFICAClON DE LA ESCALA DEL SUELDO CONTENIDO DEL TRABAJO NUEVO O CAMBIADO
Cuando la compania establezca una clasificacidn nueva de trabajo, combine o separe las responsabilidades de clasificaciones existentes, o cambia sustancialmente el contenido de trabajo de una clasificacidn existence, se establecerd una escala horario apropiada por bora para la clasificacion y notificara a la Unidn Local de tai escala. Seri la intencion de la Compania de informar a la Unidn de los cambios de escala y de la razdn para tales cambios con una anticipacidn de la instalacidn actual. Si la Unibn no estd de acuerdo con tai escala horario, puede hacer una queja por escrito en el Paso 3 del Procedimiento de Quejas dentro de cinco (5) dias de tai notificacidn. La prueba de jusricia de la determinacidn de la escala por la Compania es que st esta en linea con la estructura de escalas existentes de otros trabajos de la Division, dando considerando apropiadamente al contenido del trabajo y la habilidad requerida. Si una escala mis alta es adjudtcado, seri pagado desde la fecha del cambio.
ARTICULO XXVII SUBCONTRATACION
Los partidos del Acuerdo han discutido la subcontratacidn de trabajo hecho por los empleados del grupo mediador y han acordado lo siguiente:
Ambos partidos desean minimizar los efectos de subconrracacidn sobre la seguridad del trabajo de los empleados y trabajarln para tai fin.
Cuando la subcontratacidn de cualquier operacidn existente se convierta en necesaria o deseable, al juicio exclusive de la gerencia, la Compania notificara a la Unidn; pero, la Compania acuerda que no subcontratar 1st operacidn de un departamento complete. Si la Unidn desea discutir los efectos en la seguridad del trabajo de los empleados, los partidos se reunirdn para ese propdsito. La Compania acuerda a retrasar los “layoffs" debidos a la subcontratacidn por de menos por dos (2) semanas subsiguientes a su notificacidn a la Unidn con la intencidn para que ambos partidos tengan un tiempo amplio para sugerir mbtodos de impedir los “layoffs” o minimizar sus efectos adversos.
-S29-
ciones estan sujctas a los impuestos de ingreso
6. Distr ibuciones - Un empieado recibird su cuenta cuando su empleo termina.
El beneficiario del empieado recibird el balance de la cuenta si el empieado fallece. Si el empieado es casado, el esposo(a) seri auto-mdricamente cl beneficiario, al menos que el esposo(a) firme una renuncia. Si no se escoge un beneficiario, la cuenta ira al esposo(a) o a la herencia en ese orden. Cuando un empieado recibe pago, 20% (veinte por ciento) seri retenido para impuestos a los ingresos. El empieado puede retrasar el pago de los impuestos de una distribu-cidn a travfa de una transferencia inmediata a otro plan calificado o a una Cuenta de Retiro Individual (IRA),
ARTICLJLO XXIV
TABLON DE ANUNCIOS
Siempre seed mantenido en Ja planta un tablbn de anuncios para el uso de la Unidn. Anuncios pueden ser puestos en tai tabidn de anuncios sobre marerias como juntas de la Union, asuntos soctales, asuntos recrea-tivos y elecciones y citas de la Unidn. Otros anuncios pueden ser puestos en el tabkin sujeto a la aprobacidn de gerencia de su contenido.
ARTICU1O XXV
ESCALA DEL SUELDO
Seccidn I: El sueldo de comienzo para Los empleados contra-tados para la planta de Dakota City durante el plazo de este acuerdo seri $9.00 (seri lo mlnimo) y los empleados recibirln un aumento de veinte centavos ($.20) cada tres (3) meses hasta Hegar al sueldo de base.
Seccidn 2: Efectivo la fecha de fate acuerdo laboral, el sueldo de
base serd lo siguiente;
Ano 1
Divisidn de Matanza $ 11,00 Divisidn de Proceso $10.82 Cuetos y Curtidurla $10.82 (Aumento)	($.60)
Ano 2___Ano, 3 Ano. 4
$11.20 $11.45 $11.70 $11,02 $11.27 $11.52 $11,02 $11.27 $11.52 ($.20)	($.25) ($.25)
Ano 5 $11.95 $11.77 $11.77 ($.25)
Seccidn 3: Durante el plazo de fate acuerdo, los sueldos para los empleados de Mantenimiento seri lo siguiente:
MO	M3	M4_____M5	M6	M7	E7_____RZ
$11,00	$11.00	$11.00	$12.20	$12.75	$14.45	$15.45	$15.45
(Aumento) ($.80)	($.40)	($.15)	($.55)	($.60)	($1,25)	($1.25)	($1.25)
-S28-
calendario comenzando.
Los empleados en cualquier tipo de Permiso de Ausencia ten-drin que pagar la contribucion de sus beneficios durante ese tiempo para poder mantener la cobertura de sus beneficios.
Las descripciones del plan de seguro proveen unicamente una descrip cion de los beneficios mencionados arriba. Los tdrminos y condiciones completos de cada beneficio son gobcrnados por los documentos formales del plan, los cuales se usaran para concluir cualquier conflicto o desacuerdo sobre las descripciones de los planes. Una Copia de todas documentos del plan pueden set obteni-dos a trav^s de contacto con el Departamento de Beneficios de la Compania.
La Compania se reserva el derecho de cambiar proveedores y/o administradores contratados o de estar asegurada durante el acuerdo del contrato.
La Compania se reserva el derecho, durante el term in o de este acuerdo, de modificar los aspectos del Plan de Seguro de Salud solamente para incentivar a los empleados a usar ciertos proveedores medicos.
Cambios a los beneficios o planes cubiertos por este Articulo serd mutuamente acordados por ambos partidos.
PLAN DE RETIRO DE AHO PRO
Efectivo el 1 de enero de 2004, la Compania acuerda en hacer disponible el siguiente Plan de Ahorro de Retiro para cubrir a los empleados de la unidad laboral de la planta de Dakota City.
1.	Los empleados estan disponibles para participar el primer dia del mes coincidente con o despuds de tres (3) mcses de servicio complete.
2.	Los empleados pueden ahorrar del 2 al 60% hasta las limi-taciones del IRS, de su pago antes de impuestos.
3.	Despots de complctar un (1) ano de servicio, la Compania les data ddlar por ddlar la contribucion del empleado hasta el 3% de su pago. Ademas la Compania les data ia mitad de la contribucion del empleado del siguiente 2% de pago de contribucion.
4.	Los empleados tienen derechos inmediatamente al 100% de su contribucidn y la de la Compania.
5-	Generalmente, hay tres maneras en las cuales el empleado puede recibirsus cuentas: 1) Dtstribucidn al final del empleo; 2) Retiros; 3) Prdstamos. Los retiros y las distribu-
-S27-
3.	Seguro de vida pagado por la Compania
4.	Seguro de muerte o perdida de miembros accidental pagado por la Compania
5.	Plan de seguro de salud para jubilados
La siguiente cobertura adicional debera comenzar el primer dia del mes posterior a los seis (6) meses de parutipacion en el plan medico bajo el plan de salud grupal, tai como se define mds arriba, y terminara el ultimo dia de trabajo del empieado (siempre y cuando no sea extendtda o convertida, como sea permirido).
1.	Cobertura odontoldgica
2.	Cobertura para la Vista
Seguro de incapacidad de corto plazo sera disponible despu^s de un (1) ano de servicio de tiempo completo.
Las siguienres coberruras opcionales se encuentran disponibles sdlo si se abona un costo adicional, y terminara el ultimo dia de trabajo del empieado (siempre y cuando no sea extendida o convertida, como sea permiddo).
1.	Seguro de vida voluntario -disponible el primer dia del mes posterior a un periodo de tres (3) meses de servicio de tiempo completo.
2.	Seguro de muerte o perdida de miembros accidental voluntario -disponible el primer dia del mes posterior a un periodo de tres (3) meses de servicio de tiempo completo.
3.	Seguro de incapacidad de largo plazo —disponible luego de un (1) ano de servicio de tiempo completo
Las contribuciones de los empieados para el Plan Medico Blsico de salud grupal de la Compania, que incluye seguro medico equivalence a un (1) milion de d61ares de vida util como maximo, cobertura odontoldgica, cobertura para la vista, tarjeta de receta de medicamentos, seguro de vida pagado por la Compania, seguro de muerte y perdida de miembros accidental y seguro de incapacidad de corto plazo equivaldrdn al 25% del costo total del plan de salud basico. El plan premial costard mas. Las dcducciones de la nomina para empieados seran rc-evaluados cada afio calendario. Si los gasros de plan salud aumenta, es muy probable que las dcducciones de la nomina aumentardn. Los doce (12) meses anteriores de gastos de salud del grupo serin utilizados para calcular ;as dcducciones de la nomina para los empieados, como es determinado al Final del ano fiscal de la Compania , cada septiembre. Basdndose por los gasros pasados, la Compania establece nuevos niveles de deducciones de la nomina para (os empieados, tai serd efeedvo e! Iro de ettero de ano
-S26-
empleado quien hayan vivido fuera de la casa del empleado, el empleado sera pagado el ntimero de boras que su grupo trabaja hasta un mdximo de ocho (8) horas en cualquier di'a de los dos (2) dfas consecutivos (uno de los cuaies debe ser el dia del funeral) en que su grupo trabaje. Tai pago no se incluiri en la comabilidad del trabajo de sobre tiempo. Para ser elegible para el pago del funeral, el empleado debe asistir al funeral. La Compania reserva el derecho de requerir una verificacidn.
3.	En el caso del fallecimiento de un cunado, una cunada, abac-Jo/abuela, o nieto/nieta, al empleado se le pagara el numero de horas que su grupo trabaje hasta un mdximo de ocho (8) horas para el dia del funeral. Tai pago no se incluira en la contabili-dad del trabajo de sobre tiempo. Para que el pago del funeral le sea dado, cl empleado debe asistir al funeral. La Compania reserva el derecho de requerir una verificacidn.
4.	En cl caso del fallecimiento de un amigo cercano, la Compania procurard permittr al empleado asistir al funeral. Tai permiso no sera pagado.
5.	Un empleado que encuentra neccsario estar ausente, notificara a su supervisor lo mis pronto posible.
6.	Un empleado, quien no puede asistir al funeral de un pariente de la familia inmediata por razones de distancia, rccibira un (1) dia de pago al sueldo fijo de ocho (8) horas para el propdsito de luto.
ARTICULO XXIII BENEFICIOS MEDICOS/SEGURO
A partir del 1 de encro de 2005, la Compania acuerda propor-cionar el siguiente programa complete de beneficios para empleados regulates de tiempo complete. La siguiente cobertura deberd comen-zar el primer dia del mes posterior a la finalizacidn de tres (3) meses de trabajo de tiempo complete, y terminard el ultimo dia de trabajo del empleado (siempre y cuando no sea extendida o convertida, como sea permitido). Los empleados contratados el 1 de enero de 2005 -o despues- seran registrados automdticamente para recibir cobertura individual bdsica, si no eligen otra cobertura a travds de completando el Formulario para Inscripciones para el Plan de Seguro Medico antes de la fecha de elegibilidad del empleado.
1.	Cobertura mddica, con a un (1) milldn de d<5lares de vida util como mdximo
2.	Tarjeta para rcceta de medicamentos
-S25-
ARTICULOXX1
SERVICIO DE JURADO
Scccidn 1: Un empleado llamado para una obligacidn judicial er una corte del condado, estado o federal serd cxcusado para servir en e jurado cuando ptesenta a su supervisor la citacidn de tai obligacidn.
Section 2: Un empleado regular de tiempo complete sera pagadc la diferencia entre el pago del jurado y las horas fijadas cuales hubiera trabajado hasta un miximo de ocho (8) por cada dfa complete de servicio de jurado cuando cae en un dfa estipulado para trabajar. Si el empleado es despedido de su obligacidn de ser un jurado durante sus horas normales, el empleado serd esperado notificar al Supervisor o la Oficina de Personal de su disponibilidad para trabajar.
Secci6n 3: El empleado endosard y devolverd al empleadot el cheque de pago del jurado con la exception el empleado puede retener cualquier cantidad con el motive de gastos de viaje, y de luego el cmpleador le pagarf sus ganancias regulates de tiempo normal.
Seccidn 4: Servicio de Jurado para todos propdsitos serd consid erado como un dfa trabajado.
ARTICULO XXII
PERMISO POR FUNERAL
Seccidn 1: Las ausencias debidas al fallecimiento de un miembro de la familia inmediata de un empleado seran tratadas como una ausen cia excusada, Un empleado regular de tiempo complete que se ausente por tai razdn serd pagado durante el perfodo de tai ausencia sobre la siguiente base;
1.	En el caso del fallecimiento del suegro o la suegra del empleado quien a vivido en la misma casa que el empleado, o el falleci-mienro del esposo/esposa del empleado, el padre, la madre, un hermano, un hermana, o un hijo/hija (incluyendo hijos adoptados legalmente), el empleado sera pagado el numero de horas que su grupo trabaja hasta un mdximo de ocho (8) horas en cualquier dfa de los tres (3) dfas consecutivos (uno de los cuales debe ser ei dfa del funeral) en que su grupo trabaje. Para el propdsitos de este Anfculo, el domingo no serd considered© como una inrerrupcidn para los “dfas consecutivos.” Tai pago no se incluira en la contabilidad del trabajo de sobre tiempo Para ser elegible para el pago del funeral, el empleado debe asistir al funeral. La Compafifa reserva el derecho de requerir una verificacidn.
2.	En el caso del fallecimiento del suegro o la suegra de un
-S24-
durance el periodo de despido de otro empleo, compensation de des-empleado, compensation de] rraba/ador y otra5 ganancias.
ARTICULO XVIII
NOTJFICAC10N DE LA RAZ^N DE DISCIPLINA
Seccidn 1: En caso de que un empieado sea puesto bajo una suspension indefinida, la Compania tendra que informar al empieado, dentro de cinco (5) dias laborales de la razon de la disciplina y de que forma seri administrada la disciplina. Es entendido que algunos casos requieren investigation y que los cinco (5) dias completes son necesari-os, pero la compania acuerda que esta condicidn no debe ser usada para retrasar la accion innecesariamente. La Unidn acuerda que la Compania puede informar a la Unidn de los casos que requieran mas de cinco (5) dias y la Unidn accedera a ampliar el tiempo en tales casos a una fecha mutuamentc aceptada por ambos partidos.
Seccidn 2: Cuando una decision es hecho en relation a una accion disciplinary, la Compania impondra tai accion de un manera rapida.
Seccidn 3s En el caso de una investigacidn sobre acciones incor-rectas, un empieado que dene una razon legitima para creer que puede ser sujero a una accidn disciplinaria puede requerir representacidn de la Unidn por un administrador de su eleccidn, si esta disponible, dentro del departamento correspondiente.
ARTICULO XIX SERVICIO MILITAR
DERECHO DE REEMPLEO: Un empieado que deje o a dejado una position de empleo en la Compania para entrar al servicio activo en las Fuerzas Armadas de los Estados Unidos, rienc el derecho de ser reemplcado por la Compania, cuando tai empieado haya completado sus obligaciones militates, con sefioria compieta y derechos como son proveidos bajo la Seccidn 9 del Acto Universal del Entrenamiento y Servicio Militar.
ARTICULO XX
CAMPAMENTO MILITAR DEL VERANO
Empleados regulates de tiempo completo en la ndmina activa seran dados un permiso de ausencia cuando pedido que sean requeridos para participar en un campamento del verano para entrenamiento como un miembro de la Guardia National o cualquier Reserva Militar de los Estados Unidos como es proveido por las leyes de Nebraska.
-S23-
impartial que sera seleccionado por un acuerdo mutuo de ambos partidos. Una propuesta por escrito para una arbitracidn sera hecho dentro de siete (7) dias de la respuesta Antes de Arbitracidn. Una propuesta por escrito para una arbitracidn seri hecho dentro de treinta (30) dias despuds de la notificacidn escrita de que la Unidn desea una arbitracidn. Si tai propuesta por escrito no se realiza dentro de treinta (30) dias de) limite al Servicio Federal de Conciliacidn y Mediacion la queja sera finalizada y la situacidn de la queja seri asentado. Cada partido tendra el derecho de pedir una lisca de siete nombres del Servicio Federal de Conciliacidn y Mediacidn y eliminar nombres para determinar cual se sentara en la arbitracidn. La decision del Arbitrador sobre la queja sera final y obligatoria sobre el empleado(s) afectado(s) y sobre los partidos de este Acuerdo, proveido que el Arbitrador no renga otra autoridad que aplicar los terminos y las condiciones propuestas en este Acuerdo. Es recomendado que el Arbitrador presente su decisidn, por escrito, dentro de treinta (30) dias despues de la conclusion de la audiencia o las audiencias como serd el caso. La compensacidn y los gastos necesarios del Arbitrador serin sostenidas por partes igualcs por la Compania y la Union.
Seccidn 3: Los partidos acucrdatt que el tiempo permitido para procesar una queja es adecuado. Si la Unidn no procesa una queja en el tiempo especificado anteriormente, la queja es finalizada. Sin embargo, si alguno de los partidos propone una extension razon able, el tiempo limitado especificado en cualquiera de los pasos del procedimiento de queja puede ser extendido por un mutuo acuerdo de la Compania y el Representante de la Unidn envueltos en esc paso. Tai acuerdo tiene que ser pot escrito, por un periodo de tiempo definido, y firm ado por cada representante. En el caso de que la Compania no conteste la queja en el periodo de tiempo especificado, la queja avanzara automiticamente al siguiente paso.
La Compania hard un esfuerzos para permitir que administradores afectados y tesrigos asisten a la junta para la queja por el pedimento de la Unidn. Es entendido que si un empieado individual desea elevar una queja, lo puede Facet bajo el procedimiento descrito anteriormente. Si un individuo procesa su queja por si mismo, un representante de la Unidn recibira copias de todas las respuestas a la queja y tendra el derecho de estar presenre en tales juntas.
Seccidn 4: En caso de que el Arbitrador reinstala un empieado, la maxima obligacidn de la Compania sen! Jas ganancias de Tyson perdidas del empieado menos toda la compensacidn recibida por el empieado
- S22 -
sera efectuada de acuerdo a los siguientes pasos. En el evento de una accidn disciplinarla que causo un despido, se comprende que la queja cual puede ser hecho comenzara en el nivel de Paso III dentro de diez (10) dias laborales del conocimiento.
Paso 1
El empleado afectado, con un representante de la Unibn si lo desea el empleado, presentara la situacion (verbal men re), al departa-mento o al Superin ten den te del turno corresponds ente dentro de ties (3) dias laborales del conocimiento del incidence. El departamenro o el Superintendence del turno responderan al empleado dentro de tres (3) dias laborales.
Paso 2
En caso de que la situacidn no es solucionado en el primer paso, la Unidn presentara la situacidn al Director de Personal y al departa-mento o Superintendedte del turno. Quejas en este paso tiene que ser presentadas por escrito dentro de diez (10) dias despuds a la respuesta del primer paso. Ei Director de Personal tendra cinco (5) dias laborales para dar una respuesta por escrito al la Unidn. El administrador afectado y el empleado prescntaran la queja a su propio tiempo.
Paso 3
En caso de que la situacidn no sea solucionado en el segundo paso, la Unidn presentara el asunto al Gercnte de la Planta. Quejas en este paso tiene que ser presentadas por escrito dentro de seis (6) dias laborales dcspuds de la respuesta del segundo paso. Ei Gerente de ia Pianta tendril cinco (5) dias laborales dentro de los cualcs tiene que dar una respuesta por escrito a la Unidn. El administrador afectado y el empleado presen-taran la queja a su propio tiempo.
AUDIENCIA ANTES DE ARBITRAClON
Seccidn 2: En caso de que la situacidn no es solucionado en el tercet paso, la Unidn presenrar^ la situacion a la Division de Relaciones Industriales de la Compania. Quejas en este paso tiene que ser presentadas por escrito dentro de seis (6) dias laborales despuds de la respuesta del tercet paso. La Division de Relaciones Industriales de la Compania tendra cinco (5) dias laborales dentro de los cuales dard a la Unidn una respuesta por escrito. El administrador afectado y el empleado prescntaran la queja a su propio tiempo. Si la queja no se resuelta en este paso, la queja puede ser sometida a consideracidn por un arbitro
-S21-
ausencia permirida no excedera el periodo del presente acuerdo laboral. Se comprende que los cuatro (4) empleados que sitven como oficiales o empleados de Local 222 no organizar trabajo en ninguna planta de TYSON cual no sea localizada en Dakota City.
Seccidn 3: Siguiendo los requerimientos del Acto de Permiso de Ausencias Medicos y de la Familia de 1993 - “Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993,” y cualquier regulaciones adoptivos como un resul-tado del Acto, la Compania data pc rm isos de ausencias de “Fam ilia y/o Mddico” hasta de 12 semanas durante cualquier periodo de 12 meses para “empleados elegibles” para los propdsitos cubiertos por este Acto. Perm isos de ausencia por razones medicos en exceso de un periodo de 12 semanas pueden ser dados, sujeto a las limitaciones sobre la perdida de empleo contenido en Articulo XV. Se comprende que Gerencia tiene el derecho de determinar si el empleado regresando al trabajo es capaz fisicamente de realizar ei trabajo de una manera segura. En dando estos permisos, la Compania puede requiere el uso de los beneficios pagados acumulados antes de que el empleado sea puesta en un permiso de ausencia sin pago como es permitido por el Acto. Todos los otros rtfrminos y condiciones de estos permisos de ausencia serd gobernado por el Acto y las regulaciones e impkmentacidn.
Seccidn 4: Cuando un permiso de ausencia a sido pedido y dado apropiadamente bajo las condiciones de este Articulo, tai empleado retendrd y acumulara senorla.
Seccidn 5: Los empleados elegibles por el pago de funeral descri-to en Articulo XXII puede pedir un permiso de ausencia por razones petsonales, lo cual no excedera mis de cinco (5) dlas consecutivos de trabajo (con la excepcidm de tiempo adicional aprobado por gerencia), siempre y cuando el funeral es por lo menos quinientos (500) mi Ilas de distancia de la planta de Dakota City.
ARTICULO XVII PROCEDIMIENTO DE QUEJAS
Sccci6n 1; Si ocurre cualquiera disputa entre la Compania y el Sindicato, la Compania y sus empleados, o entre los mismos empleados de la Compania por causa del lenguaje o interpretacidn del Acuerdo o infracci dm de los tdrminos del Acuerdo, tales disputas seran resultas de acuerdo a la cldusula de arbitracidn del procedimiento de quejas establecida en £ste Acuerdo.
En caso de que la Unidn o cualquier empleado individual men te desea procesar una queja pertinente a la violaci6n de este Acuerdo, o la violacidn de las condiciones del trabajo de un empleado, la situacidn
-S20-
fue contactado en la nueva division originalmen re.
H. Cuando restricciones medicas permanentes lo indican, un empieado tendra la oportunidad de asumir una posicidn vacante en otra division y “G" de arriba serd aplicabie.
Seccidn 27*. Mas haya de (as provisiones de seccidn 26 de arriba, empieados dentro de las Divisiones de Procesamiento y Matanza pueden hacer una oferta a la Division de Mantenimiento del Complejo, esto serd basado en senoria divisional, donde no a un postor exitOSo entre la Division de Mantenimiento del Complejo. Tai postor tiene que satis facer los requisites de entrada del Programa de Entrenamiento de Mantenimiento.
Seccidn 28; Un empieado quien califica para un trabajo de oferta o asignado y el trabajo es eliminado, o donde la escala es reducida de acuerdo con otros temas de este Acuerdo, seed ofrecido una opcidn de regresar a su trabajo de oferta (o asignado) previo, si lo permita senotfa, para dcsplazar la persona con menos senoria en el departamento, o tomando trabajo disponible en el departamento. Cualquier restriccion de hacer una oferta en efecto a ese tiempo sera removido. Cuando el empieado elige tomar el trabajo disponible en el departamento, su escala de pago sera mantenido hasta que el empieado hace una oferta para un trabajo o al rermino de sesenta (60) dias, el que sea primero. Cualquier empieado quien es desplazado bajo esta seccidn tendrd cualquier restric-cidn de hacer una oferta removido y sera permittdo hacer una oferta.
ARTICLED XVI
PERMISO DE AUSENCIA
Seccidn 1; La Compania puede proporcionar permisos de ausen-cia a empieados quienes lo piden pot t azones personales. Tales permisos no scran concedidos para propdsitos de permitir que un empieado tome otra posicidn temporalmente, intentar un nuevo trabajo, o intentar negocios por si misrno. Tales ausencias no excederan treinta (30) dias.
Seccidn 2; Permisos de ausencia de la Unidn - Empieados, no excediendo cinco (5), escogidos por la Union para asistir a convencioncs y conferencias de la Union, seran dados permisos de ausencia autoriza-dos siempre en cuando que lo pide por escrito al Gerente de la Planta por de menos con una (1) semana de anticipo, para periodos cuales no excede rd dos (2) semanas. Tai permiso de ausencia serd sin pago. La Compania dara permisos de ausencia de la Unidn por tiempo completo sin pago o beneficios para ctiatro (4) empieados para servir como oficia-les o empieados de Local 222 y dos (2) empieados elegidos por la Unidn para servir en un estado como un Representante Internacional. La
-S19-
divisidn provefdo que renga de menos un (1) afio de senorfa y el “layoff” excederd cuatro (4) semanas. El empieado tiene que ser capaz de realizar el trabajo en un perfodo de tiempo razon able. Sin embargo, los empleados realizarin sus responsabilidades asignadas nccesarias para completar un cierre de la planta.
Seccidn 23: Un empieado quien se transfiere a otra divisidn como es desctito arriba (Seccidn 22) tended su senorfa de su previa divisidn transferido a la nueva division. Sin embargo, es comprcndido que a un empieado serf restringido de hacer una oferta por sesenta (60) dfas desde la fecha del traspaso. En el cvento de que un empieado quien a entrado en una nueva division como es descriro arriba regrese a su previa divisidn, el empieado serf acreditado para los propdsitos de senorfa de la division por el tiempo trabajado en la divisidn cual entro debido a un “layoff”. Un empieado quien a transferido a una nueva division como resultado de un “layoff" tiene que regresar a su previa division cuando su trabajo se disponible.
Seccidn 24: Cuando llamando el regreso de los empleados en “layoff”, serfn llamados en orden inverse del “layoff”.
Seccidn 25: Empleados con seis (6) meses de senorfa tendrfn el derecho de hacer una oferta para otro turno.
Seccidn 26: Empleados pueden hacer una oferta para otra divisidn entre los siguientes limites.
A.	Un empieado serf limitado a sola una oferta de tai forma durante el plazo de este Acuerdo Laboral.
B,	Tales adjudicaciones de ofertas serin hechas cuando no hay un poster exitoso del departamento o divisidn.
C.	El empieado postor tiene que tener seis (6) meses o mis de servicio.
D.	No se permitirf descalificacidn propio.
E.	La adjudicacidn de la oferta impedirf que el empieado haga una oferta por doce (12) meses.
E La limitacidn de ofertas adjudicados afuera de una divisidn serf establecidas como sigue, y no habrf sobrante de mes a mes:
Procesamiento	5	por	mes
Exrensidn	2	por	mes
Matanza	2	por	mes
Cuerfa	1	por	mes
Mantenimiento del Complejo	1 por	mes
G.	Senorfa del Deparramento y Divisidn serf traslado por com-pleto cuando califica y el empieado serf considerado como se
-S18-
Section 19: Empleados con un permiso de ausencia tai y como se especifica en el Articulo XVI retendrfn y acumularfn senoria durante dicha ausencia.
Seccidn 20: Empleados parciales recibirfn la escala aplicable de comenzar del trabajo hecho, si califican, pero no recibirln ninguno de los beneficios marginales dados a los empleados de tiempo complete, ni obtendrdn senoria.
Seccidn 21: “Layoff” de cualquier division serf establecida sobre el base de servicio dentro de la divisidn, eso significa que, el ultimo empleado contratado serf el primero puesto en "layoff” proveido que cada trabajo tiene que ser cubierto por una persona capaz de realizar el trabajo de una manera satisfactoria. Para los propdsitos de “layoff”, el turno A y el turno B de Procesamiento serfn considerados como depar-tamentos separados.
Seccidn 22: En el caso de un “layoff” debido a una reduccidn de la fuerza laboral, un empleado sera permitido desplazar en orden reverso de su progresidn, el poseedor de un trabajo en su departamento que tiene men os senoria usando senon'a por divisibn. Si un trabajo (o trabajos) previamente posefdos en un departamento no es disponible sobre un base de senoria por division, el empleado puede notificar a la Compania de su deseo de desplazar una persona con menos senoria en el departamento usando su senoria por division. Cuando notificado, la Compania asignarf por un base de una vez un trabajo disponible con consideracibn la con die id n fisica y habilidad. Esta asignacidn no serf considerada como una oferta. Trabajos no llenados por una progresidn reversiva de un poseedor de trabajo o asignacidn durante un “layoff” serfn anunciados como un trabajo de oferta. Despuds de dos (2) dias, cl empleado tiene que mostrar capacidad o serf descaiificado y se le per-mitirf desplazar al empleado con menos senoria de su divistdn, otra vez constderando la condicidn fisica y habilidad. Si el empleado no notifica a la Campania que desea desplazar al empleado con menos senoria del departamento, ei empleado puede desplazar al empleado con menos senoria en la divisibn donde poseo un trabajo previamente en orden reverso a su progresidn y entonces el empleado con menos senoria con-tinuando trabajando en la divisibn. Un empleado quien es desplazado de su trabajo de oferta durante un “layoff” y es un poster exitoso en otro trabajo en la misma divisidn o uno quien a sido desplazado de un trabajo de oferta puede elegir retener el nuevo trabajo de oferta o regresar a su trabajo previo de oferta cuando es disponible.
Si ninguna de las opciones anteriores se encuentra disponible, un empleado puede desplazar un empleado de menos senoria de otra
-S17-
trabajo, del departamento, una description breve de los deberes princi pales, y la escala del trabajo.
Seccidn 14: Un postor exitoso de una oferta lateral o descendentt serf restringido de hacer cualquier otra oferta durante doce (12) mese— desde la fecha de cal oferta. Para propdsitos de ofertas larcrales o descen-dentes, una oferta a un trabajo a cual un empieado a side asignado sera-incluido si el empieado esta haciendo una oferta para un trabajo degrade igual o inferior de un trabajo asignado.
Seccidn 15: La primera asignatidn a un trabajo sera cottsiderada como una oferta para los propdsitos de este Arti'culo si el empieado tuvo el derecho de hacer una oferta para un trabajo pero no ejtitito tai derecho.
Seccidn 16: Listas de senoria por division y departamento serfn mantenido en el tabion de anuncios y serin renovada cada mes y una copia serf facilitada a la Unidn.
Seccidn 17: Un empieado renunciarf su empleo por cualquiera de las siguientes razones:
A.	Renunciation voluntario.
B.	Despido por causa justificada.
C.	Ausencia por un plazo de tinco (5) dias consecurivos sin notification apropiada por cl empleador.
D.	Extendiendo de una ausencia con permiso sin causa justific-able.
E.	Ausencias, incluyendo “layoffs" o ausencias con permisos exceso de doce (12) meses.
F.	Falla de presentarse de un “layoff’ dentro de siete (7) dias despuds de que una notitia escrira a side enviada por correo certificado a la ultima direccidn en los registros de la Compania. Bajo petition, la Compania dari una extension de cuatro (4) dias sobre el tiempo de extension.
G.	Cuando se llega a un acuerdo complete con respecto a la incapacidad total de un empieado.
H.	Retiro.
Seccidn 18: Ausencias en exceso de doce (12) meses por causa de una enfermedad o lestdn causarfn que el empieado reniega su trabajo sin embargo, los benefitios de aseguranza del empieado cuales no son relacionados al cubrimiento de la enfermedad o lesidn especlfico cual causo tai ausencias de enfermedad serin terminados al final de los doce (12) meses. La Compafila y la Unidn pueden extender este tiempo en casos donde parcce que el empieado serf capaz de regress a su trabajo en un corto plazo de tiempo.
-srs-
Para asegurar que los nuevos trabajos de oferta scan otorgados de una manera adecuada, el Superintendence se reunit'd con an (1) represen tan te de cada divisidn ( Matanza, Proceso, Extension, Cuero) dos veces cada mes para revisar el reporte de "Bid Aging”. El Gerente General se reuni ra con un (1) representante de cada divisidn ( Matanza, Proceso, Extensidn) y de Personal un vez cada mes para revisar el reporte de “Bid Aging”. Tales juntas seran bechas y conducidas en la planta de curtidurfa por el Gerente de la Planta de Curtiduria.
Seccidn 7: Vacancias del departamento cuales no son llenados por dentro del mismo departamento serin sobre un base de senorfa divisional. Un empieado que es traspasado a un nuevo departamento re nunci ar 4 su senorfa en el departamento anterior al mo men to que califica para su nuevo trabajo y recjbira senorfa en el nuevo departamento basado en su fecha de senorfa divisional.
Seccidn 8: Un empieado que califica para un nuevo trabajo y ' luego es descalificado, regresard a su departamento anterior con comple-ta sefiorfa como si nunca se hubiera ido. Pero, el empieado no desplazard a n ingun a persona de un trabajo de oferta pero sera puesto en on trabajo disponiblc.
Seccidn 9: El postor exitoso del trabajo anunciado cuando el anuncio es quitado seri requerido aceptar el trabajo y hard un esfuerzo sincere para aprender el trabajo. EI empieado tiene que calificar o descal-ificar antes de que se le permita hacer una oferta otra vez. Un empieado que se descalifica por si mismo sera resrringido de todos los trabajos de oferta por doce (12) meses desde la fecha de la adjudication del trabajo de oferta. Para todos los propdsitos de este Artfculo, descalificacidn sera considerada como una oferta.
Seccidn 10: Vacancias temporales, como vacancias causadas por enfermedad, perm iso de ausencia, vacaciones, etc., no serin ofrecidas. La Companfa observard, tanto como sea practicable, el principio de “el empieado con mis senorfa puede, el empieado con menos senorfa debe” en el uso de esta provision espccfficamenrc.
Seccidn 11: Una vez descalificado de un trabajo de oferta, un empieado no sera permitido hacer una oferta por el mismo trabajo por un periodo de seis (6) meses.
Seccidn 12: Trabajos serdn anunciados para hacer una oferta en el siguiente base; cuando son vacantes por “layoff”, despido, resignacidn, traspaso permanente del poseedor a otro trabajo, o creacidn de un nuevo trabajo permanente.
Seccidn 13: Todos los anuncios de trabajos tendrdn el titulo del
-SIS-
’’Loading", Refrigerador de Vernas, Cuarto de CuchilLo Traslado, y Lavanden'a,
B.	Las unidades de senoria departamental para la Divisid de Procesamiento son establecidas de La siguiente form; Production (inciuyendo Procesamiento y Extension), Manej>------
de Materiales, Envt’6, Cuarto de Cuchilios y Almacen d^— Cajas.
C.	Las unidades de sefioria departamental para la division d--
Cueria/Curtiduria son establecidas de la siguiente forma:
1.	Production
2.	Mantenimiento
D, Las unidades de senorla departamental para la divistdn dt mantenimiento del complejo son como sigue: Todas, incluy-endo mecanicos, clectricista, Manrenimienro del Edifitio, Refrigeration, Escalas/Electrdnicos, Mantenimiento de Conserje, Cuatro de Afiliaci6n, Pin tores, “Paunch Burner”, y Cambiador del Filtro.
Section 5:	Cada empleado es astgnado a una unidad deparramenta) de la division y tendra tai sefioria en el departamento como es acreditado y acumulado desde la printers fecha en la que entro al departamento a menos de que tai sen o ria en el departamento sea renunciado bajo otras provisiones de este Arttctdo.
Section 6:	Promociones setin hechos dentro de cada departamento. Una vacancia serd a nun ci ado durante un periodo de una (1) semana cotncnzando des del midrcoles a las 9:00 a.m. Con consideration a la condition ffsica y a (a habilidad, cl empleado con mas senoria del departamento quien hizo la oferta para la vacancia seti adjudicado de la position dentro de siete (7) dlas de trabajo. En caso de que el postor exitoso no a sido pucsto en su nuevo trabajo dentro de quince (15) dias de ser adjudicado, se le pagara la escala de) nuevo trabajo en el quinzavo (15) dia y de aqui en adelante hasta que sea puesto en el nuevo trabajo de oferta. El empleado sera dado un periodo razonable de tiempo para demostrar su habilidad. Cuando ei empleado califica para el nuevo trabajo de oferta, se le pagati la escala de ese trabajo y seed considerado un traspaso permanente. Trabajos de production cuales son vacantes pot cesultado de hacer una oferta setin anuttciados cuando el individuo quien dejo el trabajo haya calificado en su nuevo trabajo de oferta. Trabajos de manrenimienro cuales son vacanres por resultado de hacer una oferta dentro de o a mantenimiento seran anunciados cuando el poster exitoso sea traspasado y la Compatu'a tiene una certeza razonable que calificara en el nuevo trabajo de oferta.
-$14-
■ta en “layoffs”, Kamadas para regresar a! trabajo, promociones, degrada-Jones, y transferentias a vacante posiciones permanences disponibles.
Secd6n 2: Senoria sera aplicable sobre un base divisional dentro de la planta, y no pasarf bajo ninguna circunsfancia de una division a otra, con la exception donde las provisioncs de las secciones 21,22, 23, 26 y 27 seran aplicables. Las divisiones para ios propbsitos de senoria son:
1.	Divisibn de Matanza
2,	Divisibn de Procesamiento
3.	Division de Cueria/Curtidurfa
4,	Division de Mantenimiento del Compiejo
Section J: Senoria sera establetida sobre las bases de servicio continuo de tiempo complete con la Compania en su planta de Dakota City y senoria en ningtin caso adelantarf el primer dia de las operatio-nes de produccibn en la planta, esta fecha siendo el 18 de Febrero de 1966. Un empleado de tiempo complete, despuds de tres (3) meses, serf un empleado regular y tendri senoria. Antes de obtener senoria, un empleado es conocido como un empleado probatorio. Si durante el periodo probatorio se ausente seis (6) dias consccurivos o mis por cualquier razbn, o si seis (6) dias consecutivos o mas son pasados en trabajos asignados como restrictvos, codos los dias ausentes y todo los dias (cuales no exceden treinta (30) dias) en trabajos asignados como restric-tivos serin anadidos para extender el periodo probatorio del empleado correspondiente. Se comprende que la Compania puede, a su sola discrecibn, disciplinar o rerminar un empleado probatorio y no habrf ningun queja sobre tai discipline o terminacidn serf hecho o procesado en el ttombre de tai empleado. En cases donde el periodo probatorio es extendido mis de tres (3) meses como es descrito previamente, esto serf aplicable umcamente para los propbsitos de evaluation para retencibn como un empleado regular y no afecrarf el eiegibilidad del empleado para beneficios.
Seccibn 4: Senoria operar sobre ambos bases de divisibn y departamento.
.	Empleados quienes alcancen sesenta (60) dias de senoria con la Compania, tend tin el derecho de hacer una oferta por otros trabajos bajo las provi.siones de este Articulo,
A Las unidades de senoria departamental para la Divisibn de Matanza son establecidas de la siguiente forma: Todas, incluy-endo ei Piso de Matanza, Menudencias Caliente-”Hot Offal”, Limpieza, Exteriores, Menudencias Frias-”Cold Offal", Almacifn de Cajas, Carga en Congeladores, Almaccnamiento-
-SJ3-