3	1Z(’
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
UNITE HERE, WESTERN STATES REGIONAL JOINT BOARD, LOCAL 52
AND
TEXTILE RENTAL ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATES
MEDICO PROFESSIONAL LINEN REPUBLIC MASTER CHEF ALSCO LINEN CADET UNIFORM SUPPLY BRAUN LINEN
KLEEN KRAFT SERVICES BUDGET UNIFORM RENTAL
2006-2009
t
Table of Content Alphabetical
Section	Title	Page
33	Association Members	18
30	Breakdown-Intermittent Periods of Idleness	17
14	Bulletin Board	9
19	Call-In Time	12
34	Dispute, Grievances and Arbitration	19
13	Dues Deductions	9
47	Duration of Agreement	24
10	Employees’ Deductions	8
41	Ethnic Diversity	22
40	Funeral Leave	22
38	General Provisions Applicable to Trust Funds and Delinquency Procedures	20
46	General Savings Clause	24
20	Guaranteed Work Week	12
23	Holidays	13
25	Illness and Leave of Absence	15
42	Immigration Protection	23
4	Incentive - Piecework	6
11	Inspection of Records	8
3	Jurisdiction	5
45	Labor Management Committee	24
9	Management Prerogatives	8
36	Medical, Life, Dental, Prescription Drug and Vision Plans	19
31	No Discrimination	18
22	Pay Date	13
37	Pension Trust Fund	20
5	Pre-Existing Working Conditions and Benefits	6
21	Regular and Part Time Employees	12
43	Respect and Dignity	23
29	Rest Periods	17
6	Sanitation, Safety, Ventilation	6
	Schedule for Vacation Pay in Case of Termination	27
26	Seniority	16
18	Shifts	11
39	Sick Leave	21
28	Stewards	17
35	Strikes, Lockouts and Picketing	19
15	Successors	10
2	Termination	5
17	Time Records	11
27	Transfers	10
44	Union Leaves	24
1	Union Membership	4
24	Vacation	9
12	Visitation	9
32	Wages	18
2
Attachment A 16
8
Wages Scales
Working Hours and Overtime
Working Rules
26
10 8
3
TRSACBA2006
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
LINEN AND INDUSTRIAL.
2006 - 2009
This Agreement is made between (	~	.
____________________ , hereinafter known as the “Employer”, and L NITE HERE, Western States Regional Joint Board LOCAL NO. 52, hereinafter known as the “Unic n”. As the term “Employee” is used herein, it shall refer and be confined to Employees described in the bargaining unit.
SECTION 1.	UNION MEMBERSHIP
1.1	It shall be a condition of employment that all Employees who are members of the Union in
good standing on the execution date of this Agreement, shall remain members in good standing, and those who are not members on the executi on date of this Agreement, shall on the thirty-first (31st) day following the execution date of this Agreement, become and remain members in good standing in the Union.
1.2	It shall also be a condition of employment that all Employees hired on or after its execution
date shall, on the thirty-first (31st) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Union.
1.3	Whenever the Employer requires additional Employees for work he shall first call the
Union and give the Union twenty-four (24) hours in which to nominate an applicant for the position. The Employer may then select between the nominee of the Union and applicants obtained from any other source upon their relative skill alone, and membership or nonmembership in the Union shall not be considered in thei r hiring.
1.4	Whenever the Employer hires an Employee he shall notify the Union immediately in
writing, giving the name, address, social security number and starting date of each such new Employee or re-hire, and said Employee shall maks application for membership in the Union in accordance with this Article.
1.5	The Union shall provide and the Employer shall forward Employment Acknowledgment
Forms for NEW and RE-HIRED Employees, at the time of employment or re-hire.
1.6	The Employer agrees that it shall not be a violation of t lis Agreement for any Employee to
conform to and support union principles, provided such principles do not conflict with the express terms of this Agreement.
4
SECTION 2.	TERMINATION
2.1	If is understood and agreed that the right to discipline or disc harge for just cause shall rest in
the discretion of the Employer. No Employee shall be disch arged, except in the case of gross misconduct, without first receiving a written warning notice followed by a disciplinary layoff of up to three (3) days within a twelve (12) month period. Should no offense occur in the twelve (12) months following the warning notice and/or disciplinary layoff, the notice shall be declared null and void. All current warning notices shall be removed from the file after twelve (12) months. Notwithstanding the above, no prior warning notice or disciplinary layoff shall be required for gross misconduct. Gross misconduct consists of, but is not limited to: Theft, embezzlement, deliberate violation of posted Company rules, bringing, selling or using illegal drugs and/or alcohol in the plant or on Company property or starting a fight. Violation of the above basic rules shall constitute just cause for discharge wi ihout redress. No Grievance Board or Arbitrator shall have the right or power to change or conte st the appropriateness of the penalty meted out by the Company as a result of the violation of these rules.
2.2	A new Employee may be discharged or disciplined without cause or notice during the first sixty (60) calendar days of his employment. When a warning not ice is given, and there is a Shop Steward in the plant, the Steward should be present when the notice is given to the Employee. A copy of the warning notice and discipline notice shall be s ent to the Union within five (5) working days.
SECTION 3.	JURISDICTION
3.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agent for all Production Employees at:
_____________Xrl-fCD -	(2j4._____________________. The
term “Production Employees”, as used herein, mean<all persons, irrespective of title, classification or other occupation, engaged in any work in the processing or handling of merchandise or articles of any kind including their custodial care for the account of file Employer’s customers.
3.2	The word “Employee” in this Agreement includes both male and female but excludes any individual employed as a supervisor or foreman or forelady.
3.3	A Supervisor as defined by the National Labor Relations Ac t of 1947 is a person immediately in charge of and directing covered Employees. A supervisor may do bargaining unit work in case of emergency; however, in no event may they work more than four (4) hours in any one (l)day.
3.4	No individual agreement with any Employee shall supersede: any of the provisions of this Agreement unless approved by the Union.
3.5	Nothing in this Article 3 shall be construed as conferring any rights or benefits not given to the Union or the Employees by other express and specific language contained in this Agreement.
5
SECTION 4.	INCENTIVES - PIECE WORK
4.1	Should an Employer institute an incentive program he will contact the Union and meet and confer with the Union about the effects of their plan.
SECTION 5.	PRE-EXISTING WORKING CONDITIONS AND BENEFITS
5.1	No Employee shall suffer, by reason of this Agreement, a reduction of wage rates, or the loss of any benefits or working conditions higher or more favorable than those contained herein, if such conditions existed prior to the initial execution of this Agreement by the Employer or his representative.
SECTION 6.	SANITATION, SAFETY, VENTILATION
6.1	The Employer and the Employee shall observe all Federal, State and local laws with regard to
toilets, sanitation, safety, ventilation and other working conditions. The Employer shall provide sanitary facilities for dressing purposes.
6.2	A First-Aid Kit shall be kept on hand at all times, with full supplies for the use of the Employees.
6.3	A. General. The Employer shall make reasonable provisions to assure the safety and health of its employees during their hours of work. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Employer to ensure that all supervisors and employees comply with such reasonable rules, regulations and practices as may be necessary to provide safe, sanitary and healthful working conditions.
B.	Both the Union and the Employer recognize that there s re specific obligations under Federal, State and local standards or guidelines including those addressing hazard communications, lockout/tagout, and bloodborne patho gens. Employees shall be provided with applicable safety and health information.
C.	Protection from Heat Stress, The Employer shall provide an adequate number of clean drinking fountains or bottles of cool water and clean cups to allow easy access by employees for frequent drinking. The Employer shall trike all reasonable measures to reduce heat exposure and will consider any recommendations provided by the Safety and Health Committee.
D.	Sanitation. Restrooms shall include appropriate lighting and mirrors, and will be stocked with all necessities. The restrooms will be kept free of flutter and maintained in a sanitary condition. The restrooms will be open during working hours, lunch and rest periods, unless temporarily closing is necessary for repair, cleaning or remodeling. Handwashing facilities will be made accessible to employees.
E.	Protection from Bloodborne Pathogens:
a)	Protective Equipment: For employees with potential occupational exposure, such as skin contact, to blood or other potentially infectious materials, the Employer shall provide appropriate personal protective equipment. Personal protective equipment will be considered “appropriate” only if it does not permit bloo d or other potentially infectious materials to pass through to or reach the employees’ clothes, skin, eyes or mouth, under normal conditions of use. The Employer shall repair or replace personal protective equipment as needed to maintain its effectiveness, at nc cost to the employee, except in
6
cases of intentional damage or negligence. Disposable ( single use) gloves such as surgical or examination gloves, shall be replaced as soon as pracsical when contaminated or as soon as feasible if they are tom, punctured, or when their abili ty to function as a barrier is compromised.
b)	Vaccinations: The Employer shall offer the Hepatitis B vaccination series to all employees with potential occupational exposure to blood within ten (10) working days of initial assignment, unless the employee has previously received the complete Hepatitis B vaccination series, antibody testing has revealed that the employee is immune, or the vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons.
F.	Joint Safety and Health Committee. A Joint Safety and Health Committee (“Committee”) will be established by the Employer and the Union, composed of up to three (3) members of the bargaining unit and up to three (3) members of mmagement selected by mutual agreement. The Committee shall be organized to provide assistance in identifying and eliminating potential hazards throughout the facility. The General Manager or his/her designee will coordinate the meetings of the Committee; set agenda with input from members; assist with resources and technical assistance , and closely monitor all documentation including meeting minutes, activities anti committee recommendations to ensure appropriateness, effective resolution, and compli ance with applicable laws, regulations, code provisions, policies and/or procedures This Committee shall meet at least once a month and will make a monthly plant safety tour. Additionally, members shall become familiar with production processes and working conditions and will make recommendations to management to improve safety and health in the workplace. The Employer will consider all the recommendations from the Committee in good faith.
G.	Safety and Health Related Training. The Employer shall provide job safety and health related training as required by Federal, State and Local regulations. Such training shall take place at intervals that comply with the applicable regulation or standard.
H.	It shall be the obligation of all employees to wear and/or utilize appropriate protective equipment provided hereunder when there is a bona fide health and safety requirement that such equipment be worn and provided there is no bona Iide medical reason that the employee cannot wear or utilize such equipment.
SECTION 7.
UNIFORMS
7.1	The Employer shall furnish, launder and/or clean, without cost to the Employee, any uniform or wearing apparel designated by him for Employees to wear c uring their hours on duty. Where necessary, the Employer will provide gloves, masks and other protective apparel to Employees who handle soiled material from hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes and similar institutions. The Employer will provide boots, where necessary, for Employees in the Washroom Department.
7.2	Employees who sever their employment shall turn in all such uniforms and/or other property of the Employer that is in their custody or have the reasonable value of same deducted from their pay.
7
SECTION 8.
WORKING RULES
8.1	Rules and regulations for the conduct of business, such as ti e Employer shall consider necessary and proper, which do not conflict with the terms of this Agreement, shall be observed by all Employees.
8.2	New rules and/or changes in existing rules shall not become effective until seven (7) working days after they have been posted with a copy forwarded to the Union. Such rules and regulations shall be posted in a conspicuous place by the Employer or they may be issued to Employees in the form of a manual.
SECTION 9.	MANAGEMENT PREROGATIVES
9.1	The Employer retains and shall continue to have the compk te and exclusive right to manage its operations and direct its work force, except as expressly lira ited by specific obligations of the Employer set forth in this Agreement. Among such retained rights and powers are included, but not limited to the following: to hire, to promote, to dem ote, transfer, layoff and recall; to assign and reassign to duties, hours of work and shifts; to maintain good order and efficiency; to discharge, suspend and discipline Employees; to establish rules and regulations not in conflict with this Agreement governing the conduct of Employees on Company time or Company property; to determine the size and composition c f the work force; to determine, maintain, change, revise or discontinue the types of operations, and the methods, processes, materials and equipment to be employed; to discontinue all or any part of its operation; to lease, sell or otherwise dispose of all or any part of this plant and equipment; and to increase or decrease the operations.
9.2	The foregoing enumeration of management rights shall not be deemed to be all inclusive, but shall merely indicate the type of rights which shall belong to and are inherent in the management of the Company. Neither the failure of the Company to exercise any right or power reserved to it, nor the exercise thereof in any particular manner, shall constitute a waiver of such right or a binding precedent restricting management’s discretion in any manner.
SECTION 10.	EMPLOYEES* DONATIONS
10.1	Employee’s donations or charitable contributions shall be voluntary, and such solicitation shall be by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union.
SECTION 11.	INSPECTION OF RECORDS
11.1	Should a controversy or complaint arise concerning wages, hours or other compensation of an Employee, the Employer shall submit the original and all other necessary records of the case in controversy including a list of Employees, to an authorized representative of the Union for verification during working hours of the Employer, on the Employer’s premise, within five (5) days after receipt of a request.
8
SECTION 12.	VISITATION
12.1	Authorized representatives of the Union shall have access t3 the premises of the Employer to transact necessary Union business, provided access is in compliance with Company rules, and provided further that such rules do not interfere or hamper 1 he Union representative in his transaction of Union business. It is agreed that representati ves will conduct their business during normal working hours in such manner so as not to conflict with the normal operation of the Employer’s business.
SECTION 13.	DUES DEDUCTIONS
13.1	The Employer shall deduct from the pay of all Employees covered by this Agreement all Union dues, initiation fees and re-initiation fees upon receiving written authority from each Employee authorizing such deductions. Such deductions thus made shall be forwarded to Local No. 52 not later than the tenth (10th) of each month for which the deductions are made.
13.2	In any suit brought by the Union against the Employer to collect Union dues, initiation fees and
re-initiation fees that the Employer withheld from the Empl oyee’s earnings, the Union shall be entitled to recover the fees and dues, interest on the amounts recovered, reasonable attorneys’ fees and cost of the suit.
13.3	The Employer shall deduct and transmit to the treasurer of ’ JNITE HERE Political Action
Committee the amount specified for each week worked fro the wages of those employees who voluntarily authorize such contributions at least seven (7) days prior to the next scheduled pay period, bn the forms provided for that purpose by the UNET E HERE Political Action Committee. These transmittals shall occur no later than the fifteenth (15th) day of the following month, and shall be accompanied by a list of the names of those employees for whom such deductions have been made and the amount deducted for each employee.
13.4
13.5
The Employer agrees to provide voluntary payroll deductions for union members to participate
in the credit unions sponsored by UNITE HERE. The Employer agrees that it will deduct and forward to the various plans those monies which union members have authorized in writing to be deducted, with one change allowed per the life of the contract, for their participation in the plan.
The Union agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims,
suits or other forms of liability arising out of the deduction of money for any of the aforementioned deductions out of an Employee’s pay. The Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the monies so deducted once they ha”e been turned over to the Union.
SECTION 14.	BULLETIN BOARD
14.1	The Employer shall provide a separate bulletin board for thuse of the Union for posting of official notices. The bulletin board shall be at least two feel (2’) by three feet (3’) and shall be placed in a conspicuous location as close to the time clock as practicable.
9
SECTION 15.	SUCCESSORS
15.1	Should the Employer sell, assign or otherwise transfer the f lant, the Employer shall notify the Union in writing, and he shall make a good faith effort to hnve the buyer, assignee or transferee adopt this Agreement.
SECTION 16.	WORKING HOURS AND OVERTIME
16.1	The regular straight time work week shall be five (5) consecutive days within seven (7) days. The straight time work week for regular part-time Employees shall be up to five (5) days within seven (7) days.
16.2	The Employer may at his sole and exclusive discretion establish a four (4) day ten (10) hour day work week (referred to as “4/40”) or a five (5) day eigfit (8) hour day work week (referred to as “5/40”) by giving four (4) weeks’ notice to the Union and Employees.
16.3	Employees assigned to a 4/40 work week shall be paid strai ght time for the first ten (10) hours
of work per day. Time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours a day, forty (40) hours a week, work performed on a holiday or for work performed on the Employee’s regular scheduled day off . However, curing a holiday week, the regular scheduled day off may be worked at straight time and Employees shall receive ten (10) hours holiday pay at the Employee’s classification rate.
16.4	For Employees assigned to a 5/40 work week, time and one -half (1-1/2) shall be paid regular Employees for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours a day, forty (40) hours a week, or on /	the sixth (6th) day of the week for work performed on the se venth (7th) day. However, if an
Employee is absent during the first five (5) days of the week, the Employee will be paid straight time for all hours worked on the sixth (6th) day. Provided further, should any such Employee work over forty (40) hours during those five (5) days then all work in excess of forty (40) hours will be paid at time and one-half (1-1/2) the regular hourly rate. Regular part-time Employees shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular hourly rate for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week,
16.5	Except in the case of emergency, Employees will be given notice before lunchtime that they will be required to work past their normal quitting time.
16.6	All Employees shall be required to take not less than one-half (1/2) hour nor more than one (1)
hour for lunch. No Employee shall be required to work mere than five (5) hours without a meal period.
16.7	Employees working on holidays shall receive time and one half (1-1/2) for all hours worked (guaranteed eight [8] hours for 5/40 or ten [10] hours for 4/ 40) and eight (8) or ten (10) hours holiday pay at the Employee’s classification rate.
16.8	Employees scheduled to work a 5/40 work week who work all of the scheduled hours in a holiday week shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked over thirty-two (32) hours in the holiday week. Employees shall also receive ti ne and one-half (1-1/2) for all work on the fifth (5th) day of a holiday week if the holiday falls on their regularly scheduled work day. However, Employees who fail to work due to an absence mandated by law either thirty-
10
two (32) hours or four (4) days shall receive time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on the fifth (5th) day of a holiday week.
16.9	Upon mutual agreement in writing between the Employer and the Employee, an Employee working on a holiday may reduce the guaranteed hours in tl ie above paragraph, but not less than four (4) hours, and in such case be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked and eight (8) hours for 5/40 or ten (10) hours for 4/40 holiday pay at the Employee’s classification rate.
16.10	Agreements for the payment of overtime rates herein contained are not to be construed to require a duplication of overtime wage payments involving the same hours of labor; so that overtime paid on a daily basis shall not be duplicated on a i veekly basis.
16.11	Employees hired prior to March 1,1969, shall have the right, according to seniority by classification, to choose their work week and shift. No sue Si Employee shall be required to work a Tuesday through Saturday work week.
SECTION 17.	TIME RECORDS
17.1	Time records, clocks or other recording devices will be maintained by the Employer for all Employees showing the actual time the employment begins and ends each day, the hours worked for the day, and the total hours for the pay period.
17.2	Time records used to determine the amount of pay, shall be kept on file for the number of years required by both Federal and State laws for at least four (4) years.
17.3	Employers must keep full and accurate records of excuses : or illness and other absences.
SECTION 18.	SHIFTS
18.1	In the event it becomes necessary for the Employer to establish more than one (1) shift, the Employer shall pay all Employees working the second (2nd I shift Five Cents ($.05) per hour above the wage scale, and all Employees working the third (3rd) shift Ten Cents ($.10) per hour above the wage scale.
18.2	STARTING TIMES:
First Shift
Second Shift
Third Shift
4:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M.
2:00 I'.M. to 6:00 P.M.
10:00 P.M. to 2:00 A.M.
18.3	Any Employee starting earlier than the regular starting time for a shift shall be considered as working in the prior shift and shall be paid the shift differential for that prior shift only for the hours worked in that prior shift and not for all hours worked that day.
11
SECTION 19.	CALL-IN TIME
19.1	All regular and part-time Employees ordered for work on any day, who report for work on that
day, shall receive no less than four (4) hours’ pay at the ave rage earned hourly rate for that day, except as hereinafter provided in case of breakdown, Artick 30.
19.2	An Employee who reports for work on a regular work day and who was not officially informed
by the Employer not to report on that particular day shall be considered as ordered to work.
SECTION 20.	GUARANTEED WORK WEEK
20.1	Regular Employees shall be guaranteed thirty-eight (38) hours, at their average earned hourly
rate, per week except as hereinafter provided in case of breakdown, Article 30.
20.2	Any Employer who requests a regular Employee to voluntarily take time off shall in such cases be required to pay for hours not worked to make the thirty-eight (38) hour guarantee.
20.3	In any condition beyond the Employer’s control, such as, but not limited to, an act of God, loss
of business, a fuel or power shortage, earthquake, strikes, an act of Government or other similar causes, the Employer may reduce the guaranteed work week to not less than thirty-four (34) hours. Before reducing the work week, the Employer shall give one (1) week’s written notice to the Union, except in emergencies, in which case telephone notice may be given. Application of this Article shall be subject to Article 34, Disputes, Grievance and Arbitration.
I 20.4 Part-time Employees employed as provided in Article 21 sh all be laid off prior to any reduction of hours under Article 20.3 above.
SECTION 21.	REGULAR AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
21.1	Regular Employees are those Employees who are guaranteed thirty-eight (38) hours per week. Regular part-time Employees are those Employees who are scheduled to work eleven (11) to thirty-seven (37) hours per week and have no guaranteed work week. Regular part-time Employees may be scheduled a split week work shift. The Employer shall upgrade regular part-time Employees to regular Employees when a job opening occurs and the regular part-time Employee has the skill and ability to perform the job. Employees working less than ten (10) hours per week shall not be covered by the conditions set fc rth in this Agreement.
21.2	The Employer shall file with the Union each month, with the check-off sheet, the names and
jobs held by all part-time Employees. Any part-time Employees not so filed shall be considered as full-time Employees for all purposes.
21.3	Regular part-time Employees (those Employees not covered by the thirty-eight [38] hour
guarantee) shall be covered by all the conditions as set forth in this Agreement for regular full-time Employees. Holidays, vacations and sick leave shall be figured on a pro-rata basis for regular part-time Employees. When any one of the holiday;: specified herein falls on a day in which a regular part-time Employee is scheduled for work, he shall be paid for the hours normally worked by him on that day even though no work i;; performed.
12
21.4	Not more than one (1) part-time Employee shall be employed for every three (3) Employees on a full-time shift.
21.5	Nothing in the above clauses shall prevent the Employer frc m establishing a part-time shift where there is not enough volume of work to meet the guaranteed work week.
SECTION 22.	PAY DATE
22.1	Wages shall be paid each week in currency, negotiable chec ks, or electronic transfer of funds on a set day of the week and within one (1) week after the end of the pay period. On pay day, the Employer shall distribute the checks before the Employees punch out for the day. If Employees have any trouble in cashing their checks, because of “insufficient funds” or otherwise, the Employer shall then and thereafter pay in CASH only, upon written request of the Union.
SECTION 23.	HOLIDAYS
23.1	The Employer agrees that the following shall be observed as paid holidays:
NEW YEAR’S DAY	LABOR DAY
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY	THANKSGIVING DAY
MEMORIAL DAY	CHRISTMAS DAY
INDEPENDENCE DAY	EMPLOYEE’S ANNIVERSARY DATE
OF EMPLOYMENT
23.2	The Employer, by posting notice during the first two (2) weeks of January may:
1)	Continue to have Washington’s Birthday observed as a paid holiday; or
2)	discontinue having Washington’s Birthday observed as a paid holiday by substituting for such holiday either the Employee’s birthday or by adding one (1) paid day to the Employee’s vacation. If the Employer exercises his option to discontinue having Washington’s Birthday as a holiday, the Employee may choose whether he wishes to observe such paid holiday on his birthday or by adding it to his vacation.
23.3	Additionally, and at the option of the Employer, the Employee’s Anniversary Date of Employment may be substituted for the Day after Thanksgi ving or Good Friday by giving notice as set forth above.
23.4	An Employee previously covered by this Agreement who e nters or re-enters employment within a twelve (12) month period after termination of his employment with an Employer covered by this Agreement becomes immediately eligible for holiday pay. Employees who have been on the payroll for thirty (30) working days or mere are eligible for holiday pay.
23.5	In weeks wherein a holiday occurs, thirty-two (32) hours shall constitute a week’s work for Employees assigned to a 5/40 work week. Any time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or thirty-two (32) hours in a holiday week, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
13
23.6	Employees working on a weekly salary shall suffer no reduc tion in salary by reason of their not working on the above-named holidays.
23.7	' Employees shall be paid for time not worked on any of the above-named holidays at eight (8)
hours for 5/40 or ten (10) hours for 4/40 at the Employee’s classification rate. If no hours are worked, no holiday pay is required. However, if the Employee is on vacation he may receive either an additional paid day’s vacation or an additional day s pay, at the sole discretion of the Employer.
23.8	In plants working a 4/40 work week, the regular scheduled day off may be worked at straight time and Employees shall receive ten (10) hours’ holiday p^.y at the Employee’s classification rate.
23.9	When a holiday falls outside the Employee’s regular work week said holiday shall be paid at eight (8) hours for 5/40 or ten (10) hours for 4/40 at the Employee’s classification rate. Employees on vacation shall be paid as set forth in Article 2'3.7 above.
23.10	If the Employer declares the Friday before a Saturday holiday as a no-work day, he shall pay Employees for that day based on Article 23.7 above.
23.11	Employees absent during a holiday week shall forfeit their holiday pay unless they work on the holiday or are excused by the Employer.
23.12	When any of the above-named holidays fall on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday.
SECTION 24.	VACATION
24.1	An Employee shall become eligible for a vacation in accordance with the following schedule:
1)	Upon completion of one (1) year of continuous service with the Employer, an Employee will become eligible for one (1) work-week’s vacation with pay.
2)	Upon completion of three (3) years of continuous service with the Employer, an Employee will become eligible for two (2) work-weeks’ vacation with pay.
3)	Upon completion of seven (7) years of continuous service with the Employer, an Employee will become eligible for three (3) work-weeks’ vacation with pay.
4)	Upon completion of fourteen (14) years of con inuous service with the Employer, an Employee will become eligible for four (4) work-weeks’ vacation with pay.
24.2	Employees will be paid for their earned vacation pay on the last regular pay day preceding the vacation period. The rate of pay shall be based on the four (4) pay periods immediately preceding the vacation for incentive Employees; however, where a holiday falls within the four (4) pay periods, the week preceding such holidays shall be used in computing vacation pay. Regular full-time Employees shall receive vacation pay based on forty (40) hours times their classification rate.
24.3	The vacation period shall be between January 1st and December 31st of each year.
14
24.4	The Employer shall post a vacation list during the months c f November and December and the Employees shall select their vacation by seniority. If an Employee fails to select as set forth above, he must give his Employer at least sixty (60) days notice prior to the effective date of his Vacation. However, those Employees who select in November and December shall have preference regardless of their seniority.
24.5	In case of termination of employment, see “Schedule for Vacation pay in Case of Termination” contained herein.
24.6	Pay in lieu of vacation shall not be granted without mutual agreement between the Employer, the Employee and the Union.
24.7	Upon sale or transfer of ownership of any plant, or upon dissolution of business, vacation pay for all months worked prior to the sale for which no vacatic n has been given shall be paid to all Employees by the seller.
SECTION 25.	ILLNESS AND LEAVE OF ABSENCE
25.1	The Employee shall not lose seniority if he is absent due to illness or accident for shorter periods than shown below:
1)	After six (6) months continuous service, Seven Hundred and Twenty (720) hours.
2)	After five (5) years continuous service, Nine Hundred and Sixty (960) hours
3)	After fifteen (15) years continuous service, Ont Thousand Two Hundred (1200) hours.
4)	After twenty (20) years continuous service, Ont: Thousand Four Hundred and Forty (1440) hours.
25.2	No vacation benefit shall accrue to any Employee after Ont: Hundred and Sixty (160) consecutive working hours of absence.
25.3	Illness and/or leave of absence, and/or maternity leave shal. not be accumulated. Regardless of anniversary year, such absences shall not extend beyond periods shown above.
25.4	An Employee who is absent due to industrial accident and/or illness shall maintain his prior seniority and be eligible for rehire in accordance with State and Federal laws and court decisions.
25.5	One (1) leave of absence per anniversary year shall be gran :ed, up to fifteen (15) working days without pay, to Employees who have been in the employ of the Employer for one (1) year or longer and who can prove legitimate and bona fide reasons such as, but not limited to: serious illness, death in the immediate family or jury duty. A leave of absence shall not be granted in conjunction with a vacation unless an Employee notifies hi;; Employer as soon as possible and can prove bona fide reasons that an emergency has in fact occurred which requires his presence. Anyone who violates this Article may be discharged forthwith, suspended or otherwise disciplined.
15
25.6	Employees on sick leave shall notify the Employer when the y will return to work at least fortyeight (48) hours before they return to work.
25.7	Disability caused or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, abortion, childbirth and recovery therefrom are, for all job-related purposes, temporary disabi lities and shall be treated as an illness or accident in accordance with Article 25.1 above.
25.8	The provisions of this Article, where applicable, shall include such leave as Employees are
entitled to and is required by the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, Public Law No. 103-3 (“FMLA”), and California law granting family and medical leave rights. Accrued paid vacation leave shall not be substituted for FMLA leave unless the Employee requests it.
SECTION 26.	SENIORITY
26.1	Seniority shall be based on length of continuous employment with the Employer. Reduction of the working forces, recall from layoffs, assignment to a pan -time shift and assignment of overtime shall be in accordance with seniority, if the most senior Employee is qualified to meet standard qualifications within the sub-classification of each classification.
26.2	Seniority of an Employee shall be lost when an Employee:
1)	is discharged for cause;
2)	resigns;
3)	is not re-hired within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after layoff;
4)	is absent more than ninety (90), one hundred twenty (120), one hundred fifty (150) or one hundred eighty (180) working days as spelled out in Article 25.1;
5)	fails to report to work within three (3) days after being recalled from layoff. However, if an Employee fails to report because of bona fide reasons such as serious illness or jury duty, he shall be kept on the seniority list and shall be the next Employee recalled if he meets the requirements in Article 26.2, 3) above; or
6)	is absent from work three (3) consecutive working days without notification to the Employer.
26.3	In all cases of layoff and recall of forces seniority shall govern provided the senior employee is qualified to perform the job.
26.4	Transfers. An employee desiring a transfer to a specific job opening (excluding lead persons who shall be designated at the sole and exclusive discretio i of the employer) shall indicate their desire on a form provided by the employer. Copies of the form shall be provided to the Union and the employee. Transfer requests will remain valid for six (6) months and may be renewed for an additional six (6) months and only for a specific job. Preference for job vacancies will be given to employees who have Transfer requests on file, on the basis of seniority, provide that the employee is qualified for the position or can qualify, at the sole and exclusive discretion of the employer, within ten (10) working days o f being transferred. Employees who fail to qualify will be returned to their former position or a similar position if their former
16
position is not available. Vacancies created by this one transfer may be filled in accordance with Section 27 TRANSFERS or by a new hire at the sole and exclusive discretion of the employer. Employees who transfer through this process wil I not be eligible to transfer again for a period of one (1) year unless the employer in its sole and exclusive discretion approves of such new transfer. Provided further, there shall only be two (2) such transfers per thirty (30) working days and there shall be no transfers because of seniority between shifts unless the employer approves of such transfer.
SECTION 27.	TRANSFERS
27.1	Any Employee transferred to a higher rated classification who qualifies therefore, shall receive the rate of the higher classification.
27.2	Whenever an Employee does work in a higher classification,, he/she shall be paid according to the rate of the classification in which work is actually performed.
27.3	Employees transferred to lower classification, from day to day, shall not suffer a reduction in their regular classification rate.
27.4	Employees transferred permanently to another classification shall be so notified in writing stating the reason for such transfer and paid according to thfit classification rate.
SECTION 28.	STEWARDS
28.1	The Union may select, depending on the size of each plant, a number ofEmployees, but not to exceed two (2) per shift, to be duly accredited representatives in the plant, to be known as Stewards, by giving the Employer written notice of the Stev/ards’ names.
28.2	The Employer shall give one (1) week’s written notice to the Union, with a full statement of the cause or reason, in case of a Steward’s termination. This nciice shall not include any portion of a vacation period and shall be given in all cases other than gross misconduct.
SECTION 29.	REST PERIODS
29.1	Employer shall authorize and permit all Employees to take rest periods, which insofar as practical shall be in the middle of each work period. The authorized rest period time shall be based on the total hours worked daily at the rate of ten (10) minutes net rest time per four (4) hours or major fraction thereof for a 5/40 plant and ten (10) minutes for a 4/40 plant.. A ten (10) minute break shall be given after eight (8) or ten (10) h ours and a ten (10) minutes rest period every two (2) hours thereafter. However, in 4/40 pls nts the second (2nd) rest period shall be for fifteen (15) minutes. However, a rest period need nol be authorized for Employees whose total daily work time is less than three and one-half (3-1/2) hours. Authorized rest period time shall be counted as hours worked for which the; e shall be no deduction from wages.
SECTION 30.	BREAKDOWN - INTERMITTENT PERIODS OF IDLENESS
30.1	There shall be no intermittent periods of idleness during any one (1) day, except for breakdowns. In case of breakdown, Employees shall be paid during the day breakdown occurs, unless ordered to punch out; and, if ordered to return to work at a stated time, and repairs are
17
** not completed, they shall be paid from the time they are orc ered to work until actual work begins.
30.2	“Breakdown” shall be defined as the inability of an Employer to operate his plant because of any condition beyond the Employer’s control; such as, but ;iot limited to, an act of God, a fuel or power shortage, lack of supplies and equipment that causes the plant to close down, earthquake, an act of Government or other similar causes.
30.3	Employees required to remain on the premises of the Employer, or required to hold themselves in readiness to the extent that their time cannot be used as their own, shall be paid for such time at their classification rate.
30.4	Employees required to work beyond their regular quitting time as a result of a breakdown shall be paid straight time their hourly rate of pay for all hours worked past their regular quitting time. A shift premium in addition to time and one-half (Ki/2) shall not be paid for any hours worked past their regular quitting time, unless the work performed in any one (1) day is more than 8 hours or 10 hrs based on their regular work schedule.
SECTION 31.	NO DISCRIMINATION
31.1	There shall be no discrimination in pay or in any other term or condition of employment because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, physical handicap or sexual orientation.
SECTION 32.	WAGES
32.1	SCALES: The Wage Scales are attached as Attachment “A”.
32.2	PERSONALIZED WAGES: Employees who receive a personalized rate above the wage schedule set forth herein shall receive an increase added to their current personalized rate in the amount of one-half (1/2) the negotiated increases until the classification rate in which the Employee is working is the same or greater than his/her personalized rate.
32.3	HEAD WASHER, HEAD DISTRIBUTOR: where there is one (1) or more washer and distributor employed, one (1) in each classification shall be designated as a Head Washer or Head Distributor and shall receive the wage designated in :his Agreement. A Head Distributor shall be designated within each plant and paid Ten Cents (S.10) above the Distribution rate. A Head Distributor must have supervisory functions in order to be designated Head Distributor.
32.4	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS: Job classifications listed herein are general for the industry, but do not necessarily contain classifications for all jobs for each particular plant.
32.5	Where individual jobs are not identified and covered by the above general classifications, such jobs shall be classified by the work performed and the rate of pay shall be determined by evaluation. Job evaluation shall be based on other job rates in the industry. Job rates resulting from evaluation shall be by express agreement between the Employer and the Union.
SECTION 33.	ASSOCIATION MEMBERS
33.1	This Agreement may be executed by the individual Employer as well as the Association. In the event such individual Employer shall cease to be a member of the Association for any reason
18
whatsoever, all the applicable terms and provisions of this Agreement shall continue to apply to and cover such individual Employer as an individual agreement between said Employer and the Union, terminable June 7, 2009.
i
SECTION 34.	DISPUTES, GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
34.1	The first step will be for the grievant and his/her supervisor to attempt to resolve the grievance with the assistance of the Shop Steward.
34.2	If the first step meeting fails to resolve the grievance, it will then be reduced to writing and
submitted by the Union within thirty (30) days of the occurrence. If the grievance is not reduced to writing within thirty (30) days it shall be conside red null and void and no further proceedings shall take place.
34.3	The Union Representative, Plant Manager, Shop Steward and Grievant will meet and attempt to resolve the dispute.
34.4	If the meeting 34.3 in above fails to resolve the dispute then a Grievance Board composed of two individuals designated by the Union and two individuals designated by TRSA shall meet and determine the resolution of the grievance. This Board shall make its own rules. All Grievances shall be submitted in writing. A majority opinion (three (3) votes) shall be binding upon both the Union and the Employer.
34.5	If the Board deadlocks on their opinion the matter shall be referred to an Arbitrator. The Union and TRSA shall jointly request FMCS to submit a list of seven (7) arbitrators and the parties shall alternately strike names until one arbitrator remains.
34.6	The decision of the designated arbitrator shall be final and t inding. The arbitrator does not have any power or authority to change the content of this ag reement nor to add to or go outside the terms of this agreement.
34.7	. The cost of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union.
SECTION 35.	STRIKES, LOCKOUTS AND PICKETING
35.1	There will be no strikes, lockouts, work stoppages or slowdowns. The Union agrees to support the Employer fully in maintaining operations in every way. Should picketing be occasioned by persons or organizations other than the Union, Employees may refuse to cross such picket lines as are lawful, primary lines, and are officially and specifical ly sanctioned or approved by all three (3) of the following:
1)	The Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, AFL-CIO and,
2)	the UNITE HERE, International Union and,
3)	the Executive Board of UNITE HERE, Western S tates Regional Joint Board
SECTION 36.	MEDICAL, LIFE, DENTAL, PRESCRIPTION DRUG AND VISION PLANS
36.1	Effective June 1, 2006, the Employer shall contribute into the Laundry and Dry Cleaning Workers Local 52 Health and Welfare Trust Fund (Trust Fund) the sum of Two Hundred
19
Seventy Four Dollars and Seventy Five Cents ($274.75) per month for each eligible Employee. All eligible employees shall have Ten Dollars and Eighty-tv/o cents ($10.82) deducted from their wages as their co-payment of the $274.75. The Employer’s entire obligation is to contribute up to the sum of Two Hundred and Sixty Three dollars and Ninety Three Cents ($263.93) per month into the Trust Fund.
36.2	Effective June 1, 2007, the Employer shall contribute to the Welfare Trust Fund the sum of Two Hundred Ninety Eight Dollars and Seventy Seven Cents ($298.77) per month for each eligible Employee. All eligible employees shall have Ten Dollars and Eighty-Two cents ($10.82) deducted from their wages as their co-payment of i he $298.77. The Employer’s entire obligation is to contribute up to the sum of Two Hundred and Eighty Seven Dollars and Ninety Five Cents ($287.95) per month into the Trust Fund.
36.3	Effective June 1,2008, the Employer shall contribute to the Welfare Trust Fund the sum of Three Hundred Twenty Two Dollars and Ninety Nine Cents ($322.99) per month for each eligible Employee. All eligible employees shall have Ten Dollars and Eighty-two cents ($10.82) deducted from their wages as their co-payment of he $322.99.The Employer’s entire obligation is to contribute up to the sum of Three Hundred and Twelve Dollars and Seventeen Cents ($312.17).
36.4	The Employer shall be responsible for any benefits which v ould have accrued to an Employee if the Employer fails to make payments for an Employee as herein provided.
SECTION 37.	PENSION TRUST FUND
37.1	The Employer shall continue to contribute to the Laundry and Dry Cleaning Workers Pension Trust Fund (Pension Trust) the sum of Thirty-One Dollars and Twenty - Two Cents ($31.22) per eligible employee per month into the Pension Fund.
37.2	Effective June 1, 2008, the Employer shall contribute to the Pension Fund the sum of Forty-One Dollars and Fifty-Two Cents ($41.52) per month for each eligible employee into the Pension Trust.
SECTION 38.	GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TRUST FUNDS, AND DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES
38.1	Each Employer bound by this Agreement hereby agrees to abide and be bound by all the terms and provisions of the Welfare Trust Fund Indenture and the Pension Trust Fund Indenture as executed and as it has been and may from time to time be amended.
38.2	An eligible Employee with respect to whom monthly contri butions are required to be made shall mean:
1)	Any Employee covered by this Agreement who was employed by the Employer the first (1st) working day of the preceding calenda month and who has been on the payroll a full calendar month including the first (1st) working day of the month;
2)	Any Employee covered by this Agreement who was eligible for benefits from the Welfare Trust Fund or an eligible participant of the Pension Trust Fund within six (6) months prior to his date of hire; payments on behalf of such Employee shall be
20
due on the first (1st) working day of the month following or coincident with his date of hire.
38.3	Trust Fund contributions (together with report forms supplied by the Trust Funds for such purposes) shall be submitted by the Employer to the Trust I unds’ offices at 920 South Alvarado Street, Los Angeles, California 90006, or to such other place designated by the Trustees of the Trust Funds.
38.4	Contributions shall be made by the tenth (10th) day of the m onth for which payment is due. Payments not received in full by the twentieth (20th) day of Uhe month shall be considered delinquent and subject to an amount equal to the greater of interest on the unpaid contribution at the highest rate permitted by law, or liquidated damages of twenty percent (20%) of the amount of the contribution. This amount shall become due and payable to the Trust Funds by the delinquent Employer upon the day immediately following the date on which the contribution or contributions became delinquent and shall be in addition to said contribution or contributions; provided, however, the Trustees may waive payment of the liquidated damages, or any portion thereof, in a particular case upon good cause satisfactory to the Trustees.
38.5	In any suit brought by the Trustees of the Trust Funds to coi lect contributions, the Trustees or the Trust Funds shall be entitled to the unpaid contributions; interest on the unpaid contributions or liquidated damages, whichever is greater; reasonable attorneys’ fees; cost of suit; and such other legal or equitable relief as the court dee: ns appropriate.
38.6	Upon request of the Trustees the Employer shall make available such books, records, and
reports as the Trustees’ auditor deems appropriate to determine that the Employer has made required contributions. In the event the Trustees determine that the Employer failed to make the required contributions, the Trustees may assess the Employer the cost of the audit.
38.7	In the event of failure by the Employer to make contributions by the time they are due, the Trustees shall take whatever action they deem appropriate. I f an Employer is delinquent in payment of contributions, the Union may, after seventy-two (72) hours written notice of such delinquency, take any legal action necessary, including the r ight to file a grievance or the right to strike to collect such contributions, along with interest or liquidated damages, notwithstanding any other clause of this Agreement.
SECTION 39.	SICK LEAVE
39.1	All Employees covered by this Agreement who have been continuously employed by their Employer for the period of at least one (1) year shall be entil led to a total of forty (40) hours sick leave with pay per year. Such sick leave pay shall commence on the second (2nd) working day lost except that sick leave pay shall commence on the first (1st) working day lost in the event the Employee requires immediate hospitalization or out patient surgery or if the Employee has five (5) sick days accumulated in his/her bank. If the Employer so desires, he may require reasonable proof of disability. Falsification of s ick leave claims or proved abuse of sick leave privileges may be cause for discharge or disciplinary action.
39.2	Subject to the following paragraph, full pay shall mean five (5) eight (8) hour days pay for 5/40 or four (4) ten (10) hour days pay for 4/40 at the Employee’s regular straight time hourly rate for those days which the Employee would have worked had (he disability not occurred. The waiting period herein provided before sick leave pay commences shall apply for each disability in case the sick leave benefit allowance has not been used up in previous disabilities.
21
39.3	Sick leave pay shall be integrated with Unemployment Com pensation Disability benefits and Worker’s Compensation temporary disability benefits so th< i the sum of the daily sick leave allowance hereunder and the aforesaid State disability daily benefits, exclusive of the daily hospital benefits which may be payable to an Employee, she ll not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the Employee’s regular daily wage at straight time. If the sick leave pay allowable to an Employee hereunder when so combined with any such State disability exceeds one hundred percent (100%) of his regular daily rate at straight t ime, for any one (1) day, then such sick leave pay for that day shall be reduced accordingly. Any portion of the sick leave pay allowance not received by the Employee by reason of any such reduction shall be retained in the Employee’s sick leave pay account as a part of his accumulated sick leave pay credits.
39.4	Unused sick leave benefits in any one (1) year shall accumulate from year to year. However, Employees may have the choice of receiving one-half (1/2) pay for any and all sick days accumulated over fifty (50) days, payable in the year in whi :h they are accumulated, or they may continue to accumulate. Employees who retire shall have their entire sick leave accumulated bank paid at retirement. Employees who have twenty years or more of service with the Employer may have their entire sick leave accumulated bank paid at termination of |	their employment with the Employer
39.5	Sick leave credit shall continue to accumulate during periods of sickness, injury, temporary layoff or leave of absence. However, after twenty (20) consecutive working days of absence all credit shall cease and Employee’s accumulated sick leave shall be pro-rated during such periods of absence.
SECTION 40.	FUNERAL LEAVE / 	
40.1	Employees who have at least three (3) days sick leave entitlement shall be granted three (3) days’ funeral leave with pay. Employees with less than thre e (3) days sick leave entitlement shall be granted funeral leave with pay up to the amount of such entitlement. To be eligible for funeral leave, an Employee must be in attendance at the fun iiral of a member of his/her immediate family. Immediate family is defined as parents, i pouse and children. The Employer may require proof of attendance at the funeral.
SECTION 41.	ETHNIC DIVERSITY
41.1	The parties recognize that many recent immigrant workers ere employed by the Employer and are a vital element to the success of the facility. While Engl ish is the language of the workplace, the Employer recognizes the right of employees to use the language of their own choice among themselves.
41.2	The Employer agrees to distribute information regarding available English as a Second Language (ESL) which is distributed by the government or/and provided by the Union to the employees and may provide space on the Union bulletin board to that end.
41.3	In the event that an employee expresses that he/she is experi encing difficulty understanding English in a situation involving a dispute on the shop floor, a possible grievance, possible confusion about work duties and responsibilities, or necessary clarification of questions arising out of this agreement, he/she may request the assistance of e translator of his/her choice, as long as such translator is on the premises.
22
SECTION42.	IMMIGRATION PROTECTION
42.1	Discharge or suspension of employees based on information regarding their immigration status. If the employer is legally required to suspend or discharge a:i employee on account of information and/or documentation obtained concerning his/her immigration or citizenship status, the employer shall re-instate to his/her former position any such suspended or discharged employee who returns to work within two weeks Any employee who returns to work after two weeks will be entitled to any open position for which they are qualified. If there are no open positions available the employee shall be placed on layoff status with all the rights of any laid off employee.
42.2	In the event the Employer is served with a validly executed Search and Arrest warrant the Employer shall take the following action: To the extent pos sible, arrange for questioning of employees to occur in as private a setting as possible in the workplace.
42.3	The Employer shall grant employees excused absences, when given one weeks’ prior notice for the following: To attend any appointments scheduled by the INS or U.S. Department of State with respect to immigration or citizenship status of the employee, spouse, child or parent. The Employer may require proof of the appointment and proof of family relationship.
42.4	The Employer shall not request information or documents from workers or applicants for employment as to their immigration status except as required by law.
42.5	The Employer shall not disclose confidential information concerning workers to any person or government agency except as required by law or in response to the lawful directive of such agency. Confidential information includes names, addresses, and social security numbers.
42.6	If an employee request that the Employer change her/his records regarding her/his name or
social security number, and the Employer can lawfully do so the Employer will do so and the change will not prejudice the employee’s seniority or other l ights under this agreement.
42.7	Should an INS agent demand entry into the Employer’s premises or the opportunity to interrogate, search or seize the person or property of any employee, then the Shop Steward shall immediately notify the Union by telephone to the Union’s o ffice, and attempt to contact the highest ranking union officer in the facility.
SECTION 43.	RESPECT AND DIGNITY
43.1	The Employer and the Union agree that each employee and representative of the Employer should be treated with respect and dignity. Verbal abuse, threats, or harassment by the Employer or the employee will not be tolerated. Discipline of employees shall not be administered in front of other bargaining unit employees, except in those cases (i) where the employee requests a witness or Union representative or (ii) where necessary to protect the immediate personal safety or property of employees or the E mployer or (iii) where another employee is present for translation purposes with the permission of the individual receiving the discipline. Discipline shall be administered in a professional manner. All acts of disrespect shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
23
SECTION 44.
UNION LEAVE
44.	1 Employees covered by this contract may seek a leave for org anization and educational purposes only. Any request for such leave shall be given in writing to the Employer two (2) weeks before such leave, if approved, is scheduled to commence. No Union leave may exceed one hundred and fifty (150) calendar days. All leave for organisational or educational purposes must be mutually agreed upon by the employer and the Union. During such leave the employer will continue the seniority of the employee on leave. Up to iwo (2) persons may be given leave at the same time but not from the same department or shift if the Employer has more than one (1) shift. The employer shall have no obligation to pay wages or fringe benefits during such leave.
SECTION 45.	LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
45.1	There is hereby established a Labor-Management Committee. The Committee may be called to order by the Union, an Employer or the Textile Rental Services Association. The permanent members of the Committee shall be the representatives of the Local Union and the Executive Director of the Textile Rental Services Association.
45.2	It is agreed and understood that this Committee acts in an advisory capacity and does not have the authority to change, modify or add to this Agreement.
SECTION 46.	GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE
46.1	It is the intent of the parties hereto to abide by all applicable Federal and State statutes covering the subject matter of this Agreement. Should any provision of this Agreement be determined to be contrary to any Federal or State law, all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force and effect, and substitutions for the invalid provision or provisions shall be immediately negotiated.
SECTION 47.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT
47.1	This Agreement shall become effective June 4, 2006, and shall remain in effect until June 7, 2009, and from year to year thereafter, unless written notice is given sixty (60) days prior to the expiration day, by either party, that such party intends to terminate, modify or amend this Agreement on the expiration date.
24
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement at
J, California on, 2006.
EMPLOYER:
UNITE HERE, Western States Regional Joint Board
Regional Manager
By:____
Title: e	*
By: Negotiation Committee Members
Effective Date:
APPROVED:
TEXTILE RENTAL SERVICES ASSOCIATION
David J.
Executiv
cKenzie irector
PLEAS E INDICATE OWNERSHIP
A Corporation
 A Co-Partnership
 An Individual
25
ATTACHMENT “A”
WAGE SCALES
WAGE RATE PER HOUR EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATIONS	6/4/06	6/4/07	6/2/08
Head Washer	$10.10	$10.40	$10.75
Washer	$9.60	$9.90	$10.25
Washroom Department Tumbler and Utility	$9.40	$9.70	$10.05
Head Distributor	$9.40	$9.70	$10.05
Press/Distribution/Alteration	$9.30	$9.60	$9.95
Order Clerk/Truck Loader/ Custodian/Soil Sort/ Counter/Stacker	$9.20	$9.50	$9.85
All Other Production Employees	$9.10	$9.40	$9.75
New Employees are defined as an Employee not previously covered by this Agreement within a twelve (12) month period following his termination from a covered Employer.
New Employees shall be paid eighty percent (80%) of the classification rate for the first two (2) months of employment; and ninety percent (90%) of the classification rate for the third (3 rd), fourth (4th), fifth (5th) and sixth (6th) month of employment. After six (6) months of employment, fi e Employee shall receive the classification rate.
It is agreed and understood that the New Employee’s rates of pay will increase as a percentage of each across the board increase negotiated in this Agreement.
No current Employee will lose his job because of the seniority rates se t forth in the above Scales.
26
i SCHEDULE FOR VACATION PAY IN CASE OIF TERMINATION
In case of termination of an Employee during the first two (2) years of employment, an Employee shall be entitled to receive one-twelfth (1/12) of his weekly compensation as vacation pay for each month or major fraction thereof worked over six (6) months from starting date.
TO DETERMINE VACATION PAY:
1.	Establish starting date.
2.	Determine number of months employed between starting date and termination date.
3.	Determine hourly pay based on forty (40) hours times the classification rate or the weekly pay of
the four (4) weeks prior to termination date for incentive workers.
4.	Refer to Chart.
FIRST YEAR:
No. Month Employed		Months Earned	Amount
1 to 6	None	None	
Plus	To		
6-1/2	7-1/2	7 Months	7/12 Week’s Pay
7-1/2	8-1/2	8 Months	8/12 Week’s Pay
8-1/2	9-1/2	9 Months	9/12 Week’s Pay
9-1/2	10-1/2	10 Months	10/12Week’s Pay
10-1/2	11-1/2	11 Months.	ll/12Week’s Pay
11-1/2	12	12 Months.	12/12Week’s Pay
AFTER ONE WEEK’S VACATION IN PRECEDING YEAR:			
No. Months Emnloved		Months Earned	Amount Earned
Pius	To		
12-1/2	13-1/2	1 Month	1/12 Week’s Pay
13-1/2	14-1/2	2 Months	2/12 Week’s Pay
14-1/2	15-1/2	3 Months	3/12 Week’s Pay
15-1/2	16-1/2	4 Months	4/12 Week’s Pay
16-1/2	17-1/2	5 Months	5/12 Week’s Pay
17-1/2	18-1/2	6 Months	6/12 Week’s Pay
		27	
18-1/2	19-1/2	7 Months	7/12 Week’s Pay
19-1/2	20-1/2	8 Months	8/12 Week’s Pay
20-1/2	21-1/2	9 Months	9/12 Week’s Pay
21-1/2	22-1/2	10 Months	10/12Week’s Pay
22-1/2	23-1/2	11 Months	ll/12Week’s Pay
23-1/2	24	12 Months	12/12Week’s Pay
AFTER ONE WEEK’S VACATION IN PRECEDING YEAR:
No. Months	Months Employed	Earned	Amount Earned
Plus	To
24-1/2	25-1/2	1 Month	1/6 Week’s Pay
25-1/2	26-1/2	2 Months	2/6 Week’s Pay
26-1/2	27-1/2	3 Months	3/6 Week’s Pay
27-1/2	28-1/2	4 Months	4/6 Week’s Pay
28-1/2	29-1/2	5 Months	5/6 Week’s Pay
29-1/2	30-1/2	6 Months	6/6 Week’s Pay
30-1/2	31-1/2	7 Months	7/6 Weeks’ Pay
31-1/2	32-1/2	8 Months	8/6 Weeks’ Pay
32-1/2	33-1/2	9 Months	9/6 Weeks’ Pay
33-1/2	34-1/2	10 Months	10/6 Weeks’ Pay
34-1/2	35-1/2	11 Months	11/6 Weeks’ Pay
35-1/2	36	12 Months	12/6 Weeks’ Pay
AFTER THREE YEAR’S EMPLOYMENT:
No. Months	Months Employed	Earned	Amount Earned
Plus	To
1/2	1	1 Month	1/6 Week’s Pay
1-1/2	2-1/2	2 Months	2/6 Week’s Pay
2-1/2	3-1/2	3 Months	3/6 Week’s Pay
3-1/2	4-1/2	4 Months	4/6 Week’s Pay
4-1/2	5-1/2	5 Months	5/6 Week’s Pay
5-1/2	6-1/2	6 Months	6/6 Week’s Pay
6-1/2	7-1/2	7 Months	7/6 Weeks’ Pay
7-1/2	8-1/2	8 Months	8/6 Weeks’ Pay
8-1/2	9-1/2	9 Months	9/6 Weeks’ Pay
22-1/2	23-1/2	11 Months	11/6 Week’s Pay
23-1/2	24	12 Months	12/6 Week’s Pay
28
AFTER SEVEN YEARS’ EMPLOYMENT:
No. Months Employed 			Months Earned _ _ .			Amount Earned
Plus	To		
1/2	1	1 Month	1/4 Week’s Pay
1-1/2	2-1/2	2 Months	2/4 Week’s Pay
2-1/2	3-1/2	3 Months	3/4 Week’s Pay
3-1/2	4-1/2	4 Months	4/4 Week’s Pay
4-1/2	5-1/2	5 Months	5/4 Weeks’ Pay
5-1/2	6-1/2	6 Months	6/4 Weeks’ Pay
6-1/2	7-1/2	7 Months	7/4 Weeks’ Pay
7-1/2	8-1/2	8 Months	8/4 Weeks’ Pay
8-1/2	9-1/2	9 Months	9/4 Weeks’ Pay
9-1/2	10-1/2	10 Months	10/4 Weeks’Pay
10-1/2	11-1/2	11 Months	ll/4Weeks’ Pay
11-1/2	12	12 Months	12/4Weeks’ Pay
AFTER FOURTEEN YEARS’ EMPLOYMENT:			
No. Months Employed		Months Earned	Amount Earned
Plus	To		
1/2	1	1 Month	1/3 Week’s Pay
1-1/2	2-1/2	2 Months	2/3 Week’s Pay
2-1/2	3-1/2	3 Months	3/3 Week’s Pay
3-1/2	4-1/2	4 Months	4/3 Weeks’ Pay
4-1/2	5-1/2	5 Months	5/3 Weeks’ Pay
5-1/2	6-1/2	6 Months	6/3 Weeks’ Pay
6-1/2	7-1/2	7 Months	7/3 Weeks’ Pay
7-1/2	8-1/2	8 Months	8/3 Weeks’ Pay
8-1/2	9-1/2	9 Months	9/3 Weeks’ Pay
9-1/2	10-1/2	10 Months	10/3 Weeks’ Pay
10-1/2	11-1/2	11 Month;	11/3Weeks’ Pay
11-1/2	12	12 Months	12/3 Weeks’ Pay
29