_________________
11 go d e <2-EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
AND
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, DISTRICT 1199NW
Registered Nurses
Effective January 22, 2005 - June 30, 2008
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
By and Between GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
And
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST, HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION SEIU AFL-CIO
REGISTERED NURSES
January 22, 2005 through June 30, 2008
ARTICLE 1	— RECOGNITION........................................1
ARTICLE 2	— UNION MEMBERSHIP; DUES DEDUCTION...................2
ARTICLE 3	— UNION REPRESENTATIVES..............................3
ARTICLE 4	— DEFINITIONS........................................5
ARTICLE 5	— HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.........................7
ARTICLE 6	— EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES..............................11
ARTICLE 7	— SENIORITY - LAYOFF - RECALL.......................13
ARTICLE fl — WAGES............................................20
ARTICLE 9 — OTHER COMPENSATION................................22
ARTICLE 10-PAID TIME OFF......................................24
ARTICLE 11	— HOLIDAYS.........................................28
ARTICLE 12	— OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE..........................30
ARTICLE 13	—MEDICAL, DENTAL AND LIFE INSURANCE................34
ARTICLE 14	—COMMITTEES........................................37
ARTICLE 15	—OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY....................39
ARTICLE 16	—GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...............................40
ARTICLE 17	—MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.......................41
ARTICLE 18	—PERSONNEL POLICIES................................42
ARTICLE 19	— UNINTERRUPTED PATIENT CARE.......................42
ARTICLE 20	— GENERAL PROVISIONS...............................42
ARTICLE 21	— DURATION.........................................43
7/70 REGISTERED NURSE STAFFING PATTERN........................45
4/40-STAFFING PATTERN.........................................48
VISITING NURSES...............................................50
TWELVE-HOUR INNOVATIVE WEEKEND SCHEDULE.......................52
TWELVE {12) HOUR REGISTERED NURSE STAFFING PATTERN............54
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING......................................62
INDEX.........................................................73
APPENDIX A....................................................77
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT By and Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
And
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST,
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION
SEIU AFL-CIO
REGISTERED NURSES
January 22, 2005 through June 30,2008
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between Group Health Cooperative, hereinafter referred to as the ‘‘Employer," and District 1199 Northwest, National Union of Hospital and Health Care Employees, SEIU, AFL-CIO hereinafter referred to as the “Union." The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the understanding reached between the parties hereto with respect to wages and salaries, hours of work and conditions of employment with the objective of improving the practice of nursing through the promotion of equitable employment standards. This document is limited to employees working at the employer’s facilities located in western Washington.
ARTICLE 1	— RECOGNITION
1.1	Recognition, Pursuant to the National Labor Relations Board Certification dated May 26, 1983 (Case No. 19-RC-10700) and as subsequently agreed to by the parties in January 2005, the Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative for all Registered Nurses employed by the employer as Registered Nurses at all of the Employer’s locations, including, but not limited to the following: staff nurse, visiting nurse, liaison nurse, nurse practitioner, consulting nurse, team/registered nurse, and registered nurse/oncology, employed by the Employer at the Employer's medical centers in Washington and Idaho, excluding nurses in supervisory and administrative/management positions and all other employees
1,2	New Classifications. New registered nurse job classifications established during the term of this Agreement shall be covered by this Agreement unless they are administrative/management or supervisory positions.
1.3	Supervisor Defined, The term “supervisor" means any individual having authority, in the interest of the Employer, to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward or discipline other employees, or responsibility to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend such action, if in connection with the
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
foregoing the exercise of such authority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgment.
1.4	Contracting Out. The Employer agrees to give timely notice to the Union of any decision to contract out which wjJ) result in the elimination of an entire unit, department or facility. Upon request by the Union, the Employer agrees to meet to discuss the implications of the decision.
ARTICLE 2	— UNION MEMBERSHIP; DUES DEDUCTION
2.1	Membership. All employees in the bargaining unit shall become and remain members of the Union. Newly hired full-time, part-time and temporary employees shall, as a condition of continued employment, become members of the Union within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of hire. The Employer shall make newly hired employees aware of this requirement at the time of hire. Employees who fail to comply with this requirement shall be discharged by the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of written notice to the Employer from the Union, unless the employee fulfills the membership obligation set forth in this Agreement. Newly hired employees shall not be required to pay the Union’s initiation fee until after ninety (90) days of employment.
2.2	Religious Objection. Any employee who is a member of and adheres to established and traditional tenets or teachings of a bona fide religion, body, or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting a labor organization shall not be required to join or financially support the Union but, in the alternative, shall be required to pay a monthly amount equal to the monthly dues of the Union, to a non-religious charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. These religious objections and decisions as to which fund will be used must be documented and declared In writing.
2.3	Dues Deduction. During the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall deduct an amount equal to the Union’s uniform monthly dues or agency fees from the pay of each member of the Union who voluntarily executes a wage assignment authorization form. Upon request, the Employer shall deduct an initiation fee and any additional dues amounts as specified by the Union and authorized by the employee. When filed with the Employer, the authorization form will be honored in accordance with its terms. Deductions will be promptly transmitted to the Union by check payable to its order.
Upon issuance and transmission of a check to the Union, the Employer’s responsibility shall cease with respect to such deductions. The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues hereby undertakes to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless from ail claims, demands, suits and other forms of liability that may arise against toe Employer for or on account of any deduction made from the wages of such employee.
2
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
2.4	Employee Rosters, Upon the signing of this Agreement and monthly thereafter, the Employer shall supply to the Union a list of all employees covered by this Agreement. The list shall include the name, classification, employee ID number, date of hire, hourly rate of pay, and regular hours worked and gross earnings for each employee. Each month the Employer shall also send a list of new hires and their addresses and a list of all employees who have terminated during the month. The Employer will semi-annually supply a list of current addresses of all employees covered by this Agreement.
2.5	Voluntary Political Action Fund Deduction. The Employer shall deduct the sum specified from the pay of each member of the Union who voluntarily executes a political action contribution authorization form. The amount deducted and a roster of nurses using this voluntary deduction will be transmitted to the Union. The Union and each nurse authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of voluntary political action contributions hereby undertakes to indemnify and hold the Employer harmless from all claims, demands, suits and other liability that may arise against the Employer for or on account of any deduction made from the wages of such nurse.
In consideration for the Employer’s agreement regarding voluntary PAC Fund deductions, the Union agrees that neither employees nor its representatives will solicit for political action fund deductions in patient care areas. The parties recognize that the Union is obligated under the Federal Election Campaign Ad (“FECA") to reimburse Group Health Cooperative for its reasonable cost of administering the PAC check-off in the parties’ collective bargaining agreement. The Employer and the Union agree that one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of all amounts checked off is a reasonable amount to cover Group Health Cooperative's costs of administering this check-off. Accordingly, the parties agree that Group Health Cooperative will retain one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of all amounts deducted pursuant to the PAG check off provision in the parties' collective bargaining agreement to reimburse Group Health Cooperative for its reasonable costs of administering the check-off.
ARTICLES — UNION REPRESENTATIVES
3.1	Union Access, The Union’s authorized staff representatives may have access to the Employer’s premises where employees covered by this Agreement are working, excluding direct patient care areas, for the purpose of investigating grievances and contract compliance at reasonable times, after notifying the Employer. Access for other purposes shall not be unreasonably denied by the Employer. The Union's representatives shall advise the Employer as to which department or area the staff representative wishes to visit, and will confine such visits to the department or areas agreed upon. Such visits shall not interfere with or disturb employees in the performance of their work during working hours and shall not interfere with patient care.
3
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
3.2	Facility Use. The Union shall be permitted to use designated premises of the Employer for meetings of the local unit, with or without Union staff present, provided sufficient advance request for meeting facilities is made to the designated administrator and space is available.
3.3	Union Delegates. A list of Union Delegates from the bargaining unit, elected in accordance with District and National Union by-laws, shall be provided to the Employer. Such Delegates shall be authorized to serve as the representative in Steps 1, 2 and 3 of the grievance procedure and Article 6.5 as provided in this Agreement. The parties acknowledge the general proposition that Union business performed by the Union Delegates, including the investigation of grievances, will be conducted during non-working hours (eg., coffee breaks, lunch periods, and before and after shift). When it is not practical or reasonable to transact such business during non-working periods, the Union Delegates will be allowed a reasonable amount of time during working hours to perform such functions, except that such activity shall not take precedence over the requirement of patient care.
3.4	Bulletin Boards. Bulletin boards in prominent locations in each work area shall be designated for the Union's use. Posting of union related matters will be limited to the designated bulletin boards.
3,5	Contract Distribution. The Employer shall distribute a copy of this Agreement to all newly hired employees. Union membership applications and payroll deduction cards will be distributed to each new employee during orientation. The Union will provide copies of the Agreement, membership applications and payroll deduction cards to the Employer.
3.6	Negotiations Release Time. Subject to patient care requirements, the Employer will make a good faith effort to assist in providing unpaid release time for employees participating in contract negotiations. Unpaid release time to participate in this activity will accrue Paid Time Off.
3.7	Employee Participation in Union Activities. Subject to appropriate advance notice and scheduling/staffing requirements, Union officers, delegates and members of contract committees may use eight (9) hours per calendar year of their continuing education leave/time to attend union-sponsored training in leadership representation and dispute resolution. The Union must provide written notification to the Employer's Human Resources Division yearly of the names of union officers, delegates and members of the contract committees in order for those individuals to be eligible to access their continuing education leave/time under this provision.
a.	An unpaid leave of absence to attend union Executive Board meetings, officer meetings, delegate meetings and training sessions, district delegate assemblies, or union conventions may be approved subject to patient care needs/consumer service requirements. Unpaid release time to participate in these activities will accrue Paid Time Off.
4
Group Health Cooperative- SE1U 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
b.	Subject to patient care and staffing needs, an employee may be granted an unpaid leave of absence for up to twelve weeks to assume a position with the Union and the employee shall be entitled to return to his/her former position. On a leave of absence exceeding twelve weeks, s/he would be entitled to the first available position for which the employee is qualified in order of seniority relative to other employees with return to work rights. The leave of absence may not exceed 12 months.
ARTICLE 4	— DEFINITIONS
4.1	Resident Nurse. A registered nurse whose clinical experience after graduation is less than six (6) months or a registered nurse who is returning to practice, with no current clinical training or experience in the opinion of Nursing Administration. A resident nurse shall be assigned under the dose and direct supervision of designated preceptors) and shall have limited responsibilities as defined by the supervisor. Residency shall not exceed six (6) continuous months unless extended by mutual agreement between the Employer and individual nurse involved. A resident nurse who is required to function continuously without close and direct supervision and who is assigned the same level of responsibilities as a staff nurse shall be promoted to the position of staff nurse.
4.2	Staff Nurse. A registered nurse who is responsible for the direct and indirect nursing care of the patient in either inpatient or outpatient setting. An experienced registered nurse returning to practice who has recently satisfactorily completed a nursing refresher course approved by Nursing Administration shall be classified as a staff nurse for starting salary purposes.
4.3	Charge Nurse, A registered nurse who is assigned by Nursing Administration specific responsibilities for a designated time period in a defined work area within an acute or outpatient facility. The charge nurse functions under the direction of the nurse manager. These responsibilities may include but are not limited to facilitating information flow within the work unit and among departments; assisting in the orientation of new employees, serving as a resource for problem solving, policy, procedure, standards of care and quality assurance; assigning break and lunch coverage; assigning patient care based upon acuity; coordinating patient placement; and projecting staffing needs fbr the current/next shift. The charge nurse designation is appropriate when the nurse is assigned a substantial portion of these recognized responsibilities for groups of patients.
4.4	Preceptor. A preceptor is an experienced nurse proficient in dinical teaching and communication skills who has completed the appropriate in-service program and is assigned by the Employer the responsibility for planning, organizing, and evaluating the orientation of newly hired registered nurses, newly transferred registered nurses and resident nurses. Inherent in the preceptor role is the responsibility for specific, criteria-
5
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
based and goahdirected education and training for a specific orientation period. Newly transferred experienced nurses may not be assigned a preceptor based on their knowledge, skills, competence and ability or previous orientation to the department or facility as determined by nursing management. A preceptor may be assigned to a student when it is determined to be appropriate by the Employer. It is understood that registered nurses in the ordinary course of their responsibilities will be expected to participate in the general orientation process. This would include providing informational assistance, support and guidance to new nurses, floats, registry and ancillary personnel.
4.5	Nurse Practitioner, A registered nurse with additional education or training in health care delivery possessing the skills and knowledge for diagnostic evaluation and treatment of patients. The practitioner functions in a collaborative relationship with other health care professionals in the clinical management of patients.
4.6	Community Health Nurse. A registered nurse with a baccalaureate degree nr equivalent clinical experience, which has qualified the nurse to work as a community health nurse.
4.7	Full-Time Employee. A full-time employee is one who in the performance of assigned duties normally works a regular continuing schedule of forty (40) hours per week or eighty (80) hours per fourteen (14) day period.
4.8	Regular Part-time fmplovee. An employee who is regularly scheduled on a regular basis to work less than forty (40) hours per week and who has successfully completed the required probationary period. Ail regular part-time employees shall receive salary increments. Unless otherwise provided for herein, a part-time employee shall be compensated in the same manner as a full time employee except that wages and benefits shall be prorated. Proration of Paid Time Off benefits shall be based on all straight-time hours paid in a regular job assignment. In lieu of all fringe benefits (see Section 10), a part-time nurse may elect a fifteen percent (15%) wage premium. This election shall occur at the time of employment or between the dates of July 1 through July 10 in each subsequent year thereafter.
Article 4.9 Temporary Employees. An employee hired to work during any period when additional work of any nature requires a temporarily augmented work force or in the event of an emergency or authorized leave of absence. Temporary employees hired during the term of this Agreement shall be compensated at the salary step consistent with the hire-in rates set forth in Article 8.2. Temporary employees shall receive a fifteen- percent (15%) premium in lieu of all fringe benefits. Regular employees reclassified to temporary status shall retain their prior increment level for pay purposes plus fifteen percent (15%) premium in lieu of all fringe benefits. The fifteen percent (15%) premium shall be determined by computing fifteen percent (15%) of the employee's rate of pay. Temporary employees will not be regularly utilized to fill regular positions. Effective the first foil pay period on or after every January 15, temporary employees who have worked at least five
6
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
hundred (500) hours during the previous calendar year will be eligible for a longevity increment in the new calendar year.
A regular employee who changes to temporary status who has worked at least five hundred (500) hours in any combination of regular or temporary hours will also receive a longevity increment on the employee’s previous anniversary date. Thereafter employees shall continue to receive a longevity increment on their previous anniversary date if they have worked five hundred (500) temporary hours in the previous twelve months.
Length of service shall be a primary consideration when temporary employees apply for regular positions, providing skill, competence and ability are substantially equal to that of other applicants.
4.10	Definition of Fringe Benefits. For purposes of this Agreement, “fringe benefits” are defined as paid time off, holidays, insurance coverage (medical, dental, life, etc) education, professional and emergency leave and retirement.
4.11	Probationary Employee. The following employees will be subject to a three (3) calendar month probationary period: (1) employees hired to work on a full-time basis, and (2) employees hired to work on a part-time basis at a .5 FTE or more. Employees in the following categories shall be subject to a six (6) month probationary period: (1) employees hired to work on a part-time basis at less than a .5 FTE; (2) nurse practitioners; and (3) employees hired as resident nurses. After completing the applicable probationary period, the employee shall be considered regular unless specifically advised by the Employer of an extended probationary period. In no event shall the probationary period exceed six (6) months. Prior to extending the probationary period, the employee shall receive a written evaluation. During the probationary period, an employee may be terminated without notice and without recourse to the grievance procedure. Probationary employees shall not be required to give two (2) weeks notice of intention to terminate.
ARTICLE 5	— HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
5.1	Work Dav. The normal workday shall consist of eight- (8) hours work to be completed within eight and one-half (8Vz) or nine (9) consecutive hours.
5,2	Work Period, The normal work period shall consist of forty (40) hours of work within a seven- (7)-day period or eighty (80) hours of work within a fourteen- (14)-day period in a hospital setting.
5.3	Alternative Work Schedules. When mutually agreeable to the Employer and the employee, a normal workday may consist of ten (10) hours when the workweek schedule is based on four (4) ten (10) hour days. Other alternative work schedules may be established by the Employer with the consent of the employee involved. Prior to
Group Hearth Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-200$ Contract
implementation of the alternative work schedule, the Employer and the Union will review and determine conditions of employment relating to that work schedule.
Where work schedules other than the eight hour day work schedule are utilized, the Employer shall have the right to revert back to the eight hour day schedule or the work schedule which was in effect immediately prior to the alternative work schedule, after sixty (60) days advance notice to employees. Prior to implementation of a change in work schedule involving a unit or facility, the Employer will meet with the Union to discuss the contemplated change of schedule.
When mutually agreeable to the Employer and employee, the night shift work schedule may consist of nine (9) hours work to be completed within nine and one-half (916) hours, and the work period to consist of thirty-six (36) hours within a seven (7) day period or seventy-two (72) hours within a fourteen (14) day period. Employees working this schedule will accrue full-time benefits except that Paid Time Off will be prorated. Overtime shall be paid for all work in excess of nine (9) hours per shift or in excess of the normal work period of forty (40) or eighty (80) hours.
5.4	Meal and Rest Periods. All employees shall receive an unpaid meal period of at least one-half (16) hour during each normal workday. Meal periods shall occur as near the middle of the shift as is practical. Employees required by the supervisor to remain in the working area during their meal period shall be compensated for such time at the appropriate rate of pay. All employees shall be allowed two (2) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each, during each shift of eight (8) hours or more in duration. Employees, who are not released for rest periods after requesting release from the supervisor or designee, shall be paid for the missed rest period at the employee’s regular rate of pay. The employee shall have the obligation of requesting relief on a timely bast's.
5.5	Overtime. Overtime shall be compensated for at the rate of one and one-half (116) times the regular rate of pay for all time worked beyond the normal work day or normal work period; provided however, all additional overtime after twelve consecutive hours, shall be paid at double (2X) the employee's regular rate of pay. The regular rate of pay shall include shift differential and any special service premium. Paid Time Off, and all other categories of paid absences will be excluded as time worked from the determination of the obligation to pay overtime and the calculation of the overtime. The calculation of double-time will be on the same basis as overtime at time and a half, i.e., the obligation to pay double time shall be based on actual hours worked. Overtime worked consecutive to the regularly scheduled shift shall be considered part of the regularly scheduled shift. Upon the mutual consent of the employee and immediate supervisor, employees working a seven (7) day work period may schedule compensatory time off in lieu of receiving overtime pay providing the time off is scheduled during the same work week in which the overtime was worked. Compensatory time off will be scheduled off at the rate of time and one-half (1J4) unless the schedule change is for the employee's convenience in which case compensatory time off will be at the straight time rate. Compensatory time off may be taken on a tow census day. All overtime must be arranged by supervision.
8
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
Each department and/or unit shall establish procedures for the approval of overtime. Overtime shall be considered in effect when eight (8) minutes or more are worked after the end of a scheduled shift of at least eight (8) hours or more in duration. Thereafter, overtime will be paid to the nearest quarter hour. No overtime shall be paid when less than eight (8) minutes have been worked after the end of the shift. There shall be no pyramiding or duplication of overtime pay and/or other premium compensation paid at the rate of one and one-half (1%) of the regular rate of pay which would result in compensation exceeding one and one-half for the same hours worked.
5.6	Weekend Work. The Employer will make reasonable efforts to schedule all full-time and part-time employees to two weekends off out of each four- (4) successive weekends. Except in emergency situations, ail full-time and part-time employees shall be scheduled off at least one (1) weekend out of each three- (3) week period, in the event a full-time or part-time employee is required to work on three successive weekends, all time worked on the third successive weekend shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1 %) times the regular rate of pay. This section shall not apply to part-time or full-time employees who voluntarily agree to more frequent weekend duty. The weekend shall be defined as that period of time from 7:00 a.m. Saturday to 7:00 a.m. Monday for employees working day or evening shifts and from 11:00 p.m. Friday to 11.00 p.m. Sunday for employees working night shift.
5.7	Twelve Hours Off Duty. In scheduling work assignments, the Employer will make a good faith effort to provide each employee with at least twelve (12) hours off duty between shifts. In the event an employee is required to work with less than twelve (12) hours off duty between shifts, all time worked within this twelve (12) hour period shall be paid at one and one-half (1 times the regular rate of pay.
5.8	Rotation. There shall be no rotation of shifts except by mutual agreement between the Employer and the employee. Any employee who rotates shifts by mutual agreement shall receive four dollars ($4.00) per hour for each hour worked in addition to the employee's regular rate of pay. The Employer shall have the right to revert back to non-rotating shifts after thirty (30) days advance notice to the employee. In such event, the affected employee shall have the option of regular assignment to one of the shifts to which the employee previously rotated.
5.9	Doubleback Pay. When an employee is required to work two (2) complete shifts within a twenty-four (24) hour period, the first of which is not a normally scheduled shift, all time worked on the second shift shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1%) the regular rate of pay. The twenty-four- (24) hour period begins with the start of the first shift worked.
5.10	Work Schedule Posting. Work schedules shall be posted two weeks prior to the initiation of the schedule. Each work schedule shall be for a period of at least twenty-eight (28) days, but no longer than one (1) month.____________________________________
9
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
5.11	Hours Reduction. If a reduction in FTE is determined by the Employer to be necessary, the Employer will first ask for volunteers from the unit and shift where changes are needed. When involuntary reductions are needed, the Employer will make a good faith effort to reduce the hours of the least senior person on a work unit and shift, subject to patient care needs, staffing considerations and hours of operation.
Any employee subject to an involuntary reduction in their FTE resulting in a loss of employee or dependent medical insurance coverage will be placed on the recall roster for a period of eighteen months subject to the requirements of Articles 7.14 and 7.17.
An employee who is assigned to a .50 or more FTE status whose hours are reduced more than .25 FTE shall have the following options:
1.	The employees shall, by seniority, be offered any vacant position for which they are qualified prior to the vacant positions being offered to employees not subject to an hour’s reduction.
2.	Accept the reduced hours. An employee choosing this option may elect to be placed on the recall roster for a period of eighteen months subject to the requirements of Article 7.17. Failure to accept a position comparable to that held prior to the schedule change will result in termination of recall rights.
3.	If there is no comparable vacancy, the employee may select a position from the low seniority roster subject to the provisions of Article 7.8.2.
In the event that additional regular hours in a classification become available on a continuing basis in a unit, department, or facility, the Employer will assign the hours to the regular continuing schedule of the most senior qualified employee in the classification who has had an FTE reduction under this Article, if the Employer determines the assignment of hours best satisfies staffing, scheduling and other operational and patient care needs. In making its decision, the Employer will give consideration to the adverse impact on the employee and employee morale.
The Employer will continue to provide dependent medical coverage for the first month in which an employee's dependents are no longer eligible as a result of an FTE reduction pursuant to this provision.
5.12	Daylight Savings Time Employees who work the night shift during the conversion from Pacific Standard Time to Pacific Daylight Savings Time will be compensated for all hours worked. In no case will employees be required to work additional hours in order to fulfill the shift hours normally worked.
10
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
Employees who work the night shift during the conversion from Pacific Daylight Savings Time to Pacific Standard Time will be paid 1-J6 times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked beyond the normal shift.
ARTICLE 6-	EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
6.1	Nondiscrimination. The Employer and the Union agree that conditions of employment shall be consistent with applicable federal, state, and municipal laws regarding nondiscrimination. There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of sexual orientation.
6.2	Nondiscrimination —-Union Activities. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be discriminated against because of membership in the Union or activities on behalf ofthe Union.
6.3	Notice of Termination. Employees who have completed the required probationary period shall receive fourteen (14) days' notice of termination or pay in lieu thereof (prorated for part-time employees) including any accrued Paid Time Off pay, except in cases of discharge for just cause.
6.4	Notice of Resignation. Employees shall be required to give at least fourteen (14) days’ written notice of resignation except that at least three (3) weeks' notice in writing shall be required of employees working alternative periods such as every other week or every other weekend. Failure to give such notice shall result in loss of accrued fringe benefits. The Employer will give consideration to situations that would make such notice by the employee Impossible.
6.5	Disclpline/Discharge for Just Cause, No full-time or part-time employee shall be disciplined or discharged except for just cause. Every reasonable attempt will be made to counsel employees prior to discharge for cause. Employees discharged for just cause shall be entitled to utilize the provision of the grievance procedure. The employee will be given a copy of all written warnings. The employee shall have the right to request the attendance of the Union Representative at disciplinary meetings.
6.6	Personnel Records. Written personnel action forms in duplicate shall be used to specify conditions of hiring, termination changes in employee status, pay or shift, or leave of absence. Reasons for termination, change in status, pay or shift shall be noted on the form. The employee shall be given one copy of this form. Employees may review their personnel file upon request after at least twenty-four (24) hours advance notice to the Human Resources Service Center. Employees may provide a written response to any material contained in their personnel file.
11
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
6,7	In-service and Orientation. In-service education and orientation programs shall be instituted and maintained, with programs posted in advance. In-service education programs will be scheduled in an effort to accommodate varying work schedules. The procedures and content for such programs shall be appropriate subjects for discussion by the Nursing Practice Committees. Such programs shall be consistent with the standards established by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals. Participation in inservice education shall be one criteria used in performance evaluation.
6.8	Floating. The Employer retains the right to change the employee's daily work assignment to meet patient care needs. Employees will not be required to perform tasks or procedures for which they have not been currently trained. Except in cases of emergency, employees will only be floated to those areas where they have received adequate orientation. Nursing managers in consultation with designated unit preceptors and staff nurses regularly assigned to the unit will develop unit specific orientation tools to be used by staff nurses floated to the unit. Except in cases of emergency, floating will he restricted to designate clinical groupings. Efforts shall be made to return a floated nurse to the nurse’s regularly assigned unit rather than replace the nurse with another float.
6.9	Transfer. Nurses may transfer within Group Health without loss of accrued benefits provided for in this Agreement. When skill, competency and ability are considered substantially equal in the judgment of the Employer, seniority shall be a controlling consideration in the transfer and promotion to other positions within the bargaining unit.
A “transfer” shall be defined as an employee-initiated change in employment status, location or shift. Upon being selected for a new position, an employee shall be ineligible for other job openings for a period of six (6) months unless otherwise agreed to by the Employer. If the Employer is unable to transfer an employee to a vacant position due to patient care considerations, the position may be filled on a temporary basis and the employee will be notified in writing as to when the transfer will be expected to occur.
6.10	Rest rooms. Rest rooms and lounges shall be provided for employees whenever possible.
6.11	Job Postings. When a regular job opening or vacancy occurs, notice of such position shall be posted on-line at ghc.org and the Human Resources Department. The Employer shall not fill the position during the seventy-two (72) hour period of posting excluding holidays and weekends. Applications for transfers to each specific posted position must be submitted to the Human Resources Department. Transfer from one shift to another on the same unit, or a change in job assignment within a department or facility shall be determined prior to any job postings.
6.12	Performance Appraisals. All nurses will be formally evaluated in writing prior to completion of the residency or probationary period and annually thereafter. Interim evaluations may be conducted as may be required. The evaluation is an educational tool for assessing the professional skills of the nurse and for improving and recognizing the —
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
nurse’s performance. The nurse's participation, including self-evaluation as well as coworker input, is an integral part of the evaluation process. The nurse will be given a copy of the evaluation. Nurses will be required to sign the evaluation acknowledging receipt thereof. Nurses will be given the opportunity to provide a written response to the evaluation, which will be retained with the evaluation in the nurse's personnel file.
ARTICLE 7	— SENIORITY - LAYOFF - RECALL
7.1	Seniority Defined. Seniority shall mean an employee's continuous length of service as a registered nurse with the Employer from most recent date of regular hire. Seniority benefits shall not apply to an employee until completion of the required probationary period. Upon satisfactory completion of this probationary period, the employee shall be credited with seniority from most recent date of regular hire.
7.2	Layoff. In the event that a permanent or prolonged reduction in the number of employees in a job classification within a work unit is determined by the Employer to be necessary, layoff procedures will be instituted on the affected work unit.
If a reduction in staffing is needed, a layoff will be considered before a unit, department or facility-wide reduction of hours under Article 5.11. Upon request the partes will meet for the purpose of discussing implementation of the layoff.
Prior to issuing a formal notice of layoff, hiring into ail vacant positions in western Washington facilities will cease.
7.3	Definitions,
7.3.1	Work Unit A work unit is defined as a nursing unit of a hospital or a department of a hospital or the following designations in ambulatory care: an area medical center; a separately established urgent care department of an area medical center with its own identified staff; a Specialty Medical Center, Home Health and Hospice (both work units in a branch office of Continuing Care)
7.3.2	Single Unit Layoff, A single unit layoff occurs when there is a layoff in a hospital or a hospital department or a unit-wide reassignment as defined in Article 7.3.3 is not triggered.
7.3,3	Unit-wide Reassignment. Unit-wide reassignment applies to a single unit layoff when the following criteria are met
On a unit of ten or fewer bargaining unit employees when there are two or more bargaining unit employees initially subject to layoff.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
On a unit of eleven to nineteen bargaining unit employees, when there are three or more employees initially subject to layoff.
On a unit of twenty or more bargaining unit employees, when there are four or more bargaining unit employees initially subject to layoff.
The number of employees initially subject to layoff is defined as the number of least senior bargaining unit employees on the unit whose total FTEs satisfies the required FTE reduction. The actual number of bargaining unit employees who are finally eligible to exercise layoff options as provided In Article 7.8 may be different than the number initially subject to layoff due to the choices exercised by eligible employees during the reassignment process.
7.3.4	Multl-Unlt Lavoff/Unlt Merger. A multi-unit layoff occurs when there is a layoff as a result of the merger of two or mnm units and/or division of one or more units into new units.
7.3.5	Work Unit Closure. A work unit closure occurs when a work unit ceases to operate because the Employer has decided to discontinue the type of service for the patient population normally provided within the work unit. In the event of a work unit closure, employees of the work unit will exercise their layoff options provided in Article 7.8 in order of seniority.
7.3.6	Comparable Employment. For purposes of this Article, "comparable employment" or vacancy shall be defined to include:
(a)	Same rate of pay;
(b)	Similar shift, which is defined as a change of three hours or less in an employee's previous start time;
(c)	Same FTE;
(d)	Similar geographic location
1.	Northgate, Lynnwood, Central Campus
2.	Burien, Renton, Federal Way, Central Campus, Administrative Operations Center (AOC), Kent, Downtown
3.	Downtown, Central Campus, Rainier, AOC
4.	Olympia, Tacoma, Tacoma South, Tacoma Specialty Center, Puyallup
5.	Eastside Hospital, Eastside Specialty Center, Eastside Primary Care Center, Renton, Factoria,
6.	Tacoma, Tacoma South, Port Orchard, Silverdale, Tacoma Specialty Center, Poulsbo
14
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
7.	Federal Way, Tacoma, Tacoma South, Tacoma Specialty Center, Puyallup.
8.	Everett, Lynnwood, Eastside Hospital, Eastside Specialty Center, Eastside Primary Care Center, Northshore,
9.	Home Health and Hospice
10.	Central Behavioral Health Services, Eastside Mental Health,
11.	Olympia Mental Health, Tacoma Mental Health, Kitsap Mental Health
7.3.7	Qualified. For purposes of this Agreement, an employee will be considered qualified if, In the opinion of the Employer, the employee has the skills, competence and ability based on established criteria to perform the responsibilities of a particular position within the time period normally expected of an employee new to the position.
For purposes of exercising layoff options under Article 7.8.1 and 7.8.2, an employee will be considered eligible for a vacant position, reassignment or to select a position from the Low Seniority Roster, if in the Employer’s opinion, the employee can become oriented (which may include some skill enhancement or training) to the position within four weeks. If, after four (4) weeks of orientation, the employee has not achieved a satisfactory level of performance in the judgment of the Employer based upon established criteria, the employee will be subject to layoff with recall rights without further notice.
7,3.8	Low Seniority Roster, The Low Seniority Roster shall be a listing of foe fifty (50) least senior employees within the Cooperative for a layoff when the number of employees initially subject to layoff is ten (10) or fewer. The listing shall consist of the seventy-five (75) least senior employees when the number of employees initially subject to layoff is between eleven (11) and thirty (30) and foe one hundred (100) least senior employees within foe Cooperative when foe number of employees initially subject to layoff is between thirty-one (31) and fifty (50). The listing shall consist of the one hundred twenty five (125) least senior employees when the number of employees initially subject to layoff exceeds fifty (50). In foe event the number of employees initially subject to layoff exceeds one hundred twenty five (125), foe number of employees on foe listing will equal foe number of employees initially subject to layoff. For purposes of this section, least senior employees are those working in foe Cooperative’s western Washington facilities.
7.4	Single Unit Layoff and Reassignment In a hospital, or branch office of Home Health and Hosolce. In foe event of a single unit layoff, the least senior employee(s) on the unit needed to accomplish the required FTE reduction will be subject to layoff, providing remaining employees are qualified to do foe work. The Employer will first identify foe (east senior employee(s) on the shift, or branch office of Home Health and
15
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
Hospice, whose, position(s) is being eliminated." 'The least senior employee(s) on this shift/in the CHS clinical services unit may elect, in order of seniority, reassignment to the . position(s) held by employees subject to [layoff, tor which the affected emptoyee(s) is (are)
qualified, -or, choose layoff options set forth in Article 7.8, provided the affected employee(s) is not also the least senior on the unit. '
7.5	Unit-Wide Reassignment Process for Single Unit Layoff In a hospital, or branch office of Home Health and Hospice.Jn the event the criteria defined in Article 7.3.3 are satisfied, the .feast senior employees on the unit are^subject to layoff, providing that , the remaining employees are qualified to do the work remaining. Employees not subject to Jayoff will be reassigned in order of seniority to all remaining positions so long, as patient 1care and staffing considerations (including weekend coverage) are met. An employee currently assigned a .5 FTE or greater whose only reassignment option is a position, which would involve more than ,2& FTE reduction'shall be eligible for the options provided in
' Article5.11. ’■	:	‘	1	: •
7.6	Multi-Unit Lavoff/Merger. in the event of a multi-urirf layoff, the Employer will first identify the new unit(s) or services and. the .type and amount of resources, number of PTEs, levels of personnel and.skills and competencies needed. Scheduling and staffing ... patterns will be developed with input from affected employees. Upon request, the parties
will meet for the purpose of discussing implementation of the layoff.
„ New schedules will be posted so that employees may indicate the order of their preference for available positions. Employees will be reassigned to positions within foe merged or new .units in order of relative seniority .among the combined group of affected.employees, based on the skill and competencies, needed by the Employer and :employee preference, until there are no positions available or the remaining positions have been; rejected by the employee pursuant to the provisions of Article 5.11.
. An employee may bid .-for any available positions on the merged or new. units during , reassignment. -An employee assigned a ..5 FJE or greater whose only;.reassignment , option is a position that would involve, ,more than .25 FTE reduction is eligible .to exercise ; .optionsprovided for in Article:5.If. v r .; .l -	e
to lntheevent;ofa. multi-unit layoff thatinvoives two or more area medical centers within a region of the Cooperative, the reassignment process will provide employees with a choice of positions within their current facility and any newly created positions in new work units r^fon^v^ich; the.employees pre ■ qualified	order of relative seniority among.the combined
.grou p of- affected employees. v~..f, ..	■',. <	. >..
;•!	n'n’%; 91	y'.. “J9'Ck. ’ "C p? >	”■>
TJ-Lavoff in Ambulatory Care.. In the event of a layoff in;ambulatory care,.the employee o; (s).whose position is.eliminated shall,first,be,reassigned to any comparable vacancy in the . work, unit, (tn the case of more than one.comparable vacancy, the employee-.may select which comparable position) or, in the case of Home Health and Hospice, in any branch office, for which the employee is qualified. If there is no comparable vacancy, the affected
Group Health Cooperative-SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses	'	1
2005-2008 Contract
employee(s) may elect reassignment to (a) a vacancy in the work unit, or, in the case of Home Health and Hospice, in any branch office, providing the employee Is qualified or (b) the position of the least senior employee in the work unit, or, in the case of Home Health and Hospice in all branches, providing the employee is qualified; or may (c) choose one of the layoff options provided under Articles 7.8.1 and 7,8.2. In the event the employee is qualified for and chooses reassignment to the position of the least senior employee in the work unit/ Home Health and. Hospice division, that employee(s) is laid off and may exercise layoff options provided in Articles 7.8.1 and 7.8.2.
7.B	Involuntary Layoff Options. An employee subject to involuntary layoff will have the following options: ■
a.	The employee may choose any vacancy in the employee's job classification for which the employee is qualified.
b.	In the event there is no comparable vacancy for which the employee is qualified, and the employee does not fill any vacancy that is available, the employee may choose a position ("bump") from the appropriate Low Seniority Roster for which the employee is qualified.
c.	The employee may choose lay off with recall rights and involuntary layoff severance benefits. The Involuntary severance package will include one (1) week of severance pay for every full year of service up to a maximum of twelve (12) weeks and three (3) months of medical coverage.
7.	8.1 Low Seniority Roster. An employee identified for layoff whose name already appears on the Low Senior Job Roster, and any employee on the Low Senior Job Roster whose position has been selected as a result of this process, shall be subject to layoff with recall rights and involuntary severance benefits, providing the employee is eligible under the terms of the policy.
If there is a need to restrict the number of Low Seniority Roster employees within a work unit whose positions may be assumed so as to not compromise patient care, the Employer, prior to making a final determination, will meet with the Union In a good faith effort to reach agreement on the need for such a restriction. If there are any restrictions placed on the number of Low Seniority Roster employees within a particular work unit whose position is subject to being assumed, the Low Seniority Roster will be adjusted in order to provide the contractually required number of employees.
7,9	Voluntary Layoff. Prior to the implementation of "bumping", a voluntary layoff with severance benefits will be first offered to other employees in the job classification in the work unit, providing that the remaining employees are qualified to perform the required work, tn the event more employees volunteer than needed, more senior employees will be accepted as volunteers, providing that the remaining employees are qualified to perform the required work. The voluntary severance package will Include 2 weeks of
—
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
severance pay for every full year of service up to a maximum of sixteen (16) weeks and one (1) year of medical coverage.
7.10	Discretionary Relocation Assistance. In order to encourage and facilitate relocation from one work unit to another by those employees subject to layoff, GHC may offer relocation assistance. When determined opportune, GHC will rely on its then current policy, for any relocation assistance the employer may choose to offer.
7,11	Retention of Seniority. An employee assuming a vacant position or a position from the Low Seniority Roster will retain all prior seniority.
7.12	Notice. Except in emergency situations or unforeseeable conditions beyond the Employer's control, the Union and employees involved shall be given at least thirty (30) days’ advance notice of layoff. The obligation of the Employer to give notice will be satisfied by actual notice or proof of delivery of written notice to the address of the employee last provided to the Employer. Employees on the Low Seniority Roster whose position is assumed (“bumped") by a more senior employee subject to layoff will be given at least 10 days advance notice.
7.13	Seniority Roster, In the event of a layoff, a seniority roster will be available through the Human Resources Division.
7.14	Termination. Seniority shall terminate upon cessation of the Employer-employee relationship; for example, discharge, resignation, retirement, refusal to accept recall to a regular comparable job opening offered by the Employer, after twenty-four (24) consecutive months of layoff, or failure to comply with specified recall procedures.
7.15	Temporary Work. Employees on layoff who are qualified shall be given preference to work intermittent shifts subject to the requirements for all temporary employees at the facility. Employees desiring temporary work while on layoff shall be responsible for contacting the facility where they desire temporary work to indicate the employee's interest and availability. Acceptance of intermittent work will not affect an employee’s recall rights.
7.16	Recall Roster, Employees on layoff status shall be placed on a recall roster for a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of layoff. An employee placed on the recall roster shall provide and keep updated while on the recall roster a current address and telephone number where the employee can be reached, including an alternative phone number where the employee can be reached within two business days.
7.17	Order of Recall. As vacancies occur, employees will be recalled to available work in the inverse order of the seniority providing skill; competence and ability are considered substantially equal in the judgment of the Employer. Subject to the above qualifications, an employee on layoff shall be offered reinstatement to vacant positions prior to any employees being newly hired and after any appropriate internal transfers as further set
18
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
forth in this section. Employees regularly assigned to a, specific .unit, department or facility will be given preferential consideration for transfer to other shifts or positions in that unit,. department or facility over all other employees except more senior employees returning from layoff status to their .previous .unit and.'shift or, position and department/facility. If any offer of recall is accepted, the employee shall be. dee med recalled and be removed fipm the recall roster. Any recall of employees out of seniority will be communicated to the Union representative in advance of the recall.
•	-■	’• n.v . pl ■“ - ■ n ■■	J ‘I'’
7.18	Refusal of Offer. An employee who refuses an offer^of recall to comparable employment shall be terminated.
7,1ft Statements of Continued Interest. Employees who have been on layoff for .’six'(6) months ormore must submit to the Employer a written statement Indicating a continuing interest in employment;that is received by the first business day qf the seventh (7th) ■rpoRthandon a monthly basis thereafter. If the employee fails to meet this requirement by ,|he first business day of each month, the employee's name will be eliminated from the recall list and the Employer's recall commitments shall terminate. „
Employeqs. may voluntarily enter into a written agreement with the Employer to waive recall to those types of non-comparable vacant positions as specified by the, employee. The employee may change or cancel any such waiver by providing the Employer with appropriate written notice op the designated form available from the Human Resources ^Division. Any. changes or cancellation of waiver is effective only upon receipt, by the
Employer as to those positions still available for recall. .
7.20	Duration of Recall Rights. The Employer's obligation contained herein shall cease after, eighteen (J 8) consecutive months on layoff status; if the employee refuses to accept . an offerof employment pursuant to Article 7,15, or if the employee fails to comply with the requirements of Article 7.16. v , ...	-p.
7,21	Low Census. During, a temporary period of low census, the,Employer will seek.out volunteers to take time off before determining and implementing the reduped staffing schedule required.
, A	, f_. f.r , ,,	; Jr> -.	-
; :-f: 7J1;1 Hospttal/Home Health and Hospice-Low Census. .Whera unanticioated
> low census occurs in the inpatient facilities, Tacoma Specialty, Genter.ambulatpry surgery-unitor Home -Health, and Hospice, ihe-following steps, will de-takervinthe order stated .below:; -a-	s:. ■ ,. .jr-a ,>.?	enorin
. ■ <,<j•->. -a..: Floating where there is patientcare nee<fe< ■■■	: -	? v
j;; b. ’ Voluntary low census. ■	‘\ .no ;.r.J 1V? ' :>• n; Sfi! ’i'i
,Tf?5: ■, - c, Other nursing related work-assignments ,qr, skill development ..consistent : . with organizational , and patient-care needs as detprmined by the t.-‘; :n‘	; Employer. These activities witi be funded up.to. amayimum.amount ef
; j	$100,000 per calendar year. ----- "	- - .
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses	.hit. t ■.
2005-2008 Contract

7.22	Change to Temporary Status, Regular employees changing to temporary status and returning to regular status within twelve (12) months shall not lose previously accrued seniority or their prior Paid Time Off accrual rate. Time spent during temporary status shall not count toward the accrual of benefits or seniority.
Previously accrued Paid Time Off shall be paid upon transfer to temporary status. Employees changing to temporary employment status may not use previously accrued EIB hours during such temporary status. Temporary employees returning to regular status without a break in service within twelve (12) months shall have previously accrued EIB hours reinstated.
ARTICLE 8	— WAGES
8.1	Wage Schedule.
a)	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid in accordance with the wage schedule (Appendix A).
Effective first full pay period after ratification: Rates of pay shall be increased 4.5%.
Effective the first full pay period on or after July 1, 2005, rates of pay shall be increased by 3.5%.
Effective the first full pay period on or after July 1,2006, rates of pay shall be increased by 3.5%.
Effective the first full pay period on or after July 1,2007, rates of pay shall be increased by 3.5%.
b)	Effective January 7, 2006, a twenty-five (25) year step will be implemented. Nurses after January 7, 2006 who have been at the twenty (20) year (step 15) for five years or longer will advance to the twenty-five year (25) rate (step 16).
c)	Effective the first full pay period on or after July 1, 2007, a new step structure will be implemented per Appendix A
d)	Ratification incentive- Regular employees employed as of 1/22/05 shall be paid a bonus payment in the amount of $850 pro rated for FTE. This amount shall be net of applicable federal taxes. Temporary part-time employees will receive a ratification incentive in the amount of $350 (pro-rated as a function of the hours worked in the period from July 1,2004 to January 22, 2005).
Effective August 15, 1998, Nurse Practitioners will be compensated as exempt (salaried) employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and will not be eligible for overtime
20
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
compensation. The following provisions shall not apply to Nurse Practitioners: Article 5.5 (Overtime); Article 5.7 (Twelve Hours Off Duty); Article 5.9 (Doubleback Pay); Article 9.1 (Shift Differential); Article 9.3 (Callback Pay); Article 9.4 (Work in Advance of Shift), Article 9.5 (Work on Day Off), Article 9.7 (Report Pay), and Article 9.10 (Weekend Premium Pay); Article 11.3 (Pay for Holiday Worked); and 11.4 (Pay for Holiday Not Worked).
Full time and part time Nurse Practitioners who work additional shifts beyond their regular schedule/FTE. shall be compensated on a lump sum basis: up to five hours (5 x regular rate) and over five hours (8 x regular rate).
Longevity increments shall become effective at the beginning of the first full pay period closest to the increment date.
8.2	Hlre4n Rates. Employees hired during the term of this Agreement shall be given full credit for continuous recent experience when placed on the wage scale.
For purposes of this section, continuous recent experience shall be defined as clinical nursing experience (including temporary employment with the Cooperative) in an accredited hospital or ambulatory care setting, home health agency, long term care facility or equivalent health care experience or participation in a formal program of nursing education without a break in nursing experience which would reduce the level of nursing skills and is experience relevant to that required in the position for which the nurse is being hired in the opinion of Nursing Administration. It shall remain the prerogative of the Employer to establish at what step in the schedule to place newly hired nurses in all other circumstances.
8.3	Special Service Premiums, Any employee receiving merit or special service premiums prior to July 1, 1969 shall continue to receive such premiums in addition to the applicable salary provided for by the current Agreement; provided, however, that special service premiums will be continued only if the employee continues to perform the special service for which the premium was initially intended.
8.4	LPN Experience. A Group Health Licensed Practical Nurse who becomes a Group Health Registered Nurse will be placed at a wage level that is not less than the LPN's current compensation or will receive a credit of one (1) RN year experience for every three (3) LPN years of experience up to and including Step 3, whichever is greater. For new hires, RN’s will also receive credit for past LPN experience in the same manner of one (1) year credit for every three (3) years LPN experience for placement onto the wage scales, up to and including Step 3. Applicable clinical LPN experience for placement shall be defined as continuous recent experience in an accredited hospital, ambulatory care setting, home health agency, skilled nursing facility, or equivalent health care experience without a break In nursing experience which would reduce the level of licensed practical nursing skills in the opinion of the Employer
21
Group Health Cooperstive- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
ARTICLE 9	— OTHER COMPENSATION
9.1	Shift Differential. Employees assigned to work the second (3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.) shift shall be paid a shift differential of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour over the regular hourly rate of pay. Employees assigned to work the third (11:00 p.m. to 7.00 a.m.) shift shall be paid a shift differentia) of three dollars and fifty cents ($3.75) per hour over the regular hourly rate of pay. Shift differential at outpatient facilities shall be in effect for one or more regularly scheduled hours after 5:30 p.m., provided however, that if four or more hours of the scheduled shift occur after 5:00 p.m., shift differential shall be paid for the entire shift. If a majority of the scheduled hours of an inpatient shift fall within the standard shift time, the appropriate shift differential will be paid for the entire shift.
9.2	Standby Pay. -Effective January 22, 2005, employees placed on standby status shall be compensated at the rate of four dollars ($4.00) per hour. Effective first full pay period after January 1,2007, the rate shall be four dollars and twenty-five cents ($4.25) per hour. The Employer shall provide paging devices io nurses assigned to standby.
An employee called into work from standby shall be compensated at the overtime rate for a minimum of three (3) hours. When standby is taken in lieu of a pre-scheduled shift, the hours worked will be paid at the regular rate of pay, for a minimum of three (3) hours.
9.3	Callback Pay. Any employee called back to work after completion of the employee's regular workday shall be compensated to the rate of time and one-half (1%) the regular rate of pay. Call back pay shall be paid in addition to any standby pay. When called back, the employee shall receive time and one-half (1%) for a minimum of three (3) hours. Travel time to and from the hospital shall not be considered as time worked. Call back pay shall not apply when an employee reports for work in advance of the assigned shift. The minimum call back hours shall not apply in this instance.
9.4	Work In Advance of Shift. When an employee, at the request of the Employer, reports for work in advance of the assigned shift and continues working through the entire scheduled shift, all hours worked prior to the scheduled shift shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) times the straight time rate of pay. Work performed during the scheduled shift shall be paid at the regular rate of pay.
9.5	Works on Day Off. Full-time employees called in on their day off shall be paid at the rate of one and one-haif (1X) times the regular rate of pay for the hours worked.
9.6	Work In Higher Position. Temporary assignment to a higher paid position for eight (8) or more consecutive hours shall be compensated at the higher rate of pay.
9.7	Report Pay. Employees who report for work as scheduled (unless otherwise notified in advance) and are released from duty by the Employer because of low census shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours' work for four (4) hours' pay at the straight time rate
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
of pay. It shall be the responsibility of each employee to notify the Employer of his/her current address and telephone number. Failure to do so shall excuse the Employer from these minimum pay requirements. This commitment shall not apply when the Employer has made a good faith effort to notify the employee of shift cancellation but has been repeatedly unable to reach the employee on separate occasions. Employees who are required to report to work for staff meetings, training or other similar circumstances shall be compensated for such duty not less than one (1) hour pay at the employee’s regular rate of pay unless overtime is due.
9.8	Changes In Title. A change in job title within the bargaining unit shall not alter an employee's accrued bargaining unit seniority for purposes of accrual of benefits.
9.8.1	Promotions. A promotion shall be defined as a move from a job classification with a lower base rate to one with a higher base rate. Employees promoted to a higher classification shall be placed at that step in the new scale which provides at least a three percent (3%) increase tn rate of pay up to the maximum rate of pay for the new classification. An employee's longevity increment date shall not be changed as a result of a promotion.
9.9	Charge Pay. Any employee assigned as charge nurse shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour over the regular staff nurse rate of pay. Effective July 9, 2005, any employee assigned as charge nurse shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per hour over the regular staff nurse rate of pay.
9.10	Weekend Premium Pay. Any employee who works weekend hours shall receive four dollars ($4.00) per hour for each hour worked on the weekend in addition to the employee's regular rate of pay. The weekend shall be defined as hours between 11:00 p.m. Friday and 11:00 p.m. Sunday. Weekend premium pay shall not be included in the employee’s regular rate of pay for overtime calculations, unless required by the Fair Labor Standards Act
9.11	Preceptor Pay. When assigned preceptor responsibilities an employee shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per hour over the regular rate of pay.
9.12	Certification Pay
Registered nurses certified in a specialty area by a national organization and working in that area of certification shall be paid a premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all hours worked, provided the particular certification has been approved by the Executive Director of Nursing, or her designee, and further provided that the nurse continues to meet all educational and other requirements to keep the certification/recertification current and in good standing. A certified nurse is eligible for only one certification premium, regardless of other certifications the nurse may have. Certifications required for the job such as ACLS, PALS, TNCC are not eligible for certification pay. The Employer will determine if the certification qualifies for the area in which the nurse works. Certified nurses will notify their manager in writing at the time of
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
certification/recertification and provide evidence of certification/recertification when received Certification pay will be effective the next full pay period after the manager receives the date documentation. Certification pay will cease if renewal documents are not received by the established timeline.
A list of approved certifications will be developed by the Continuing Education Committee and posted online through the Nursing Operations website. The CE Committee will review the certification list annually and recommend updates to the Executive Director of Nursing. New certification programs may be considered for addition to the list by submitting a thorough program description, including purpose, scope, term, prerequisites for certification, recertification, fee schedule and other pertinent information to the CE Committee who may make a recommendation to the Executive Director of Nursing.
The certification premium will be paid on a straight-time basis only even if the hours worked are deemed overtime.
ARTICLE 10	- PAID TIME OFF
10.1	Purpose - Paid Time off is intended to provide employees with paid time to cover needs for vacation, personal and family illness in addition to other needs or uses as defined by the employee and to encourage use of such time on a scheduled basis.
10.2	Definitions
10. 2.1 Unscheduled Absence The following notification standards shall be used to determine whether an absence is scheduled or unscheduled, for purposes of determining an employee's attendance record:
10.2.2.1	Absences of Less Than 5 Days - Any absence taken with less than 40 hours advance notice.
10.2.2.2	Absences of 5 Days or Longer - Any absence taken with less than 14 days advance notice.
10. 2.2 Hours at Risk - The accrued PTO hours that must be used by the employee's next PTO anniversary date. These hours are reported as “hours to be used by {anniversary date]" on the employee’s biweekly earnings statement. The “to be used" balance includes any hours carried over from the previous anniversary, plus 50% of the accrual to date in the current year.
10. 3 Eligibility - All regular employees shall accrue hours under the Paid Time Off Plan from their date of employment or date of transfer to the Paid Time Off Plan. Paid
24
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2003 Contract
Time Off accrual hours may be used as accrued. However, no more than 48 hours of the accrued PTO time (pro-rated for part-time employees) may be used during the employee's first 6 months of employment.
10.4 Accrual Schedule - The combined accrual schedule is as follows:
| Completion of	Full-Time/pay period	Part-Time
11-2 years	4.92 hours	.0615 hrs/hr
3 years	5.544 hours	.0693 hrs/hr
4-5 years	7.367 hours	.0922 hrs/hr
6-7 years	7.696 hours	.0962 hrs/hr
8-9 years	8.000 hours	.1000 hrs/hr
10-11 years	8.304 hours	.1038 hrs/hr
112+ years	8.92 hours	.1115 hrs/hr
10	. 5 Use of Paid Time Off Accrued Hours - Paid Time Off hours may be taken in hourly, daily or weekly increments, subject to supervisory approval of requests for scheduled absences. Each department's established Paid Time Off rules as well as the provisions of Article 10 of this Agreement shall apply regarding advance notice, supervisory approval, scheduling requirements and minimum increments to be taken.
10,6 Vacation Scheduling- The vacation year shall be based upon an employee’s anniversary date. After six (6) months of continuous employment, employees may schedule and take PTO as vacation to the extent it has been earned. Vacations shall be scheduled by the Employer in such a way as will least interfere with the functions of the department and the continuity of patient care. The Employer will make a good faith effort to secure adequate staffing to provide improved vacation scheduling opportunities.
Vacations shall be scheduled in the Nursing Department by work. unit. A vacation-scheduling chart will be posted in each unit from January 1, through February 14 that covers the vacation period of May 15 through May 14 of the following year. Employees who fail to register their vacation selection during the period of posting will forfeit their seniority rights concerning vacation schedules. Where vacation conflicts with the rotation of holidays, and/or the day before and the day after those holidays, individual holiday rotation shall take precedence. The Employer will notify employees of their vacation dates by the first Monday in March. Vacation requests made outside the scheduled posting period will be approved or denied by supervision within four (4) weeks of the request. Subject to staffing and patient care requirements; length of service in the bargaining unit shall be the determining factor within each department or facility in vacation selection during the designated posting period.
25
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
10	.7 Conversion of Unused Patd Time Off - At the end of each 12 month period on Paid Time Off (on the employee’s “To Be Used By" date), up to 48 hours of “Hours at Risk" will be automatically deposited in the Extended Illness Bank (EIB) account at 100% value.
Employees who have less than 48 hours “Hours at Risk" at their Paid Time Off anniversary date may elect to convert up to a total of 43 hours from the current year’s accrual to their EIB account. In order to exercise this election, eligible employees must notify Human Resources within 60 days of their anniversary date of their election to convert current year’s accrual to EIB. The EIB hours will accumulate year-to-year to a maximum of 1,000 hours.
Exceptions to PTO carryover limitation. Employees may request an adjustment to the PTO anniversary date of up to 90 calendar days (before or after the current date) under the following rules:
a.	The adjustment must occur within the same budget year as their current anniversary date, however the adjustment may not result in a carryover of more than 100% of a year’s annual accrual.
b.	The adjustment may not result in a carryover of more than 50% of a year’s PTO accrual to the next budget year.
c.	The adjustment of the anniversary date must be requested in order to enable the employee to take accrued time off that would not otherwise be available under the employee's current anniversary date (due to the 50% limitation on carryover). Only adjustments that are approved during the vacation-bidding period of January 1 through February 14 of each year consistent with the requirements of Article 10.1 shall be allowed.
d.	The approved vacation must be taken as requested (no cancellations are permitted once a change of anniversary date has been approved)
e.	All requests for a change of anniversary date must be submitted to the manager in accordance with the terms of this provision.
10.	8 Extended Illness Bank (EIB) - Employees shall accrue 48 hours per year (prorated for part-time employees) into the Extended Illness Bank (EIB) for use in the event of extended illness. The accrual shall be at the rate of 1.85 hours per pay period or .023 hours per hour worked. The maximum accumulation to the EIB bank shall be 1000 hours.
EIB hours may be used in the event of an illness lasting longer than 24 consecutive scheduled work hours (pro-rated for part-time employees). The first 24 consecutive hours of scheduled work time (pro-rated for part-time employees) missed due to an
26
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
illness shall be deducted from the employee's PTO account; all subsequent hours of absence due to the same illness may be taken from the EIB. For example, an employee assigned a .5 FTE, may access EIB after the first 12 consecutive hours of schedule work are missed due to an illness. (.5 FTE x 24 work hours ~ 12 hours.) There are four exceptions for which EIB hours may be used for the first day of absence due to illness:
1.	Occupational Injury -In the event an employee has exhausted his/her PTO, and incurs an occupational injury for which the employee is eligible for workers compensation insurance, then the employee will have access to his/her EIB accrual at the first day of absence due to the occupational injury.
2.	Relapse - In the event an employee suffers a relapse of the same illness within five (5) calendar days of returning to work, the additional hours of illness shall be treated as part of the original illness for purposes of eligibility to access the EIB.
3.	Ten-Day Absence - In the event an employee has an extended illness lasting ten (10) or more calendar days, the first 24 scheduled hours of work (prorated for part-time employees) missed due to that illness shall be paid retroactively from the employee’s EIB account.
4.	Hospitalization - In the event an employee is hospitalized overnight, the first three days of that absence may be paid from the employee’s EIB account. Same day surgery, if requiring five or more days of recovery, may also be paid from the employee’s EIB account.
10.	9 Paid Time Off Compensation - Accrued Paid Time Off as appropriate shall be payable at the employee's regular rate of pay on the first (1st) day of bona fide illness, injury, disability due to pregnancy or childbirth, or Illness or injury of the employee or the employee’s dependent child, spouse, parent, parent-in-law, or grandparent, pursuant to state law. Employees shall be required to notify the Employer at least two (2) hours in advance of the employee’s scheduled shift if unable to report for duty on the first shift. Three (3) hours advance notice shall be required if the employee is unable to report for scheduled duty on the second or third shift. Failure to do so may result in loss of Paid Time Off compensation for that day.
The Employer reserves the right to require reasonable proof of illness. Proven abuse of accrued Paid Time Off (i.e., a false claim of illness or other justification tor an unscheduled absence) shall be grounds for discharge.
10.9.	1 Accrued Paid Time Off shall not be payable on contractually designated or scheduled holiday.
27
Group Health Cooperative. SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
10.9.	2 Transition provisions- For all regular employees employed as of January 22, 2005, a maximum of thirty two (32) hours, prorated by FTE, will be converted from their accrued EiB to their PTO balances.
10,1	0 Medical Appointment - Employees will be expected to schedule medical appointments and/or treatments during non-working hours. Paid release time will be allowed for medical appointments and/or treatments with Group Health practitioners which an employee is unable to schedule during non-work hours. Up to two (2) hours may be included as release time, to be paid only when a minimum of three (3) days advance notice is received and the absence Is approved by management. Release time tor medical appointments and/or treatments with Group Health Cooperative is subject to supervisory approval based upon patient care considerations and departmental needs. Paid release time is considered absence from work. A maximum of two (2) medical appointments in a calendar year will be paid as medical appointment time.
10.1	1 On-The-Job Injury - Accrued Paid Time Office may be used to supplement the amount received by an employee from Workers Compensation Insurance as provided in Section 13.02 up to the amount of the employee's pay for the hours the employee would have worked had the employee been available for work.
ARTICLE 11	— HOLIDAYS
11.1	Holidays. The following holidays shall be granted with regular pay including shift differential:
New Year’s Day	Labor Day
Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday Thanksgiving
Presidents’ Day	Christmas
Memorial Day	Floating Holiday
Independence Day
The floating holiday will be scheduled off with the approval of supervision. New employees shall not be eligible to take the floating holiday until after six (6) months of continuous employment. Floating holidays must be taken in the same calendar year as an employee becomes eligible for the floating holiday.
11.2	Holiday During Paid Time Off. Holidays will be scheduled off on a rotational basis. If a holiday fails during an employee’s Paid Time Off, the day will be charged as a holiday.
11.3	Pay for Holiday Worked. Full-time and part-time regular employees required to work on a holiday shall be paid one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate of pay plus eight (8) hours' holiday pay at straight time. Upon mutual agreement, a day off as unpaid leave with benefits may be taken within a thirty (30) day period following the holiday.
. _
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
Temporary employees required to work on a holiday shall receive one and one-half (1 %) times their regular rate of pay.
11.4	Pay for Holiday Not Worked. If a holiday falls on a full-time employee’s regularly scheduled day off, the employee shall receive straight-time pay for the holiday. Upon mutual agreement, a day off as unpaid leave with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday. Full or part-time employees who take their regularly scheduled shift off due to the holiday will be paid for the number of hours the employee would have worked but for the holiday. Part-time employees shall receive prorated pay calculated by multiplying their assigned FTE times the number of hours worked in their normal workday (e.g., 8,10 or 12) for holidays which fall on a scheduled day off.
11.5	Night Shift Holiday Pay. Holiday pay for third (night) shift employees shall be paid for the shift where the majority of the hours worked are on the designated calendar date for the holiday.
11,6	Holiday Dates, Calendar dates to be observed as holidays shall be specified by the Employer at least one month in advance by notices posted in conspicuous locations in the hospital or clinic. Holidays shall be observed on the legally designated day.
11.7	Holiday Hours - Christmas and New Year's. The following designated hours shall be recognized as the holiday for employees who work in a department that provides 24-hour patient care: Whichever date a majority of hours are worked on between 3:00 p.m. December 24 and before 3:00 p.m. December 25 shall be the Christmas Day holiday. Whichever date a majority of hours are worked on between 3:00 p.m. December 31 and before 3:00 p.m. January 1 shall be the New Year's holiday.
11.8	Holiday Observance. When a department is open on the calendar date of the holiday, holiday pay shall be paid for work performed on the calendar date of the holiday. If the department is closed on the calendar date of the holiday, but open on the day designated by the Employer for observance of the holiday, holiday pay shall be paid, for work performed on the designated date for observance of the holiday.
11.9	Exempt Nurse Practitioner Pay for Holiday Not Worked, If a holiday falls on an exempt Nurse Practitioners' regularly scheduled day off, the Nurse Practitioner shall receive a day off with pay within thirty (30) days following the holiday. A part time employee whose holiday falls on the regularly scheduled day off shall receive a paid day off equivalent to their assigned FTE. In no event shall an employee receive more than his or her regular salary.
11.10	Exempt Nurae Practitioner Pay for Holiday Worked. If exempt Nurse Practitioners Is required to work on a holiday, the Nurse Practitioner shall receive a day off with pay within thirty (30) days following the holiday. A part-time Nurse Practitioner required to work on a holiday shall receive a paid day off equivalent to their assigned FTE. In no event shall an employee receive more than his or her regular salary.
29
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
ARTICLE 12	—OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE
12.1	In General. All leaves of absence shall be requested from the Employer in writing as far in advance as possible stating the amount of time requested, A written reply will be given by the Employer in response to the request. Leaves of absence for the purpose of extending vacation shall be entirely at the convenience of the Employer. A written reply to grant or deny the request shall be given by the Employer within thirty (30) days. Temporary employees shall not be eligible for any leave of absence.
12.2	Educatlonal/Professional Leave,
Tuition Reimbursement: Members of the bargaining unit are eligible for tuition reimbursement in addition to continuing education dollars. This program provides assistance for eligible members to pursue baccalaureate degrees in nursing and graduate degrees in nursing or a health related field.
The tuition reimbursement fund will be overseen by the CE Committee and administered by Nursing Operations. The tuition reimbursement program will be funded at an annual level of $75,000 per calendar year. Unspent funds shall not be carried over into the following year.
Unpaid Educational Leave: Up to twenty-four (24) hours of leave without pay per year shall be granted for educational purposes, providing nursing services will not be jeopardized.
Paid Educational/professional Leave/Time: After six (6) months of continuous employment, employees shall be allowed up to fifty-six (56) hours of paid leave/time per year for education or professional purposes, providing such leave/time shall be subject to scheduling requirements of the Employer, approval by the Employer of the subject matter and certification of attendance and/or completion of the course, where applicable. Educational/professional leave/time may be used on an hourly basis. Educational/professional leave/time accrues on a calendar year basis. Unused time may not be earned over to the next calendar year. Nurse Practitioners will be allowed up to seventy-two (72) hours of paid educational/professional leave/time.
Professional leave/time may be granted to employees to attend conventions of employees’ respective professional nursing association provided the number of nurses who wish to attend does not jeopardize provision of health care services. District, State, or National Officers of the Professional Nursing Association shall be exempt from the six- (6) month’s eligibility requirement of this Section. Professional leave/time may be used for professional nursing certification exams.
30
Group Health Cooperative- S£tU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
Educational/professional time shall be paid at straight time when taken on a scheduled day off. Paid educational/professional time taken on a scheduled day off shall not be included as time worked for purposes of calculating overtime under Article 5.5 or the accrual of benefits.
12.3	Military Leave. Leave required in order for a regular employee to maintain status in a military reserve of the United States shall be granted without loss of accrued benefits. After one year of employment, a regular employee called for temporary reserve duty will be paid the difference between the pay they receive for such service and the amount of straight time eamings lost by reason of such service up to a maximum of eighty (80) hours. In order to be eligible for payments under this provision, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of military pay received.
12.4	Health Leave. After one (1) year of continuous employment, permission shall be granted for a leave of absence for health reasons including disability because of pregnancy or childbirth without loss of accrued benefits. Exceptions may be considered for emergency medical conditions. A leave of absence begins on the date of first absence from work. PTO or EIB time shall be used for the period of temporary disability during this period in accordance with this Agreement. If EIB is exhausted prior to the end of the leave, any accrued Paid Time Off shall then be used, except that an employee may elect to reserve up to eighty (80) hours (pro-rated for part-time employees) of Paid Time Off. An employee on a medical leave of absence not exceeding twelve (12) weeks from the date of first absence from work shall be entitled to return to the employee's prior position. Thereafter, the employee shall be entitled to the first available position for which the employee is qualified. Leave for medical reasons shall not exceed six (6) months. The one-year service requirement shall not apply to health leaves for temporary disability due to pregnancy or childbirth.
12.5	Family Leave, (a) State Law. After one (1) year of continuous regular employment, permission shall be granted for a leave of absence to: (a) care for a newborn or newly adopted child of the employee under the age of six at the time of placement or adoption, or (b) care for a child under the age of eighteen years old of the employee who has a terminal health condition. A leave of absence begins on the first absence from work, or, in the case of childbirth, on the first day after the mother's temporary medical disability from childbirth has ended. Family leave shall be unpaid except: (a) an employee shall use accrued Paid Time Off at the beginning of the leave, and (b) an employee on leave to care for a terminally-lll child shall use accrued Paid Time Off at the beginning of the leave as permitted by state law The employee may elect to reserve up to eighty (80) hours (pro-rated for part-time employees) of Paid Time Off. Family leave must be completed within twelve months after the birth or placement for adoption. All paid time must be used on a continuous basis beginning the first date of absence. Paid time may not be interspersed throughout the employee's leave(s).
31
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
An employee on family leave not exceeding twelve (12) weeks from date of first absence from work, or, in the case of childbirth, from the first day after the mother's temporary medical disability from childbirth has ended, shall be entitled to return to his or her prior position. Thereafter, the employee shall be entitled to the first available position for which he or she is qualified. Such leave shall not exceed one (1) year. If both parents of the newborn or newly adopted child are employees, they shall each be entitled to twelve (12) weeks of family leave.
Alleged violations of the family leave provision shall be submitted to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 16 in accordance with the Washington Family Care Act. This section shall also apply to the children of the employee's domestic partner.
(b) Federal Law. Pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, upon completion of one (1) year of employment, an employee shall be granted up to twelve (12) weeks of unpaid leave to. (a) care for the employee s child after birth, or placement for adoption or foster care; or (b) care for the employee’s spouse/domestic partner, son or daughter, or parent, who has a serious health condition; or (c) tor a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the employee's job, provided that:
(1)	For leaves beginning on or after July 1, 2005, the employee shad have worked 900 hours in the twelve (12) months preceding the start of the leave; and
(2)	For leaves beginning on or after July 1, 2007, the employee shall have worked 1,250 hours in the twelve (12) months preceding the start of the leave;
(It being understood that hours worked includes all “low census hours" and all hours for which the employee was on unpaid union leave)... The Employer shall maintain the employee's health benefits during this leave and shall reinstate the employee to the employee’s former or equivalent position at the conclusion of the leave. The use of family leave shall not result tn the loss of any employment benefit that accrued prior to the commencement of the leave. Under certain conditions, family leave may be taken intermittently or on a reduced work schedule.
If a leave qualifies under both federal and state law, the leave shall run concurrently. Ordinarily, the employee must provide thirty (30) days’ advance notice to the Employer when the leave is foreseeable. An employee shall use accrued paid leave time for which the employee is eligible during family leave, except that an employee may elect to reserve up to eighty (80) hours (pro-rated for part-time employees) of vacation. Family leave shall be interpreted consistently with the conditions and provisions of the state and federal law.
12.6	Child Care Leave. After one (1) year of continuous employment, an unpaid leave may be granted to an employee to care for a dependent child who resides with the employee for conditions other than those set forth in Article 12.5 (Family Leave) without loss of seniority or accrued benefits, subject to the Employer’s policy on vacation
32
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
carryover. An employee on childcare leave shall be entitled to the first available position for which she/he is qualified. Such leave shall not exceed one year.
12.7	Reinstatement When nurse returns from a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) days, she/he shall be assigned to the same position, shift and unit held before me leave.
12.8	Jury Duty. Regular employees who are called to serve on a jury shall be compensated by the Employer for the difference between their jury duty pay and their normal straight time pay.
12.9	Emergency Leave. Emergency leave of up to three (3) workdays with pay shall be granted for death in the regular employee's immediate family. Such leave shall be completed within ten (10) days following the date of the death. The Employer may consider extenuating circumstances in granting an exception to the ten-day completion requirement. The term “immediate family" shall mean the following relatives of the employee or employee’s spouse: spouse, domestic partner (spousal equivalent), mother, father, child, son or daughter-in-law, sister, brother, grandchild or grandparents. One (1) additional day off with pay will be granted when an employee is required to travel more than five hundred (500) miles in any one direction to attend the funeral. This benefit shall be prorated for regular part-time employees.
12.10	Maintenance of Seniority. Leave with pay or for industrial injury shall not alter a nurse's anniversary date of employment or otherwise affect her/his compensation or status with the Employer. Leave without pay for a period less than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days shall not alter any regular employee’s anniversary date of employment. Employee-initiated leave without pay for up to four (4) days (32 hours) per calendar year shall not alter any regular employee’s Paid Time Off accrual. This limitation shall not apply to low census/low need.
12.11	Return to Position. A leave of absence will guarantee an employee the first available position for which the employee is qualified if the employee reports back to the Employer on or before the expiration of the leave.
12.12	Continuing Education Fund. In support of the Cooperative's commitment to continued professional nursing education and development, the Employer has established a central continuing education fund, the purpose of which will be to assist in the payment of continuing education expenses and certification exams for all employees in the bargaining unit. Such assistance shall be subject to approval of the subject matter to be studied and certification of attendance and/or completion of the course. An education committee shall be established to assure staff nurse input to the policies and guidelines regarding fund disbursement
23
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
The committee will consist of three union-appointed employee representatives and three management appointed employee representatives and shall report to the Director of Nursing Operations. The annual contribution to the fund will be $ 275,000.
All continuing education funds must be used in the current calendar year. Unused funds will not be carried over from one calendar year to the next. Any remaining CE Funds as of the first Friday of December will be utilized for RN recruitment and retention initiatives recommended by the Joint Labor Management Committee.
$25,000 is to be reserved exclusively to maintain the desired allocation for Nurse Practitioners who are eligible for reimbursement up to $2,400, pro-rated for FTE.
12.13	Sabbatical Leave. The purpose of a sabbatical leave is to provide an extended period of leave from a registered nurse's customary work to acquire new skills and training. The sabbatical makes available the necessary time to pursue significant professional development activities, e.g., full-time academic study, participation in research projects, foreign travel to examine alternative health care options, providing health care in underserved areas, publishing.
Registered nurses are eligible for their first sabbatical after working a minimum of ten (10) years of regular employment as a registered nurse. An employee who qualifies may request 1) a sabbatical of up to six (6) months, or 2) a sabbatical of up to one (1) year after working thirteen (13) years. Registered nurses granted a sabbatical will receive fringe benefits consistent with their FTE level, subject to the availability of insurance coverage, and will retain their seniority. The total number of sabbatical leaves that may be granted during any one year will not exceed ten (10).
An employee granted a sabbatical agrees to return to employment with GHC following sabbatical for at least one year. Employees returning from sabbatical leave of no more than six months shall be reinstated to their prior position. Thereafter, employees will be reinstated to the first available position.
An employee is eligible to apply for another sabbatical only after seven (7) years have elapsed after the original sabbatical leave. The education committee under Article 12.12 shall recommend criteria for selection of the candidates and other guidelines for administering the sabbatical leave.
ARTICLE 13 — MEDICAL, DENTAL AND LIFE INSURANCE
13.1	Health Insurance: Eligibility. The Employer shall provide its generally applicable medical, surgical and hospital services coverage (employee group 0327) for eligible regular full-time and part-time employees effective the first of the month following two months of continuous eligible employment. Medical, surgical and hospital services
34
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
coverage shall be provided to employees assigned an FTE of .5 or greater The Employer shall also provide dependent coverage for regular employees assigned a .75 or more FTE status. As an exception to this Article, employees enrolled in the medical plan as of January 22,2005 who are .26-.49 FTE shall not lose eligibility for coverage during the term of this agreement. Provided however, that if such an employee’s FTE subsequently increases to .5 or above, the employee will become ineligible for coverage if his/her FTE later drops back below .5 FTE,
13.2	Medical plan description. Effective April 1, 2005, eligible employees and their covered dependents will pay $15 for each outpatient visit (excluding preventive care visits), $15 (or the actual price if it is less) for each prescription or refill (with mail order incentive of three months for the price of two) and $75 per emergency room visit that does not result in hospitalization. Employees shall also pay hospitalization co-payments of $100 per day, subject to a maximum of $300 per year. Total out-of pocket expenses (excluding prescription drugs) shall be $1,000 per person/2,000 per family per year.
Effective January 1, 2006.Group Health will provide the following vision benefit to all staff and their eligible dependents enrolled in the medical plan: Optical/Lenses and Frames - eyeglass frames, lenses, lens options, such as tinting or prescription contract lenses, contact lens evaluations and examinations associated with their fitting are covered up to $150 per 12 month period per member,
13.3	Employee Premium Sharing. Effective July 1, 2005 and thereafter in accordance with the table below, enrolled employees shall pay the following monthly premiums for coverage in the Employer Medical Plan (one-half of the monthly amount shall be deducted per pay period.
Effective	Individual only	Individual	& spouse/partner OR Individual	& children	Individual & full family
July 2005	$10	$20	$40
July 2006	$15	$30	$60
June 2008	$15	$40	$70
13.4	Dental Insurance. The Employer shall provide its dental plan for each regular full-time employee and each regular part-time employee assigned a .5 or more FTE status subject to the employee's agreement to make the required contribution. Employees shall be eligible for dental coverage the first of the month following two (2) months of regular employment. The Employer agrees to maintain the benefits of its plan in effect on the date of signing this Agreement during the term of this Agreement without additional cost to the employee. The Employer shall provide dental coverage for
35
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
dependents of part-time employees assigned a .75 or more FTE pursuant to eligibility requirements outlined in the Plan.
Group Health will maintain its current level of monthly contribution at $15.49 for employee only; $33.62 for employee + spouse; $27.70 employee + children; and $43.62 for family, with the remainder of the premium as may be calculated annually by the insurer to be paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
13.6	Worker's Compensation. The Employer shall provide Worker's Compensation Insurance for all employees. Upon completion of eighteen (18) months of regular employment, employees assigned a .75 FTE or more on a leave of absence due to an on-the-job injury shall continue to receive Employer-paid medical coverage for themselves and their eligible dependents for a period of up to six months.
13.6	Life insurance. After one (1) year of continuous employment, the Employer will provide each regular nurse assigned a .75 FTE or more with Employer-paid Group Life Insurance in the amount of $10,000. The employee will have the option of purchasing additional coverage under the plan.
13.7	Retirement Plan.. The Employer will continue In full force and effect its Employee Retirement Plan. The Employer agrees not to reduce the current level of retirement benefit defined in the retirement plan during the term of this Agreement. This commitment does not apply to administrative (non-benefit) changes that may occur to the plan.
13.8	Retiree Medteal Coverage. During the term of this Agreement, the Employer will continue its Retiree Medical coverage plan for eligible employees and their spouses subject to the conditions set forth in that plan as changed effective January 1, 1997. Employees who retire from employment with Group Health Cooperative during the term of this Agreement who meet the eligibility criteria of the retiree medical coverage plan shall, for the term of this Agreement, receive the coverage or the dollar credit agreed upon. After this Agreement expires, the coverage or dollar credit to be provided to retirees who retire during the term of this Agreement, if any, shall be an amount equal to the coverage or dollar credit provided from time to time pursuant to the Employer's retiree medical coverage plan/policy as amended
13.9	Long-Term Disability. The Employer shall provide its currently available long-term disability insurance for each employee assigned a .75 FTE or more, subject to the terms and conditions in the plan and the employee's agreement to make the required contribution.
36
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
ARTICLE 14—COMMITTEES
14,1 Nursing Practice Committees, Effective the beginning of the third month after date of ratification, three Nursing Practice Committees shall be instituted and maintained at the Cooperative. These committees shall consist of Inpatient, Outpatient and Community Health Services. The purposes of these committees will be to: (1) assess and make recommendations to Administration on broad-based productivity, workload, patient acuity systems, or other issues such as scheduling practices and innovative staffing patterns that may impact or contribute to an improved work environment and patient care delivery, and, in recognition of the mutual desire of the parties to maintain staffing consistent with quality patient care and good working conditions, (2) serve as a resource for problemsolving and development of alternatives when chronic facility or unit-wide staffing problems have not been adequately addressed after reasonable efforts between staff and management at the facility or unit level. Employees are responsible for first bringing such concerns to their manager in a timely manner for purposes of mutual discussion and problem solving.
The Committees may make recommendations to Administration in support of satisfactorily resolving such chronic staffing situations. Chronic facility or unit-wide staffing problems may be reviewed by the Joint Labor/Management Committee if not adequately addressed after recommendations have been made by the Committee(s) to Administration.
The Committees' role in assessing staffing issues will include on-going evaluation of nursing delivery models through development of criteria (that may include staffing ratios) or measures to evaluate staff and consumer satisfaction, patient care outcomes, and cost efficiencies.
The Union and the Employer recommit to joint problem- solving through the empowerment of foe Nursing Practice Committees by participating in a facilitated joint training within ninety (90) days of ratification of the contract.
Each committee will consist of three staff nurses and three nurse managers. The Nursing Practice Committees will meet bi-monthly or more often by mutual agreement. Committee members shall be compensated for their meeting time. Such meetings shall be scheduled so as to minimize conflict with scheduling routines. The committees will prepare an agenda and keep minutes of all meetings. The Committees will develop and submit to Administration and the Joint Labor/Management Committee annual work plans. The committees will be advisory to Administration and will operate within the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement.
Joint Labor Management Committee, It is the goal of 1199NW and GHC to engage in joint problem-solving efforts wherein the mutual interest of the Union and management
—.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
can be addressed on an on-going basis during the term of this Agreement. The Committee shall serve as a forum for union input to the management decision-making process and mutual education and information sharing by both parties. The primary goal . of the committee is to support staff and management in the delivery of quality patient cane, including improved conditions conducive to the delivery of quality care and the recruitment and retention of nurses.	. T . r
Given the primary goal of JLMC is to support staff and management in the delivery of quality patient care, including improved conditions conducive to the delivery of quality care and the recruitment and retention of nurses, ’the-Cooperative recommends a process ,in>.which the work Qf JLMC for the duration of the contract is focused on major initiatives of Importance to both parties. These initiatives will include but nqt;be limited to the following;
a.	Patient safety	,
The JLMC will engagein a process with the Employer to. identify at least one critical patient safety issue that affects a broad range of nursing-,staff across^the organization. JLMC will work in collaboration with GHC Patient Safety Committee and be oriented to the major initiatives for improving patient safety in; all .settings.
. Pending this orientation, JLMC In,cooperation with the Patient Safety Committee:wlH identify a key safety issue in which nurses play a significant role a nd-make recommendations for 1) increasing staff awareness 2) recommendations for care improvement, 3) changes in.systems or processes to enhance safety <
b.	Workforce Planning
The JLMC will assume a more-active role in the organization’s Workforce'.Planning efforts. This will include 1) a review of the. current work plan for nursing with an opportunity to provide feedback or recommendations for changes in the current plan, 2) regular review of data available to management on vacancy, turnover, , ■ cpmparispns to gutside . dpta 3) opportunity, to,; identify can area star mutual collaboration related to recruitment .and retention 4)coritinued access-to data, j strategies,input, dialogue of nursing retention survey.;3- c ■
i > .	■	1 c." ■.	b ’ ! v, \	‘ a
The-Employer and theUnionrecognizethe importance of working togethec to provide ( :^n.;environm0nkin which staff can<effectively and safely provide care. The;parties also c .fp<?ggnj^e.that staffing hand workload are-integral-and. critical elements-of the work L.envkonment.., JLMC. will convene. a subgroup .to-1)study current,^organizational v.^De4ssp^>Ms^t(for44$taffing,,,2) identify ,current and: future processes^ for workload ;moasuremenLarid, provide-input.into.emerging workload measurement tools, and 3) c make,.recommendations to .the Executive ,Director' of Nursing on improvements in
staffing and workload.	>■. -	. -
The committee may address matters subject to collective bargaining but shall not substitute for the contractually agreed-upon process for resolving grievances under Article
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
17. Issues and problems pertaining to specific worksites will continue to be addressed at the facility or work unit level.
The approach, structure and composition of the committee may vary depending on the issues; however, each party will appoint a core of no more than five representatives. Employee attendance at these meetings will be on paid time. The Committee will meet quarterly or more often by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 15	—OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
15.1	The Employer will maintain a safe and healthful workplace In compliance with all Federal, State and local laws applicable to the safety and health of its employees.
15.2	The Employer shall form a Health and Safety committee composed of employee and Employer representatives. The purpose of the committee shall be to investigate safety and health issues and to advise the Employer of education and preventive health measures for the workplace and Its employees. The committee shall allow for proportionate membership representation of employee groups. Broad-based and persistent health and safety concerns of individual employees or employee groups can be addressed to the Committee if they have not been adequately responded to at the facility or unit level.
15.2.1	In recognition of the need to increase organizational efforts and awareness to occupational hazards of registered nurses and hospital workers, management agrees to convene a subgroup of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee with the expressed purpose of 1) reviewing current data on workplace injuries, 2) identifying areas for improvement in the work environment to reduce injuries and 3) making recommendations to the Executive VP.
The subgroup will identify and review relevant data needs related to workplace injuries. The recommendations of the subgroup will include identification of strategies to facilitate necessary changes In the physical workspace, use of appropriate equipment and training of staff. Recognizing that back, neck and shoulder injuries are caused by manually lifting patients and equipment, the medical costs and lost workdays associated with these injuries, the aging workforce, the need to recruit and retain more nurses and other healthcare workers, and the need to reduce worker's compensation costs, the Employer and the Union specifically are committed to evaluate the number of injuries caused by manually lifting and transferring patients and equipment. Building on the previous work done at Eastside Hospital, the subgroup will work together to implement a comprehensive program to reduce such injuries.
39
Group Health Cooperative- S£(U 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
The subgroup will convene its work and make preliminary recommendations no later than six months from the time of its first meeting. Members of the subgroup will include four (4) GHC representatives and four (4) Union representatives. Other staff and/or managers may participate upon request of the subgroup.
The subgroup will provide reviews to the Occupational Health and Safety Committee at feast quarterly.
15.3	The Employee’s Safety and Health committee, and the Union representatives to the joint committee, act hereunder exclusively in an advisory capacity and that the International Union, National Union, Local Union, Union Safety and Health Committee, and their officers, employees and agents shall not be liable for any work-connected injuries, disabilities, or diseases which may be incurred by employees.
15.4	The Employer shall provide adequate orientation, training and education for employees who may be routinely exposed to potentially hazardous substances and harmful biological and/or physical agents in their jobs.
15.5	Employees assigned to locations where exposure to Ionizing radiation is possible in the course of the work assignment shall be issued a film badge or similar detection device. The Employer will maintain records of employee exposure.
ARTICLE 16	—GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Grievance Defined. A grievance Is defined as an alleged breach of the terms and conditions of the Agreement. If any such grievance arises, it shall be submitted to the following grievance procedure.
Time limits set forth in the following steps may only be extended by mutual written consent of the parties hereto.
Step I Employee, Union Delegate and Immediate Supervisor.
The employee shall first meet with the employee's immediate supervisor and attempt to resolve the problem immediately and in no event later than fourteen (14) days of the employee’s knowledge that the grievance exists. The Union delegate shall be present, if requested by the employee. A written statement of the grievance will be presented prior to this meeting by the employee/Unlon delegate if requested by the Supervisor, The immediate supervisor shall be given ten (10) days to resolve the problem. The supervisor will respond in writing if an employee is requested to submit a written statement in Step I.
40
Group Health Cooperative- SEfU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
Step 11 " , Employee? Union Representative and Director of Nursing Service or Appropriate Supervisor.
If the'matter is not resolved to the employee's satisfaction in Step I, the ... employee shall reduce the grievance to writing and shall present.same to the next level of administration within seven (7) days of. the immediate supervisor's decision. The Employer shall issue a written reply within ten
.. , .	(10) days following receipt of the grievance. A conference between the
" employee (and the Union representative, if requested by the employee) and.
• ..■/.	the,appropriate supervisor shall be held prior to the issuance of the written.
,... /decision. - •, . .	.
‘	■ ,'.-v	’	•’ .■	1 / . v';
Step III If the matter is not resolved in Step II to the employee's satisfaction; the , i ...r grievance shall be referred in writing to the- Labor Relations Administrator.
,, (and/or designated representative) within seven (7) days-of receipt of ,the Step II response. The Labor Relations Administrator, and. the Union representative shall then meet within ten (10) days for the purpose of , ,, (J resolving the grievance. The Labor Relations Administrator shall provide a ' .written’ariswertothe grievance within five (5) days of the Step III meeting.
Step IV If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee on the basis of the foregoing procedures, the Union may submit the issue in writing to arbitration within fourteen (14) days following the meeting between the Labor Relations Administrator and the 1199, NW representative; A list of eleven (11) arbitrators shall'be requested from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation ? r-j J s'ervice. The parties shall there upon alternate in striking a name from the ..nl o: pane| until one riame remains. The person whose name remains shall be the arbitrator. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on all parties. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from, or otherwise :'7 ;; change br rhodify the provisions of This Agreement but shall be authorized only to interpret existing provisions of this Agreement as they may apply to the specific facts of the issue in dispute. Each party shall bear one-half (’A)., of the fee of the arbitrator and any other expense Jointly incurred incident to' the arbitration hearing. All other expenses shall be bpme, by the party , , ; incurring therfi, and’ neither party ^shall be rpspo'nslble'fo/fhe: expenses of
■witnesses called by the other party? ’' ' /’ ' '
>.;■	’	‘	1 fl. ■’ ; . i'.1 t i >
■ /Ti ■: >■	; . i’ ■ ■ 'C'" ■> ' ‘	’.tu	romU
' ■ : , rl; .;[	.	' ' t?. ■ ■ : I. V ■. i" ■ v	[-	'■? !'l Jr’./, s’fi
7 ARTICLE 17 — MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
The Union recognizes that the Employer has,the obligation, of serving the. public with the highest quality of health care, efficiently and economicaily,. and/or meeting medicail emergencies. Except as modified elsewhere in this Agreement/the Union recognizes the right of the Employer to operate and manage the Cooperative including but not limited to
.T.. .;	- ./T; /	,.;41 ,.
Group Health Cooperative-SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses	•	”, '
2005-2008 Contract
the right to require standards of performance and to maintain order and efficiency; to direct employees and to determine job assignments and working schedules; to determine the materials and equipment to be used; to implement improved operational methods and procedures; to determine staffing requirements; to determine the kind and location of facilities; to determine whether the whole or any part of the operation shall continue to operate; to select and hire employees; to promote and transfer employees; to discipline, demote or discharge employees for just cause; to layoff employees for lack of work; to recall employees; to require reasonable overtime work of employees; and to promulgate rules, regulations and personnel policies, provided that such rights shall not be exercised so as to violate any of the specific provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 18	—PERSONNEL POLICIES
All Employees of this bargaining unit, in addition to being governed by this Agreement, shall also be subject to the personnel policies published by the Employer having general applicability to all employees of the Employer and any subsequent personnel policies, rules and regulations that may be promulgated in the future, so long as they do not conflict with the letter or intent of this Agreement In case of any conflict, this Agreement shall be the controlling policy for the employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19	—UNINTERRUPTED PATIENT CARE
This clause is included in recognition of the mutual responsibility of the Union and the Employer for continuity of patient care. For the duration of this Agreement, the Union and its members will not cause, sanction, condone, take part in, or in any way directly or indirectly aid in any strike, sympathy strike, walkout, picketing, boycott, slowdown or stoppage of work, or any other interference whatever with the efficient operation and conduct of the Employer’s business, or take any action whatever to prevent access of employees to the Employer’s place of business. The Employer agrees that during this same period there shall be no lockouts, nor shall any employees be required to perform other than usual duties.
ARTICLE 20	—GENERAL PROVISIONS
20.1	Unlawful Provisions. This Agreement shall be subject to all present and future applicable federal and state laws, executive orders of the President of the United States or the Governor of the State of Washington, and rules and regulations of governmental authority. Should any provision or provisions become unlawful by virtue of the above or by declaration of any court of competent jurisdiction, such action shall not invalidate the entire Agreement. Any provisions of this Agreement not declared invalid shall remain in
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
full force and effect for the term of the Agreement. If any provision is held invalid, the Employer and Union shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations for the purpose, and solely for the purpose, of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision.
20.2	Changes In Writing. Any changes or amendments to this Agreement shall be in writing and duly executed by the parties hereto.
20.3	Past Practices. Any and all agreements, written and verbal, previously entered into between the parties hereto are mutually canceled and superseded by this Agreement. Unless specifically provided herein to the contrary, past practices shall not be binding on the Employer. The Employer agrees that it will not make any changes in past practices that would have the effect of discriminating solely against members of the bargaining unit. The Employer will communicate any changes in past practices to the nursing staff in advance of the change.
20.4	Conclusion of Bargaining. The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement all had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Employer and the Union, for the term of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement. The parties further agree, however, that this Agreement may be amended by the mutual consent of the parties in writing at any time during its term.
ARTICLE 21	— DURATION
This Agreement shall be effective January 22, 2005 and shall continue in full force and effect through June 30, 2008, and shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter, unless written notice of desire to amend or terminate the Agreement is served by either party by certified mail upon the other no more than one hundred twenty (120) days and no less than ninety (90) days prior to date of expiration.
If written notice to amend or terminate is timely given, then this Agreement shall remain in effect until the terms of a new amended Agreement are agreed upon or until the date of expiration of the Agreement, whichever is earlier.
In the event of inadvertent failure by either party to give the notice set forth in this Article, such party may give notice of desire to terminate at any time prior to the termination date of this Agreement. If a notice is given in accordance with the
43
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
provisions of this paragraph, the expiration date of this contract shall be the ninetieth (90th) day following such notice.
This Agreement shall be effective at ratification and shall continue in full force and effect up to and including June 30, 2008.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this day of	, 2005.
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE	DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST, HOSPITAL
44
Group Health Cooperative' SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract

Susan Cousineau
Sara Cooney
Ro
Eckroth
Caroline Hobbs
SU
Teresa Ledray >
Maney Holert
Sarah Matthews
tihiq/l facAr'Ikw
Ch eryf McArthur
.	wlw.. yneg&____________
Stephanie Moss
_£L<tot K
Elaine Nelson
JicGhia V)u-uuzz^
Victoria Neumeier
Sumi Reid
Susan Ruedebusch
Eli
Schmidt
Stanley Shepherd
Lloyd Van Velthu;
Elizabeth Wells
Nancy Wittman
Karen Weis
Susan Whorton
<n%bC>tLltL cOjuMy
Michelle Wright
ADDENDUM TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
And
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST,
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION,
SEIU AFL-CIO
7/70 REGISTERED NURSE STAFFING PATTERN
IT IS HEREBY agreed and understood that the following terms and conditions with regard to the 7/70 nurse staffing pattern have been agreed to by and between District 1199 Northwest, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO and Group Health Cooperative and are hereby made an addendum to the Employment Agreement between Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound and District 1199 NW.
I.	Ail Registered Nurses assigned to work within a 7/70 staffing pattern have agreed to so work on a voluntary basis recognizing that it is a new and innovative staffing pattern within the Cooperative.
II.
A.	Full-time Employee: A Registered Nurse who has completed the initial hiring probationary period and is regularly scheduled to work seventy (70) hours within two consecutive seven-day workweeks consisting of four (4) ten-hour days in one workweek followed by three (3) ten-hour days in the next work week. Such employee shall receive full benefits to include: medical, surgical, and hospital insurance, including Employer-paid dependent coverage, subject to co-payments and premiums as set forth in this Agreement; Employer-paid portion of life insurance when eligible; employee-paid accident insurance; dental insurance, Employer-paid to the extent designated in the Group Health/1199NW Employment Agreement; and the Group Health Employee’s Retirement Plan.
B.	Part-time Employee: A Registered Nurse who is regularly scheduled on a continuing basis to work less than seventy (70) hours in ten-hour shifts within two (2) consecutive seven-day workweeks. Such an employee shall be compensated in the same manner as a full-time employee except that wages and benefits would be prorated in proportion to the employee’s actual hours worked and consistent with the GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement. Part-time employees may also have the option of 15% salary
45
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
premium in lieu of benefits, as described in the GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement.
III.
A. 7/70 nurses required to work on a holiday shall be paid one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate of pay plus ten (10) hours' holiday pay at straight time or, upon mutual Agreement, a day off as unpaid leave with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday.
8.	If a holiday falls on a full-time 7/70 nurse’s regularly scheduled day off,
the employee shall receive straight time pay for ten (10) hours for the holiday, or upon mutual agreement, a day off as unpaid leave with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday.
V.	7/70 employees assigned to work the evening shift shall be paid a shift differential of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour over the regular rate of pay. Employees assigned to work the night shift shall be paid a shift differential, of three dollars and seventy-five cents ($3.75) per hour over the regular rate of pay.
VI.	7/70 Registered Nurses assigned charge nurse responsibilities shall be paid the charge nurse differential.
VII.	7/70 Registered Nurses shall be paid overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate of pay for all time worked beyond ten (10) hours in one (1) work day or any hours worked beyond forty (40) hours in one seven (7) day workweek or in excess of thirty (30) hours in the workweek consisting of three (3) ten-hour shifts.
VIII.	7/70 Registered Nurses shall earn Paid Time Off benefits prorated based upon hours worked. In one anniversary year, accrued Paid Time Off time shall be limited to one period of seven (7) consecutive days off. Longer Paid Time Off periods may be granted on an individual request basis. The balance of accrued Paid Time Off shall be scheduled in a manner agreeable to both the employee and the Employer.
IX.	7/70 Registered Nurses unable to continue working the 7/70 staffing pattern and whose performance has been satisfactory shall be guaranteed the first available position for which the employee is qualified within the Cooperative.
X.	Registered Nurses will not be required to work on their regularly scheduled days off. Anytime worked on a voluntary basis shall be paid at time and one-half (1 Vi) their regular rate of pay.
46
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
XI.	Provisions of the Group Health Cooperative/1199 NW Employment Agreement inconsistent with the foregoing are hereby superseded with respect to the Registered Nurses working the 7/70 staffing pattern. The provisions of this Addendum shall be subject to renegotiation simultaneous with the Group Health Cooperative/1199 NW negotiations.
IT IS FURTHER AGREED AND UNDERSTOOD that it shall continue to be the goal of Group Health Cooperative and 1199 NW to encourage innovation in all areas of the nursing profession consistent with quality patient care and the needs of the individual nurse; and further that Group Health Cooperative and 1199 NW will continue to work together toward their mutual achievement of that goal.
47
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-200& Contract
ADDENDUM TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE And
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST, HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION, SEIU AFL-CIO
4/40-STAFFING PATTERN
IT IS HEREBY agreed and understood that the following terms and conditions with regard to the 4/40 nurse staffing pattern have been agreed to by and between District 1199 Northwest, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO and Group Health Cooperative and are hereby made an addendum to the Employment Agreement between Group Health Cooperative and District 1199 NW.
I.	All Registered Nurses assigned to work within a 4/40 staffing pattern have agreed to so work on a voluntary basis recognizing that it is a new and innovative staffing pattern within the Cooperative.
II.	A. 4/40 nurses, full-time or part-time, required to work on a holiday shall be paid one and one-half (17?) times the regular rate of pay plus ten (10) hours’ holiday pay at straight time or, upon mutual agreement, a day off as unpaid (eave with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday.
B. If a holiday falls on a 4/40 nurse’s regularly scheduled day off, the employee shall receive straight time pay for ten (10) hours for the holiday, or upon mutual agreement, a day off as unpaid leave with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday. Full or part-time employees who take their regularly scheduled shift off due to the holiday will be paid for the number of hours the employee would have worked but for the holiday. Part-time employees shall receive prorated pay calculated by multiplying their assigned FTE times the number of hours worked in their normal workday.
III.	4/40 employees assigned to work the evening shift shall be paid a shift differential of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour over the regular rate of pay. Employees assigned to work the night shift shall be paid a shift differential
48
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
of three dollars and seventy-five cents ($3,75) per hour over the regular rate of pay-
IV.	4/40 Registered Nurses assigned charge nurse responsibilities shall be paid the charge nurse differential.
V.	4/40 Registered Nurses shall be paid overtime compensation at the rate of one - and one-half (11/z) times the regular rate of pay for all time worked beyond ten (10) hours in one (1) day or any hours worked beyond eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
VI.	Full-time and part-time nurses working the 4/40 schedule shall participate in the Paid Time Off plan as outlined in Article 10 of this agreement.
VII.	4/40 Registered Nurses unable to continue working the 4/40 staffing pattern and whose performance has been satisfactory shall be guaranteed the first available position for which the employee is qualified within the Cooperative.
VIII.	The 4/40 staffing pattern may be utilized in patient care units within Group Health Cooperative with the consent of the individual employee affected. The Union will be notified in advance of such changes in staffing patterns.
IX.	Full-time Registered Nurses will not be required to work on their regularly scheduled days off. Any time worked on a voluntary basis shall be paid at time and one-half (1%) their regular rate of pay.
X.	Provisions of the Group Health Cooperative/District 1199 NW Employment Agreement inconsistent with the foregoing are hereby superseded with respect to the Registered Nurses working the 4/40 staffing pattern. The provisions of this addendum shall be subject to renegotiation simultaneous with the Group Health Cooperative/District 1199 NW negotiations.
IT IS FURTHER AGREED AND UNDERSTOOD that it shall continue to be the goal of Group Health Cooperative and 1199 NW to encourage innovation in all areas of the nursing profession consistent with quality patient care and the needs of the individual nurse; and further that Group Health Cooperative and 1199 NW will continue to work together toward their mutual achievement of that goal.
49
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
ADDENDUM TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE And DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST, HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION, SEIU AFL-CIO
VISITING NURSES
IT IS HEREBY agreed and understood that the following terms and conditions with regard to visiting nurses have been agreed to by and between District 1199 Northwest, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO and Group Health Cooperative and are hereby made an addendum to the Employment Agreement between Group Health Cooperative and District 1199 NW.
1.	Visiting nurses shall be compensated for the business use of their personal automobiles at the IRS rate. The Employer will make a good faith effort to have the automobile reimbursement check available the Friday of the week of the 15th of the month contingent upon submission of required record-keeping within Community Health Services time standards.
2.	Visiting nurses shall receive compensation for consumer phone calls from their homes based on the following formula: Calls from 8:00 AM to 10:00 PM: nurses shall be paid for a minimum of fifteen (15) minutes at his or her regular rate of pay. Calls lasting more fifteen- (15) minutes shall be calculated to the nearest fifteen- (15) minutes.
Calls from 10:00 PM to 8:00 AM: nurse shall be paid at her/his regular rate of pay for a minimum of one (1) hour. Calls lasting beyond one hour will be paid to the nearest fifteen- (15) minutes.
Visiting nurse calls to consumers and computer laptop transfer time will be considered as time worked. Overtime shall be paid for consumer calls and transfers consistent with Article 5.5. and section 6 of this addendum.
3.	Shift differential shall be paid for any home visits required to be made after 5:30 PM.
50
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1 199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
4.	Cellular phones will be provided to staff for purposes of coordinated, efficient care delivery and employee and patient safety.
5.	Regular employees assigned a .75 FTE or greater will be eligible for the toll cost of an AAA "Plus" membership after six months of regular employment. Regular employees assigned an FTE less than .75 FTE will be eligible for one-half the cost of a membership after six months of employment. This policy is subject to administrative procedures or requirements as established by the Employer.
6.	Overtime. Where there is mutual agreement between an employer and her/his manager based on an employee-initiated request, Overtime under Article 5.5 will be based solely on time worked beyond forty (40) hours in the normal work period. This provision is Intended to respond to the individual visiting nurses who desire greater flexibility in managing their work day while satisfying the Employer's legal obligation around the required payment of overtime compensation.
7.	Compensation on a Per Visit Basis. The Employer may establish, subject to the Union's agreement on the terms, a pay per visit compensation plan for temporary employees. Participation by the visiting nurse will be voluntary. The Plan will be evaluated for cost-effectiveness, impact on availability of relief coverage, and patient care considerations through the Nurse Practice Committee
51
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
ADDENDUM TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
And
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST, HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION, SEIU AFL-CIO
Twelve-Hour Innovative Weekend Schedule
IT IS HEREBY agreed and understood that the following terms and conditions with regard to the Twelve Hours Innovative Weekend Schedule have been agreed to by and between District 1199 Northwest, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO and Group Health Cooperative and are hereby made an addendum to the Employment Agreement between Group Health Cooperative and District 1199 NW.
1.	All registered nurses assigned to work two (2) twelve (12) hour weekend shifts every weekend have agreed to do so on a voluntary basis recognizing that it is a new and innovative staffing pattern within the Cooperative. The weekend shall be defined as hours between 7:00 AM Saturday and 7:00 AM Monday.
2.	A registered nurse regularly scheduled to work twenty-four (24) hours within a seven- (7) day period shall be compensated for thirty-six (36) hours of pay. Such employees shall receive the following benefits: medical, surgical, and hospital insurance, including Employer-paid dependent coverage, subject to co-payments and premiums as set forth in this Agreement; employer-paid portion of life insurance when eligible, long-term disability pursuant to the conditions of the plan, employee paid accident insurance; Employer-paid dental including dependent coverage to the extent designated in the Group Heatth/1199 NW Employment Agreement; and the Group Health Employee’s Retirement Plan. Registered nurses working a twelve- (12) hour weekend innovative shift shall accrue Paid Time Off prorated based on actual hours worked, according to the terms of the PTO plan in Article 10 with sick leave accrual accumulating to a maximum of eight hundred (800) hours. Other benefits not named herein shall be appropriately prorated.
3.	A twelve (12) hour weekend innovative shift RN required to work on a holiday shall be paid one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate of pay plus twelve 12) hours of holiday pay at straight time, or upon mutual agreement, a day a
52
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
day off as unpaid leave with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday.
4.	Employees assigned to work the first shift shall be paid the evening shift differential of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m. Employees assigned to work the second shift (1900-0730) shall be paid the night shift differential of three dollars and seventy-five cents ($3.75) per hour over the regular rate of pay.
5.	Twelve-hour weekend innovative shift nurses assigned charge nurse responsibilities shall be paid the charge nurse differential.
6.	Meal and Rest Periods: All employees shall receive an unpaid Meal period of at least one-half ('/£) hour during each normal workday. Meal periods shall occur as near the middle of the shift as is practical. Employees required by the supervisor to remain in the working area during their meal period shall be compensated for such time at the appropriate rate of pay. All employees shall be allowed three (3) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each during each shift of twelve (12) hours or more duration. Employees who are not released for rest periods after requesting release from the supervisor or designee shall be paid for the missed rest period at the employee’s regular rate of pay. The employee shall have the obligation of requesting relief on a timely basis.
7.	Registered nurses working an innovative twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half (116) times the regular rate of pay for the first hour worked beyond twelve (12) hours in one (1) work day or any hours worked beyond forty (40) hours in a seven (7) day period. If a nurse works more than one (1) hour beyond the end of a scheduled shift all overtime hours for that shift will be paid at double-time. The workweek of each employee will be individually determined for purposes of calculating overtime.
8.	The provisions of Article 5.6 (Weekend Work) shall not apply to nurses who voluntarily participate in the Twelve Hour Innovative Weekend Schedule.
9.	Registered nurses will not be required to work on their regularly scheduled days off. Any time worked on a voluntary basis shall be paid at time and one-half their regular rate of pay after forty (40) hours in a seven- (7) day period.
10.	Registered nurses working this innovative schedule will be eligible for only those premiums specified in this addendum.
11.	Registered nurses unable to continue working the twelve (12) hour staffing pattern and whose performance has been satisfactory shall be guaranteed the first available position for which the employee is qualified within the Cooperative.
53
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
ADDENDUM TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
And
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST,
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE EMPLOYEES UNION, SEIU, AFL-CIO
TWELVE (12) HOUR REGISTERED NURSE STAFFING PATTERN
It is hereby agreed and understood that the following terms and conditions with regard to the twelve (12) hour nurse staffing pattern have been agreed to by and between District 1199NW, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO and Group Health Cooperative and are hereby made an addendum to the Employment Agreement between Group Health Cooperative and District 1199NW.
I.	All Registered Nurses assigned to work within a twelve- (12) hour shift-staffing pattern have agreed to do so on a voluntary basis,
II.	Full time employee: A registered nurse regularly scheduled to work a total of seventy-two (72) hours in twelve-hour shifts within two consecutive seven day periods. Such employee will be compensated for eighty (80) hours of pay; also such employees shall receive full benefits including: holiday, paid educational/professional leave, emergency leave, medical, surgical, and hospital insurance, including Employer-paid dependent coverage, subject to co-payments and premiums as set forth in this Agreement. Employer-paid portion of life insurance when eligible; employee-paid accident insurance; dental, Employer-paid to the extent designated in the Group Health/1199 Northwest Employment Agreement, and the Group Health Employee's Retirement Plan. Registered nurses on the twelve (12) hour shift-staffing pattern shall accrue Paid Time Off prorated based on actual hours worked as described in the PTO Plan at Article 10 accrual accumulating to a maximum of eight hundred hours.
Part time employee: A registered nurse who is regularly scheduled to wort less than seventy-two (72) hours in twelve-hour shifts in two consecutive seven-day periods. Wages and benefits for such employees would be prorated in a manner consistent with the terms described for full-time employees and consistent with GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement. Paid Time Off accruals would be prorated in a manner consistent with the terms described for
54
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
full-time employees. Part-time employees may also have the option of 15% salary premium in lieu of benefits, as described in the GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement.
For employees assigned to 12- hour shifts after June 8,1998 the following applies:
A registered nurse regularly scheduled to work a total of seventy-two (72) hours in tweive-hour shifts within two consecutive seven day periods shall receive foil benefits including: holiday, paid educational/professional leave, emergency leave, medical, surgical, and hospital insurance, including Employer-paid dependent coverage; Employer-paid portion of life insurance when eligible; employee-paid accident insurance; dental, Employer-paid to the extent designated in the Group Health/1199 Northwest Employment Agreement, and the Group Health Employee's Retirement Plan. Registered nurses on the twelve (12) hour shift-staffing pattern shall accrue Paid Time Off as described at Article 10 of this agreement, prorated based on actual hours worked
Benefits for a registered nurse who is regularly scheduled to work less than seventy-two (72) hours in twelve-hour shifts in two consecutive seven-day periods will be prorated in a manner consistent with the terms described for fulltime employees and consistent with GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement. Paid Time Off will be prorated in a manner consistent with the terms described for fuil-time employees. Part-time employees may also have the option of 15% salary premium in lieu of benefits, as described in the GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement.
III.	A. A twelve (12) hour shift RN required to work on a holiday shall be paid one and one half (17) times the regular rate of pay plus (12) hours of holiday pay at straight time or upon mutual agreement, an unpaid day off with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday.
B.	If a holiday falls on the twelve (12) hour shift full-time RN's day off, the employee shall receive straight time pay for twelve (12) hours for the holiday, or upon mutual agreement, an unpaid day off with benefits may be taken within thirty (30) days following the holiday.
IV.	Twelve (12) hour shift registered nurses assigned to work the first shift (0700-1930) shall be paid an evening shift differential of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) per hour over the regular rate of pay for four hours of the second shift. Employees assigned to work the second shift, (1900 - 0730) shall be paid the night shift differential of three dollars and seventy-five cents ($3.75) per hour over the regular rate of pay.
55
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
V.	Twelve (12) hour shift registered nurses assigned charge nurse responsibilities shall be paid the charge nurse differential.
VI.	Employees working the first shift (0700 - 1930) shall notify the employer two hours in advance of the employee's scheduled shift if the employee is unable to report for duty as scheduled. Employees working the second shift (1900 -0730) will notify the employer three (3) hours in advance of the employee's scheduled shift if the employee is unable to report for duty as scheduled. Failure to do so may result in loss of paid sick leave for that day. Prior to payment for sick leave, 500 - 1930 reasonable proof of illness may be required. Proven abuse of sick leave may, at the employer's option, be grounds for discharge.
VII.	Meal and Rest Periods; Aii employees shall receive on unpaid mea! period of at least one-half (J4) hour during each normal workday. Meal periods shall occur as near the middle of the shift as is practical. Employees required by the supervisor to remain in the working area during their meal period shall be compensated for such time at the appropriate rate of pay. All employees shall be allowed three (3) paid rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each during each shift of twelve (12) hours or more duration. Employees who are not released for rest periods after requesting release from the supervisor or designee shall be paid for the missed rest period at the employee’s regular rate of pay. The employee shall have the obligation of requesting relief on a timely basis.
VIII.	Registered Nurses working an innovative twelve (12) hour shift shall be paid overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times the regular rate of pay for the first hour after the end of the shift or any hours worked beyond forty (40) hours in a seven day period. If a nurse works more than one (1) hour beyond the end of a scheduled shift all overtime hours for that shift will be paid at double-time. The workweek of each employee will be Individually determined for the purposes of calculating overtime.
IX.	Registered Nurses will not be required to work on their regularly scheduled day off. Any time worked on a voluntary basis shall be paid at time and one-half (1 Vz) their regular rate of pay after forty (40) hours in a seven- (7) day period.
X.	Registered Nurses unable to continue working the twelve (12) hour staffing pattern and whose performance has been satisfactory shall be guaranteed the first available position for which the employee is qualified with the Cooperative.
XI.	Provisions of the Group Health Cooperative 1199/NW Employment Agreement inconsistent with the foregoing are hereby superseded with respect to the Registered Nurses working the twelve- (12) hour staffing pattern. The
56
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
provisions of this Addendum shall be subject to renegotiations simultaneous with the Group Health Cooperative/1199 NW negotiations.
XII.	The Employer will make a good faith effort to provide each employee with eleven (11) hours and thirty (30) minutes off duty between shifts. In the event an employee is required to work with less than eleven (11) hours thirty (30) minutes off duty between shifts, all time worked within this eleven (11) hour thirty (30) minute period shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) times the regular rate of pay.
XIII.	Holiday Pav-Christmas and New Years. December 25 and January 1 will be the designated holiday for employees who work the day shift. December 24 and December 31 will be the designated holiday for employees who work the night shift
It is further agreed and understood that it shall continue to be the goal of Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound and 1199NW to encourage innovation in all areas of nursing profession consistent with quality patient care and the needs of the individual nurse and further that Group Health Cooperative and 1199 NW will continue to work together toward their mutual achievement of that goal.
57
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2003 Contract
..	ADDENDUM TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ,
. Between
GROUP HEALTH COOPERATIVE
'	And ,l	.
DISTRICT 1199 NORTHWEST -
HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE EMPLOYEES UNION?
SEIU, AFL-CIO
RE;. ALTERNATIVE STAFFING ADDENDUM FOR AFTER HOURSCARE
7 1	AT HOME HEALTH AND HOSPICE
■ ■	i
IT IS HEREBY agreed and understood that the following terms and conditions with regard to after hours care at Community Health Services have been agreed to,by and between ; District 1199 NW, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, . SEIU, AFL-CIO and , Group Health. Cooperative and are hereby made .an addendum to the Employment Agreement between Group Health Cooperative and District 1199 NW.' -
Purpose:	To provide needed visiting nurse services in person and by phone between
the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 8:30 a.m. daily in a cost efficient manner that also limits so far as practicable utilization of current regular visiting nurses for additional standby assignments. ;
1.	... Regular employee/FTE designation. An employee who. commits to be
available for all unscheduled and selected scheduled visits and phone calls for CHS patient between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 8:30 a.m. daily for an .. agreed-upon number of evenings per month shall, be classified as a regular employee and.assigned an FTE in proportipn.to the number of evenings per ,.3, e month to, which the.employee .commits.	;.,.
,	.. „ /.... .Example: An employee who commits io.be .available for two seven-
consecutive evening rotations during a four-week period will be classified as a .88 FTE. An evening rotation shall be from 4:30 p.m. to 8:30 a.m.
Avaifobiiity://th$,, employee. shall be , accessible /for, assignment by ’ Employer-provided pager. . The, .Employer will-also provide a cellular telephone for the employee’s business use. Employees are otherwise free ...?r, -to,engage.in nonwork-related activities .as long as-.they are accessible for work assignment and Tit for duty."
-	; - ■ 11.:r) t;i	\ r;r'F ■ jf	.. ’ . “ /’f . . “ . i '„ ■
3.	Staffing Levels. The Employer will determine the number and FTE of regular employees needed to best meet patient care needs.
Group Health Cooperative- SEJU 1199NW Registered nurses	'' !
2005-2008 Contract
4.	Compensation. Employees will be compensated at their regular rate of pay for all hours reflected by their assigned FTE regardless of actual hours worked provided no overtime is worked as provided for in this agreement.
Overtime. Employees will be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1 ’A) times their regular rate of pay for all actual hours of work as defined in paragraph 6 in excess of ten in the daily period of 4:30 p.m. to 8:30 a.m. daily or forty in the seven-day work week. The workweek of each employee will be Individually determined.
Relief Coverage. An employee who provides Paid Time Off or other relief for a co-worker under this alternative staffing agreement will be paid ten hours per shift at their regular rate of pay unless overtime is owed.
5.	Relief Coverage Assignment. The employer affirms its commitment to limit to the extent practicable the occasions and circumstances in which regular employees not employed under this Agreement are assigned to provide relief coverage for after-hours care. In order to minimize the occasions and circumstances when It is necessary to assign other CHS employees to provide relief coverage for after-hours care, tne Employer will seek relief coverage In the following order of priority:
a.	Employees working under this Agreement,
b.	Temporary employees designated to take standby assignments for after-hours care as provided for under this Agreement.
c.	Regular and temporary staff not employed under this Agreement who volunteer for standby.
d.	When the Employer Identifies an urgent care need, and when coverage under (a), (b), and (c) above is not available, regular employees will be assigned standby for after-hours care as provided for under this Agreement on a rotating basis in inverse order of seniority.
Employee providing relief coverage under paragraphs (c) or (d) above will be paid for standby, phone calls and visits according to the GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement and any applicable policies.
6.	Actual Hours Worked. Actual hours worked shall be defined as follows:
a.	Time for phone calls calculated per paragraph 2 of the Visiting Nurse Addendum.
59
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
b.	Home visits to include time spent for delivery of services at the home, travel time to and from the patient's home, documentation time and related phone calls.
c.	Time spent in case conferences, meetings with supervisors and training as required by the Employer.
7.	Benefits. Regular employees will be entitled to Insurance benefits, continuing education leave time, Paid Time Off and other fringe benefits as stated in the GHC/1199NW contract consistent with the employee's FTE. Paid Time Off may be used up to the number of hours represented by the employee's assigned FTE. Each shift will be considered ten hours for purposes of Paid Time Off, and other types of leave.
ft. Holidays. Employees assigned a .88 FTE will be scheduled to work 4 holidays per yean employees assigned a .44 FTE will be assigned 2 holidays per year.
a.	Holidays Worked. Employees will be compensated at their regular rate of pay for the shift (ten hours) plus holiday pay as follows.
4:30 pm to 12:00 am 7-1/2 hours 12:00am to 8:30 am 8-1/2 hours
Under no circumstances will any employee be paid more than ten hours of holiday pay
b.	Holidays Not Worked. Employees assigned a .88 FTE will be compensated 10 hours holiday pay for holidays, which fall on a scheduled day off. Holiday pay for other part-time employees will be prorated on their FTE based on 10 hours.
9.	Premiums. Employees working this innovative staffing schedule will not be eligible for standby, or other premiums specified in the GHC/1199NW contract. Employees will be eligible for night shift differential for ten hours and weekend pay,
10.	Discontinuation. An employee who is unable to continue working this schedule and whose performance has been satisfactory shall be offered the first available position In the Cooperative for which the employee is qualified.
In the event the Employer exercises its right to discontinue this schedule pursuant to Article 5.3, the employee will have the choice of first available _____________position in the Cooperative for which s/he is qualified or may revert to “____________60
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses 2005-2008 Contract
temporary statu s,Jn which case all conditions of standby, patient visits, and phone calls will be paid according to. the.,GHC/1199NW Employment Agreement and any applicable policies.
11.	Other Provisions. AIL other provisions of the GHC/1199NW Agreement not inconsistent with this Agreement shall otherwise apply.
in
61
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered nurses
2005-2008 Contract
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
This is to acknowledge that the parties reached the following understandings during 2005-2008 contract negotiations In addition to the agreed-upon changes to our Employment Agreement.
1.	Regarding Articles 4.7 and 4.8:
It is the Cooperative's intent to assign employees an FTE status consistent with the number of hours normally assigned and worked by the employee on a regular, continuing basis. It is not the Cooperative’s intent to reduce an employee's FTE for purposes of eliminating an employee’s eligibility for medical coverage.
2.	Regarding Article 4.9 (Temporary Employee):
While the provisions of Article 6.5 do not apply to temporary employees, in recognition of the Cooperative’s desire to deal fairly with all employees, any temporary employee who is not performing satisfactorily will be notified by the immediate supervisor and may request a meeting with the immediate supervisor for purposes of discussing the employee's performance or other concerns affecting continued employment. A union delegate may be present if requested by the employee.
3.	Regarding Article 5.1 (Work Dav):
Group Health Cooperative has a commitment to the eight (8) hour shift as the normal workday. Group Health will not involuntarily reduce an employee’s workday to a shift of less than eight (8) hours duration for the primary purpose of achieving cost savings.
4.	Regarding Article 5.3 (Alternative Work Schedule):
The Employer and the Union mutually recognize the benefit alternative work schedules may have on recruitment and retention of qualified nurses. To further encourage the exploration, development and offering of alternative work schedules, the Employer and the Union agree to work together to create an environment within their respective organizations where staff and management nurses have an opportunity to consider alternative work schedules taking into consideration such factors as employee interest.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
62
patient care needs, cost, impact on operations, turnover and vacancy rates, the use of overtime and agency nurses and employee morale.
Such efforts will include working together to:
a.	make Information on alternative work schedules available to staff and managers;
b.	encourage staff and managers to discuss and consider alternative work schedules especially where staff/manager interest exists and/or patient care needs may be better served;
c.	encourage and facilitate staff and managers to collaborate on the planning and implementation of alternative schedules.
The parties acknowledge the Employer's right to discontinue an alternative work schedule upon proper notice and discussion with the Union as set forth in Article 5.3. In making its determination, the Employer will include among its considerations the impact on individual employees and employee morale.
5.	Regarding the Employer giving primary consideration to layoffs before unit, department or facllltv-wlde reductions:
In making its decision under Article 7.2 on layoff versus unit, department or facility-wide hours reductions, it is understood and agreed that the Employer’s considerations will include what best satisfies staffing, scheduling and other operational and patient care needs. Additionally, in making its decision, the employer will give consideration to the adverse impact on the individual employees and employee morale.
6.	Regarding Layoffs:
a. In the event two or more seniority dates are tied, the relative order of priority will be determined by the date an employee's application or transfer form was received for the position on which the employees' seniority is based. The employee with the earliest date of receipt on the application/transfer form will have first priority within the group. In the event one or more employees do not have a date stamped application/transfer form, the last four digits of the employees' social security number will be added up with the highest number receiving first priority and so on.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
63
b,
Employees on the recall roster remain eligible to attend any GHC-sponsored continuing education activities at the employee tuition rate.
7.	Regarding the chemically impaired nurse:
The Employer and the Union recognize that alcoholism and chemical dependency are acknowledged to be chronic, treatable medical conditions.
The Employer and the Union support efforts, which will enable the chemically impaired nurse to remain in professional nursing practice so long as performance expectations are maintained. In recognition of this mutual Interest, the Employer and Union support such efforts as:
•	identification of the disease as well as the establishment of treatment options at an early stage to prevent or minimize erosion in work performance.
•	participation in programs and services through which employees may seek confidential assistance and treatment in the resolution of chemical dependency problems.
•	participation in the State Board of Nursing Substance Abuse Monitoring Program, including individually tailored return to work agreements.
The Employer further acknowledges that alcoholism and chemical dependency are health conditions for which the employee is eligible to use accrued PTO and/or health leave of absence under the same terms as other health conditions. It is the intention of the Employer to work with an employee to adjust their work schedule on an ad hoc or temporary basis to support the chemically dependent employee's participation in prescribed treatment programs. The Employer and the Union acknowledge that employees continue to be responsible for their job performance and compliance with the Employer's policies and procedures and improvement of any unsatisfactory performance.
8.	Dependent Care Assistance:
This is to acknowledge that the Cooperative has implemented and will continue, on a Cooperative-wide basis, a dependent care assistance
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
64
program under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code as of January, 1989, providing Section 125 remains unchanged.
9.	Nursing Technician:
"Nursing technician" means a nursing student employed in a hospital licensed under Chapter 70.41 RCW or a nursing home licensed under Chapter 18.51 of the RCW, who:
(a)	Is currently enrolled in good standing in a nursing program approved by the commission and has not graduated: or
(b)	Is a graduate of a nursing program approved by the commission who graduated:
The purpose of the role of nursing technician is to provide opportunity for students enrolled in an AND or BSN program to gain experience within the limits of their education, but not limited to the scope of functions of nursing assistant-certified.
The registered nurse is responsible at all times for supervising the nursing technician. Supervision is defined in WAC 246 840 880.
10.	Payroll Error:
Current guidelines provide for the payroll department to process individualized manual paychecks for requests of more than eight hours of pay, if the request is received in payroll by the Tuesday after pay day. If the amount of the error represents less than eight hours of pay and/or the payroll department does not receive the request until after Tuesday following payday, the adjustment will be processed on the next pay cycle.
11.	New Employee Orientation:
Upon completion of the Employer's monthly orientation program, the Cooperative will make a conference room available for up to one-half (14) hour for any GHC union to meet with new employees in their bargaining unit. Employee attendance will be voluntary. Any time spent in such voluntary meeting will be on unpaid time for both the new employee and the employee union representative.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
65
12.	Regarding Definition of Domestic Partner and son/dauohter:
Effective January 1, 1995, domestic partners will be included in dependent coverage for employees assigned a .75 or more FTE status. The term “domestic partner" as used throughout this Agreement will be as defined in the Group Health Cooperative affidavit of marriage/domestic partnership. The definition of “son and daughter" as used in Article 12.5(b) shall include the child of the employee over the age of 18 years but who is eligible for dependent coverage under the terms of the Employer's Group Medical Coverage Plan.
13.	Regarding safer medical devices and exposure control:
Group Health Cooperative is committed to reducing and preventing the risk of percutaneous injuries and blood/body fluid exposures through the application of technology, evaluation of work procedures, and prevention measures. GHC will provide surveillance of parenteral exposures and other blood/body fluid exposures, to include identification of device-specific mechanisms of injuries.
The Employer will continue to maintain a Sharps Injury Log and shall record each exposure incident involving a sharp on the tog within 14 days of the incident, including information consistent with federal OS HA requirements.
Consistent with federal OSHA’s 1999 Compliance Directive, GHC will evaluate and buy the most effective safer needles and other safer sharps to prevent needle stick injuries. This will include engineering controls such as needleless devices, retractable or self- blunting devices and plastic capillary tubes. Employees will be provided with adequate training and orientation on the use of safer devices.
The Employer will involve frontline employees in the identification and selection of needles and other sharps and in designing and conducting the evaluations and pilot testing of products.
Evaluation of devices with integrated safety features and protective barriers include cost, applicability, and effectiveness, with effectiveness being a primary determinant. The process will be overseen by the Regional Infection Control Practitioners and the Infection Control and Safety Committees. The Cooperative will continue to evaluate curr&nt and new products in conjunction with our surveillance data to enhance the safety of employees and patients.
Group Health will continue to provide testing pursuant to Group Health policies and protection, such as vaccines and preventative strategies, to employees from occupational transmission of blood borne and airborne
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses	66
2005-2008 Contract
communicable diseases. Group Health will continue to provide the following, consistent with CDC recommendations: hepatitis C testing, hepatitis B vaccine, hepatitis immunity screen, hepatitis boosters as determined to be medically appropriate, PPD screening and confidential HIV testing associated with accidental parenteral exposures.
14.	Nurse Practitioners:
Group Health will continue to hold meetings between nurse practitioners with Cooperative managers and the Medical Director to discuss issues of mutual concern related to the work of nurse practitioners including a study session on variable compensation and the potential impact on nurse practitioners.
15.	Regarding contracting out and preferential hiring:
At least thirty (30) days prior to reaching a final determination to subcontract, sell or transfer services that would result in the loss of regular hours of work currently performed by bargaining unit employees, the Cooperative agrees to:
1)	Provide the Union with documentation of the need, financial impact, affected work and employees and other factors:
2)	Meet with the Union to discuss and consider the feasibility of creating and/or implementing alternatives to the subcontracting that would satisfy its primary business objectives.
This agreement to meet for purposes of further review and consideration of alternatives is not intended to create a duty to bargain that would otherwise not be required nor to waive a duty to bargain that would otherwise exist. Such discussions will be concluded within sixty (60) calendar days from the date Group Health advises the Union about a decision to subcontract that is likely.
In tile event the Cooperative decides to contract out a service which will result in the elimination of an entire work unit, department or facility, Group Health will make a good faith effort to obtain preferential hiring opportunities with the contracting entity for affected employees as an alternative to exercising layoff related rights under the collective bargaining agreement, e.g., voluntary severance, the involuntary layoff process. Preferential hiring commitments include first consideration over other qualified candidates for positions created as a result of the contract and favorable treatment of such employment conditions as credit for seniority/tenure, sick leave and pension.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
67
16.	Consulting Nurse Service:
For purposes of holiday designation and shift differential, the consulting nurse department will be considered a 24-hour patient care area.
17.	PTO Donation for Negotiations:
Employees will be allowed to donate PTO hours to a common bank, for use by the Union’s negotiating team during the 2008 contract negotiations. The PTO Donation Program will be administered by the Union and operate as follows:
1.	All members of the bargaining unit may donate earned PTO hours by providing written authorization, indicating:
a)	agreement io donate a minimum of sight hours to the Union, and
b)	authorizing Group Health Cooperative (GHC) to deduct the donated hours from their PTO accruals
c)	donated hours will not be returned to any employee
2.	The Union will report to GHC Human Resources the total number of hours donated by its members and provide copies of the authorization forms no later than two weeks before bargaining commences.
3.	GHC will calculate the total value of the donated hours by multiplying the number of hours donated by each employee by his or her regular rate of pay (including shift differential, charge pay). GHC will issue a one- time payment to the Union equal to the total dollar value of the donated hours within 15 working days of receipt of the Union’s complete report.
4.	It is understood that Union members of the negotiating team may draw upon the PTO bank to make up for lost wages from time spent in contract bargaining sessions, only as authorized by the Union. The Union shall make all payouts to its individual team members, in accordance with IRS regulations.
5.	GHC will deduct employee donated PTO hours from all employees’ accounts as authorized, in the pay period following its payment to the Union.
Group Health Cooperative- SEiU 11&9NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
68
18.	Ratification Incentive:
a.	In recognition of the efforts applied the bargaining unit involved in the current round of negotiations, all regular employees will receive a ratification Incentive pro rated to FTE.
b.	Ratification incentive distribution: Regular employees in paid status as of 1/22/05 shall be paid a bonus payment in the amount of $875, pro rated for FTE, on the first pay day subsequent to ratification. This amount shall be net of applicable federal taxes,
c.	Employees who work 36 hours per week with 12-hour shifts will be considered full-time.
d.	An employee who was on an unpaid FMLA leave of absence as of 1/21/05, and who is otherwise be eligible for a bonus, shall be paid the applicable bonus provided the employee returns to work at the expiration of such leave.
e.	Temporary Part-time (TPT) employees employed as of 1/22/05 who have worked at least 8 hours in the period between 7/10/04 and 1/7/05 shall be paid a bonus payment as below. This amount shall be net of applicable federal taxes.
TPTs who have worked 400+ hours will receive $350
TPTs who have worked 100 - 399 hours will receive $262.50
TPTs who have worked 8-99 hours will receive $175
19.
Overtime rules:
1.	Regular full and part-time employees who have agreed to work innovative work schedules of nine (9), ten (10), or twelve (12) hour shifts will be paid overtime beyond the innovative shift lengths per the respective contract addendums. If an employee agrees to work additional shifts of any length beyond their FTE, overtime shall be paid after eight (8) hours.
2.	Employees who have agreed to work “variable shifts", i.e. a scheduled pattern of any combination of shift lengths, shall be paid overtime beyond the scheduled shift length. If an employee agrees to work additional shifts of any length beyond their FTE, overtime shall be paid after eight (8) hours.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
69
3.	Employees who work eight (8) hour shifts and agree to work additional shifts of any length hours will be paid overtime after eight (8) hours.
4.	Temporary part time employees will be paid overtime after working eight (8) hours when working a shift of any length. If a temporary part time employee agrees to work another employee’s scheduled innovative shifts for longer than one (1) week, overtime will be paid after the shift length. Examples of such situations include covering a planned absence, medical leave, etc.
20.	Tardy policy.-
The parties agree to convene a final meeting to discuss the proposed GHC policy on tardiness.
21.	PTO Evaluation Committee
An ad hoc labor management committee, advisory to GHC administration, will convene for a maximum of three meetings. The committee will be composed of one (1) staff member and one (1) manager from the SWEA Joint Conference Committee, the RN JLMC, and the Service Unit LMC will convene for the purpose of evaluating the impact of PTO on employee satisfaction and Group Health's goal of improving staff availability by reducing unscheduled absences. The areas the committee will study may include the following:
1.	What is the impact on the number of unscheduled absences?
2.	What is the demonstrated impact on staffing predictability?
3.	What is the impact to staff replacement cost?
4.	What is the change in the number of days employees utilize for vacation?
5.	Is there a demonstrated increase in the number of employees reporting to work with illness or injuries?
The evaluation will be conducted during the calendar year 2006. The committee will collect and analyze the results and provide a documented report of their findings, conclusions and recommendations to the vice president of the delivery system.
22.	GHC-Union leadership meetings on health care policy.
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-200S Contract
70
The parties recognize that decisions made by elected officials and policy makers in Olympia and Washington, DC have an enormous impact on the financing of care and how care is delivered at Group Health Cooperative, The parties further agree that the most effective way to advocate for a better health care system is to work in partnership on issues of common concern. Group Health Cooperative Senior Leadership and SEIU 1199NW Leadership agree to meet on a semi-annual basis to discuss health care policy issues and to determine if there is interest to develop joint action plans on any issues of common concern. If so, these issues will be referred to the Joint Labor Management Committee for specific planning and implementation
23.	Labor/Management Committee
On an annual basis, during one of the regular scheduled meetings, labor management committee will meet with the Registered Nurses labor management committee to determine any shared issues or projects that may benefit from collaborative participation of the two committees.
24,	Liaison Nurses
Seniority shall be defined as time worked in the beginning unit plus time worked in the job classification. For purposes of unit layoff, unit job posting and vacation scheduling, seniority shall be defined as the date of hire into the job classification.
25.	Grievances and Arbitrations:
a)	All grievances that have been filed during the time period when the contract expired will be recognized as eligible for arbitration in accordance with the grievance procedure. Arbitrations will be filed no later than 30-days following ratification for grievances that are currently in Step III of the grievance procedure.
b)	The grievance filed by LPN/Service bargaining unit regarding rest periods . will be withdrawn.
c)	Grievances regarding the disciplinary actions taken against Lucinda Christianson will be taken immediately to expedited arbitration.
26.	RetiryeJVIedlcal:
The parties agree to meet In a multi-union forum in 2005 to discuss revisions to the retiree medical plans for the purpose of cost containment.
27.	Dental Benefits:
Group Health Cooperative- SEIU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
71
The parties agree to meet in a multi-union forum in 2005 to discuss revisions to the dental benefits for the purposes of containment and the evaluating the potential of a common dental plan.
For SEIU 1199NW , Date:__UjT
Group Health Cooperative- SEJU 1199NW Registered Nurses
2005-2008 Contract
72
Western Washington 1199 RNs wage schedule
Effective January 22,2005
Two yew between steps 11 md 12,14 sad IS. Timeyeanbetweensteps 12and 13, Band 14.
JobcMta			BS	£S5i£^-		1M»4 as'^r-ttr	UEfci#<3W.		IS®			Sttftt	■7^11	Step 12	>.r.		.Ml: Stap15 f-ri. >..-
noe	Staff Num	mu	$2129	$22.96	$2392	$24.91	$25.87	$26.89	$27.86	$2812	$29.79	$30174	$31.78	$32.73	$3199	$35.91	... $37.81
mz	Staff ttawlNB (12 hr schedule)		$21.99	$22.96	$23.92	$24.91	$25.87	$2689	527.86	$2812	$29.79	$3074	$31.76	$32.73	$33.99	$3511	$3711
1110	Staff Ntwtfli*	h	$25.29	$26.41	$27.49	$28.65	$29.75	$30.91	$32.03	$33.15	$34.28	$35.36	$3651	$37.65	$3919	$4129	$43.48
mi	Staff	(12		$25.29	$26.41	$27.49	$28.65	$29.75	$30.91	mtn	$33.15	$3428	$3516	$3651	$37.65	$39.09	$4129	$4343
1103	UatoonNurrf5%		$27.70	$2854	$29.67	$30.90	$3151	$33.06	$3421	$3504	$35.62	$3628	$36.98	$38.12	$39.57	$41.76	$43.96
1113	VdSna Hunefl 5%	im	$27.70	$28.54	$29.67	$30.90	$31.91	$33.05	$3421	$35.04	$35.62	$3628	$3698	$38.12	$3917	$41.78	$4196
1105	Nurse PmtawnsflSX	w	$3321	$3420	$3524	$3628	$37.38	$3850	$39.66	$40.42	$4127	$42.06	$42.93	$43.76	$44.66	$47.12	$49.56
1104	Num PracCtamer'	■■^^J	$2868	$29.74	$30.64	$31.56	$3251	$33.48	$34.49	$35.17	$3519	S36J&Q	$37.33	$38.06	$38.83	$40.97	$43.10
1115	Mm ftMfrnontafrexampt		$26.88	$29.74	$30.64	$3156	S3Z51	S33.48	$34.49	$35.17	W5J9	$36.60	»7J3	$3806	nw	$40.97	$43.W
1102	LneiaiNurae		I2W	$24.82	$25.80	$2617	$27,74	$28.75	$29.75	$30.47	$30.97	$3156	1 $32_15	$33.15	$34.42	$3633	$3824
1114	VisSnjNme	8^	$24,09	$24.52	$25.80	$26.87	$27.74	$28.75	$29.75	$30.47	$30.97	$3116	$32.15	$33.15	$34.42	$36.33	$3824
Undated ?/17«k
Effective July 9,2005
Two yean between steps Hand 12,14 and IS. Three years between neps 12 and 13.13 and 14.
Job cotte		4Gniit!	Stepi.	IB®* ;Step2. iSSawra	|»pT	w				• Step8'	4 ^J...	&& ’.B Step 19 a..	S'*111	Step 12	Jsipn	r!^ ■ Step U	-• W15
1108	Saif Nine		122.76	$23,76	12475	$25.78	$26.78	$77.83	$2833	$29.83	$3034	$31.62	132.8?	13387	135.18	137.16	$39.13
1112	Start fhxsaKB (12 hr schedule)	w	122.76	123.75	124.76	$2578	$26.78	$2733	$28.83	$2933	$30.84	13182	1326?	$33.87	$35.18	$37.16	1M.13
1110	SiaffNwWW*	^2^	126.17	$2733	$28.47	$29.65	$30.80	132.00	$33.16	$3430	$35.46	$36.59	$37.80	$38.96	$40.46	$42.74	$45.00
1111	StaflNuratf15VNB(12hrnh)		126.17	127.33	$28.47	$29.65	$3030	$32.00	$33.16	$34.30	$3546	$36.59	$37.60	$38.96	140.46	142.74	$45.00
1103	Uaison Nwwf>5%		$28.61	$29.54	$30.71	$31.98	wo;	$3422	$35.41	$3677	$36.87	$37.56	$38.27	$39.45	$4097	143.25	$45.51
1113	Visaing Ninefl 5%	»	$2857	125.54	$3071	131.98	$33.02	$3422	$35.41	$3677	$36.87	$37.56	$382?	$39.45	$40.97	$43.25	145.51
1105	Num Pratffionerf15%		$3453	13540	$3647	$37 56	$38.69	$39.85	$4105	$4137	$42.71	143.56	$44.43	$4520	$4622	148.77	15129
1104	NuraePrafltaW	jTIII	129.83	130.78	$31.71	$32.66	13365	$34.65	$35.69	$36.41	$37.14	$3768	13863	$3939	$40.19	$4241	$44.60
1115	Nura< PnK3tfionejfrwi-cxarnpt		129.es	130.78	$31.71	$32.66	$33.65	134 65	$35.69	$3641	$37.14	$37.88	$38.63	$3939	$40.19	$42.41	$44.60
1102	Lfcristoci Nurse	8®	$2493	125.69	126.70	$2731	$2872	$2975	$30.79	$3134	132.06	$32.66	$3328	134.31	$35.63	$37.61	$39.57
1114	Visiting Nurse		$24'13	125.69	$2670	$27.81	$28.72	$29.75	$30.79	$31.54	$32.06	$32.66	$3328	$3421	135.63	137.61	$39.57
Updated 7W05
Western Washington 1199 RNs wage schedule
Effective January 1,2006
Two yettrs between itepi 11 end 12,14 and 15. Three yew between step) 12 md IX 13 end 14. Five yew between wept 15*nd 16 Step 16, effective 1-1-06, ie« 15 yew step.
Job code	Jcbttie	Grade	Stapl	Step 2	Step 3	Stap4	Staff 5	Staff 6	Staff?	Stap8	Staff!	Staff 14	Staff 11	Staff 11	Staff n	Staff 14	Staff 15	Staff 16
1102	UaUonNune	8	324.93	$25.69	$26.70	$2711	$28.72	$29.75 ..	$30.79	$3154	$32.06	$3266	$3328	$3421	$35.63	$3761	$3917	$40.76
1103	LhtscnNtmi15%	3	328.57	329.54	$30.71	$31.98	$3302	$3422	$35.41	$3627	$36.87	$37.56	$3827	$39.45	$40.97	$4325	$45.51	$46.88
1104	NuttPradBondf	■ 7	$2989	330.78	$31.71	$32.66	$33.65	$34.65	$35.69	$36.41	$37.14	$37.88	$3863	$39.39	$40.19	$4241	$44.60	$45.94
1105	Now	5	$3438	335.40	$36.47	$37.56	$38.69	$39.85	$41.05	$41.87	$42.71	$4356	$44.43	$4530	$4622	$48.77	$5129	$52.83
1115	Num PracBionerfhon-erampt	7	329.89	330.78	$31.71	$32.66	33365	$34.65	$35.69	$36.41	$37.14	$3788	$38.63	$39.39	$40.19	$42.41	$44.60	$45.94
1108	Staff Num	1	322.76	323-76	$24.76	$25.78	$26.78	$2783	$2813	$29.83	$30.54	$3112	$3287	$338?	$35.18	$57.16	339.13	$40.32
1110	Staff Nuratf15%	2	326.17	$27.33	$26.47	$29.65	$3030	$3200	$33.16	$34.30	$3546	$36.59	$37.80	$3896	$40.46	$42.74	$45.00	$46.37
1111	Staff ltaW15WNB (12 tawti)	2	326.17	$27.33	$28.47	$29.65	$3080	$32.00	$33.16	$34 JO	$35.46	$36.59	$3780	$3826	$40.46	$42.74	$4500	$46.37
1112	Staff NuraalNB (12 hr echedute)	1	322.76	$23.76	$24.76	$25.78	$26.78	$2713	$2563	$29.63	$30.84	$31.62	$3217	$3327	$35.18	$37.16	$39.13	$40.32
1114	VMkiONum	8	324.93	$25.69	$26.70	$27.81	$28.72	$29.75	$30.79	$3154	$32.06	$32.66	S33.Z8	$3431	$3513	$37.81	$3957	$40.76
1113	VMngNimff5%	3	$28.67	$29.54	$30.71	$31.98	$33.02	$3422	$35.41	$36.27	$361?	$37.56	$3827	$39.45	$40.97	$43.25	$45.51	$46.88
Effective July 2006
Two years between steps 11 and 12,14 and 15 Three yean between steps J2 and 13, 13 and Id. Five years between steps 15 and 16.
Job coda	Job Ube	Grade	Stepl	Stop 2	Step}	Step*	Stepl	Staff!	Step?	Step 8	Step 9	step 10	step ii	Step 12	Step 13	Step 14	Step 15	Step 16
1102	UatahnNtese	a	$25.80	$25.59	$27.6*	$28.78	$29.72	$30.80	$31.87	$32.64	$33.18	$33.81	$34.44	$35.51	$36.87	$36.92	$40.96	$42.19
1103	Uatson Nurse/15%	3	$29.57	$30.57	$31.76	$33.10	$34.18	$35.41	$36.65	$37.54	$38.16	$38.88	$39.61	$40.83	$42.41	$44.76	$47,10	148.52
1104	Nurse Pracffloner	7	$30.04	$31.66	132 82	$3361	$34.83	$35.87	$36.94	' $37.68	$3844	$3920	$39.99	$40.77	141.60	$43.89	$46.17	$47.55
1105	Nurse	S	$35.58	S36JM	$37.74	$38.88	$40.05	$41.25	$42.48	$43.33	$44.21	$45.08	$45.98	$46.89	$47.84	$50.48	$53.09	$54.68
1115	Nurse PractSonerftwexempt	7	$30-94	111.86	$32.82	$33J1	$34.83	$35.87	$36.94	$37.68	$3844	$39.20	$39.99	$40.77	141.60	$43.89	$46.17	$47.55
1108	Staff Nune	1	$2355	$24.59	$25.62	$26.69	$27.72	$2880	$2984	$30.87	$31.91	$32.93	$34.02	$35.06	$36.42	$38.46	$40JO	$41.73
1110	Staff NuraoH5%	2	$27.09	12123	$29.47	$30.69	$31.87	$33.12	$34.32	$35.50	$36.70	$37.87	$39.12	$40.32	$41.88	$44.23	$46.58	$47.99
1111	Staff Nnrsd155WNB(1! hr srti)	2	$27.09	128.23	$29.47	$30.69	$31.87	$33.12	$34,32	$35.50	$36.70	$37.67	$39.12	$40.32	$41.88	$4423	$46.58	$47.99
1112	Staff NcraeNB (12 hr schedule}	1	$23.55	524,59	$25.62	$26.69	$27.72	$28.80	$29.84	$30.87	$31.91	$32.93	$34.02	$35.06	$36.42	$38.46	$40.50	$41.73
1114	Visiting Nurse	8	$25.(0	$26.59	$27.64	$28.78	$29.72	$30.60	$31.87	$32.64	$33.18	$33.81	$34.44	$35.51	$36.87	$38.92	$40.96	$42.19
1113	VUSngNwsa'15%	3	$29.67	130.57	$31.78	$33.10	$34.18	$35.41	$3665	$37.54	$38.16	$38.88	$39.61	$40.83	$42.41	$44.76	$47.10	$48.52
Updated 7/7/05
Western Washington 1199 RNs wage schedule
Effocthe July 2007
s	M«k	Mt		1	1	4	5	t	7	1	*	IV	11	«	13	14	IS	1*	17	1*	1*	a	21	n	73	H		a
1102	UWonNow	B	$3571	WSl	taw	*a.7»	*®re	*iw	V32.W	23379	23434	*1499	*35.86	*36.0	06.75	23722	237M	238.H	0697	0956	*4026	*4133	J42.39	(42Jt	24313	24323	*4123	24167
110	IM HteWISK	3	txm	*3184	*3190	tux	23536	236.65	*37.93	538 K	*3M9	24024	241.0	241.63	24226	HZW	24134	24186	244.70	24952	24632	$4753	*4675	*4923	24971	*49.71	*49.71	*9122
1104	MurwRvdMnw	7	*3242	*3ZS7	$3137	23499	*36.05	237.12	$3B25	X39LOO	*39.79	*4058	$41JB	*41.79	*4220	HZ4S	*4176	*4305	*43)4	*4463	P54J	64M1	*47.76		RM	*MS4	*4814	249.21
itos	NmfPndMmidSIMC	5	I3U2	uru		*40.13	*4145	M269	J41W	244 B	245.75	24668	*4759	54006	24953	24665	24920	*4951	250.42	*5132	55224	25160	25495	$55.44	$55M	25594	255.94	25659
1115	Nurw PndKmrME	7	232X12	232.07	*3197	*3499	23606	237.12	*3823	23900	09.79	(4058	*4139	*41.79	24270	24246	*42.79	*4X05	243J4	*44.63	245.43	146.61	J4775	*4821	*4814	*4104	248.6*	*4921
1100	SMNnt	1	*34.36	USAS	*2552	M162	UMS	23.61	*3089	231.95	*310	234.03	05.21	WS.75	236.29	*3676	0723	237.0	236.40	tJB.11	*3911	24OM	Mk92	*4234	24276	*4276	*4276	24119
1110	SMMtWISX	1	tam	an	*»90	231.76	tn»	234.26	53552	*36.75	*37.99	23)10	*40.49	241.11	241.73	24277	*42.61	*4334	*4416	*44.98	245.78	$4599	*4821	*4819	*49.17	*49.17	$49.57	24967
till	Stf Mmd$Mfl(12l<fKt4	1	tarn	*821	wxw		53299	23426	*3512	*36.75	07.99	53920	(40.49	241.H	*41.73	24277	242J1	54134	244.16	24496	*45.78	*4699	*4621	24869	$49.17	*49.17	*49.17	24967
1t12	SMUknaM (12>r«*l	1	224X	ta«.	*26.0	S21®	tan	2321	S3W	23195	233.0	234.0	*3511	05.75	2363	236 76	23723	*37»	23640	239.11	O9J1	MOW	$4192	24234	24276	*4276	*4278	*411)
1114	VMntfaw	a	ts.it	U7U	*asi	*»79	ixa	Oil?	23299	23179	23434	*340	23515	23020	23625	*3722	2376)	*3016	23M7	23938	24028	M1J3	*4239	*4211	*4123	*4123	*4123	24167
1113	VMMtNuiWm	3	Wm	2M.M	taw	OUS	*35.36		*37.93	53185	23949	24024	241.00	24163	24226	242JO	24334	24356	244.70	24552	*4632	*470	248.75	24923	$49.71	*49.71	*49.71	P*ioa
upMr/rm
Change of Address Forms
Please mail in this form to the union office in the event you move or get a new phone number.
SE1L/D1STR1CT 1199NW
15 South Grady Way, Suite 200 Renton, WA 98055
Name:Soc. Sec. Number;
Employer:Unit/Clinic/School:
Old Address:___________________________________
Old Phone Number: (H)(W)
New Address:___________________________________
New Phone Number: (H)(W)
Name:Soc. Sec. Number:
Employer:	Unit/Clinic/School:
Old Address:___________________________________
Old Phone Number: (H)(W)
New Address:___________________________________
New Phone Number: (H)(W)
CHOFADD0704
UNIONREPRESENTATIVES
MY EXECUTIVE BOARD REPRESENTATIVES(S) IS:
MY DELEGATE(S) IS:
COMMITTEES/MEMBERS:
OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Service Employees International Union/DistrictNW.
15 South Grady Way, Suite 200 Renton, WA 98055 (425) 917-1199 / 1-800-422-8934