TO
AGREEMENT
Between
NSTAR Electric & Gas Corporation and
Utility Workers Union Of America, A.F.L. - C.I.O. and
Local No. 369, U.W.U.A., A.F.L. - C.I.O.
PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE AND OFFICE-TECHNICAL & PROFESSIONAL UNIT
Dated: January 16, 2007
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preamble............................................................. I
PARTONE: GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I:	Recognition and Representation.................... I
II:	Union Membership.................................. 2
III:	Payroll Deductions................................ 3
IV:	Mutual Obligations................................ 3
V:	Management Rights................................. 4
VI:	No Strikes or Lockouts............................ 4
VII:	Emergencies Declared by Chief Executive Officer..	5
V1H:	Union Activities.................................. 5
LX:	Conformation to Laws, Regulations and Orders...... 7
PART TWO	: WORK DAY, WORK WEEK AND WORK SCHEDULE
ARTICLE X:	Work Day and Work Week............................ 7
XI:	Work Schedules.................................... 8
PART THR	EE: COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE Xn:	Wages............................................. 9
XIII:	Overtime and Premium Pay......................... 10
PART FOU	R: VACATIONS, HOLIDAYS AND EXCUSED ABSENCES
ARTICLE XTV:	Vacations and Vacation Compensation.............. 21
XV:	Holidays, Personal Days and	Holiday Compensation.	23
XVI:	Excused Absences from Work....................... 24
PART FIV	E: TENURE OF EMPLOYMENT
ARTICLE XVII:	Seniority........................................ 25
X	VIH:	Retrogression.................................... 30
XIX:	Substitutions and Temporary	Assignments..... 30
XX:	Dual or Combination Jobs......................... 31
XXI:	Work by Supervisors.............................. 31
XXII:	Students......................................... 31
XXIII:	Contractors...................................... 32
PART SIX; BENEFIT PLANS
ARTICLE XXIV:	NSTAR Savings Plan............................... 32
XXV:	NSTAR Pension Plan............................... 32
XXVI:	Disability Benefits Plan & Group Insurance........ 32
XXVII:	Health Plans...................................... 33
XXVHl:	Section 125 Plans............................... 33
XXIX:	Other Benefit Plans............................... 33
.XXX	:	Medical Examinations............................. 33
Page
PART SEV	EN: MISCELLANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS
ARTICLE XXXI: Work in Inclement Weather..................... 34
XXXff: Clothing and Equipment....................... 34
PART EIG	HT: DISCIPLINE AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
ARTICLE XXXUL Discipline, Suspension, Discharge or Demotion..	35
XXXIV:	Grievance Procedure...........„............ 35
XXXV:	Arbitration................................ 36
PART NINE: AMENDMENT AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XXXVI: Amendments................................... 37
XXXVII:	Duration of Agreement..................... 38
SCHEDULE A (P&M)............................................ 40
SCHEDULE A (OT&P)........................................... 43
HOURLY PAY SCHEDULE C....................................... 46
PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE PAY SCHEDULE....................... 48
(Effective May 29,2005 thru May 16,2008) OFFICE-TECHNICAL & PROFESSIONAL PAY SCHEDULE................ 62
(Effective May 29,2005 thru May 16,2008)
SCHEDULE D: BEGINNERS' RATINGS.............................. 75
SCHEDULER WORK IN INCLEMENT WEATHER......................... 76
APPENDIX: Illness and Nonindustrial Accident and Industrial Accident Disability Benefit Plans................................... 77
TOPICAL INDEX............................................... 80
AGREEMENT made and entered into this 29th day of May 2005 by and between the NSTAR Electric & Gas Corporation (NSTAR), a Massachusetts corporation hereinafter referred to as the "Company'1, and the Utility Workers Union of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Union", affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.LO., and Local Union No. 369, U.W.U.A., A.F.L.-C.I.O., hereinafter referred to as the "Local".
WITNESSETH THAT the Company and the Union and the Local agree as follows:
PARTONE GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I
Recognition and Representation
1.	The Company recognizes the Union and the Local as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hoars of employment or other conditions of employment of all employees of the Company in the Production & Maintenance and Office-Technical & Professional Unit, established by the merger of the following: the former Utility Workers Union of America, A.F.L.-C.I.O., Local 392 (Production, Maintenance and Clerical Employees) certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Cases No. l-RC-2422 on Odober 3,1951 and No; t-RC-17675 on August 9,1982; and the former Utility Workers Union of America, A.F.L.-C.I.O., Local 387 (Office-Technical and Professional Employees) established by the merger of the former Professional Unit, certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 1 -RM-85 on July 17,1950 and the former Office and Clerical Unit, certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case NO. 1 -RC-1638 on August 3,1950; and the former Brotherhood of Utility Workers of New England. Inc. Local 333 (New Bedford District) as certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 1-R 1725 on January 3.1944; and the former Brotherhood of Utility Workers of New England, Inc' Local 338 (Plymouth District) as certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 1 -R-1717 on January 11,1944; and the former Brotherhood of Utility Workers of New England, Inc. Local 339 (Cape & Vineyard District) as certified by the National Labor Relations Board; and the former Production and Maintenance Unit as certified by the National Labor Relations Board m Case No. I -RC-1368 on June 29.1950, as amended by direction of said Board on April 20. 1955. Persons) employed by the Company who, it is agreed, are represented by the Union under the foregoing certifications are those now or hereafter holding the job titles listed m cither Schedule A-P&M or Schedule A-OT&P annexed. If, when new job titles are created or the duties of the incumbents of present job titles are changed, there shall be a disagreement whether an incumbent is or is not eligible for representation by the Union under any of the foregoing job titles, the question shall be decided under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and the provisions for Arbitration under Article XXXV. The term "employee" or "employees” as used in this Agreement means a person or persons employed by the Company in said Production St Maintenance and Office-Technical & Professional Unit.
2.	The term "probationary employee", as used in this Agreement, means a newly-hired employee during the first six (6) months of continuous employment by the Company during which period the Company will determine the suitability of such new employee for acceptance as a regular employee. If such employee is released by the Company for any reason during such period, such actions will not be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and the provisions for Arbitration under Article XXXV. Otherwise, the probationary employee will be covered by this agreement and will have the foil benefit of the Grievance Procedure and the provisions for Arbitration. Upon becoming a regular employee, he/shc will be placed on the appropriate roster and his/her seniority determined in accordance with Article XVII.
3.	The Company (meaning, for the purposes of this Agreement, NSTAR and all subsidiaries) agrees that the Company will remain entirely neutral with regard to any future UWUA organizing efforts neither opposing, expressing an opinion nor aiding the Union in its ongoing efforts.
tn addition, with prior consultation with the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, the Union shall have reasonable access for communications to employees in a manner which does not disrupt operations.
ARTICLED
Union Membership
1.	The Company agrees that it will require, as a condition of employment, that all probationary and regular employees now employed or hereafter employed under job titles subject to this Agreement or hereafter transferred to such job titles shall become members of the Union and shall continue as members thereafter so long as this Agreement is in effect, except as follows:
a.	Employees who, because of entering into the military service of the United States prior to the date hereof have left the employ of the Company and have been or shall be re-employed in accordance with the provisions of law to the extent that this exception is required by law;
b.	Present employees during the period of one (1) month after the date of this Agreement;
c.	Probationary employees employed hereafter during the first month or (30) days of their employment as such, whichever shall be longer;
d.	Employees regularly employed on a part-time basis, paid by the hour and working not more than twenty (20) hours per week except for Customer Service Representatives (CSR's) working under twenty (20) hours per week;
e.	If a steam plant or electric plant or other business is hereafter acquired by the Company, employees of the former owner to the extent that the Company may, in order to effect such acquisition, be obligated to assume any legal obligations as to such employees inconsistent with these Union membership requirements;
f.	Employees with respect to whom the Company has reasonable grounds for believing (1) that membership in the Union was not available to the employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members, or (2) that membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and the initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
2
2.	If an employee shall become subject to discharge by the Company because of the foregoing provisions as to membership in the Union, the questions whether such discharge is justifiable or required under all the circumstances and is lawful shall be decided (if the Company or the Union requests, but without prejudice to such other rights as the employee may have) in accordance with the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and the provisions for Arbitration in Article XXXV.
3.	Any employee subject to the foregoing requirements as to Union membership who is transferred or promoted to a job title which is not subject to those requirements shall have the privilege of withdrawing from the Union membership; and the Union and the Local agree that such withdrawal shall hot prevent any such employee from retaining employment in the event that thereafter the employee is transferred back to his/her former rating. The seniority status of such an employee transferred back shall be determined by mutual agreement between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE III Payroll Deductions
1.	The Company will recognize assignments to the Local of wages of employees for payment of their membership dues each week and for payment of initiation and other fees when made in accordance with the provisions of Section 302(cX4) of the Labor Management Relations Act of June 23,1947 (Public Law 101,80th Congress) and of Section 8 of Chapter 154 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.) of Massachusetts, and the Company will remit such membership dues to the Union or Local as directed by the Union.
2.	The Company agrees to deduct such dues, initiation and other fees each week for each employee to whom any earned wages are due, unless his/her assignment of wages provides that such deductions be made at some other time. When Wages for that week are payable in advance for vacation purposes, the deduction will be made from the advanced wages for that week.
ARTICLE IV Mutual Obligations
The Company recognizes an obligation to promote good employee relations by maintaining rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment that are equitable, reasonable and fair, and the Union and the Local recognize the obligation of the Company to furnish adequate uninterrupted service to the public and to maintain such earnings as will enable the Company adequately to perform its duties. The Company will not discriminate against an employee because of his/her membership in or nis/her lawful activity on behalf of the Union. Neither the Company nor the Local will unlawfully discriminate against an employee on the basis of gender, color, race, religion, age, ancestiy, national origin, creed, sexual orientation, citizenship, genetic information, mental or physical disability, or veteran status.
ARTICLE V
Management Righto
1.	The Union and the Local recognize the right and power of the Company to select and hire all employees; to promote employees; to determine the necessity for filling a vacancy; to transfer employees from one position to another, to suspend, discipline, demote or discharge employees; to assign, supervise or direct all working forces and to maintain discipline and efficiency among them; to lay off employees and to stagger employment when required because of lack of work or curtailment of work; and generally to control and supervise the Company's operations and to exercise the other customary functions of Management in carrying on its business without hindrance of interference by the Union, the Local or by employees. If die Local claims that the Company has exercised the right to suspend, discipline, demote or discharge employees in an unjust or unreasonable manner, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV. If the Local claims that the Company has exercised any of the other foregoing rights in a capricious or arbitrary manner, such claims shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV
2.	The Company, the Union and the Local recognize the responsibility of tile employees to comply with reasonable rules, regulations and practices prescribed by the Company.
ARTICLE VI
No Strikes or Lockouts
1.	Recognizing that the Company, as a public utility, is under a paramount duty of providing continuous service in the interest of health, safety and convenience of the community it serves, the Company, the Union and the Local agree that tin strikes and lockouts are undesirable means of settling disputes between them. The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees during the terms of this Agreement or during any period of time while negotiations are in progress between the parties for a continuance or renewal of it The Union and the Local agree that, during said term and any such period of negotiation, neither the Union, nor the Local, nor the employees will cause or participate, directly or indirectly, in any strike or in any retarding or stopping of work or picketing for any cause whatsoever.
2.	The Union and the Local agree that, in the event of any unauthorized strike or retarding or stopping of work or picketing, it will cooperate with the Company in getting the employees to return to, and remain at, work and tn securing a termination of any unauthorized strike or retarding or stopping of work or picketing in violation of the provisions of this Article. The Union and the Local recognize the right of the Company to take disciplinary action, including discharge, against any employees who engage in any strike, intentional retarding or stopping of work or picketing in violation of the provisions of this Article.
3.	The Company agrees that, in the event of an unauthorized strike, retarding or stopping of work or picketing on the part of any of the employees during tire life of this Agreement or during any period of time while negotiations are in progress between the parties for a continuance or renewal of it, there shall be no liability on the part of the Union or the Local or on the part of any of their officers, agents or members who do not participate therein provided that the Union or the Local or their officers, agents and members take the action specified in the foregoing paragraph.
			
4.	The Company agrees that it shall not compel employees covered by this Agreement to cross any picket line that may be established on or around customers' premises as a result of a labor dispute. However, the Union and the Local, realizing the Company’s obligation to maintain uninterrupted service, will attempt to obtain permission from the striking Union for safe passage through such picket line whenever necessary.
ARTICLE Vil
Emergencies Declared by Chief Executive Officer
In cases of emergency, the existence of which is declared by the Chief Executive Officer, or in his/her absence by a designated alternate, the Company will notify an officer of the Local immediately. During the period of such emergency, the Company may suspend any or all of the job specifications, and employees may be assigned to serve the best interest of the Company. Any question regarding the proper pay of an employee while performing, during such an emergency, duties not consistent with his/her regular job specification shall be submitted in writing to the Company no later than thirty (30) days after the Company notifies an officer of the Local of the termination of such emergency. Such question shall be reviewed by a committee consisting of two (2) members designated by the Local and two (2) members designated by the Company; and if they are unable to agree, the question, provided it was so submitted but not otherwise, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV.
ARTICLE VIII
Union Activities
1.	Employees shall not engage in Union activities during working hours ot on Company property except with the consent of the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, upon request of the President, Vice President or Secretary-Treasurer of the Local or any other member of the Local duly authorized by its President
2.	The Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, shall give such consent including permission for accredited representatives of the Local, to visit work locations during working hours in connection with matters arising out of this Agreement when such consent may, in the judgment of the Director of Employee St Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, be given without serious interference with the work. The person in charge of the work location will furnish, if required, a guide for reasons of personal safety.
3.	The fulltime representatives, acting as Business Agent. Secretary-Treasurer and President of the Local, or a designated alternate, will, upon proper identification, have the right to visit any specified work location where members of the Local are at work after securing permission from the Director of Employee & Labor Relations or his/her designated representative. The person in charge of the work location will furnish, if required, a guide for reasons of personal safety.
4.	The Union Steward at the work location, after arranging with his/her supervisor, may confer at reasonable times and for reasonable periods with employees or with his/her supervisor concerning grievances provided there is no serious interference with the work
5
5.	Upon request of the President or Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to (he Director of Employee & Labor Relations, the Company will, on reasonable notice and so for as the exigencies of its business permit, allow up to forty (40) employees (but at any one time not more than three (3) employees from any one division of the Company) time offi without loss of seniority but without pay, to attend business or committee meetings or conventions of the Union or affiliate,
6.	Upon written request of the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, the Company shall grant a leave of absence for a period of three (3) years to the full-time representatives acting as Business Agent, Secretary-Treasurer and President of the Local. Upon re-instatement, they will retain the same company and department seniority and seniority on the ratings that they would have had if they had not been on leave of absence. Upon their permanent promotion to die next higher rating on the job progression chart showing the ratings held by them at the time of their leave of absence, they shall advance on said next higher rating to the roster position they would have had:
a.	if they would have been promoted to said next higher rating during the period of their leave of absence had they not taken such leave; and
b.	if they are found qualified by fitness and ability and are promoted at the time when the first vacancy occurs after their return from leave of absence.
7.	Upon the request of the President of the National Union, or his/her designated alternate, to the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, the Company shall grant a leave of absence for a period not to exceed one (1) year to not more than ten (10) employees (but at any one time not more than two (2) from any one division of the Company) far Local or National Union activity.
8.	In case of any leave of absence authorized by the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, extending over a period of four (4) consecutive weeks, participation in the Company's group insurance, retirement, and hospitalization and surgical benefit plans shall be a subject of special arrangement with the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative. The Company will not pay any part of the cost of such participation.
9.	Any employee granted a leave of absence under this Article shall, at the expiration of his/her leave of absence, be required to submit to a physical erammatim by the Company's Medical Director, but, irrespective of the result of such examination, he/she will be re-inststed tn accordance with his/her seniority.
10.	The Company shall, upon request of the Local, firmish to tin individual designated to the Company by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local information with respect to the rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment of any employee.
11.	The Company agrees to permit the Local to use designated Company bulletin boards for posting notices dealing with official union business provided that, in the opinion of the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, such notices are non-controvereia] tn nature and do not adversely affect the best interests of the Company.
6
ARTICLE IX
Conformation to Lam, Regulations and Orders
I.	h is understood and agreed that alt agreements herein arc subject to all applicable laws now or hereafter in effect and to the lawful regulations, rulings and orders of regulatory commissions having jurisdiction. If any of said laws, regulations, rulings or orders shall conflict with any provisions of this Agreement, the parties shall confer in an effort to negotiate a lawful substitution or modification; but, if as a result of such conference no substitution or modification is agreed upon, the disagreement shall not affect the remaining provisions of this Agreement and shall not constitute a question subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV or Arbitration under Article XXXV.
2.	Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to require the Company, the Union or the Local to commit an unfair labor practice or other act that is forbidden by, or is an offense under, existing or future laws affecting the relations of the Company with its employees.
PART TWO
WORK DAY, WORK WEEK AND WORK SCHEDULES
ARTICLE X
Work Day and Work Week
I - The work day shall consist of eight (8) hours and the work week shall consist of five (5) days of eight (8) hours each.
2.	For non-shift employees, the working hours will be included between approximately 7:00 Am. and 6:00 p.m. and normally the five (5) regular work days will be Monday through Friday. For the purpose of this Agreement, "non-shift employees" are defined as those whose posted schedules specify work on any five (5) days of the calendar week between the hours stated in the preceding sentence, and all other employees are defined as "shift Employees".
3.	The present established practice in applying paragraph 2 with respect to scheduling employees as shown on Stipulation #4 shall not be changed unless such changes are mutually agreed to.
4.	The Union and the Local agree that the limitations on scheduling contained in this Article shall not apply to employees assigned to ordinary maintenance and repair work formerly performed by contractors outside the hours specified for non-shi ft employees as defined in paragraph 2 of this Article.
5.	It is understood and agreed that, if present operating conditions change or if technological improvements change existing equipment or introduce new equipment to such an extent as to justify the Company changing the present Monday through Friday schedules, the Company shall submit the changes to the Local for approval. If the proposed changes do not meet with the Local's approval, the issue shall be settled in the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and by -Arbitration under Article XXXV.
7
ARTICLE XI Work Schedule!
Work schedules shall be posted by departments for all employees in accordance with the following rules:
1.	Department work schedules for employees shall be posted for each four (4) week period in final form as described below. They shall specify the times at which the scheduled employees begin and end each work day and shall specify the normal work days (in forty (40) hour weeks), and the normal days off for the period.
2.	The hours of a work day, as posted, shall be consecutive, except for time out for meals; but in positions where the nature of the work requires continuous operation, eight (8) consecutive hours may be worked, during which lunch may be eaten without interruption to service or deduction in pay. Such time out for meals, in those operations where time is usually taken out for meals, shall commence not less than four (4) or more than five (5) hours after the scheduled starting time.
3.	The Company work week shall be the calendar week commencing on Sunday si 12:00 a.m. and two (2> of an employee's normal days off shall be consecutive for at least three (3) times in every twenty-eight (28) days.
4.	Schedules for the employees concerned shall be posted tn final form no later than 3:00 pm. on the Wednesday before the period starts and shall be submitted to the Local's interested steward or stewards no later than 3:00 p.m. on the preceding Wednesday.
5.	In the event of p. disagreement between the steward or stewards and the manager regarding any feature of a final schedule not settled under the provisions of Article X, such schedule shall become effective when posted, but thereafter, the disagreement may be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV.
6.	The following shall not constitute a change in the final posted schedule:
a.	A change of forty-five (45) minutes or less of the time for starting and endfog one or more work days from the times posted in the applicable work schedule.
b.	Hours worked in lieu of posted hours at the request of, or to suit the convenience of, the employees.
c.	A change in hours of work incident to a permanent promotion of the employee.
7.	Departures from the regular daily assignments may be made for the convenience of an employee with the consent of the Company subject to the provisions of paragraph 6(b) of this Article.
8.	The Company will endeavor to distribute Saturday and Sunday work equitably among the employees at a given work location engaged in the grade of work for which Saturday and Sunday scheduled work assignments are required.
8
PART THREE COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE XII
Wages
1.	Except as provided in this Article, and in Article XXXVU of this Agreement, the classifications and rates of pay contained in the Hourly Pay Schedule (Schedule C) annexed hereto, effective May 29,2005, shall not be changed or amended during the life of this Agreement unless by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
2.	a. It is agreed that the job specifications (Schedule B) dated April 3, 1955, as amended, are incorporated into this Agreement and shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement, except as they may be changed in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (b).
b. The Company, the Union and the Local will continue to cooperate when the introduction of any new machinery, equipment, systems, operations or procedures occurs which calls for changes in present job specifications or new job specifications. The Company will give the Local 90 days' advance notice of such contemplated introduction of any new machinery, equipment systems, operations or procedures; and, during the 9O-day period, the Company will negotiate with the Local what changes in present job specifications or new job specifications are appropriate, the rates of pay for the same and the treatment of employees directly Or indirectly affected by such changes. During such negotiations, the parties will give due consideration to training programs for employees so affected, to their promotional opportunities and seniority rights. The Company agrees that no present employee will be laid off or reduced in pay as a result of such changed or new job specifications. Reasonable training will be given to the affected employee or employees, where necessary, to assist them to qualify for the job or jobs to which they have been assigned.
If no agreement is reached at the end of the 90-day period, the Company may establish and put into effect such changed or new job specifications no sooner than twenty (20) days thereafter. However, the Company may install and operate such new machinery or equipment and institute changed or new job specifications as a result thereof after negotiation with the Local irrespective of the time limits above and whether or nor agreement is reached. Any dispute arising between toe parties concerning the true interpretation or application of this subparagraph (b) shaH be subject to the provisions of Arbitration under Article XXXV of the Agreement, except that the Board of Arbitration or Arbitrator selected by the operation of this Article XII, 2(b) shall not have the right or power to preclude or delay the installation or operation of the new machinery or equipment selected by the Company, provided that the foregoing shall not be deemed to affect the rights and powers of arbitrators in respect of any grievances arising under other provisions of this Agreement.
3.	The Company agrees that, if employees are required to woric outside of the territory served directly by the Company in order to render assistance to other companies, said employees shall be paid six percent (6%) above the employee’s regular hourly rate, plus reimbursement for necessary subsistence and traveling expenses not otherwise furnished. This section shall not apply to woric performed on the properties, lines or equipment, wherever located, which belongs to the Company.
4
4.	The following rules will govern the compensation of employees who are required to perform work for the Company outside of territory served directly by the Company and outside of cities and town? whose requirements are supplied by it either in whole or in part, hereinafter called "NSTAR territory":
a.	Such work by an employee for a normal work day shall be paid for at the employee's regular hourly rate and overtime work shall be paid for at his/her overtime rate. Hours so worked shall be reported in the usual maimer on time sheets.
b.	For any scheduled day on which an employee is required to be outside NSTAR territory and does not work eight (8) hours, he/she shall be paid for any boms worked in accordance with paragraph (a) above and for the difference between eight (8) hours and the hours worked at his/her regular hourly rate.
c.	For the purpose of these rules, hours spent in authorized travel and not otherwise compensated for will be reported as such and shall be paid for at his/her regular hourly rate.
d.	Expense money for transportation, meals and lodgings, when required, win be advanced to the employee prior to his/her departure for any work assignment outside NSTAR territory and will be accounted for by foe employee, with appropriate supporting vouchers, upon his/her return.
e.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) above, this paragraph 4 shall not apply to work performed on foe properties, lines or equipment, wherever located, which belong to the Company.
5.	Payday shall normally be on Thursday of each week Employees whose day off is Thursday or who work on other than the day shift on Thursday may obtain their checks from the Payroll Supervisor at the Summit Building, One NSTAR Way, Westwood, Wednesday p.m. When a holiday foils on a Wednesday, the Company will pay at least earned base pay on Thursday.
ARTICLE Xm
Overtime and Premium Pay
1.	Overtime compensation and premium rates shall be paid to employees subject to this Agreement in accordance with the following rules:
a.	Bach employee's overtime rate shall be one and one half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate.
b.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee shall be paid a premium rate which shall be his/her overtime rate for all hours worked outside the hours established by schedules posted in accordance with the provisions of Article XI of this Agreement as his/her basic normal or regular work day and work week, and no other extra compensation shall be paid for hours so worked. An employee shall not be paid the premium rate for mere than forty (40) hours in any posted period when foe work outside his/her posted schedule was due to a change in his/her schedule or shift or days of relief after foe schedule was posted. The following shall not constitute work outside an employee's basic normal or regular work day or work week:
i.	A change of forty-five (45) minutes or less of the time for starting and ending one or more work days from foe times posted in the applicable work schedule.
ii	Hours worked in lieu of posted hours at the request of, or to suit the convenience of, the employee.
iii.	A change in hours of work incident to a permanent promotion of the employee.
10
c.	When an employee is called in to work overtime which is not continuous with other hours worked, his/her compensation for the overtime, including any pay for travel time, shall not be less than his/her overtime rate for four (4) hours.
d.	So far as practicable, overtime work shall be distributed equitably among those employees engaged in the grade of work for which overtime assignments are required. A record of the overtime worked within a division by employees represented by the Union, in accordance with this Agreement, will be made available to the steward or stewards representing employees in that division and will be posted at least once every month. Any demonstrated inequity in the distribution of overtime shall be corrected by the Company by future assignments of overtime work. Should the Company fail to make such a correction satisfactory to the Local, the question shall be settled under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and by Arbitration under Article XXXV.
e.	Employees required to work overtime shall not be required to take time off to compensate for overtime worked or to be worked.
. a An employee required to work two (2) hours overtime continuous with the expiration of his/her regularly scheduled work day shall be furnished with a meal or a meal allowance not to exceed eight dollars and no cents ($8.00) per meal and an additional meal or meal allowance for each additional five (5) hours of continuous overtime work.
b.	An employee required to work two (2) hours or more overtime immediately preceding his/her regularly scheduled work hours shall be furnished with a meal or a meal allowance not to exceed eight dollars and no cents ($8.00) per meal two (2) hours after such overtime starts and an additional meal or meal allowance for each additional five (5) hours of continuous overtime work.
c.	Employees, who are entitled to the premium for work in excess of sixteen (16) hours provided in paragraph 4 of this Article, shall receive a meal or meal allowance every fifth hour of work, to be computed from the time of the next preceding meal or meal allowance without regard to whether such work is of continuous duration, until released from work for at least an eight (8) hour rest period.
d.	Employees required to work overtime who continue into their regularly scheduled hours outdoors, but normally would not have been required to work outdoors due to weather conditions, shall continue to receive a meal or meat allowance every five (5) hours until released from such outdoor work.
e.	Employees called in for overtime work which does not immediately precede or follow regular scheduled hours shall receive a meal or meal allowance not to exceed eight dollars and no cents ($8.00) after each five (5) hours of such overtime work.
f.	Employees entitled to a meal or meal allowance under this paragraph 2 who are allowed time off to eat such meal shall be paid for only one half (1/2) hour of such time off. All employees so entitled will be given time off to eat such meal except: (I) Incases where conditions exist which are hazardous to the general public, customer and Company equipment; and
(2)	In cases involving employees, such as station operating personnel who normally eat their meals on the job and for whom there is no relief available. However, when relief is available for such station operating personnel, these employees shall be allowed time off for meals but such time off shall be limited to one such period between the overtime work and their regular scheduled tour of duty.
it
g.	(I) When an employee is notified priorto the conclusion of his/her scheduled work day and he/she is required to start work at his/her "scheduled starting time" on higher scheduled day off and to work all or any part of his/her "scheduled hours", he/she shall not receive any meal or meal allowance during said "scheduled hours".
(2)	When an employee, having received the notice mentioned above, is required to start work at his/her "scheduled starting time” on his/her scheduled day off, works his/her full span of "scheduled hours" and then continues to work hours thereafter, he/she shall receive meals or meal allowances in accordance with paragraph 2(a).
(3)	When an employee, without the notice mentioned above, is required to work any hours on hisdier scheduled day off, he/she shall receive meats or meal allowances in accordance with paragraph 2(e).
(4)	When an employee, regardless of notice, is required to start work on his/her scheduled day off at a time other than his/her "scheduled starting time", he/she shall receive meals or a meal allowance in accordance with paragraph 2(e).
(5)	The terms "scheduled hours" and "scheduled starting time" as used in paragraph (g) shall be construed to mean the same hours and starting time for which the employee is scheduled on a regular scheduled work day. When an employee is scheduled on "relief," the term "regularly scheduled work day", as used in this subparagraph, shall be construed to mean the hours scheduled on the day shift.
3.	a. In a twenty-four (24) hour period in which there has been no rest period of at least eight (8) continuous hours, an employee who has worked sixteen (16) hours or more shall receive, in addition to his/her regular rate, an overtime premium equal to his/her regular hourly rate for such hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) hours, and he/she shall continue to receive said premium until his/her release from such work for at least an eigtit (8) hour rest period. He'she shall be entitled, when released from such work, to u rest period of eight (8) hours without pay before returning to work; prov^ed, however, that if the rest period extends into his/her next regular scheduled hours for six (6) or more hours, he/she shall be excused from duty for that regularly scheduled period without loss of pay, and provided further that, if the rest period extends into his/her next regular scheduled hours for less than six (6) hows, he/she shall be excused from duty for that portion of his/her scheduled hours which is covered by the rest period without loss of pay. The provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply to an employee who is scheduled to work sixteen (16) bows in the twenty-four (24) hour period.
b. In the case of an employee who has worked eighteen (18) hours or more in any twenty-four (24) hour period, he/she shall be entitled, when released from such work, to a rest period of ten (10) continuous hours without pay before returning to work provided, however, that if the rest period extends into his/her next regular scheduled hours for six (6) or more hours, he/she shall be excused from duty for the regularly scheduled period without loss of pay and provided further that, if the rest period extends into his/her next regular scheduled hours for less than six (6) hours, he/she shall be excused from duty for that portion of his/her scheduled hours which is covered by the rest period without loss of pay This paragraph shall not be applied in a manner to defeat the intent for which the Article was written.
12
4.	Any employee who, in any seven (7) day period, works his/her second scheduled day oft having worked at least six (6) hours or having been called in to work any hours on his/her first day off and all of his/her scheduled hours in said period, shall receive a premium (which includes his/her overtime pay) equal to his/her regular hourly rate for any hours worked on his/her second day off. dining such scheduled hours of work, such employee is entitled to a paid rest period or is not required to work on a scheduled holiday, these rest period and holiday hours are to be considered as worked for the purpose of this paragraph. An employee who has earned a premium in accordance with this paragraph will not be entitled to another premium until he/she has again qualified for it on the basis of work performed after the period for which the premium was earned.
5.	An employee scheduled to work on a Sunday shall be paid, in addition to his/her regular hourly rate, a premium of thirty-five percent (35%) of his/her regular hourly rate for each scheduled hour worked on a Sunday.
6.	The following provisions shall govern travel associated with overtime:
a.	An employee required to work overtime shall be allowed and compensated for forty (40) minutes overtime at the overtime rate specified in paragraph 1 of this Article, hereinafter called "travel time", except as provided in paragraph 8 of this Article, when obliged to travel to or from work, subject to the provisions in subdivisions (b), (c) and (d) of this paragraph.
b.	When called to work overtime that does not immediately precede or follow posted work hours, an employee shall be entitled to travel time both ways.
c.	Whenever overtime work immediately precedes posted work hours and begins between the hours of 11 ;30 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. or whenever overtime work immediately follows posted work hours and ends between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 6.30 a.m., an employee shall be entided to travel time one way.
d.	(1) When an employee, having received not less than forty (40) hours' prior notice, is required to start work at his/her "scheduled starting time" on his/her scheduled day off and to work all or part of his/her "scheduled hours”, he/she shall not receive any travel time under paragraph 6.
(2	) When an employee, having received the notice mentioned above, is required to start work at his/her "scheduled starting time" on his/her scheduled day off, works his/her full span of "scheduled hours" and then continues to work hours thereafter, he/she shall receive travel time in accordance with subparagraph (c) of this paragraph.
(3	) When an employee, without the notice mentioned above, is required to work any hours on his/her scheduled day off, he/she shall receive travel time in accordance with subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.
(4	) When an employee, regardless of notice, is required to start work on his/her scheduled day off at a time other than his/her "scheduled starting time", he/she shall receive travel time in accordance with subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.
(5	) The terms "scheduled starting time" and "scheduled hours", as used in subparagraph (d) of this paragraph, shal I be construed to mean the same hours and starting time for which the employee is scheduled on a regularly scheduled work day. When an employee is scheduled on "relief, the term "regularly scheduled work day”, as used in this subparagraph, shall be construed to mean the hours scheduled on the day shift
13
7.	if on overtime assignment is cancelled by less than twelve (12) hours' notice to the employee prior to the start of the overtime work, he/she shall receive two (2) hours pay at his/her regular straight-time hourly rate.
8.	The following provisions shall govern travel associated with change in work area: a. When an employee is assigned to work outside his/her posted work area, one (1) hour each way at his/her straight-time rate shall be included in calculating his/her time.
b.	An employee shall not be entitled to travel time provided in the preceding paragraph i£ at the option of the Company, he/she is authorized to travel during his/her posted working hours,
c.	An employee working overtime outside his/her posted work area shall be allowed and compensated for the travel time as provided in paragraph 6(a) or for travel provided in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, but not both.
d.	Posted "Work Areas" and posted "Work Centers," as referred to in this paragraph shall be in accordance with paragraph 9 of this Article.
9.	The Company's Work Areas and Work Centers are the following:
Work Centers and Work Areas
All Departments
Boston Area
Comprising all of Boston within the area bounded by a line from Neponset Bridge via Neponset Circle, Gallivan Boulevard, Morton Street, Arborway, Jamaicaway and Riverway to Fenway; thence via Brookline Avenue, Park Drive, Medfield Street, St Mary's Street and Granby Street to the Charles River Dam to Charlestown Avenue to Somerville-Boston line and via the Mystic River shoreline to Neponset Bridge.
Electric Operations - Overhead and Underground
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
Boston: Comprising that part of the Boston Area under "AU Departments” including Allston, Brighton, Brookline, Dorchester, Hyde Park, Milton, Roslindale, Roxbury and West Roxbury.	Boston Service Center, Hyde Park Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Somerville: Comprising Arlington, Cambridge, Charlestown, Chelsea, East Boston, Somerville, Stoneham, Winchester and Woburn	Somerville Service Center and Station 211 (Woburn)
Southborough: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Framingham, Holliston, Hopkinton, Maynard, Natick, Sherbom, Sudbury and Wayland	Southborough Service Center
Walpole: Comprising Bellingham, Canton, Dedham, Dover, Medfield, Medway, Millis, Norfolk, Sharon, Walpole and Westwood.	Walpole Service Center
Waltham: Comprising Bedford, Burlington, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Needham, Newton, Waltham, Watertown and Weston.	Waltham Service Center
14
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
Plymouth: Comprising North of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Carver, Duxbury, Kingston, Marion, Marshfield, Pembroke, Plymouth, Plympton, Rochester and Wareham	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area
New Bedford: Comprising Acushnet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Freetown, Lakeville, Mattapoisett. New Bedford and Westport	New Bedford Service Centers (Gas & Electric), Acushnet, Wareham, Doty Street, Carver Street and other reporting points in the area
Yarmouth: Comprising South of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Barnstable, Brewster, Chatham, Dennis, Eastham, Falmouth, Harwich, Mashpee, Orleans, Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Yarmouth and Martha's Vineyard	Yarmouth Service Center, Falmouth Garage, Orleans Garage, Martha's Vineyard and other reporting points in the area
Electric Operations - Station Operations
Work Areas	Work Centers
1. Boston/Metro: Comprising that part of the Boston Area under “All Departments" including Allston, Brighton, Brookline, Cambridge, Dorchester, Jamaica Plain, Matiapan, Milton, Roslindale, Roxbury and South Boston	Posted reporting points in area including Boston Service Center, Stations 36 and 329
2. Nortbeast/Snbnrban: Comprising Acton, Arlington, Bedford, Burlington, Cambridge, Carlisle, Charlestown, Chelsea, Concord, Deer Island, East Boston, Everett, Lexington, Lincoln, Maynard, Newton, Somerville, Stoneham, Waltham, Watertown, Wayland, Wellesley, Weston, Winchester and Woburn	Posted reporting points in area including Somerville Service Center, Waltham Service Center, Stations 17, 33, 34, 211,250
3. Southwestern/Suburban: Comprising Ashland, Bellingham, Blackstone, Canton, Dedham, Dover, Framingham, Holbrook, Hol list on, Hyde Park, Jamaica Plain, Medfield, Medway, Milford, Milton, Millis, Natick, Needham, Norfolk. Quincy, Roslindale, Sharon, Sberbom, Southborough, Sudbury, Walpole, Weston, West Roxbury, Westwood and Weymouth	Posted reporting points in area including Walpole Service Center, Stations 13,20,24,65, 146,446
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
4. Plymouth: Comprising North of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Carver, Duxbury, Kingston, Marion, Marshfield, Pembroke, Plymouth, Plympton, Rochester and Wareham	Plymouth Service Center, and other reporting points in the area which includes Station 713
5. New Bedford: Comprising Acushnet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Freetown, Mattapoisett, New Bedford, Westport and Fall River	New Bedford Service Center, and other reporting points in the area
6. Yarmouth: Comprising South of the Canal-Boume, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Barnstable, Brewster, Chatham, Dennis, Eastham, Falmouth, Harwich, Mashpee, Orleans, Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Yarmouth and Martha's Vinevard	Yarmouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Operation Service* - Meter Technical
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
Region 1: Comprising Allston, Boston, Brighton, Brookline, Cambridge, Dorchester, Hyde Park, Jamaica Plain, Mattapan, Milton, Quincy, Roslindale, Roxbury and West Roxbury	Boston Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Region 2: Comprising Arlington, Bedford, Belmont, Burlington, Carlisle, Charlestown, Chelsea, Concord, East Boston, Everett, Lexington, Lincoln, Needham, Newton. Somerville, Stoneham, Waltham, Watertown, Weston, Winchester and Woburn	Waitham Service Center, Somerville Service Center and other reporting points in foe area
Region 3: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Bellingham, Canton, Dedham, Dover, Framingham, Holliston, Hopkinton, .Maynard, Medfield, Medway, Millis, Natick, Norfolk, Sharon, Sherbom, Sudbury, Walpole, Wayland and Westwood	Walpole Service Center, Southborough Service Center and other reporting points tn the area
Region 4: Comprising North of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Carver, Duxbury, Kingston, Marion, Marshfield, Pembroke, Plymouth, Plympton, Rochester and Wareham	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in foe area
Region 5: Comprising Acushnet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Freetown, Lakeville, Mattapoisett, New Bedford and Westpart	New Bedford Service Center and other reporting points in foe area
Region 6: Comprising South of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Barnstable, Brewster, Chatham, Dennis, Eastham, Falmouth, Harwich, Mashpee, Orleans, Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Yarmouth and Martha's Vineyard	Yarmouth Service Center, Martha's Vineyard Service Center and other reporting points in the area
16
Gas Operations
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
1. Plymouth: Comprising Plymouth, Carver and Kingston.	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area
2. New Bedford: Comprising Acushnet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Freetown, Mattapoisett, Marion, New Bedford and Rochester	New Bedford Service Center and other posted reporting points in the area
Field Service Collections
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
Region 1: Comprising Bellingham, Boston, Brighton, Brookline, Canton, Charlestown, Chelsea, Dedham, Dover, Dorchester, Hyde Park, Jamaica Plain, Mattapan, Medfield. Medway, Millis. Milton, Norfolk, Roslindale, Roxbury, Sharon. Sherbom, Walpole, West Roxbury and Westwood	Boston Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Region 2: Comprising Acton, Arlington, Ashland, Bedford, Burlington, Carlisle, Framingham, Holl is ton, Hopkinton, Lexington. Lincoln. Maynard, Natick, Needham, Newton, Somerville, Stoneham, Waltham, Watertown, Wayland, Weston, Winchester and Woburn	Waltham Service Center, Southborough Service Center and other reporting points in the area
RegionS: Comprising North of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Carver, Duxbury, Kingston, Marion. Marshfield, Pembroke, Plymouth, Plympton, Rochester and Wareham	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Region 4: Comprising Assonet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven, Freetown, Mattapoisett, New Bedford and Westport	New Bedford Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Region?: Comprising South of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich: Barnstable, Brewster, Chatham. Dennis, Eastham, Falmouth, Harwich, Mashpee, Orleans, Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Yarmouth and Martha's Vineyard	Yarmouth Service Center, Martha’s Vineyard Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Meter Reading
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
Region 1: Comprising that part of Boston Area under “All Departments” including Allston, Brighton, Brookline, Cambridge, Canton, Charlestown, Chelsea, Chestnut Hill, Dedham, Dorchester, East Boston, Jamaica Plain, Hyde Park, Mattapan, Milton, Needham, Newton Center, Newton Highland, Newton Upper Falls, Roslindale, Roxbury, Sharon, Somerville, Waban, Walpole West Roxbury and Westwood	Boston Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Region 2: Comprising Arlington, Auburndale, Bedford, Burlington, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Newton, Newton Lower Falls, Newtonville, Stonehan, Waltham, Watertown, Weston, West Newton, Winchester and Woburn	Waltham Service Centers and other reporting points in the area
Region 3: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Auburn, Bellingham, Berlin, Boylston, Cherry Valley, Framingham, Glcasondale, Grafton, Holden, Holliston, Hopedale, Hopkinton, Hudson, Jefferson, Leicester, Linwood, Marlboro, Maynard, Medfield, Medway, Mendon, Milford, Millbury, Millis, Millville, Natick, Norfolk, Northboro, Northbridge, Sherbom, Southborough, Sudbury, Shrewsbury, Stow, Sutton, Tipton, Uxbridge, Wayland, Westborough, Whitinsville and Worcester	Southborough Service Center end other reporting points in the area
Region 4; Comprising North of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Carver, Duxbury. Kingston, Marion, Marshfield, Pembroke, Plymouth, Plympton, Rochester and Wareham	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Regions: Comprising Acushnet, Assonet, Dartmouth. Freetown, Fairhaven, Lakeville, Mattapoisett, New Bedford and Westpart	New Bedford Service Center and other reporting points in the area
Region 6: Comprising South of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Barnstable, Brewster, Chatham, Dennis, Pastham, Falmouth. Harwich, Mashpee, Orleans, Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet. Yarmouth and Martha’s Vineyard	Yarmouth Service Center, Martha’s Vineyard Service Center and other reporting points in die area
18
All Other Departments
Work Areas	Work Centers
	
1. Boston: Comprising that part of the Boston Area under “All Departments’* including Allston. Brighton, Brookline, Dorchester, Hyde Park, Milton, Roslindale, Roxbury and West Roxbury.	Boston Service Center. Hyde Park Service Center and other reporting points in the area
2. Somerville: Comprising Arlington, Cambridge, Charlestown, Chelsea, East Boston, Somerville, Stoneham, Winchester and Woburn	Somerville Service Center and Station 211 (Woburn) and other reporting points in the area
3. Southborongh: Comprising Action, Ashland, Framingham, Holliston, Hopkinton, Maynard, Natick, Sherbom, Sudbury and Wayland	Southborough Service Center and other reporting points in the area
4, Walpole: Comprising Bellingham, Canton. Dedham, Dover, Medfield, Medway, Millis, Norfolk, Sharon, Walpole and Westwood.	Walpole Service Center and other reporting points in the area
5. Waltham: Comprising Bedford, Burlington, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Needham, Newton, Waltham, Watertown and Weston.	Waltham Service Center and other reporting points in the area
6. Plymouth: Comprising North of the Canal-Bourne. Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Carver, Duxbury, Kingston, Marion. Marshfield, Pembroke, Plymouth, Plympton, Rochester and Wareham	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area
7. New Bedford: Comprising Acushnet. Assonet, Dartmouth, Fairhaven. Freetown, Lakeville, Mattapoisett, New Bedford and Westport	New Bedford Service Center and other reporting points in the area
8. Yarmouth: Comprising South of the Canal-Bourne, Buzzards Bay, Sagamore and Sandwich; Barnstable, Brewster, Chatham. Dennis, Eastham, Falmouth. Harwich. Mashpee, Orleans, Provincetown, Truro, Wellfleet, Yarmouth and Martha's Vineyard	Yarmouth Service Center, Falmouth Garage, Orleans Garage, Martha’s Vineyard Service Center and other reporting points in the area
10.	New regular work centers may be established from time to time by the Company, together with the work areas to be associated therewith. If the Local shall not agree to the boundaries of such a work area as established by the Company, it may, within ten (10) days after notice of such establishment, submit the question of the proper boundaries for settlement under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV and the Board of Arbitration chosen thereunder shall have the power to make its decision retroactive to the date of the change.
11.	a. When an employee, with Company authorization, uses his/her own automobile in the performance of his/her work, the Company shall allow such employee the sum of forty and one half cents (40.5tf) per mile for the distance traveled on Company
io
business or in connection with Company work, provided that for each day he/she so uses his/her automobile, he/she shall receive a minimum of three dollars ($3.00).
b.	If an employee with Company authorization uses his/her own automobile in the performance of his/her work and is required to truck tools and equipment that are cumbersome or bulky or weigh in excess of twenty (20) pounds, the Company shall allow such employee the sum of forty and one half cents (40.51) per mile for the distance traveled on Company business or in connection with Company work, provided that for each day he/she so uses his/her automobile, he/she shall receive a minimum mileage allowance of three dollars ($3.00); and he/she shall also receive, for each day he/she so uses his/her automobile, a trucking allowance of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($ 1.25).
c.	No mileage or trucking allowance shall be payable in connection with travel between the employee's home and his/her posted work center or work area when he/she is reporting for or leaving his/her regular scheduled work.
d.	The Company will reimburse an employee entitled to an allowance for the use of his/her automobile in accordance with the preceding subparagraphs for parking charges actually paid in the downtown Boston area while his/her automobile was being used on Company business or in connection with Company work.
e.	If an employee, without prior notice, is called in to work overtime between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. and uses his/her own automobile with Company authorization, the Company shall allow such an employee the sum of forty and one half cents (40.50) per mile for the distance traveled between his/her home or the outside perimeter of the Company's territory nearest his/her home to the reporting point, whichever is the lesser, provided that for each such call-in, he/she shall receive a minimum mileage allowance of three dollars ($3.00).
f.	No allowance shall be made when an employee uses his/her automobile for his/her own convenience, even though such use is with the Company's knowledge and consent
g.	It is the intention of the Company to reduce, as far as practicable, the use of cmployeerowned automobiles.
h.	Should the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) increase the mileage allowance during the term of this agreement, the Company milcage allowance will increase accordingly. Such increase will become effective one (1) month following publication by the IRS. The Company's minimum allowance shall not be affected by an IRS change.
12.	A fixed premium of one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20) per hour will be paid for hours an employee works at heights of eighty-five (85*) feet or more above the ground on poles or structures, which are part of the Company's Overhead Transmission. Said premium shall be paid to employees when working in the Sumner, Congress, Mystic or Weymouth tunnels.
20
PART FOUR
VACATIONS, HOLIDAYS AND EXCUSED ABSENCES
ARTICLE XIV
Vacations and Vacation Compensation
1.	a. Eligibility: AU regular employees (including part time employees) arc covered by this agreement and are eligible for vacation according to the provisions below.
b.	Vacation Yean The vacation year commences on January 1st of each calendar year and ends December 31 st of that year.
c.	Vacation Benefits: Annual vacation allowance is based on years of service with the Company. Vacation is not accrued during the current vacation year into future vacation years.
d.	Vacation Allowance Schedule (Full time employees).
Years of Service	Vacation Allowance
Less than I year	1 day for every 2 months
One year but less than 5 years	10 days
Five years but less than 15 years	15 days
Fifteen years but iess than 20 years	20 days
Twenty years but less than 30 years	25 days
Tnirty years or more	30 days
(1)	The vacation benefit is granted on January 1 of the year in which the S'**, IS* 20111 or 30th anniversaries are reached.
(2)	New Employees: During the first year of employment, employees will be eligible for a vacation benefit equal to one (I) day for every two (2) months of employment from the first of the month following their date of hire through their first anniversary date at which time they will be entitled to a total often (10) days for that remaining calendar year. If the date of hire is the first of the month, the entire month will be credited towards the total calculation.
c. Vacation Allowance (part-time employees). Part time employees who work twenty (20) hours or more are entitled to the vacation allowance scheduled above pro-rated based on their scheduled number of hours worked in a week.
2.	The pay for each day or week of vacation for an employee entitled thereto during the first and second calendar years of employment shall be based upon his/her regular hourly rate in effect immediately preceding his/her vacation. After the second calendar year of employment, the pay for each day or week of vacation for such employee shall be computed from the average of his/her weekly earnings for the calendar year preceding the year in which his/her vacation occurs or his/her regular pay for a normal week not exceeding forty (40) hours, whichever is greater. If during such employee's vacation period a holiday recognized by the Company under Article XV occurs, hc/sbe shall receive a day's pay as provided in said Article XV in addition to his/her vacation pay provided for in the preceding sentence provided, however, that at the option of the Company, the employee may elect to take the holiday as an additional day off concurrently with his/her vacation period in lieu of the day's pay. The employee may also take the additional day off at a later time provided his/her request is submitted and approved thirty (30) days prior to the day he/she is requesting off.
21
3.	Two (2) weeks of a vacation shall be continuous except in extraordinary cases and by agreement between the employee's steward and his/her manager.
4.	So far as practicable, considering the nature of the Company's business, vacations shall be arranged by managers, in conference with stewards, so that the vacation spread shall be as short as possible, and conditions permitting, two (2) week vacations shall be confined to the period between June 15th and September 15*. A third, fourth, fifth or sixth week of vacation earned under subparagraphs (e), (g) or (j) of paragraph 1, shall be scheduled by ths manager, in conference with stewards, and usually shall be outside the normal vacation period. Each employee shall submit to his/her supervisor his/her choice of dates for third, fourth, fifth or sixth week of vacation on or before October 1“ of that year. In extraordinary circumstances, vacations may be rescheduled. Vacations will be chosen and assigned under this paragraph on the basis of Company seniority as defined in paragraph 2 of Article XVII except where different vacation patterns are agreed upon. In case of dispute between a manager and the stewards concerning vacation scheduled, the matter shall be referred to the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, for final decision.
5.	a. In the event that an employee in any calendar year does not have his/her full vacation for a reason which is beyond the control of the employee, an adjustment shall be made immediately after die end of that year by paying the employee as of December 31 * of that year for vacation due as provided in paragraph 2 of this Article but not taken. The term "reason which is beyond the control of the employee" is defined to include any action by the Company affecting an employee's vacation. However, at the option of the Company, provided the employee so requests in writing no later than December 15th of any year, any weeks or days of vacation due to the employee as of December 31“ of that year under paragraph 2 of this Article but not taken may be carried over to and taken in the following calendar year but not thereafter.
b.	At the option of the Company, provided the employee so requests in writing no later than March 15ft in any calendar year, his/her vacation due for that year under paragraph 2 of this Article may be carried over to and taken in the following year but not thereafter. In so requesting carryover of vacation, the employee shall state his/her reasons for such request and shall indicate whether or not hc/she desires the carried over vacation to be separate from or consecutive with his/her regular vacation in said following calendar year.
c.	The Company will give an answer to any requests of an employee made under the foregoing subparagraphs (a) and (b) within thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of said request.
d.	It is understood and agreed that under no circumstances will carryover of vacation, as provided in this paragraph 5, be permitted beyond the end of the calendar year next following tire vear in which die vacation was due.
6. In the case of an employee retiring from employment, he/she shall have the option to either be allowed the vacation entitled to his/her credit prior to his/her retirement date or work up to retirement date, in which case an adjustmem shall be made by paying the employee for vacation due but not taken. Tn the event an employee elects to work up to his/her retirement date, he/she shall give notice in writing not less than ninety (90) days prior to such retirement
22
■p-',	KWWWUWrmn fflf ~ Ill'll ill	~
ARTICLE XV Holidays, Personal Days and Hottday/Pcnona) Day Compensation
1,	The following days shall be recognized as holidays on the day on which they are observed:
New Year's Day Washington's Birthday Patriot’s Day Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day Veterans' Day Christmas Day
Insofar as practicable, employees will not be required to work an a holiday. In addition to the above holidays, employees are entitled to two (2) personal days annually. An employee may elect to take personal days at any time providing he/she submits request thirty (30) days prior to the day/days he/she is requesting and said request is approved by the employee's department manager. However, it is agreed that no more than three (3) employees in any job classification shall be allowed a particular day off. This is in addition to the normal complement of employees allowed on vacation.
2.	If an employee is not required to work on any of the aforementioned holidays which occur while this Agreement is in effect, he/she shall be entitled to a holiday allowance equivalent to eight (8) hours' pay at his/her straight-time rate.
3.	If. during any period which includes his/her scheduled work periods immediately before and after a holiday, an employee is on leave of absence, is absent on sick leave or is without pay, he/she will not be paid or receive time off for scheduled time not worked on the holiday.
4.	Except as provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article, if an employee is required to work on a holiday which foils on a scheduled work day, he/she shall be paid, in addition to the pay provided in paragraph 2, as follows:
a.	He/she shall be paid a premium equal to one and one half (I 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate for each scheduled hour worked; however, where the scheduled hours worked are not continuous with other hours worked on the holiday, he/she shall be paid not less than the amount due for four (4) hours of such work.
b.	He/she shall be paid for each unscheduled hour worked a premium equal to one and one half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate for each such hourworkeu; however, where the unscheduled hours worked are not continuous with other hours worked on the holiday, he/she shall be paid, if any, not less than the amount due for four (4) hours of such work.
c.	Only the greater of foe foregoing minimum pay provisions shall apply to any period of continuous work covering both scheduled and unscheduled hours.
If an employee is required to work on an approved and scheduled personal day. the personal day will be rescheduled.
5.	Except as provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article, if an employee is required to work on a holiday which foils on his/her scheduled day off paragraph 2 of this Article shall not apply and hours so worked shall be paid for as follows:
a.	He/she shall be paid his/her regular hourly rate and, in addition, a premium equal to one and one half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate for each of the first eight (8) hours or less so worked; however, he/she shall be paid not less than the amount due for four (4) hours of such work.
23
b.	He/she shaft be paid his/ber regular hourly rate a premium equal to one and one half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate for each such hour worked in excess of eight (8) hours.
6.	An employee required to work on a holiday during hours which are continuous with hours worked on (he day preceding or the day following the holiday shall not be entitled to the minimum hobday pay for hours worked stated in paragraphs 4 and 5, however, such employee shall be paid for the hours worked on the holiday in accordance with the otherwise applicable provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5. in no event shall such employee’s pay for the entire period worked under the paragraph be less than an amount equal to higher regular hourly rate for eight (8) nan-overtime hours.
7.	For the purpose of this Article, it is agreed that a holiday begins at 12:01 a.m. and ends with 12.00 midnight on the day on which it is observed; but, when a posted shift begins or ends on a holiday, all of the hours of the shift shall be considered as worked on the holiday if fifty percent (50%) or more of the hours of the shift, as posted, fell within tire holiday; otherwise, all the hours of the shift shall be considered as worked on the day which is not the hobday.
8.	In years that a holiday fells on a Saturday, employees will have the option of taking an extra day’s pay or taking an additional personal day. If a personal day is elected, the employee must give six (6) months’ notice prior to the holiday of which option he/she is electing. Such personal days must be taken between January 2^ and April 3081 or between September island December 1“ of the calendar year in which the Saturday holiday fells. The employee must receive department approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the requested day off.
9.	Hotiday/Personal Day (part-time employees), part tine, employees who work twenty (20) hours or more are entitled to four (4) paid Company Holidays as follows: New Year’s Day, July 4% Thanksgiving and Christmas. They are also entitled to one (I) personal (toy pro-rated based on their scheduled number of hours worked in a day.
ARTICLE XVI
Excused Absences From Work
I.	a. Employees shall be allowed time off without loss of pay for all scheduled workdays felling within the three (3) day period next following the date of a death in the immediate family. In cases where the funeral is held on the fourth day following the death, the employee shall be allowed this day off without loss of pay if it is a scheduled work day. The "immediate family" shall include the wife, husband, son, daughter, father, mother, sister, brother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandson, granddaughter, grandmother and grandfather of the employee. The "immediate family" shall also include a person who is actually a member of and living in the employee's household through a tie of obligation or friendship. In extraordinary cases, the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, may, in his/her discretion, allow time off in the event of death of other person/s). Should a death occur in the immediate family of an employee who is on vacation, the foregoing provisions of this section shall apply and the days allowed due to the death will not be considered to be vacation but will be rescheduled. Normally, such days will be rescheduled outside the normal vacation period and will not interfere with the scheduled vacation of another employee.
b. Employees shaft be allowed one (1) day off without loss of pay to attend the funeral of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law when the funeral is held on a scheduled work day.
24
2.	Any employee permitted to leave the job or remain away from work because of an emergency existing at home shall, at the discretion of the Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, suffer no loss of pay.
3.	a. An employee hired prior to April 1“ in any year who is absent for an ordered short tour of military training duty with an organized Reserve or National Guard unit will be paid the difference (if any) between his/her regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours and his/her certified military pay for each week of such absence provided that said difference will not be paid for more than three (3) weeks, covering fifteen (15) Company work days, in any calendar year.
b.	An employee absent, as a result of being called for jury duty, will be paid his/her regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours each week or for eight (8) hours for each day of such verified absence. The employee's days off during the week of such absence for jury duty shall be deemed to be Sunday and Saturday. An employee shall be eligible for payment under this paragraph only once every three (3) years.
c.	An employee subpoenaed as a witness in a Massachusetts Court during scheduled work hours shall be paid for no more than eight (8) hours of such time for each day on which he/she is required to comply with said subpoena piovided that he/she shall be eligible for this payment only once every three (3) years. An employee shall not be eligible if he/she is a party to the court action and must submit a copy of the subpoena to his/her supervisor as soon as it is received.
PART FIVE TENURE OF EMPLOYMENT
ARTICLE XVII
Seniority
1.	The following provisions as to seniority were first established as of December 5,1950 and have been amended by subsequent Agreements between the Company, the Union and tbe Local by this Agreement. As so amended, they shall continue in effect
2.	Company seniority is defined as length of continuous service with the Company. Department or division seniority is defined as total length of service in a giver, department or division, and neither department nor division seniority' shall be impaired by a consolidation of departments. Seniority on the rating is defined as the total time worked in a given permanent rating. For these seniority provisions, "rating" is defined as a grade within a job title or the job title itself if it is not subdivided into grades.
3.	The Company seniority of each present employee and his/her seniority in the department, division and rating in which he/she is employed shall be maintained. The seniority of an employee hired after December 5,1950 shall be determined in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article.
4.	In determining an employee's Company seniority, the continuity of his/her service shall be deemed to be broken by termination of employment by reason of resignation or discharge or by reason of layoff for more than three (3) years.
Company seniority of employees who are granted leave of absence for any of the following reasons shall accrue for the period of any such leaves; (a) military service for the period during and after which they have re-employment rights under the Selective Service Act of 1948 as amended; (b) absence on Union business as provided in Article
VEH of this Agreement; (c) leave of absence authorized by the Director of Employee & Labor Relations.
5.	a. Subject to the Limitations of applicable laws prevailing when the question arises, any employee who, subsequent to the enactment of the Selective Service Act of 1948 as amended, left the employ of the Company for entry into any of the armed forces of the United States of America will retain the same Company and department seniority and seniority on the rating that he/she would have had if he/she had remained in the employ of the Company during toe period of absence provided that his/her military service is terminated with a certificate of satisfactory completion of service and that within ninety (90) days thereafter he/she shall apply in writing to the Company for reemployment
b.	The Company jhall assign such an employee the rating held by him/her at the time of such entry provided he/she is then qualified by fitness and ability to perform the work in such rating: but. if be/she is mentally or physically unfit to perform the work in such rating, the Company shall endeavor to provide him/her with employment in any rating in any department of the Company for which the Company deems him/her to be mentally, physically and otherwise qualified and also provided that his/her Company seniority including the aforesaid military sendee shall be greater than that of the employee to be displaced.
c.	(!) Upon permanent promotion, under the provisions of this Article XVn, of an empl'iyee who has served in the armed forces of the United States of America to the next higher rating on the job progression chart showing the rating held by him/her nt the time of entry into the armed forces, he/she shall advance on said next higher rating to the roster position he/she would have had: A. if he/she would have been promoted to said next higher rating during the period of his/her service in the armed forces had he/she remained in the employ of the Company; and
B.	if be/shc is found qualified by fitness and ability and is promoted either at the time when the first vacancy occurs after his/her return from service in the armed forces or within six (6) months of said time in cases where special training license requirements are involved.
(2)	Such advancement on the roster for said next higher rating, which shall be known as "roster re-adjustment", shall not, however, be available to such an employee: A. if he/she rejects any permanent promotion under the provisions of this Article to the first vacancy which is to be filled in such higher rating after his/her return from service in the armed forces for which hetehe is first in order of seniority and is found qualified by fitness and ability, or
B.	if he/she is unable to qualify by fitness and ability for the first vacancy which is to be filled in said next higher rating after hisfher return from service in foe armed forces or within six (6) months after the occurrence of said first vacancy if special training or a license is required for said first vacancy.
(3)	Roster re-adjustment shall not, in any event, apply to positions filled by the posting procedure provided in this Article. It is mutually agreed that an employee must be on the Company's active payroll in order to be eligible to file an application for a posted vacancy.
(4)	In the absence of an established roster for a job progression chart, the seniority on the raring as defined in this Article XVD, paragraph 2, of an employee promoted
26
to the next higher rating shall be re-adjusted in the same manner as though there had been an established roster.
(5)	"The next higher rating” as used in this subparagraph (c) shall be interpreted so as to provide for a second roster re-adjustment in the rating which is the next above such next higher rating on the progression chan within one (1) year after the employee's first roster re-adjustment provided that he/she is able to qualify for such second re-adjustment by fitness and ability. Except as provided in this subdivision (5), such second re-adjustment shall be subject to all the provisions of this subparagraph (ci regarding roster re-adjustment.
6.	"Job Progression", as used herein, is defined as the pattern of movement from one rating as defined in paragraph 2 of this Article to another rating which is normally (a) more favorable to the employee with respect to rate of pay and (b) related to the former rating in terms of job content.
Employees permanently or temporarily promoted to a position of next higher rating on a progression chart shall be paid the rate of the new classification or his/her former job classification, whichever is greater.
7.	During the term of this Agreement, the Company, after agreement with the Local, shall prepare job progression charts showing the ratings and all job progressions between ratings in which employees, subject to this Agreement, may be employed.
8.	After the job progression charts have been prepared, the Company shall prepare and post a roster for each job progression chart setting out the names, job titles tmd grades, Company, department and divisional seniority and seniority on the rating of all employees subject to the chan. Thereafter, when there are changes affecting the employees on any roster, the Company shall prepare and post at least once every six (61 months a revised roster. If any employee is aggrieved by his/her seniority status as first posted or any posted change therein, the Local may, within thirty (30) days after such posting and not thereafter, request the Company in writing to correct such posting; and upon adequate proof of error, the employee's seniority status shall be corrected in accordance with the facts.
9.	When a vacancy is to be filled in a job tide and grade represented by the Local, the employee senior in the next lower rating on the applicable roster shall be entitled to tbe promotion if qualified by fitness and ability to fill the vacancy. Temporary filling of vacancy shall be made in the same manner until an appointment is made as provided herein.
10.	In increasing and reducing forces, in making promotions, in making demotions for other than disciplinary reasons and in making appointments to fill vacancies in existing ratings and in newly created ratings, the Company shall determine the fitness and ability of all applicants for the new or different positions, and its decision shall be final except as follows: (a) if the Local claims that the Company has exercised its rights in making promotions or in making appointments to fill vacancies in existing ratings and in newly created ratings in an unjust or unreasonable manner, or that such action was due to discrimination against an employee because of his/her membership in, or his/her lawfill activity on behalf of, tbe Union, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV; (b) if the Union or the Local Claims that the Company has exercised any of its other rights set forth in this paragraph in a capricious or arbitrary manner, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV.
27
so, the next employee shall be called. All laid-off employees with seniority rights shall be given an opportunity to return to work if qualified and able to perform the work available before any new employees are hired by the Company. This paragraph shall not be effective in the event of an emergency declared by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or his/her designated representative, as defined in Article Vn of this Agreement.
18. No employee in the bargaining unit who has five (5) or more years of continuous service and who is desirous of continuing employment with the Company will be laid off or reduced in pay for lack of work, ft is understood, however, that when forces are reduced that any such employee may be assigned to work of a lower rating in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE XVIII Retrogression
1.	If an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of service with the Company is, in the opinion of the Medical Director, unable thereafter to perform his/her regular duties due to a physical condition or impairment, the Company shall endeavor to assign him, for the duration of his/her employment by the Company, to a rating with comparable pay which, in the opinion of the Company, he/she is capable of performing or to a job of lower rating. His/her seniority on the rating into which he/she is placed will be determined by agreement of the Company and the Local.
2.	If he/she is assigned to a comparable rating, he/she shall continue to receive the same regular hourly rate as theretofore. If he/she has twenty (20) but less than twenty-five (25) years of continuous active service and he/she is assigned to a lower rating, his/her compensation shall be established and shall continue thereafter at a rate not more than ten percent (10%) below the regular hourly rale of the rating from which he/she first retrogressed. If he/she has fifteen (15) but less than twenty (20) years of continuous active service and he/she is assigned to a lower rating, his/her compensation shall be established and shall continue thereafter at a rate not more than twenty percent (20%) below the regular hourly rate of the rating from which he/she first retrogressed.
If he/she has twenty-five (25) years or more of continuous active service with the Company and is assigned to a lower rating, his/her compensation shall be established and shall continue thereafter at the same hourly rate of his/her rating at the time ho'she first retrogressed or at a rate not more than ten percent (10%) below the regular hourly rate of the rating from which he/she first retrogressed, whichever is higher.
ARTICLE XIX
Substitutions and Temporary Assignments
I.	a. Upon the substitution of an employee for another employee of higher rating in order to cover the absence of the latter for one (I) day or more, the substituting employee shall, during the period of substitution, be paid as if the substitution were a promotion.
b.	While it is the intent that under normal conditions the job specification will apply, it is understood that an employee may be required to perform for less than a calendar day the duties of higher ratings without an increase in pay, but not for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime rates.
30

c.	The substitution of an employee for another to cover absence on account of illness or disability shall not be changed during the illness or disability of such other employee in order to avoid the payment of increased compensation.
d.	The necessity for a substitution shall be tbe responsibility of the manager, but the decision as to the employee to be assigned for substitution shall be made by the manager in accordance with the provisions of Article X VH (Seniority), paragraphs 9 and 10.
2.	Upon the temporary assignment of an employee to a position of higher rating other than as a promotion or substitution, he/she shall, during the period of assignment, be paid as if the assignment were a promotion.
3.	An employee temporarily upgraded for a continuous period of twelve (12) months for reasons other than a substitution for another employee shall, at the expiration of the said twelve (J 2) month period, be made permanent on the rating to which he/she was first upgraded within said period. If, however, he/she is not tbe senior qualified employee on the rating from which he/she was first upgraded, the senior qualified employee shall be eligible to be made permanent on such rating.
ARTICLE XX
Dual or Combination Jobs
I.	In the event that it is necessary to combine tbe work of more than one rating in order to make a regular full-time job, foe compensation of the employee will be based upon the rating for the highest grade work to which he/she is assigned regularly twenty percent (20%) or mote of his/her time in a scheduled work week.
2.	Tbe Company will not assign higher grade woiic to employees of lower rating for the purpose of avoiding tbe creation of a foil-time position in the higher grade.
ARTICLE XXJ Work by Supervisors
No supervisor shall act in other than a supervisory capacity except under urgent conditions. This is not intended to prevent a supervisor from protecting life or property, giving occasional or emergency assistance or performing work for the purpose of instruction. However, the primary function of a supervisor is supervision, and he/she is not to perform work that will eliminate a man/woman or interfere with supervision.
This section will also apply to an employee while he/she is assigned temporarily to the directive duties of a supervisor in his/her absence.
ARTICLE XXII
Students
I.	It is agreed that the Company may employ personfs) as cooperative or engineering students, not to exceed thirty (30) cooperative or engineering students on the Company's properties at any one time, which students may be transferred from time to time from one job to another as desired by the Company for training in connection with the cooperative educational program. The cooperative or engineering students are not included within the scope of this Agreement, but their employment shall not result in the layoff or loss of promotional opportunity of any regular employees included within its scope.
2.	It is also understood that, in furthering the purpose of the educational program for these cooperative or engineering students, their activities will not conflict with the usual work
31
assignments of regular employees and, upon request, the Company will furnish to the Local information concerning rates of pay and nature of work assignments of such students. Such students will be assigned to work activities only when associated with tegular employees. Overtime. work resulting from an assignment, which extends beyond the regular work period, will be permitted, but planned overtime will be assigned to these students only when regular employees usually assigned to the work are not available for such work. It is understood that Company policy does not permit cooperative or engineering students to operate Company vehicles in the course of their employment
ARTICLE XXm
Contractors
It is the policy of the Company to have its ordinary maintenance and repair work and such construction work, as is now the present practice, performed by its own employees except in cases of emergency, necessity or temporary peaks of work.
The Company will continue to review the matter of assigning ordinary maintenance and repair work on its property to outside contractors for the purpose of reducing such work assignments to the end that such work assignments be performed by employees of the Company when economically feasible to do so.
When it becomes necessary for the Company to use the services of outside contractors on ordinary maintenance and repair work, the rosters of employees assigned to ordinary maiirten&Ke and repair work in any section using such outside contractors will be maintained at their normal status so long as contractors are working in such section.
It is not the intention of the Company that the use of the services of outside contractors shall result in the layoff, demotion or reduction of pay of its regular employees.
PART SIX
BENEFIT PLANS
ARTICLE XXIV NSTAR Savings Plan Eligible employees may participate in the NSTAR Savings Plan which is inemporated herein and which will continue unchanged and in effect according to the terms of the Plan, so long as this Agreement shall be in effect
ARTICLE XXV NSTAR Pension Plan Eligible employees will participate in the NSTAR Pension Plan which is incorporated herein and which will continue unchanged and in effect according to the terms of the Plan, so kmg as this Agreement shall be in effect
ARTICLE XXVI
Disability Benefits Hao & Group Insurance
Eligible employees will be covered under NSTAR’s Disability Benefits Plan which is incorporated herein and which will continue unchanged and in effect according to the terms of the Plan, so long as this Agreement shall be in effect.
32
Eligible employees will be covered under NSTAR’s Basic Group Life Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Business Travel Accident Plan as are listed in the Group Welfare Benefits Plan for employees of NSTAR, which will continue unchanged and in effect, so long as this Agreement shall be in effect. Eligible employees, and their eligible dependents, may participale in NSTAR's Supplemental Life Plan, Dependent Life Plan, and Personal and Family Accident Plan as are listed in the Group Welfare Benefits Plan for employees of NSTAR, which will continue in effect according to the terms of the Plan, sc long as this Agreement shall be in effect
ARTICLE XXVII
Health Plans
Eligible employees, and their eligible dependents, may participate in NSTAR's Medical, Prescription Drug, Vision and Dental Plans as are listed in the Group Welfare Benefits Plan for employees of NSTAR, which will continue unchanged and in effect, so long as this Agreement shall be in effect
ARTICLE XXVIII Section 125 Plans Eligible employees may participate in NSTAR's Dependent Care Plan, Flexible Spending Account and Health Savings Accounts, as are listed in the Group Welfare Benefits Plan for employees of NSTAR, which will continue in effect, so long as this Agreement shall be in effect.
ARTICLE XXIX Other Benefit Plans Eligible employees may receive Employee Assistance, Adoption Assistance and Education Benefits. The provisions of these benefits are summarized in the "Other Benefits” section of NSTAR's Spectrum of Benefits binder and are incorporated by reference herein.
ARTICLE XXX
Medical Examinations
The Medical Director shall examine, or cause to be examined, and pass upon the physical fitness of:
1.	Any employee upon whom his/her own physician has placed restrictions shall be subject to examination until the restriction is removed.
2.	When it is obvious, or if either the Company or the Local has information that the physical condition of an employee is such that it would be injurious to himself/berself, his/her fellow employees or the public, he/she may also be required to take a physical examination.
3.	Employees returning to work as appropriate upon recovery from incapacity for ten
(10)	working days or more.
4.	Employees, at their request, annually or by arrangement.
5.	Employees requesting transfer to new positions.
If a conflict arises between the Medical Director hereafter, and/or his designated representative, and the treating healthcare provider concerning an individual's work capacity, the following process shall apply:
The Medical Director shall attempt to contact the treating healthcare provider. If NSTAR is unable to make contact after three (3 > attempts within three (3) working days, the Medical
33
Director will notify the employee and the Union. The employee may then request the treating healthcare provider contact the Medical Director. Iffoe treating healthcare provider fails to contact the Medical Director within one (1) working day, or the dialogue between the Medical Director and treating healthcare provider does not result in agreement over work capacity or return to work, the Medical Director may request an independent medical evaluation.
Compensation for the examinations will be resolved pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement executed by representatives of the Company and Local 369.
PART SEVEN MISCELLANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS
ARTICLE XXXI Work fn Inclement Weather
I.	a. Employees on List #1 (Schedule F), except under emergency or urgent conditions, will not be required to perform their normal work outdoors during stormy weather or unusually hot or cold weather conditions which would be considered as detrimental to the health or safety of employees. Temperature at tea degrees (10°) or less fahrenheit will be considered severe weather.
For overhead line forces only, temperatures al fifteen degrees (15°) or less fahrenheit, accon^ianicd by high winds, will be considered severe weather.
Employees not required to perform their scheduled outdoor work may be assigned to other work indoors which will be consistent or related to their skills, and they will be paid at their regular hourly rates in the same rummer as if they had performed their scheduled outdoor work.
b.	Employees on List #2 (Schedule F) will be expected to perform their normal work regardless of weather conditions. However, supervisory personnel are to endeavor to re-arrange work assignments to avoid, insofar as practical, unnecessary exposure to severe or extreme conditions.
c.	Employees whose job titles do not appear on List if 1 or List #2 (Schedule F) will be required to perform their normal work regardless cf weather conditions. However, outdoor assignments will be made only when, tn the opinion of management, such assignments should not be deferred.
2.	U in the opinion of a steward, the weather conditions are detrimental to the health or safety of the employee he/she represents, the steward may appeal to his/her immediate supervisor, and if necessary, to his/her manager. If the decision is not satisfactory to the steward, the man/woman shall continue to work, but the steward may file a grievance under Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV.
ARTICLE. XXXH
Clothing and Equipment
1.	For the safety and protection of its employees, foe Company shall continue to have available hard hats, rubber coats, rubber boots, rubber gloves and work gloves for use by employees when necessary for their safety and protection.
2.	The Company will provide individual hard hats and rubber boots for employees whose duties require frequent use of such clothing. The determination of the number of employees entitled to individual rubber clothing will be at foe discretion of management.
34
An employee assigned individual rubber clothing will be responsible for loss resulting from his/her negligence.
3.	Tbe Company will supply necessary protective clothing for exposures occurring outside the ordinary activities of his/her employment.
4.	The Company agrees to have available suitable clothing with which to work in any place where the assigned duties of an employee require exposure to acids, or in lieu thereof at the Company's discretion, it will reimburse such employee for any damage sustained to his/her clothing while so employed.
5.	The Company will select and furnish the necessary equipment and proper tools for carrying out any assigned work.
PART EIGHT
DISCIPLINE AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
ARTICLE XXX11I
Discipline, Suspension, Discharge or Demotion
I.	Upon the suspension for disciplinary reasons of an employee, other than a probationary employee as defined in Article I, the Company will notify an officer of the Local verbally and the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local in writing and will give similar notice five (5) working days before the discharge or demotion for disciplinary reasons of any employee, other than a probationary employee.
2.	The Local shall have the right, within ten f 10) working days after such notice, to appeal in writing to the Director of Employee & Labor Relations on behalf of the employee suspended, discharged or demoted for disciplinary reasons; and, upon receipt of such appeal, tbe Director of Employee & Labor Relations, or his/her designated representative, will confer with the President and the Executive Board of the Local and other representatives of the Local, not to exceed five (5) in number.
3.	After such a conference, a hearing on such appeal shall be conducted by tlte Company upon request of the Local. Tbe hearing shall be conducted for the Company by a representative or representatives of the Company designated by the Senior Vice President of Human Resources or the Director of Employee & Labor Relations at wnich the employee involved shall be represented by the Local and the parties shall have the right to call witnesses.
4.	If, as a result of such bearing, the Company and tbe Local cannot agree upon whether or not the employee is to be re-instated or upon tbe conditions of his/her re-imtatement, the disagreement shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV, and may be submitted to immediate Arbitration under Article XXXV.
ARTICLE XXXIV Grievance Procedure
A grievance shall be defined as any disagreement between the Local and the Company over the interpretation or application of one or more terms of this Agreement or other conditions of employment. It is understood that only the Local or the Company may present grievances and that either party may do so in accordance with the procedure set forth below. Tbe Local and the Company recognize the importance of having grievances heard and resolved as soon as possible; that there should be a sincere effort on tbe part of each of the parties to settle
35
differences at tbe lowest level of the grievance procedure possible and, therefore, agree that they will ma iris every effort to process and respond to grievances in a timely manner.
a.	A first discussion shall take place among the employee, steward and employee's supervisor. If agreement is reached at this step, it shall be without precedent or prejudice and cannot be cited in any other case. If agreement is not reached, the employee and supervisor will note in writing their respective views of tbe facts on the Grievance Form.
b.	If either party is dissatisfied after Step 1, they will notify tbe Chief Steward or Department Manager within fifteen (15) calendar days. The Department Manager, or his/her designated representative, shall meet with the employee, Steward and Chief Steward and/or Executive Board member to attempt to resolve the grievance. If agreement is reached at this step, it shall be without precedent or prejudice and cannot be cited in any other case If resohrtior is not reached, the Chief Steward or Department Manager shall so indicate on the Grievance Form within fifteen (15) days of tbe meeting.
c.	After the completion of Step 2, the aggrieved party may submit a written grievance. The grievance shall state specifically what provisions of the Agreement are alleged to have been violated, tire date of tbe occurrence, facts and circumstances, employees involved and remedy sought A conference shall then take place between the Business Agent and union representatives determined to assist in the case and the Company's management reprecentatives designated to participate in such conferences. If a mutually satisfactory resolution is rut reached at this level, tbe denying party shall notify the other in writing within fifteen (15) days unless extended by mutual agreement. The matter shall be deemed to have been resolved unless the party submitting the grievance refers it to arbitration, or request it be held in abeyance, within six (6) months of receiving the disposition of the grievance.
d.	Any grievance that is of too broad a scope to be settled by or within a Department shall in the first instance be submitted in writing by tbe Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Director of Employee & Labor Relations with a request for conference, which shall include the name(s) of the person(s) who will represent the aggrieved employee or employees.
e.	Employees shall not be paid for time spent when engaged in union activities except that they shall be paid their regular hourly rates for time spent during their scheduled working bourn when ccnferriag with the Management and when attending other meetings at the request of the Company. The term “conferring with tbe Management” shall include conferences between officers of tbe Local or stewards within the division concerned and the responsible officials of the Company within tbe department concerned and conferences with the Director of Employee & Labor Relations except that when conferring with the Director of Employee & Labor Relations under subparagraphs (c) and (d) of this Article not more than two (2) representatives of tbe Local and an aggrieved employee, when his/her attendance is necessary, shall be paid in accordance with this provision.
ARTICLE XXXV
Arbitration
I.	If any grievance arises during the term cf this Agreement which is not settled by mutual agreement of the parties under the Grievance Procedure in the preceding Article within fifteen (15) days after it has been delivered as provided therein, such grievances shall be settled in the following manner
36
a.	If all parties shall mutually agree, by immediate referral to arbitration as provided in this subparagraph (d) below.
b.	By one or more further conferences, as may be needed, between the Executive Board of the Local (with the addition of National Representatives of the Union) and the responsible officials of the Company.
c.	By final conference between the President of the Company (or his/her designated representative) and the President of the Union (or his/her designated representative).
d.	If any grievance is not settled by agreement in the aforesaid conferences, then it shall be submitted at the request of either party to a Board of Arbitration to be selected in the following manner one arbitrator shall be chosen by the Company and one by the Local and the two arbitrators so chosen shall meet promptly and as often as may be necessary to select the third arbitrator who shall be Chairman of the Board.
e.	If the two arbitrators chosen by the Company and the Local are unable to agree upon the choice of the third arbitrator within five (5) days, he/she shall be appointed by the American Arbitration Association under its rules for appointment from panels.
f.	The Board of Arbitration so chosen shall meet promptly and as often as may be necessary for the purpose of settling said grievance. The decision of said Board shall be in writing and signed by all members of the Board concurring therein. The decision of the majority of the Board 4hal1 be final and binding upon both parties, and a copy (together with the signed opinion, if any. from a dissenting arbitrator) shall be delivered promptly to each of the parties.
g.	No Board of Arbitration or arbitrator shall have the power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or to pass upon or decide any question except the grievance submitted to the Board in accordance with the foregoing provisions. No award or decision of a Board or Arbitration shall be retroactive for more than thirty (30) days before the grievance was reduced to writing as provided in paragraph (c) of the provisions for Grievance Procedure in the preceding Article. However, any arbitration decision which increased the rale of pay under Article XII. 2(b) which involved the introduction of new machinery, equipment, systems, operations, or procedures shall be retroactive to the date the employee was first assigned to the new duties.
h.	Either party when requesting arbitration shall do so by delivering to the other party a notice in writing setting forth the grievance and the name of the arbitrator chosen by the party so requesting arbitration.
i.	Each party shall compensate the arbitrator chosen by it for the time spent and expenses incurred in the arbitration, and the parties shall share equally in paying the compensation and expenses of the third arbitrator.
PART NINE AMENDMENT AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XXXVI Amendments
1. This Agreement is intended to cover the entire subject matter of the Company's relations with its employees as defined in Article I, except as provided in the Stipulations attached hereto, and except as provided for in Article IX entitled "Conformation to Laws, Regulations and Orders"; neither party shall have the right, without the consent of the
37
other parties to insist upon any addition thereto, change therein or deletion therefrom. Amendments to this Agreement may be made, however, and amendments proposed in writing by one party shall be considered by tbe others and discussed by the parties jointly; but, if as a result of such negotiations no amendments are agreed to, the disagreement shall not constitute a dispute subject to tbe Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV or to Arbitration under Article XXXV.
ARTICLE XXXVII Duration of Agreement
1.	This Agreement, except as otherwise provided in this Article as to the NSTAR Pension Plan shall, upon the execution and delivery thereof, take effect as of May 29,2005 and continue in effect to and including June 1,2009 and thereafter from that date from year to year unless any party by written notice to tbe others given not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 1,2009 or to June I of any subsequent year shall express its intention of terminating this Agreement on such date.
2.	If when such a notice of termination is given, a new contract has not been agreed to on or before tbe date upon which this Agreement is terminated, the parties may extend this Agreement for such further time as they shall mutually agree.
3.	Effective as of May 29,2005, the regular hourly pay rates of all employees covered by this Agreement shall be as set forth in "Hourly Pay Schedule C." Such increase shall not apply to the night work premiums as set forth in Schedule C.
4.	a. The NSTAR Pension Plan shall remain in effect to and including June 1,2009 and shall be reviewed in 2009 by written notice from either party to tbe others given not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 1,2009.
b. If notice is given in accordance with Section 4(a) of this Article and no agreement on tbe changes proposed in the NSTAR Pension Plan has been reached by June 1,2009. the parties will make every effort to reach agreement thereafter. All provisions of the Agreement will remain in fall force and effect thereafter except that:
(1)	If no agreement has been reached by June 1,2009, the provisions of Article VI, paragraph 1 will be waived until such Agreement is reached; and
(2)	All provisions of the Agreement will be without force or effect during any period of any strike, retarding or stopping of work, or picketing that is authorized.
5.	This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and on all successors and assigns of the Employer whether by sale, transfer, lease, acquisition, consolidation of opoations or any portion of operations, or change of name.
38
WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is signed in triplicate in the name and behalf of the ties by their duly authorized representative on the day and year first above written.
FOR NSTAR
avid F. Dorant
IFOR UTILITY WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO
I 1, Daniel F. Hurley, Secretary-Treasurer of Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-■ CIO, hereby certify that at a special meeting of said Local duly called and held May 31,2005, at 1 which a quotum was present, the above Agreement was accepted and approved by the membership of said Local by a majority of the members present and voting.
: Dated: .
39
SCHEDULE A (PAM) JOBS IN UNIT
Appliance Assembler Automobile Mechanic Backhoe Operator (Electric) Backhoe Operator (Gas) Cable Splicer IC (New Bedford) Chauffeur
Conduit Inspector-Maintenance Construction Inspector-Cable Construction Inspector-Conduit Construction Inspector-Engineering Construction Inspector-Major Projects Dispatcher Distribution Dispatcher Distribution Dispatcher Apprentice Distribution Planner (Gas) Drafter (Gas) Electric Customer Service Designer Expediter Inspector Field Clerk (Gas) Field Service Technician
Field Service Technician Coordinator Field Service Technician Trainee Fitter & Service
Fitter & Service Technician (Plymouth-Gas) Fossil Station Laborer Gas Pump Attendant Gas Sales Representative Hot Stick Line Worker Inspector-Cable Inspector-Conduit Injector-Installations Inspector-Overhead Instrument & Lab Lead Person Instrument & Lab Technician Instrument & Repair Technician Instrument & Repair Technician (Gas) Instrument & Repair Technician Helper (Gas) Janitor Power Plants Laboratory Helper Laborer (Gas) Lamp Ranger Lead Technician (Gas) Leader-Automobile Repair Leader-Building Painter Leader-Cable & Conduit Earth Auger Operator
40
Leader-Equipment Service Leader-Mechanical Maintenance Leader-Overhead Lines
Leader-Underground Line worker Lineworker-Overhead
Lineworter-Underground
LNG Operator & Repair Technician (Gas) Low Tension Troubleshooter
Maintenance & Repair Technician (Gas) Maintenance & Repair Technician Helper (Gas) Maintenance Mechanic Special
Master Electrician
Material Coordinator
Materia] Handler
Mechanic
Mechanic Apprentice
Mechanic-Buildings Maintenance
Mechanic-Central Shop
Mechanic-Electrical Maintenance
Mechanic-Electrical Maintenance Aerial Lift
Mechanic-Equipment Service
Mechanic-Facilities
Mechanic-Mechanical Maintenance
Office Cleaner
Office Cleaner-Southern District Oil Cable Inspector-Maintenance Operating Mechanic Operating Mechanic Apprentice Operator-Generating Station Operator-Substation
Overhead Hot Stick Trouble Shooter
Painter-Buildings
Painter-Prod uction
Power Plant Assistant
Repair Technician (Gas)
Repair Technician Helper (Gas)
Report Dispatcher
Roving Operator
Service Dispatcher
Service Technician/Fi tter (Gas)
Service Technician/Fitter (New Bedford-Gas)
Service Technician/Fitter Helper (New Bedford-Gas) Station Electrician Leadman
Steam Fitter Special
Stock Keeper
Stock Keeper Duplicating
System Dispatcher
System Dispatcher Apprentice
41
I
Technical Investigator
Technician-Laboratory
Technician-Laboratory-Crane Operator Transportation Dispatcher Transportation Inspector-Maintenance Trucking Coordinator Underground Apprentice
Underground Lineworker/Leader/Troubleshooter
Underground Training Coordinator Underground Trouble Shooter Utility
Utility (Gas)
Utility Technician
Utility Worker
Utility Worker-Building Maintenance
Utility Worker-Prudential
Water Tender
Welder Utility (Gas)
Working Foreperson Underground Distribution
Working Leader Distribution (Gas-New Bedford)
Working Leader (Gas)
Working Leader Gas Distribution (Plymouth) Working Leader Gas Supply (New Bedford) Working Leader-Meter Representative (Gas)
42
SCHEDULE A (OT&P) JOBS IN UNIT
Account Support Representative
Accountant
Accountant/Analyst
Administrative Coordinator
Associate Buyer-Planner
Associate Economic Development Specialist Business Customer Service Representative Business Services Analyst
Buyer-Planner
Checker-Mechanical
Checking Cleric Chemist
Clerk
Compliance Analyst
Computer Operator
Computer Operator-Leader
Computer Operator-Trainer
Computer Technician
Construction Cost Technician
Contract Management Engineer Cost Accounting Technician Cost Control Technician Customer Relations Control Clerk Customer Service Associate Customer Service Clerk Customer Service Engineer Customer Service Representative Data Input and Control Clerk Department Administrative Assistant Designer Distribution Planner (Gas) Drafting Technician Duplicating Machine Operator Economic Development Specialist EDS Office Assistant Electrical Control Clerk
Engineer
Engineer Analyst-SCADA
Engineer-Associate
Engineer Grade 4
Estimator
Facilities Technical Assistant
Field Clerk (Gas)
Field Meter Representative (Gas)
43
Field Monitor
Field Service Coordinator Field Service Meter Reader Field Service Representative Fixed Asset Analyst Gas Sales Representative Graphic Artist Graphic Design Specialist Group Leader Inserter Machine Operator Interval Data Operation Clerk IS Asset Staff Analyst Key Punch Operator Lead Computer Technician Lead Drafting Technician Lead Senior Designer Leader-Computer Technical Legal Claims Special Collector Logistics Systems Coordinator Meter Office Administrator Meter Reader Meter Route Clerk Mid Account Executive Office Assistant
Operations Office Administrator Payroll Representative Power Systems Technician Project Engineer-Energy Management Project Engineer-Facilities Records Keeper Research Clerk
Revenue Protection Administrator Right-of-Way Agent
Rights, Permits & Work Order Clerk Route Clerk
Route Coordinator Senior Buyer/Planner Senior Computer Technician Senior Customer Relations Control Clerk Senior Customer Service Associate Senior Customer Service Representative Senior Designer
Senior Telecommunications Analyst Service Technician Software Staff Analyst Special Collections Coordinator Special Collector Supply Management Technician
44
System Operations Assistant Systems & Procedure Analyst Technical Clerk Telecommunications Coordinator Telephone Operator Working Leader Planning (Gas)
NSTAR HOURLY PAY SCHEDULE C Production & Maintenance and Office-Technical & Professional Unit
1.	This hourly pay schedule sets forth the regular hourly pay rates for all job classifications and progression steps within these classifications. It inchides the three percent (3%) general wage increase effective May 29,2005, the three percent (3%) general wage increase effective May 16,2006, the three percent (3%) general wage increase effective May 16,2007, and the three percent (3%) general wage increase effective May 16,2008.
2.	“Night Work” premiums shall be paid as follows:
a.	Effective January 1,2006, a premium of one dollar and fifty cents ($ 1.50) per hour will be paid for hours worked on posted schedules starting after 1:59 p.m. and before 10:00 P.M.
b.	Effective January 1,2006, a premium of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour will be paid for hours worked on posted schedules starting after 9:59 p.m. and before 6:00 'un.
3.	Progression in P&M hourly pay schedules having more than one step shall be as follows unless otherwise mutually agreed to under separate agreements:
a.	An employee on the first step of a two-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top of his/her schedule.
b.	An employee on foe first step ofa three-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to die second step where he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top of his/her schedule.
4.	Progression in OT&P hourly pay schedules having more than one step shall be as follows unless otherwise mutually agreed to under separate agreements: LIST1
a.	An employee on the first step of a two-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
b.	An employee on the first step ofa three-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
c.	An employee on the first step of a four-step schedule shall work on that step for three (3) months then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and dien be advanced to foe top step of his/her schedule.
d.	An employee on the first step ofa five-step schedule shall work on that step for three (3) months then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for three (3) months and then be advanced to foe third step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
LIST II
a.	An employee on foe first step of a two-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
b.	An employee on the first step of a foree-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advmced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
c.	An employee on the first step of a four step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
d.	An employee on the first step of a five step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
e.	An employee on the first step ofa six step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fifth step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
LIST HI
a. An employee shall work on the first step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where hc/she shall work for twelve (12) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where he/she shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fifth step where he/she shall work for twelve (12) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
LacatM* ■ Pndaetta nd Mttrttnttn ttj Schaiah
MTU,	Merit	EffDita	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	$
MUMtcknkA	BM23	MM-85-29	$19.11							
		MM45-M	$30.00							
		180745-16	$30.90							
		2NTM-M	$J?J3							
MmAi to Ntn Step			999							
Aoto Macbaafe B	B0624	1MMM9	$2321	126J1						
		MM 05 16	$23.97	$2700						
		MT7-O5-M	$26.73	$27.81						
		2MM5-I4	&27J3	$2M4						
Mnttata Nan Step				999						
AuMMKfcnkC	BOUS	M8M5-2?	$22 JIS	$22.75	$23.76					
		10M-0M6	$22.71	$23.43	$24.47					
		1007-0M4	S23J9	$24.13	S2V2O					
		MM45-I6	$24.09	$24.8$	123.96					
MaattateNenSttp			6	6	999					
Acta Maebaaie D	BMte		$20.79	121.61	$2254					
		ZW6-M-14	$21 91	$22J6	12322					
		200745-M	$2Z05	$22.93	$23.92					
		3MMS-16	$2171	$23.62	124M					
MmAi to Next Stop			6	6	99*»					
9kUm Opntar (Uh)	Bl 599	200545-29	$2S.4S							
		IMMS-lt	V6M							
		ZM745-M	tnffi							
		2WMS-16	S27J4							
Maotba ft Nen Sop			999							
Btoktet Opantar (Gta>	bum	Mt»»9	J30.M							
		MM MM	$3129							
		MO7-OS-16	J3223							
		noMS-i*	£U20							
MMtfa to N«xt Step			999							
Cabh SpUcar IC (NB)	biin	1WMS-29	$3136	$32.57						
		IMMS-lt	S32.5I	133JS						
		Z»r)-t4-l4	133.49	SM-36						
		MM MM	SM-49	$35.60						
Maatba ft Nen Step			£	999						
ChaaBattr	BM«7	N0M5-M	122.75	123.76	124.80					
		WteU It	S23.43	$24X7	12554					
		M7-M-1S	$24.13	$2310	12651					
		SMMS-M	SMA5	$25.96	12710					
MaMba ta Nett Sten			6	6	999					
Catt* laapaetae - Matt A	bin*	iWMW»	$28.12							
		MM MM	12,-96							
		MTMS-M	12913							
		MMMM	130.72							
Maatha ft Nait Step			999							
Caaat teip Cable A	~f[TT	MOMS-M	$33.19	$33.97						
		2MM5-M	$34.19	$34.99						
			J35J2	IMM						
		1NB4S-I*	$36^8	137.12						
Maatba ft Nan Sato			6	9N						
ftp 41
Uni 36* - Predacflea aad MatetoaaM* Pay Sctednlt May n IMS TbnaM May It 20M
MTKto	Jab Cade	10 Dato	1	>	J	4	5	6	7	6
Cart teip Cable B	B060*	2005454*	52*24	$31.56						
		20*645-16	530.12	$32.51						
		M074S-16	53LO1							
		2100 05 |6	5M*5	$34 49						
Maatte to Next Step			6	*99						
Caast laep Caadatt A	BOOM	M0*M-2*	533.00							
		XOOM 16	533.9*							
		100745-16	535 01							
		2000 05 Id	$36 06							
Maotte to Nan Step			99*							
Cw*t Imp Ceadatl B	B069I	200M5-3*	$3207							
		200645-16	$31 DJ							
		200745-16	$34 02							
			D5O4							
Maatte to Next Stop			w							
c«( E»p Cauda* C	Boon	2005454*	$25 M							
		20054047	527 65							
		200645-16	$26.48							
		200745-14	52* 33							
		200045-10	53021							
Maatte to Next Step			99*							
Cmm laip. M*hr Pnleett	BMM	200*454*	530*2	$32.95						
		2006 M 16	$31.03	$33*4						
		1W7-O5-I*	$32.01	$34*6						
		200045-16	$33.79	S36.0J						
Maatbi to Next Step			6	99*						
Dfapatcher	Bl 147	2005454*	$36.26							
		2Mi MH	$37.35							
		200745-10	$30.47							
		200045-16	53Q.62							
Maatte ta Next Stop			999							
Dtstrfb Dtap App 1	BHS1	20*5454*	$32.23							
		2000 05 16	$3320							
		200745-16	$34.20							
		2000 05 16	$3523							
MsatM ta Nett St**			99*							
Dtrtrib Map App J	BUM	2*0*454*	$32 61							
		2006 05 16	$33.5*							
		200745-16	$34.60							
		200045-16	$35.64							
Mpptte to Nan Stop			99*							
Dtotrtb Dtop App 3	BUM	300545-29	$33.40							
		20010516	$34.40							
		200745-16	$35.43							
		200105 16	$36.49							
Maatte to Nan Stop			9*9							
Dtatribattoa Nap	BUM	2005-054*	$3444							
		1W* »5-l«	$35 47							
		200745-16	$36.53							
		200045-16	$37.63							
Matrtteto Next Stop			999							
Ptft49
Ltcal M»- PndKdaa and tahtaaMt Pty SchaM M uj » 2*05 Thrttfib bfaj U 20Q*
J4TW»	JrtCWt	Iff Date	1	1	3		s	«	1	
DiiMMlMfanB(G»)	Bl *01	2005-PS-M	532.41							
		20M-05-16	»3.«							
		200745-16	534.45							
		200MS-16	S35.4S,							
Hrptkt M Nut Step			999							
Uniter (Gas)	BI6S4	20054509	$25.39							
		2004*310	$26.15							
		20074946	$26.93							
		2000454*	$27.74							
M«Unt» Nut Step			999							
Eke Cm Stc Dmr	B121I	2MS45-29	$3421							
			S3524							
		nrr-05-is	S36.W							
		1MM5-I6	rv.39							
Mmkite Nut Step			W9							
Eke Meter Tuter B	BS7W	200545-29	t23.n	$25.42	R6.79					
		200**5 16	$24.45	$26.18	(57 J9					
		200745-16	$25.1$	$26.97	RJ.41					
		200SS5-16	$25.94	$27.78	(29.17					
Maa tbs <• Next Step				6	9^					
Dae M«ter Taster C	BITS*	20050509	$23.74	$24.79						
		1NMS-1*	$24.45							
		MVJ-05-14	$25.18	I26J0						
		2NMS-I*	$25.94	$27.09						
Maatks taNtxtStep			6	999						
the Mater Taster D	Brrw	MM5-B	$20.12	ui.n	133.14					
		200645-16	$20.72	$2238	533.S3					
		200745-1*	$2134	$23 OS	»4.M					
		MMMi	$21.98	I23.7«	(23.ZS					
Meerttete Nut Step			6	6	999					
Esiedltempec	WfSJ	WMS41	J36.H	S27J1	$2156					
		1000-05-10	526.92	fjan?	(29.42					
		200745-10	$27.73	CW	530.30					
		2SM43-I6	$20.56	$29.74	(31.21					
Maafhs te Nut Step			6	6	999					
Held CM (Gm)	sisn	2*0549-19	$27.48							
		200645-16	52L3C							
		200745-10	$29.15							
		2*M0ff 15	130.02							
MeatkiM Nut Step			999							
F1sHwnfT«ft44	am*	MPS4S-1*	$24.28	S2J.X3	326.64	527JG				
		MM 05 10	ijs.oi	$26J1	12744	$28.65				
		200745-J0	$1176	527,00	$2120	$2931				
		NOMS-lt	$2633	»?-*!	(29.11	$30.40				
Msatbi te Hext Step			6	I	6	999				
HsMSarr Tach-La	Bttll	MSMS^S	S28.86	(30.03						
		2006-eS-i«	$29.73	(30.03						
		200745-10	JM.02	$31.86						
		2*0045-15	$3134	S32Jt2						
Maaths te Hast Step			6	m						
Leoil Nt - Pradacttoa aad MetaTranau Pay Schedate May 2», lOOSThnOfh May 1*. JGM
JftbTttfe	lab Cade	UTDete	1	2	3	4	9		7	t
FlddSmTfcMJB	BL2I2	200545-29	$30.71							
		200* OS 16	$31.63							
		2007 -OS-1*	$32.3S							
		2000 OS 1*	$33.56							
Meat*e t* Not Str*			999							
FleM Sere Teeh-L3B4A	BE2I3	1005-05-29	$31.42	$32.12						
		200*45-16	$32.36	533.01						
		ZWM$-lt	$33.33	1M.07						
		2001*3 1*	$34.33	$35.09						
MaaAt ta Nett Stop			*	999						
FleM Serv Tecb-Tniatt	BI209	2005-05-20	$23. n							
		200* 08 1*	$23.12							
		2007-0S-1*	$24.53							
		2000-05-1*	$2327							
MaaAa ta Not Step			999							
FlcM Sendee Tach Caardhatar	81640	2005-05-29	$33.30							
		200* 05 1*	$34.30							
		2OO7-OS-1*	$35.33							
		200045-16	$36.39							
Maathi ta Not Step			999							
Fitter * Srv Tee* IC |ny-G*>)	BI4O3	200545-29	$30.54							
		2*0*45-1*	$31 77							
		200745-14	$3171							
		200045-14	$33 70							
MadAi ta Nett Step			999							
Fitter & Srv Tech 2C (Fly-Gai)	Bl 604	200545-29	$26.57							
		2006-05-14	K7 37							
		200745-14	52119							
		2000 M 14	52904							
Meatha ta Next Step			999							
Fitter 4 Srv Tach 3C (Hy-Gae)	Bl *27	200545-29	524 12							
		200645-14	525 54							
		200745-14	$26 33							
		2000 05 16	$27 12							
Maatto ta Next Step			999							
Gm Sita RmiHtattve	B1*0*	200545-29	534 35							
		200* OS 14	535 89							
		200745-14	53666							
		200045-14	$37 76							
Meathe ta Nest Step			999							
H S Llae Warker	BOTH	200545-29	532 14	$33.35						
		200*45-1*	533.LO	$34.35						
		200745-1*	53409	$35.31						
		200045-14	$35 11	$3«U						
Meatha to Next Stop				999						
laep htotadattoa* A	BP7»e	200545-20	MUM	$?9 78						
		200* 05 t*	$29 75	$30.67						
		200745-14	$30.64	$31.59						
		20004S-I4	$31 56	$32 54						
Meath* ta Nast Step			6	999						
Page M
LPCPl M9- hvtocdip pad Hrtatuipep rpjr Sctadpl. Stay M,lMf Tkipppb Hiy ■«, Mt
iMUtte	Jab Cede	BtTDate	1	2	3	4			7	8
flaw	b	BTTW		SU.S8							
		2M6 M-16	129.75							
		2M745-16	S30.M							
		MM Kid	131.56							
Mpplta ta Nut Step			999							
btpKter OxrtMd	BV7M	WMS-M	X26.79	$27.70						
		soms-14	$27.59	$2853						
		MOMS-M	S2L42	$2959						
		2NMM<	$29J7	$3057						
Maatte to Next 8*9			6	999						
tart * Jtep*trT«k IC (Qu)	B1M7	1MMM9	532JS							
		M4M5-II	$3332							
		2M7-M46	13432							
		MM-M-16	11535							
Miatto to Next SM»			999							
tart * Etapter Tub iC (Gn)	B1644	MH4M9	S29.M							
		2MMS-16	$29.91							
		M97-05-16	$30.11							
		MMM-16	$3L73							
Maatte to Next Step			999							
tart A BeprtrTteb Hfer (Gm)	BIHS	MtS-ft5-M	S2&18							
		Mto«-1<	$26.97							
		MTM5-16	$27.7$							
		MM MW	S2&M							
Maatte to Next 8*9			999							
Latertr(Gaa)	B16M	mm-bs-m	122.78							
		MM 15 Id	&I3.96							
			124.16							
		MOMMd	J24LM							
Maatte to Next Stoo			999							
LmpRaatir	B1242	MOSdS-M	$28.91							
		iWKH	>3971							
		MOMMd	$3tU7							
		2MM5-14	Bl 39							
Mipttata Nut Step			999							
LadTKtaHufGtl)	BI409	1MMM»	13035							
		2Mt MW	13136							
		2M74M*	$3120							
		2MMS-W	$33.17							
Muttate Nut Step			999							
Lota, AM* ttepitr	BMM	MU-OS-lt	$29.96	UIJ3						
		ZWP-PS-U	$30.86	832. F						
		KfMS-lt	$31.79	833.14						
		IMBM-ld	B1M	$34.13						
Mpptta to Nut Step			6	p99						
Leader, E<wip Service	B68M	MM45-M	1j9.78	$3150						
		ZPPP-PS-H	$30.67	$31^5						
			$31.59	$3353						
		MUHf	$3154	$3454						
Maatte to Next Btw			6	999						

Lacai M9 - rntecta ud -m Twj teMafe
May W, MM TkrM0 May 1ft, MM
MTHte	JabCaAt	nr Dato	1	$	3		5	ft	7	g
Lata. OmM Haw	Bom	M0M5-29	W5 11							
		M8A-0M6	SJALft							
		M87-05-IA	S37.M							
		MSMS-IS	J3K 36							
M«MM to N*xl Stto										
Lata, UG Ltainriur	BISAI	JM5-M-29	$32.07							
		MOMS-M	1*3.03							
		2MT4MS	KM.02							
		2SM45-IS	$33.04							
MmA> to Next See*			994							
LfemriurOH A	BOOM	MAS-M-29	$29.60	$3084						
		tttaas-is	$30.49	$31 77						
		MTF-M-lft	$31.40	S32 72						
		200845-1A	$3X34	$33.70						
MMtfa to Nan Stop			6	999						
LEMwariurOSB	BMM	low-a-w	$25 $1	$27.46						
		MOMS-IS	$21.58	ns js						
		MVHM6	$27.38	eon						
		M884M*	$28.20	moo						
Mwthato Next Sta»			6	999						
LtomrbrOHC	B083I	MOMS'!*	$23.00	$23 74						
		2001 M 1ft	$23.69	524.45						
		2007-M-lft	12440	$25.18						
		2008-M-1A	$2'13	$25.94						
Mata a Ned Stop			6	999						
Upewaker, UG Cton M	Bl 578	MM-M-29	531 tt»							
		MHM 16	532 82							
		2007454 b	W30							
		MBMS-lft	$34 81							
Maatto to Neu Sop			999							
Ltotwariur, UG Clan *2	BI572		$27.65							
		MOftM Ift	$2848							
		MOT-M-lft	$29 J3							
		MM-M>IA	$30-21							
Mata to Next Stop			999							
Upmtar, UG Cln. n	BI574	MVMB-M	$21.31	$23 TO1	$24.97					
		MM-M'lft	$21.95	524 4 J	$25.72					
		MB7-M-lft	$22.61	525 14	$26.49					
		MM-M-1A	E129	525.89	$2728					
Mata to Nat Stop			6	6	999					
LNG Op* * Bitar Tab (Ga)	BJftlft	MSS-tM*	$29J3							
		MHM IA	13044							
		Mt7-M~16	$31.35							
		MAt-M-U	$32.29							
Mata to Next Stn			999							
Mtat A Ripeir Tab IC (Ga)	BISM	MM45-M	SM.S5							
		MAIM 1ft	i?o 44							
		MM-M-lft	$31-35							
		MM M-IA	$3129							
Mata la Nen Stop			999							
Lacte M*- PradKdMMS IktetetanM Ag'SeteMr Mxy H, ZMS Thrash May IK Utt
1 aft Tide	lab Cade	Effltott	1	2	3	4	s			7	t
MiUt A Repair Tach IC (Gm)	BI633	BOMS-M	526.96							
		HOteOMO	027.77							
		nvr-SMt	S2L60							
		M0MS-I6	S29.66							
MntteliNiliStto			999							
Mitel A Repate Tech 3C (Gn)	Bl Ml	2005-M-W	52534							
		2006 M 16	UK31							
		2007-06-16	07.10							
		200M5-16	01.91							
MmAi to Nnt Set*			999							
MUat A Rumlr Tteft Hfer (Gu)	Bit 11	M0M5-29	SM.OS							
		2M64M6	S2475							
		2007-05-16	525.52							
		hoam-i«	526.29							
Mittte to Nnt Seto			999							
Muter tkcMdn	B1643	H05AS-M	S34JS							
		ZOOMS'!*	51W							
		2007-05-10	$26.69							
		NM-OS-lt	537.79							
Mtatoa to Next Stt*			W9							
Material CeMttMtar	B1571	2065-06-29	S2S.I9							
		2006 05 16	O9.M							
		2M7-4S-U	529.91							
		100MS-I0	530.51							
MaMha ta Nut Step			999							
Matarlil Haadter	BISTS	2005-05-29	521.50	$2327	SJW	526.81				
		2006-05-16	$2115	52397	mw	527 61				
		20070S-M	$2101	52469	SH.S9	828.44				
		MtHMi	$23.49	52543	S27.M	529 J9				
Meath. ta Nnt Step			12	12	12	999				
Meeh Bids Mater A	BMM	M054S4*	$27.61	52836						
		2006-05-16	528.44	529.42						
		200745-16	S29J9	SM30						
		1000-05-16	530.17	531.21						
Mtatte to Nnf Mto			A	PM						
hMBUiMdatB	BStM	2005-05-29	52431	$25JI						
		2006 MH	SUM	52&07						
		2007-05-16	125 79	526.85						
		2008 W 16	E6 56	527.66						
Muto to Nnt Sten				999						
iMtch BMi Muta* C	BOST?	2005-05-29	H2JI	523.31						
		2006-05-16	122.91	524JI						
		2007-05-16	S23.47	SM.T?						
		2008-05-16	J24.M	525.47						
Maotkata Nut Step			4	999						
MMhlMtoSmduB	BOUS	2005-09-20	SI7.W	S28J0						
[		MOI M 16	ei.«	529J6						
		2007-05-16	J28.74	53024						
^MeatheM Next Step		200MM6	SHAD	831.15						
			6	999						
Fi^cM
Loral Md - PndKtlM aad Hilitmia Fay Sakadak T». INS T*na(k May Ik. ItU
M*ndt	JakCada	EffDate	1	2	f	41		S	6	7	1
Meeh Eq^ Service C	BUM	2965-65-29	ci.r	$2325	$24.37	1					
			S215J	»1.»S	$25 00						
		2607-63-16	S23 2i	$24.67	$25 '5						
		M0M5-U	523 61	$15.41	£26 52						
Meat** m Men Sho				6	999						
M«* Mtek Matai A	MW	2065-05-29	$28.16	J24O3							
		1NH5 16	$29.00	$29 89							
		200745-16	$29 87	$3079							
			H07T	£3i.7i							
Maalka la Nan Stop				999							
Mack Mach MaiM B	BM4t	2t»s-as-M	$25.00	82664							
		INMS-lk	$26.37	$27 44							
		2007-05-16	$27.16	$28.26							
		2008-05-16	$2797	$29.11							
MmAi » Neu Step			6	999							
Mack Mack Maiat C	bm«~'	200545-W	$22.ol	£34.07	*2512						
		200645-16	$23.29	$24 79	$25.87						
		2007-05-16	$23.99	$25 53	$26*15						
		200045-16	$24.7!	$26.39	$27 45						
MmAi to Next Step			6	6	999						
Meebuk	BM5V	200545-29	$31.71								
		2006 0516	£32.66								
		2906-1243	$33.11								
		M074M6	$34. L0								
		2000 05 16	$35 12								
Meathi to Next step			999								
Mackaak Appended B	BMM	»»5<S-2»	$22 61								
		2MMS-I6	$23.29								
		200745-16	$23 99								
		MtMS-16	$24 71								
Meathe to Nm Stop			999								
Mcehaok AppaaadcaP	B0M1	2MS4S-1*	$23.47								
		MM4S-16	$24.17								
		MMS-U	$24.90								
		WWdSIt	SZ5«								
Malta to Neat Step			999								
Mackaak Appmdea C	M862	2MMS-M	$24 27								
		MOS >8 16	$25.00								
		MTMS-16	$25.75								
		2NM5-I6	$26.52								
Maotte te Nan Step			996								
Mecbaak Appreatke H	BMU	MftS-*5-»	$25 12								
		MO6M16	$25.87								
		MOT45-16	$26.65								
		MtMS-16	K7.4J								
Maathata Next Stea			999								
Meekaak Apprentice J	BM64	1WM5-W	$35 93								
		ntMS-it	$26. rr								
		M074S-16	$27.51								
			$28.34								
Meatbe to Next step			999								
Page SS
K»«M
					666			■4g MU ■■•¥"•»		
							64'££S	WCTtOK		
							697ES	oi-svstw		
							wtrt	«i-swoa		
										“*“W*mnp«4 3W»K
							666			aos«uN«mmH
							arsa	SHM0K		
							WKS	JISWC		
							SOTES	9IS6-MK		
							SITES	a-tr-SMC	ewifl	m™c«wtPM^w»
					666	u	si			OMS >UN M RWIM
					66 0C5	rfOFS	was	tTsrtooi		
					60 WS	WOES	txirt	9ISfriMS		
					IF6SS		M2rt			
						was	iriis	6FSMMK	tan	80WSi««34»»W»W
					666	si	SI			ous uni ■> •mm
					H'fLS	19 IES	saocs	9r-SM«K		
					nra	wort	S66SS	9l-SH6tt		
					►i'E£S	M6rt	fO'6ES	MSOMtt		
					£1 ZES	wsn	OFttS	u-srsoez	UMS	VWMQJPWi
							666			<Mg>»N»RM>H
							fifES			
							UTES	fl*S6-£6CZ		
							SS'IES	9I-9WMS		
							6iWS	u-srwoi	•UM	
							666			onsuniNm"H
							WTES	ti-se-wcz		
							88'ICS	9I-9HMC		
							wrocs	9I-SW0K		
							coves	CFfiWttS	«ma	aniwuiidvmmm
							666			aKSum«>RM*W
							S6TES	jrsran		
							senes	OI-SO-IMt		
							zroES	91 SHOW		
							tress	CZ-WfCK	msg	NUqiMMVUnHH
							666			oaosn*N ••mm
							TOTES	fl-SVWK		
							910CS	91-R-LOtS		
							BF6SS	tmtooz		
							eras	6TfSS«eS	am	HuquiMW^xH
							MS			«nsp>N*i'mm
							HOES	OISHNS		
							9T6ZJ	il-SHW		
							iFttS	MSI MOS		
							inn	ercraft	wm	imams* mrnn
							666			angua>iai<m*Vi
							K'Srt	OI-SMOK		
							S£TO	M-SfrttK		
							WEES	9I-SW0K		
							»wt$	6S-SWMS	moa	xmamormamw
s	i		6	►	t	i "	I		•P»3W	
mt'll	fan *a
Lacal369- PradacJaa aad Matolwa Pay ScMtUe May «, MM nntfb May 16, MM
	MCada	EITData	1	2	3	4	9	6	7	1
0 B Hat Stick T Sh	M8S	M05-0S-J*	$33.68	$35.54						
		MM IS 16	$34.68	$3661						
		MB74S-I6	$3151	$37 71						
		MM4S-I6	$36.58	$38 84						
Maalka ta Next Slap			6	999						
OtteeCkastu flsalhitp Petra	Bl 659	M6S45-M	820.12	$2170	$21.88	K2.B9	$2421			
		MM OS 16	820.72	$22 35	$2154	$23 58	$2544			
		MTMM6	82134	$23 32	$23 J2	$2429	$25.79			
		MM45-I6	82198	123.71	$23 92	$25 02	$26.56			
MaaO> ta Next St—			6	6	6	6	999			
(M Cab lup Matot A	B69I4	MOS-65-29	$2155	129.64						
		MM 05 16	$29.41	$30.53						
		M07 -05-16	$30.29	131.45						
		MOflM 16	$31.20	S31)9						
MaaAa ta Nast Slap			6	999						
OU Cab la— Matat B	BMlS	2605-65-29	$24.75	$25.73						
		MM 05 16	125.49	*26.50						
		2007-05-16	$26.25	$2720						
		200M5-16	S27.04	$2112						
Maathi ta Next Sap			6	999						
Ottnltei Mxh ApprnHea	Bl 159	M054S-&	$20.10	$21 88	$13.53	$34.78	$25.93	*27.46	$3924	$3089
		2006 05 16	$20.70	12154	$14 J4	$25 J2	$26.71	J2S2«	$30 12	$31.82
		2007-05-16	$2132	$23-12	$24 97	$2629	$2? JI	*29.1 J	$31 02	$3277
		2000 05 16	$2)96	12)92	$15 72	$2748	$2824	*30.00	$3195	$33.75
Maatha to Next Step			9W	999	999	999	909	990	999	999
O*tnUq Mecbuic	Bl 158	1WS45-20	$3195							
		200645-16	$33 94							
		200745-16	$34.96							
		MHO 05-16	$36.01							
M—Iha a Nest Step			999							
Oparanr Satetat A	mm	200545-29	$30.37							
		2006 05 16	$31.28							
		200745-16	*32.22							
		M0S45-I6	$33J 9							
Maettoto Natl St—			999							
DpanUw Sabatat B	bmu	200545-29	$24.78	$26 75	$29.11					
		200645-16	$25 52	$27 55	$29.98					
		200745-16	$26.29	$28.38	$30.88					
		40045-16	$2748	$2Q13	$31.81					
Matta a Nast Step			£	6	999					
Operator Sahatat C	B0623	200545-29	$20 10	$21.88	$23.53					
		200645-16	820 X	$22.54	S24J4					
		200745-16	$2i 3:	$23.22	824.97					
		200045-16	$21 96	$23.32	$25 72					
Maatfea ta Next Step				6	999					
Fitattr PndacUaa A	BMW	20054529	$21.98							
		MW OS 16	$29.85							
		MVTM-lf	$30.75							
		2001 05 16	$31 67							
Meacbe to Next Sc*			999							
Page 57
Lteti 30 - PrWuttaa ud ----q—r Fey ScfevAdr
Maj 29, MGS TbrMtfe M"? I6> 20M
hbTtde	MCM*	EffDato	1	3	3			6	7	a
PiHb FmdwUwB	BMS1	M0M5-29	S2SJ33	$26.19	$2727					
		MM45-IS	115.80	$26.9$	$26.09					
		5NT4S-I6	06.51	$27.79	$2193					
		MSMS-1S	aiyi	$28.62	$29.10					
MhAi t» Nut St**				6	999					
Rtpalr T*c**5d*a IC (G*i)	B1S13		S27S1							
		20613 1ft	S2M4							
		20TM5-IS	$29*50							
		MMIjH	S3O39							
Mwtte ca Next Step			999							
Repdr Terhdrlw ZC (Gto)	BIS3S	M0S45-29	$2513							
		2M6-0S-16	526.01							
		MVHM6	$26.79							
		MM4M6	$27.59							
MwtkiM Next Str*			999							
B**ak TKtakta Hriptr (Ga)	B1S3*	MSS-SS-W	tMM							
		100MS-1S	524. It							
		2W74S-1S	S25J2							
		MM MM	S2&»							
Mvathv tv Next Step			999							
Stnk* Mvakbir A	asm		$25.77	$27.46						
		MMM l<	$26.54	$2626						
		2M745--16	$27.M	529.13						
		1MMS46	$2KI6	$30.00						
Mivttato Next Step				999						
Sink* DbpMcStr D	B057I	MtMS-M	525.11							
		MN45-1C	S25.B6							
		NtMHS	$2664							
		lOMIJIi	$27.44							
MwkaaNntSHo			999							
Sank* tH*»ttck*rC	bs»m	20M-S5-W	SJO.45	$21.90	52365					
		MM5-IS	$21.06	$2236	514.315					
		MOT-M-I*	121.69	$2334	53509					
		MMM-U	S22J4	$2194	$2144					
Mvtefts tv Not Step			6	ft	999					
Srre TteVFItter (NB-Gss)	a itis	1MS4S-2P	531. W							
		IMS M IS	532J3							
		1W7-W-1S	533JC							
		MtHS-lt	$3430							
Mtette tv Next Step			999							
Sm TvcWRte IC (NB-Gm)	BJ614	MSM5-2*	$3034							
		WS4S1S	$31.15							
		M07-S4-IS	531.W							
		MM M 1ft	533-M							
M**tha t» Not St»»			999							
Snt TadVFUMr JC (NB-Ca)	BIOS	MMS-M	K5A?							
		MMMlft	126. «4							
		MTMS-ift	52725							
			$2603							
MvbAv to Next Step			m							
PMvSB
Lacto M* - PredaedM usd MtoPttwcc P«y Scbedato May 29, 1W Tlrw^ May IL 1VM
JvbTfcfe	MCmU	Uf Dan	I	2	J	4		6	7	1
Srvc Tteb/FMw M (NB^atJ	BI615	MtMS-29	12423							
		IBN-tS-ft	S34W							
		2WMS-1S	US 71							
		20tt-t5-l6	026.48							
MmA> to Next Sm			m							
Sm TecWFttter ®pr (NB-Gn)	B1619	1MS4S-M	523 55							
		mt m i<	52426							
		MPMM6	J24.9P,							
		MMtS 16	025.74							
Muto to Nut Sup			W							
Stock Kmuw Dipl A	atm	MS54M*	J2 2.51	023 74	025.04					
		Mid 65 16	0214ft	024 45	025.74					
		1M74S-I6	023.67	025 18	02656					
		itituid	024.38	025 94	02736					
Muto t« Nut Stop			6	6	494					
Stock Knptr Dapl B	BMW	2065-W-W	019.34	120 ja	021.30					
		Mid OS 16	019.47	02099	02L.94					
		M0745-16	SM.37	02162	12160					
		M0B4S-I6	W1 14	122.2*^	023 28					
MvaAi to Not Stop				6	994					
SuDtnAppI	BUSS	M054S-29	132.23							
		WOO OS Id	033.20							
		»r-»5-tt	034 20							
		MOO M Id	03523							
Mutto w Nut Stop			994							
Syt EMap App 1	BUM	2MS-054*	032.61							
			fW.59							
		M0?-05-ld	034.60							
		uillild	035.64							
Muto ■■ Nut Stop			494							
Syi Dtop App 3	Biisj	2NS-0S-29	033.40							
		2*06-05-Id	034.40							
		MP7-PS-1S	035,43							
		20OS-OM6	036.49							
Maatha to Next Step			999							
gjaftte Dtopatcbo'	BL1S2	200MS-2V	034.44							
		MOtOS Id	035.47							
		M07-0S-|d	036.53							
		200045-1 d	037.63							
Muto to Nut Stop			999							
Ttcfc tmatimtvr	BIM3	M05-0040	03131	133.52						
		MOdOS Id	032.25	034.53						
		M0?-0S-ld	033.22	035 57						
		M0S-05-Ld	034.22	03664						
Mutton Nut Step				999						
True bip M*t*t	EMIU	M0S4S^f	S18M	i3o.ro						
		wtmt	024.50	031.00						
		2W74S-1S	030 39	031 43						
		2***-0S-lk	031.30	03189						
Mutton Nut Stop			6	494						
Lacal Ml - fraisctiaB asl Matatasuca	tateOsto
May 2fc W5nr»t> May 16, 2000
Jeb nth	Jab Ma	UfDate	1	2	3	4	5		7	8
Trocktei Cwrilaaiar	BIST?		ntis							
		im os te	$39.04							
		20074S-16	529.91							
		MM 05 16	S3O.I1							
Mutk. tt Nut Stn			999							
UG Tree Ha Sect	B1*M	100545-29	$31.03	ms?	$3436					
		MtMS-ll	331M	13333	13539					
		200745-16	SM	134 54	$36.45					
		20M 05 H	$33.91	0560	537.54					
Mesita ta Next Step			6		999					
LG UBawariEadLcadaHrMaibtr	B1622	20054M9	531.03	52257	534 J6					
		TOW 05 10	531.96	S23J3	$3539					
		2007-05-16	512-92	524J6	$36.45					
		2OM-*5-l*	tJ3.1l	dim	OT34					
HUaslta to Next Step			s	6	999					
UG Traiataa Caardlsator	B166S	200545-29	537.00							
		200105 10	$3s.n							
		200745-16	£.9.25							
		200145-10	540.43							
MwitkttaNttlSU*			999							
Uadaiii juiI App	B13I9	100545-29	SJIJ6	53230						
		1006 0516	032.51	S33J6						
		200745-10	632.49	534.57						
		200045-10	534.49	535^1						
Mastta to Nest Step			S	999						
lAdWrkrMdpMuA	Bin*	200545-29	$21.88	52249	52432					
		Mi 05-10	mw	$13 53	525.05					
		1W7-OS-H	£U.Z2	114.Z9	HJW					
		200045-10	522.92	5M J2	12637					
Mesita t> Next Step			6	6	999					
IXfl Wrtr BMxMalB	men	20054549	51914	520.12	$21.70					
		2006 05 IS	1I1.S2	520.72	52135					
		200745-16	520.41	52134	$23.02					
		206045-16	*21.02	121.91	$23.71					
Mesita to Next Step				6	999					
Utility A (Gm)	BttIT	1NS4S49								
		MSMS-lt	ijcizi							
		2W74S.lt	131.13							
		200045-16	ma							
MaaAl U Nut Stt»			m							
Utility B (Gm)	bi«w	M0545-29	os.yr							
			SJA.TS							
		200745*06	OTM							
		2WMS4S	IZtM							
Moptto la Next Step			999							
Utility C (Gm)	Blew	20054540	52465							
		2006 0516	52SJ9							
		20074546	526.15							
		20610516	526.93							
Mesita to Next Step			m							
Fate 60
1 --■! *ft friilTtliB nail MetartaiMe fey IrteOah May ». 10M Thrwt* Miy 14, not
Jed Tide	Jab Cate	MDate	1	1	3	«	s		T	1
Utttftr TtttalctaB	B1664	2885 05 29	SJA48							
		2NM5-16	S16.OT							
		20B745-H	Si 7.48							
		HtMWt	Sit.00							
Meal* ta Next Step			9W							
UdBtyWerker A	Blttt	2*5-W-29	S22.0S							
		WH5-H	S22 74							
		2097-05-18	S?3 42							
		CTWI5 U	S24.I2							
Meat* ta Next Step			W							
WeMer Utfitty (Gu>	BI62I	1WM5-B	530 87							
		m»w id	S3] 80							
			$32.75							
		1NIMH	$33.73							
Meatfete Next Step			9W							
Wertfec Leader Dtot (Gb-NB)	B1M1	N»MM*	$31.09							
		WISH	$32.02							
		MT7-M-K	$32.98							
			W3.97							
Meatfe ta Next Step			999							
Werta Leader Gm Dtat-Pty	Bl 631		$32.57							
			$33.55							
		3*7-45-14	$34.56							
		2*1 45 H	$35.60							
Maa Aeta Next Step			999							
Weridai Leader Gm Sapph-NE			S32.00							
		2MM5-I4	$32 96							
		1M74M*	833.95							
		2H8 H 14	834.97							
Maa the ta Next Stea			999							
PegeOl
LeeM30 - ™t-r TW—-rrrfmtnMI Pegr SeMote M«y I*. MOS nraafb Mv i«;MM
MTHte	Job Cote	UfData	1	2	$	4	5	6
Aecutntint	BMOi	2005-05-29	925.83	827.87	$29.76	$31.17	$33.93	
		2006-05-16	826.60	828.71	$3065	$3111	$34.95	
		Z007-05-U	827.40	12957	S3137	$33417	$36.00	
		zm-ovit	$2*22	830.46	532J2	834.06	137.08	
Mouth* teNalSttt			6	6	6	6	999	
Admto ConnitBnter	Bl US	2005-05-19	923.25	923.87	$24.*S	*25.09	525.70	
		100645-16	923.95	S24J9	$2521	$25 84	$26.47	
		2007-03-16	824.67	82533	$25.97	$26.62	$2726	
		2008-05-16	825.41	526.09	$20.75	$27.42	$2W	
Month* t* Next Sten			6	6	6	6	999	
Ask Buyet^Ptaunex	Bl 339	2005-05-29	$2339	$2431	524.98			
		2006-05-16	924.30	525.04	$25.73			
		2007-05-16	925.03	525.79	$26.50			
		2008-05-16	$25.76	$26.56	$2730			
Month* to Next Step			6	6	999			
Bnrintii Cutooer Sovten	B160	2005-05-29	3O3M					
		20064546	$24.29					
		2007-05-16	515.02					
		zotn-ns-io	SIS. 77					
Month* to Next Sten			999					
Butoett Serelee* Atulytt	Bl M3	M054M9	$25.81	527.87	529.76			
		JHMJ-li	$2660	$2e.7i	530.65			
		2007-05-16	827.40	529J7	$3157			
		2008-05-16	528.22	$31140	$3232			
Month* to Next Sten			«		999			
Bsyei^Mnner	Bl 340	1S0MMS	$2632	$27.44				
		2006-05-16	127.62	$2126				
		2907-05-10	528.45	529.11				
		2008-05-16	$29.30	$29.9$				
Mentha tn Next Step			6	999				
Oectav Meehiniesi	MtSl	MMWt	$30.2!	530.89				
		100645-16	531.12	531.82				
		2007-05-16	$32.05	$32.n				
		M0S45-I6	533.01	533.75				
MnthatoNcxt Stop				999				
CkocxlBt CterkGrlft	Bl 647	2005-05-29	$2339	$2431	X24 9t			
		2006-05-16	$24.30	$2534	$25.73			
		2007-05-16	125.03	$25.79	$2630			
		20M-05-16	$25.7$	SMlSO	$2730			
Month* to Nett Step				6	999			
OrtGHi		2005-05-20	823.59	82431	124.91			
		2006-05-16	$2430	$2304	825.73			
		MMS-li	$25.03	$25.79	$2630			
		2MM5-IS	$25.71	526_56	$2730			
Month* to Next Step				6	999			
OntGrll	BSCtl	2005-05-29	$25.73	$2637				
		2006-05-16	826JO	$27.16				
		2007-05-16	$2730	$2737				
		2009-05-16	828.12	82M1				
Maatha t»Nol Step			6	999				
P*ge62
Laeal 349 - OOke-Teehakal aa4 Frariiitoael Fay Sdadah May ». ZOOS Tbnefh May 16,2000
Jib Title	Job Code	BIT Data	1	1	3	4	5	6
Clerk Gr 12	BM2	200M5-2*	J 26.82	$27 44				
		2000-05-10	527.62	$2826				
		2007-05-14	528.45	$29.11				
		2000-05-td	529 W	529.98				
Meatto to Nesi Stea			6	999				
OriGrB	BOMJ	200545-2*	520.57	$29.27				
		200145-16	529.43	$30.15				
		2007-45-10	530 31	531.05				
		2000-05-14	531-22	531.98				
Mawtka to Not Stott			6	999				
CkrtGri	BMM	2005-05-20	$lt 80	11154	513.01	513.65	$14.37	
		200045-10	512.15	512.92	J 13.40	$14.06	$14.80	
		2007-05-14	512.51	513.31	$13.80	514.48	$1534	
		2000-05-14	$12.89	513.71	51421	$1491	$15.70	
Mv&tba to Nexl Step			3	3		6	999	
Clerk Gr3	BM55	200545-2*	$14.51	$13 17	$15.95	$16.47	517.10	
		200445-10	514.05	$15.03	$1643	$1696	517.61	
		2007-05-14	S15.W	$10.10	$16.92	$17 4?	$18.14	
		200045-10	$15.86	516-58	517.43	$17.99	$18.68	
Mettii to Non Step			3	3	6	6	099	
Clerk Gr4	B104I	2005-05-2*	515.47	$16.30	$16 96	$17 6?	518.43	
		2006 05 10	515.93	$10.79	$17 47	51820	51898	
		2007-05-14	516.4!	517.29	$17 99	$1875	$1935	
		200045-10	516.90	$17.81	$18.53	$1931	$20 14	
Mnprfci to Next Step			3	3	6	6	999	
Ort Gr5	Bl *42	200545-2*	518.09	$18.87	$19.65			
		20*4-05-14	518.63	$19.44	$2024			
		20*7-05-14	519.19	$20.02	$20.85			
		20*8*5-1*	519 77	$20.62	$21.48			
Months 1* Next S*efi			6	6	999			
Ort Grt	BUM	200545-2*	519.25	$19.91	$20.59			
		200045- U	$1983	nasi	$21.21			
		200745-10	$20.42	$21 13	$21.85			
		200045-10	521.03	$21.76	$22.51			
Months to Next Sup			0	6	999			
OrtGr?	B0667	200545-2*	$20.17	$20 75	$21.53			
		200045-10	520.78	$21J7	$22.18			
		2007-05-14	$21.40	522.01	522.85			
		2000-05-14	$22.04	522.67	$23.54			
Membe to Neu Step			6	6	999			
OrtGrt	BOOM	2**5-*S-29	521.15	521.82	$22.51			
		200045-10	$21.78	522.47	523.19			
		200745-10	$22.43	$23.14	523 89			
		2000-05-14	523.10	$23.83	$24.61			
Months to Next Step				6	999			
Clerk Gr«	M65*	20*5-05-25	$22.40	$23.25	$24.09			
		2OM-O5-16	523.07	523.95	$24.81			
		200745-10	523 76	$24.67	525.55			
		200045-10	$2447	$25.41	$26.32			
MoattatoNext Step			6		999			
Pife63
1
Local 36* - Office-TerfcnteaJ nd Pi uftlltoel Pay Scbednie May 2$, 1005 Throa0 Mlj 16, MM
IUTM1		Job Code	ESDote	1		3			6
CaetpOper Leader		B0677	200545-29	$26.82	$27.44				
			200645-16	S 27.62	$28.26				
			200745-16	S28.45	$29.11				
			2MMS-16	225.50	$29.98				
Manto la Nett Sto				6	999				
CeBpllance AaafyM		BMtt	KXB-05-29	525.83	$2737	$29.76			
			HXK-05-16	$26.60	$28.71	$3035			
			200745-16	$27 40	S29.57	£3137			
			200845-16	S2&22	£30.46	$3232			
Moato to Next Step				6	6	999			
Computer Opintor		B0682	200545-29	£25.73	$2637				
			2SM45-M	$2630	$27.16				
			UQ7-S5J6	$27.30	£27.97				
			2000-05-10	S28.12	$28.11				
Manto to Next Step				6	999				
Cemppter Teetaddn		BIOS®	200545-29	$25.79	$26.75	$27.66	$30.08	$31.14	
			20M-0S-I6	$26.56	$2735	£28.49	$30.98	$3207	
			200745-11	$27.36	$2838	£2934	$31.91	$33.03	
			20M-0S-I6	US. 18	$2923	£30.22	£32.87	$34.02	
Manto to Next Step				6	6	6	6	999	
Cent COM Twhalrlen UrU		BO687	200545-29	$20.82	£27.44				
			200645-16	$27.62	$2826				
			2007-05-10	£28.45	£29.11				
			200845-16	£2930	$2998				
Months ta Men Step				6	999				
CoM Accwnto Tochotetea GrIO		BM*5	20054529	$2339	$2431	$24.98			
—			200645-16	J2430	$25.04	$25.73			
			200745-16	£25.03	$25.79	$26.50			
			2sas-ss-i«	$25.78	$26 56	£2730			
Moato to Next Step				6		999			
CoM Accopatap Tatodctn Crll		BOOM	200545-29	$25.73	$2637				
			2006-05-16	$26.50	$27.16				
			200745-16	$27.30	£27.97				
			200*45-16	£28.12	$2831				
Menrtii to Next Step					999				
CM Control IWwfcten		B1M3	200545-29	£23.59	$2431	$24.91			
			200045-10	£2430	$25 04	$25.73			
			2007-05-16	$25.03	$25 79	$2630			
			20M-05-16	$25 7$	$2636	£2730			
Manto to Nut Step				6	6	999			
Cpxe Bri CoM Oak		BTTOS	20K4M9	$22.40	£23.25	£24.09			
			200045-10	£23.07	$23.95	$2481			
			200745-10	S23.76	$24.67	$25.55			
			1S0M5-16	$24.47	$25.4!	£2632			
Months to Next Stop				6	6	999			
Carl Service Rep (PT < 20 Hr.}		Bl 667	200545-29	£20.23					
			200045-10	£20.14					
			1007-0S-I6	$21.47					
			200*45-10	£22.11					
Moato to Nesi Sup				999					
Pag. 64
Leeal 3*9 - OfTke-Teckakal ud Froteeateal Pay Scbedole May 29, UM Tkrnth Muy I*. UM
JebTHfo	Jeb Cede	EffEMe	1	■ 2	3	4	5	6
CpMetBCX Snv RguWtaefve	DI Nd	2NM5-»	$20.23	£2133	£2244			
		310645-16	12D.84	S2I97	£23 II			
		2007-05-1*	$21.47	S22.63	£23.80			
		MPS4MS	S22.ll	$2131	£24.51			
Mnth> to Not Step			12	12	W			
Cwtaer Servite AfMCtattC 1	BIHd	iNMS-v	$15.45					
(External)		20M-BS-16	SIS 91					
		30OT-05-16	£16.39					
		UQB45-16	116.88					
Mentha to Nest See*			w					
Chstoner Service AtfedMe I	BldM	1SM45-39	SI 6.64					
(iBttiUl)		280*85 16	$17.14					
		20OT45-I6	SI7.G3					
		300845-16	SiS.ifc					
Moaitke n Next Sun			949					
Cuuomer Servin Anactote H	BINS	200545-20	516M	SI 7.75	118.93			
(Exteraaf)		20WM-1*	£J7.i4	SI 828	SI9.50			
		2007-05-1*	£17.65	SIS »	$20.09			
		2003-05-1*	118.18	S14J9	$20.69			
Meatke to Next Step			12	48	499			
Cutotoer Servin Aieeetote II	BINS	200545-20	$17.75	£18 43				
(lateral)		2004 05 Id	$18.20	SI9 5O				
		2007-05-1*	£18.83	£20.04				
		NOMMt	S 19.39	S2069				
Mamtha to Next Stoa			b0	994				
Cam mu Servin Eastoeer I	BMW	200549m»	£23 W	I267S	127.65	SW.O'j	$31 15	S3327
		N06-05-16	£26.56	$27 55	S28.48	130.97	£32 08	S3427
		2007-05-1*	£27.36	$28 38	$29.33	S31.40	£33.04	$3530
		2003-05-11	£28.18	$2923	$30.21	$32.86	$34.03	S363P
Mentha ta Nest S*o			6	6	12	6	<2	999
Cutoaer Service Emtoeer n	BldM	2305-05-29	S26.3I	£27J8	$2820	S 30.66	S3I.77	$33 IM
		2000 05 Id	S27.I0	523 10	£29.05	£31.58	S32 72	£34.96
		2907-05-1*	S 27.91	£28.44	$2992	£3153	$33.70	536.01
		200045-Id	S 28.75	£2981	SWK	$3351	S34.7I	$37.09
Mratki to Nest Sto»			6	6	12		!2	999
Cutoater Sve Clerk Grt	B14IB	200545-20	S21.15	521 82	$22.51			
		200*45-13	£21.78	S22 47	$23.19			
		10014M6	SZ2 43	£2334	123.09			
		200045-16	£23.10	$23 83	124.6 J			
Mentha to Next Step			6	6	949			
Date topu * Cen Clerk Cell	BOTH	2005-05-29	S23.59	£24 31	$24 90			
		2000 K 16	S 24.30	£25 04	£25.73			
		200745-10	$25.03	$25 79	£2630			
		2000 05 10	$25.'; 8	$2636	S2730			
Months to Next See*			6		9°9			
Dato fapet 4 Cea CM* GrT	BOT08	200M5-U	S20.I7	$20.75	$21 53			
		200045-10	S20 78	121.37	122.18			
		200745-10	$21 40	122.01	122.85			
		200M5-1*	£22.04	$2167	$23.54			
Moettn to Nat Step			6	6	494			
P*geo5
LaeM M* ■ Ottkn-Ttohdcal «»J Mtoahul Pay Sckedate May W, MOS Uno* May 16, ZOOS
lobTttle	Job Cede	EffDnte	1	1	3	4	s	0
Dato Inpat a Cn Cleft Gt*	B0TO9	2005-05-29	521.15	121.82	12231			
		200*49-16	121,78	122,47	523.19			
		200745-16	12143	123.14	523.19			
		M0M5-M	$23.10	523 ft3	124.61			
Mowtki to Nest Step				6	999			
Data Inpnl A Con Clerk Ct*	BOTH	200545-29	122.40	12325	$24.09			
		200645-16	523.07	123.95	124.8!			
		200745-1 ft	123.76	124.67	525.55			
		200045-It	124.47	125.41	126 32			
Months to Next Step			6	6	999			
Dept Adnta Aisbt Grift	B1317	2005-05-M	523.59	524.31	524.98			
		200645-11	124.30	125.04	125.73			
		200745-10	52503	125.79	126.50			
		ZOM-OS-M	123.78	$2656	$27 JO			
Menth to Next Step			6	6	999			
Dept Adnftn Aubt Grl 1	B1311	»0Sa5-»	(25.73	126.37				
		200045-10	12650	127.16				
		200745-10	117.30	127.97				
		2000-05-11	528.12	52&8I				
Monthi to Next Step			6	999				
Dept Adrtn AiolM Gi9	BI316	200545-29	522.40	S23J5	12449			
		200645*16	123.07	123.95	124.81			
		200745-10	S23.76	12467	12555			
		200045-10	124.47	125.41	52632			
Month to Not Step			0	0	999			
Dedcner	sini	300646*U	526J0	527.16				
		200745-10	527.30	127.97				
		20001516	128.12	128.81				
Month to Next Sten			6	999				
OtnflhtTtetGrM	Btm	200545-29	S33.S9	SMJf	524.98			
		200045-10	524J0	125.04	125.73			
		200745-10	125.03	525.79	526JO			
		200045-10	$25.78	12656	12730			
Month te Next Stop			6	6	999			
DnfH^TtthGril	wru	200545-29	125.73	126.37				
		20C64M6	126.50	S27.16				
		2907-05-16	527 30	12757				
		200045-10	12812	128.11				
Month! to Nnt Step				099				
Dndttat'T'eebCrU	M72S	2M54S-29		527.44				
		20064B-16	527.62	S2L26				
		WOT-05-16	128.45	129.11				
		200B45-16	129.30	52991				
Mntha to Nnt Step			5	999				
DrafUaiTKh Gl3	B07I1	2005-05-29	514JI	115.17	515^5	516.47	517.10	
		toows-is	514.95	325.63	11643	$36.96	SI7j6I	
		200745-10	515 40	1:6.10	116.92	$17.47	SI*_I4	
		HBMS-16	115.86	1I6J8	517 43	517.99	S1&68	
Month to Next Sten			3	3	6	6	999	
hc> 66
Lecal J*9 - omce-TMhateal aad PnftMSaul Fay Schedule May 29. IMSThma^ Muy 10.2000
Jot Uda	Job Code	EffDato	I	2	3	4	s	6
DratUat Tech GtS	B0719	2005-05-29	SUM	$1887	£19.65			
		MM-OS>I6	818 63	$19.44	£20.24			
		2007-05-10	$19 |0	$20.02	£20.85			
		200845*16	519 77	120.62	£21.48			
Meatto to Next Step			o	6	999			
DrnfttagTech Grt	D0720	2005-05-29	$1925	$19.91	£20J9			
		20M45-16	119 S3	S20.5I	£21.21			
		2007*05*16	S 20.42	521.13	£21.85			
		2008-95-16	£21.03	521.76	522Ji I			
Moatht to Next Step			*	6	999			
Draftfat Tech Gr7	B072I	2005-05-29	$20.17	52075	£21-53			
		2004-05-1*	$20 n	421 27	£22.18			
		2OO7-05-I4	121 40	$22.01	£22 J5			
		2008-05-16	£ 22.04	522.67	523-54			
Moatha to Next Step			t»	6	999			
Drafttag Tech Gt*	amt	2005-05-29	$21.15	$21.82	£225/			
		2004-85-14	£21.78	$22.47	£23.19			
		2007-80-14	S 22.43	523.14	£23.89			
		2008 85 14	SB. 10	$23.83	£24 61			
Mentha to Next Step			6	6				
Dapl Maefctoe Oper Grt	BO73I	2005-05-29	$11.80	$1234	£13.01	SI3.o5	£14.37	
		2004-85-14	112.15	Sl2£2	£13.40	£14.06	£14.80	
		2007-05-1*	$12.51	SI3J3I	£13.80	$14.48	$15.24	
		20*0-05-1*	S 12.89	£13.71	£|4J|	£14.91	515.70	
Meptta to Next Step			3	3	6	6	999	
Dnpl Muhtna Oper GrJ	W732	2005-05-29	$14.51	£15 17	515.95	$16.47	£17.10	
		2804-85-14	S 14.95	£15 63	£I6_43	£16.96	£17.61	
		2007-85-14	$ 15.40	£16l10	516.92	$17.47	£18.14	
		2008-85-18	S 15.86	£1638	£17.43	$17.99	£18.68	
Mootta to Next Step			3	3	6		999	
Dnpl Muhtoe Oper Gr5	BS733	2005-85-29	418.09	$18.87	$19 65			
		2000-05-1*	£18 63	51944	$2024			
		2007-05-14	S19.19	£20.02	£20.85			
		2808-05-14	$19 77	$20.62	£21.48			
Mentha to Next Step			6	6	999			
Dapl MaeHae Oper Gr7	BOTT*	2005-05-20	$2017	£20.75	521.53			
		2*0*-0S-l*	$20.78	$2137	$22.18			
		2OO7-O5-I*	$11 40	$2201	$22.85			
		2000-05-1*	$22 04	$22.67	$235*			
Meatto to Next Seep			6	0	999			
Ent AaatyefeSeada	W742	2005-05-29	$2644	£28 34	£30.23	$32.12	S34.0O	£35.90
		2MMO-16	527J3	S29.J9	53JJ4	£33. W	£35 02	£3*98
		2007-05-18	$28.05	£30.07	£32.07	$34.07	£36.07	£38 09
		2001-05-1*	$21.19	$30.97	$33.03	$35.09	$37.15	$3923
Months to Next Step			6	6	6	6	6	999
Eagtaeer	B0747	2005-05-20	525.79	£36.75	$27 65	$30.07	$31 15	$33J7
		2006-05-16	$26-56	£27.55	£28 48	$30.97	£32.08	£3427
		2007*45-16	£27 J*	£28.38	529.33	£31.90	£33.04	£35-30
		2000-05-14	£28.18	£29.23	$30.21	£32.86	£34.03	$3636
Mootht to Next Step			6	*	12	6	i:	999
Page 67
Loeal 3*9 - Oft>e»-Tu±nical and Pradeednoa! Fay Sebedole May T9. MM Threajb May 14, MO*
JobTHe	Job Code	Eft Date	1	J	3		5	6
Knitonii Gr4	B0746	20OS-OS-29	137.51					
		20M-0S-M	538.64					
		2067-OS-H	519.80					
		200M5-H	$40.99					
MostketeNext Step			999					
EttiMfttSf	B0754	10QS45-29	525.71	52637				
		200645-16	52650	527 16				
		2SOT45-16	52730	527.97				
		2008-95-1*	528.12	52U1				
Maotbl U Next Stea			6	999				
Ftaflity T«cb AnbttBt	B1607	2005-05-29	5.12.46					
		3TO4546	133.43					
		2007-05-16	$34.43					
		200M5-1*	S35.*6					
Mvtttti to Not Step			999					
FMd Mcto- Rep (G*i)	B1M2	2005-05-29	52180					
		WMJ-14	523.48					
		2007-05-16	524.18,					
		2003-05-16	$24.91					
Moktks to Next Step			999					
FiddMouiUr	BtfMI	1MM5-B	526.44	52834	53023	53212	534.00	
		260645-16	52723	529.19	531.14	533.08	535.02	
		200745-1*	52105	530.07	532.07	$34.07	$36.07	
		2008-65-1*	528.89	530.97	$33.03	$35.09	537.15	
Mootha ta Neu Step			6		6	6	999	
Field Savka CoMfltexter	BL5S3	2005-05-29	53124					
		200645-1*	53218					
		2007-05-1*	533.15					
		200S-05-16	534.14					
MaMto te Next Step			999					
FHd Service Meta- Reader	BIOS	2005-05-29	$17.91	519.10	520117	520.73	52133	
		2006-05-16	SIS.45	$19.67	S20L7I	$21.37	52218	
		2007-05-1*	519.00	520.26	521.40	$22.01	$77*5	
		2000-05-16	$19.57	520.87	52204	52267	523.54	
Mooka to Next Beep			12	12	6	6	999	
FHdSmfcoRqi 1	BIMO	ibiws-B	523.59	52431	524.98			
		2006-05-16	SU. 30	525.04	525.73			
		200745-1*	$25.03	$25.79	$26.50			
		206845-1*	523.78	X2&56	$27.30			
Mootke to Next Step			6	6	999			
FkH Service Rep n	Bl 291	2S0S4M9	S26.B2	127.44				
		200645-16	527 42	52U6				
		200745-1*	528.45	529.11				
		200S-05-16	52930	529.98				
MoMke to Next Step			6	999				
Held Servin Rep m	B166I	W5-05-29	529.78					
		2006-05-16	530.67					
		2007-06-16	531 W					
		20684516	53254					
Moktha to Next Seep			999					
P*pM

Local 363 - Offiee-TecftBteal and Prafotirad Pay Sctedak May 29, 20Q5 Ttevnph May 16. MM
JMTltk	Job Cade	BffEtato	I		1	3	4	S	4
Find Atort Aaaiyu	B15S5	20*5-05-2*	52&.S7		$2927				
		20*6-05-16	529 43		530 15				
		2007-65-14	530.31		531.05				
		2000-05-16	$31.22		£31.98				
Maatte ta Next Step			6		W				
Hud Aue< Aaatgrai H	BldM	MOMS-J*	528.83		$29 S3				
		200665-16	529.69		£3042				
		1007-05-16	$30 58		£3133				
		2000-05-16	£31 30		£32.27				
MmM* to Next Sup			4		999				
Graph Ptteg SprrlaHut	BL 304	100S-PJ-2*	424.82		ir>44				
		2*06-05-16	827.62		528 26				
		2007-05-14	S28.e5		S2v.II				
		200405-14	529.30		£2998				
MaMte to Next Step			6		999				
Inserter Meek Operator	Bl 077	20054420	$2017		£20.75	£21 53			
		200405-14	$20 78		£21.37	$22.18			
		2007-05-14	$2140		52201	£22.85			
		2OM-O5-1S	£22.64		$22.67	£23.54			
MaMta to Nut Step			6		6	999			
lateml Dato Opcr Cterk Grt	Bl M2	2005-05-20	$21.15		£21 82	$2151			
		2004 05 14	$21.78		£22.47	£23 19			
		2007-*5-l*	522.4?		523 14	£23.89			
		MOMS-lt	£23 10		523 83	£24.61			
Montte to Neat Step			6			999			
IS A*Kt Staff Aufyel	Bl 636	200545-2*	£2601		£27 23	$25.45	529.68	£30.91	
		2MM5-I*	526.79		£2805	529.30	530.57	$3184	
		2007-05-14	527.59		£28 89	530.18	531.49	$33.80	
		2000-05-14	$28.42		£29 76	£31 09	532.43	£33.78	
Maatte to Nm Step			6		6	6	6	099	
Lead Drafttoi Tertatidaa	Bl 3*7	2005454*	$30.21		£30.89				
		200445-14	$31.12		£31.82				
		20*7-45-1*	532 05		$32.77				
		200045-14	533 01		£33.75				
Maatte t> Not Step				6	999				
Lead Senter IMpcr	Bl 266	200545-2*		530.21	£30.89				
		20M-4S-H	£31.12		$31 82				
		2007-05-14	$32.05		£32.77				
		2000 05 14	$33.01		£33.75				
Maatte to Nan Step			6		999				
Leader, Caupour Tech	Bl 475	M05-05-M	536.86						
		200445-14	537 97						
		200745-14	539 11						
		200045-14	$4028						
Maatte to Next Step			999						
Lepiida Sya CeerttaMr Grl2	■1474	M5-K-M	S2AJ2		$2744				
		200445-14	$27.82		£28.26				
		2007-PS-l*	£28.45		£29 II				
		200B45-I4	$29.30		£29.98				
Maatte to Next Step			6		W				
Load 369-Ottlto-Tathnteall nd Mtodanal Hy SehUale May 29, MOS Tkroafh Mey 16, 20M
Muni	Job Code	Iff Dote	1	Z	3	4	5	«
LotbUci Syi CowOsitir Grl4	BttJJ	MS4S-B	530.21	530.89				
		2006-05-16	$31.12	S3I_&2				
		MMMi	53105	$3X77				
		2WM5-16	$33.01	533.75				
Mnth* to Next Step			6	999				
Meter Otfce Admlnbtretw Gr*	BIST*	2WM5-29	$19 25	519.9!	52959			
		2004-05-16	519.83	52051	52121			
		2007-05-1*	$20.42	521.13	S21BS			
		2001-03-10	$21.03	521.76	522.5)			
Meath* to Not Step			6	6	999			
Meier Office Ailiiiliilin »** Gr?	DISK	1005-05-29	$20.17	52075	$2133			
		2006-05-1*	s»?»	$2137	522.18			
		2M7-0S-H	521.40	52101	522.55			
		2006-05-16	522,04	52267	$23-54			
Meath* ta Next Stv			6	6	999			
Meter Office Adntatttrater Grt	BIS81	2003-03-29	$21.15	52IJ9	52231			
		2900-05-10	821.78	$22.47	523.19			
		2W7-05-U	52143	$23.14	$23.89			
		ion-os- io	$23.10	523.53	524.61			
Month) to Next Step			6	6	999			
[Office AwattetGrJ	90901	200543-29	514J1	SI5J7	flfSS	51*47	517.10	
		2066-05-16	514.95	T15B3	516.43	51*96	SI7BI	
		2007-45-1*	515.40	$16.10	516.92	517.47	$18.14	
		200045-10	S1S.M	IIS 58	51743	517.99	$18*68	
Month) to Next Step			3	3	6		999	
Office Anhticl GrS	Bora	2005-05-29	$18.09	518.17	519.65			
		2006-05-16	518.63	519.44	52024			
		2007-05-10	$19.19	$Z0lQ2	520.55			
		MOMS-16	519.77	52062	£21.4$			
Mouth* to Nnt Step					999			
□mc« AuWmttGrt	BO943	2005-05-29	$19 25	S19L91	520 39			
		200645-16	519.83	$20.51	52121			
		2007-05-10	520.02	521.13	$21.85			
		2000-05-10	$2MB	521.76	52231			
Meath* to Neil Step			6	6	999			
UttneAathtaatGr?	B09O4	2005-05-29	520.17	$2075	$?I53			
		200045-10	520.78	52137	$22.18			
		2007-05-10	$21.40	5220!	522.85			
		200045-10	522.04	$22.67	52334			
Meath) to Next Step			&	6	999			
		GrB	BOMS	2005-05-29	SSI.IS	521.82	52231			
		200045-10	521,70	522.47	523.19			
		2007-45-10	52143	523.14	523.89			
		2000-15-10	523.10	523.53	$24.61			
Month) to Nnt Step				6	999			
omc« AutatentGiV	bum	200545-29	522.40	*2325	S24JN			
		200045-10	523.07	123.95	$24*81			
		2007-05-10	$23.76	52467	S25J5			
		2000 05-10	$1447	$25.41	52632			
Month* to Next Step			6	6	999			
hr7t
Local 36* - Offfce-Teehateal aad Prafteakipal Pay Sthedale May W. 2005Tkran 8* May 16, 2088
Jeb Title	J to Code	EffDate	I	Z	3	4	5	*
Operadou Office *J-lln Grt	BIJW	2005-05-20	$19.25	SI 9.91	$20.59			
		2900-05-It	619.83	$2031	$21.21			
		2007-05-10	$20.42	$21 13	$21.15			
		2001-05-10	52 J. 03	$21.76	$2231			
Meotta to Not Step			6		999			
Oprralieci Office Adrta Cr7	Bl 4«0	2005-05-W	$20.17	620.75	$21.53			
		2006-05-16	$20 71	121.37	$22.18			
		2007-05-10	521.40	$2201	$22 85			
		20M-05-U	$22.04	$2167	$23.54			
Mopita io Next Step			6	b	909			
Openttaoa Office Admix Gib	Bltol	2003-05-29	$21.15	62182	$22 51			
		2000-05-10	$21.78	$2247	$23.19			
		2007-05-10	$2243	$23 14	$23.89			
		20M-05-16	123 JO	$23.83	$24.61			
Months ta N txt Step			6		999			
Piqt»O Itapruat	Bl 133	2095-05-2*	623.54	$2431	$*4.98	$26.37	627 44	
		200045-10	624.30	$2504	$25.73	$27 16	$28.26	
		2007-05-10	$25.03	$25 79	$26.50	$2797	$29.11	
		20OM5-M	$25.71	$2636	$2730	$2881	$29.98	
Mtothi to NbI Ste»				6	6	6	999	
Paanr Syateaia TecUdao	Bl *57	2005-05-29	$24 50	$26.70	628.90	631.10	S33 79	
		1006-05-16	S23J2*	627 50	$29.77	632.03	634.80	
		2007-05-16	626.00	$2833	$30.66	632.99	$35 84	
		2000-05-10	626.78	$29 11	$31.58	133.98	636.92	
Mandate Nazi Step			12	12	1Z	12	999	
Frofct Eag-Eu Mgt	B0944	2005-05-2*	628.34	$3023	$32.12	134.00	$35.90	
		M06 05-16	$29.19	£31.14	$33 08	S35.O2	$36.98	
		2007-05-10	$30 07	632.07	$34.07	636.07	S3 8.09	
		2008-05-16	$30.47	$33.03	635 09	637.15	$3923	
Monttate Next Step			£		6	6	999	
Ptalect Fpgtarer, FadHdee	Bl 65 2	2005-05-20	$28.34	$30.23	$32.12	$34.00	£35.90	
		2000-05-10	$29.19	$31.14	$33.08	$35.02	536.98	
		2997-05-10	630.07	$3207	$34.07	$3607	638.09	
		2008-05-16	630.07	633 03	$35.09	S37 15	$3923	
Meaata to Next Step			6	6	6	6	999	
Jtonrda Keeper GrIJ	BOOM	ioosos-29	$26.82	627 44				
		200605-10	$27.62	$2126				
		2007-05-16	$2145	S29.JJ				
		2000-05-16	$2930	$29 98				
Mraihi to Neit Step			6	999				
fteveaxe Pretecttep Admix Grl	Bl 008	2007-07-20	$21.IS	521.82	$2231			
		2006-05-10	$21.78	622 47	$23.19			
		2007-05-16	$22.43	623.14	$23 89			
		ZOOMS-1«	$23 ID	623.83	$24.61			
MtMthi to MmStev			6	6	999			
RgktefPndAWe Cbk Grid	B0950	2005-05-29	$23.59	$2431	$24.98			
		2000-05-10	$2430	$2504	$25.73			
		200145-10	625.03	61579	$26.50			
		200445-10	625.78	$203*	$27.30			
Mapttata Next Step			6	6	499			
Page 71
Lncel 30 -Offlce-Tecfadcnl *at Pntadonri F«y Schedule May 19.1005 1kns(h May 16. 10M
JohTttk	Jeb Cede	ECTDnta	1	3	3	4	5	6
RtM^PnMt&Ws CVk Grt	B*KS	200545-19	$19225	$19.91	52059			
		2004-05-14	S 19.83	52051	$2121			
		isn-ts-u	$ 2042	521.13	521.15			
		1005-05-16	521X0	521.76	$2231			
Masta ta Not Step			&	4	999			
RJtttOfWqrAttBtCTU	B0W1	2005-05-25	526.82	523.44				
		200645-16	527.62	$2326				
		2007-05-14	S28 45	H9.ll				
		260&-OS46	52930	$29.9M				
MootSe t> Next Step			6	999				
UxMOtWay AcoaGrO	BONO	1S0MM9	521.15	S71.B2	522JI			
		2*064546	Hl. 75	52247	523.19			
		2607-05-14	52241	523.14	523.89			
		MM4S-16	523.10	523 53	$24.61			
Mentha to Next Sten			4	6	999			
Rltkt Of Way Altai Gr»	BONI	2005-05-2*	S22.40	f 23.23	$24.09			
		200fr05-14	523.07	523 95	S2U1			
		2007-05-14	$23.76	52467	$25_55			
		2005-05-16	524.47	525.41	52631			
Mentha to Next Sie©			6	6	999			
Rnata CMMteanr a	Bl MX	2905-05-29	529.47					
		2004-05-14	530.35					
		2007-05-14	$31.26					
		2005-05-14	$32.20					
Mentha to Next Etcv			999					
Bente CMnUaator l>	814*9	2009-0949	S25.S3					
		2006-05-76	$26.60					
		1007-05-14	127.40					
		200045-16	528.22					
Mentha to Next Sten			999					
Sovtce TechMria*	B15S4	2005-05-19	$25.73	S26J7				
		2004-05-14	$26.50	527.16				
		1007-05-10	527.30	527.97				
		2000-05-16	52512	52U1				
Menttote Next Step				999				
Spec CoUdni Ceor Grl3	B097S	2005-05-29	S28J7	52923				
		200645-16	529.43	$30.15				
		2007-05-14	530JI	531.03				
		2000-05-14	$31 22	HIM				
MeMto te Next Step			6	999				
Spec Cefctea Leer Grl4	B0976	2005-05-29	SJU.21	530.89				
		2006 05 K	»l 12	$51.12				
		2007-05-14	$32.05	532.77				
		2001-05-14	533.0!	$33.75				
Months to Next Bteg			6	999				
Sr Buyer Plnoer	01341	2005-0549	$30.21	$3O$9				
		2004-05-14	531.12	331.82				
		2007-05-16	$32.05	53177				
		2000-05-14	$3301	$33.75				
Mowttuco Next Step			*	999				.
ItepeTl
ImI W9 - Offlca-Teebakal ud Protaataul fey ScBedah Mey 19. H05 Tknqh Mey If, MM
Job Tide	J* Code	Eff Date	I	2	3	4	5	6
Sr Convour Tdknldu	Riser	MM-OS-29	£312?					
		2*6-05-14	£34.27					
		20O7-4S-1*	£35.30					
		200M8-H	$36.36					
Murtha to Next St*			999					
Sr Cm Rd Cm Clerk	Bl 274	2005-05-29	$25.73	$26.37				
		20M4S-16	526 50	£27.16				
		wrr-05-L*	£27.30	£27.97				
		2*8-05-16	528.12	£28.81				
Moatfat to Next Step			6	999				
Sr Cartaaer Service Aiaodate	Bl 307	1SS5-M-19	$20.58	$2194	£23.40			
		2SM-05-11	$21 20	$22.60	£24.10			
		2007-45-14	$21.84	£23 28	£24.82			
		200045-10	£22.50	$23 98	£25 56			
Maatte to Next St*			P	p	999			
Sr Cartaiatr Service Re*	BISB2	200545-20	$25.52	£26.63	£27 74			
		2000 05 14	£24.29	$27 41	£2857			
		204745-14	srm	$28.25	529.43			
		200045-14	£27.49	$29.10	£30.31			
Moatfat to Next Step			12	p	999			
Sr CartMur Service Rep H	BIMO	2005-05-29	52681	£27.96	£29.14			
		200445-14	$2761	£28 80	£30.01			
		200745-14	528.44	$2966	$30.91			
		200045-14	£29.29	$30 55	£31.84			
Mtttta to Next Step			12	1?	999			
SrDedtbs-	B1167	200545-29	£26.82	£2744				
		200445-14	$27 61	£2-8.26				
		200745-14	$28.45	$29 11				
		3008-05-16	£29.30	£29.98				
Maatte to Next SI*			6	999				
Sr Tdrrnnunantr attiai And	Bl 530	200545-29	£33 66	£34.26	534.87	£35.49	£36 i0	
		200445-14	$3467	$35.29	£35.92	£36.55	$37 l«	
		200745-14	£35 71	$36.35	£37.00	£37.65	£38.30	
		M0B45-16	534 78	£3744	$38.11	£38.78	£39.45	
Maatte ea Next Sin			6		6	6	999	
Sappfe Mgmt Teehaldaa Grl»	BIU9	200545-29	$73.59	£24.31	£24.98			
		200445-14	£24.30	£25 04	£25.73			
		2007-05-1 e	£25.03	£25 79	£26.50			
		2008-05-16	$25.78	£26.56	£27.30			
Moaifai to Nai Step			6	6	999			
Sapply Mgtot Tettaktaa Gr6	Bl 334	2005-05-29	$19.25	£19.91	£20.59			
		200445-14	$1983	£20.51	£2121			
		200745-14	$30 42	£21.13	£21.85			
		2008-05-16	£21 03	£21.76	£22 JI			
Mootfei to Not Step			6		999			
Sappty Mgmt Tecbaidaa Crt	B1137	200545-29	$21 15	$2182	£22.51			
		200445-14	$21 78	£22.47	£23.19			
		M07-05-16	£22.43	£2314	$23.89			
		2008-05-16	£23.10	£23 83	$34.6!			
Maatte to Next Stop			6	6	999			
Page 73
Local 369 - Office-Technical ud PrvfcMfeMl Pay Schedule May 29, 2605 Through May It, 2068
MTftte	Jo* Cede	err Dab	1	2	3	4	5	6
Stpfly Mgmt TwknktaB GW	B13M	2005-05-K	52240	523.25	S24J00			
		2604-05-16	523.07	523.95	$24 81			
		2907-65-14	523.76	524.67	$25 55			
		2008-05-16	524.47	525 41	$26.32			
Menth* I* Next Step				6	909			
Sytina Operattau AuBtaat	BMW	2605-05-29	523.54	$24.31	$24.98			
		2604-65-14	524.30	525.04	$25.73			
		2067-05-14	525.03	525 79	$2650			
		2060-05-14	525.78	£2656	$27.30			
Month* to Next Step			6	6	999			
System & Procedure Analyst	BIMO	2095-05-29	526 93	$2889	$30.97	$32.91		
		2064-05-14	$27.74	$29.76	$31.90	$33.90		
		2007-05-14	$28.57	530.65	$32.86	534.92		
		20MMH-14	52W	$31 57	$33.85	535.97		
Meetke to Neil Step			6	6	6	999		
Technical CktrhGrH	Biese	2005-05-20	$15 73	526.37				
		2064-05-14	524 50	527.1b				
		2007-05-14	527 30	527.97				
		2008-05-14	528.12	528.81				
Mouth* to Next Step			b	999				
Technical CM Gr 13	B10I0	2005-05-29	$M 5?	529.27				
		2004-05-14	$1943	530.15				
		2007-05-14	$3O.3J	531.05				
		2008-05-16	$31.22	531.98				
Month* to Neal Step			0	999				
TeAeeomninHlcatlon* Coordtaator	BUM	2005-05-29	525.73	526.37				
		2006-05-1*	$24.50	$27.16				
		2007-05-1*	$n»	$17.97				
		2MS4M6	$28.12	528.81				
Months to Next Step			b	999				
Tefepkope Operator	B10I3	2005-05-29	518.09	51887	$1965			
		2004-05-14	SI8b3	$19.44	$2014			
		2007-05-16	$19.19	£20.02	$20.85			
		2968-05-14	519.77	52062	$2148			
MMHtate Next Step			6	6	999			
Wortini Leader Ptannbf (Gm)	BIM3	2005-05-29	$34.21					
		2904-05-14	$35.24					
		2967-05-14	530.30					
		2008-05-14	537.39					
Moatkt to Next Seep			W					
Page 74
SCHEDULED Beginners' Ratings
Automobile Mechanic D
Clerk Grade 2 through 6
Customer Service Associate I
Customer Service Clerk Grade 6
Drafting Technician Grade 3 through 8
Duplicating Machine Operator Grade 3 through 5 Field Service Meter Reader
Field Service Technician (Trainee)
Gas Pump Attendant
Laboratory Helper
Laborer (Gas)
Lineworker, Underground Class #3
Office Assistant Grade 3 through 6
Office Cleaner
Operating Mechanic Apprentice
Telephone Operator Grade 5
Utility Worker-Building Maintenance B
75
SCHEDULE F
Work in Inclement Weather ARTICLE XXIX
List No. I
Backhoe Operator (Gas') Laborer (Gas)
Lamp Ranger
Leader, Overhead Lines Leader, Underground Line worker. Overhead Lines Line worker, Underground Underground Apprentice Utility Gas (Grades A. B & C) Weldcr/Utility (Gas)
List No. 2
Automobile Mechanic
Conduit 1 inspect or- Maintenance
Field Service Technician
Leader-Automobile Repair
Line worker. Underground (when working with
Conduit inspector-Maintenance)
Operating Mechanic
Operator -Substation
Overhead Hot Stick Troubleshooter
Trucking Coordinator
Underground Apprentice
(when working with Underground
Troubleshooter)
Underground Trouble Shooter
Utility Worker-Building Maintenance
76
APPENDIX
ILLNESS AND NONINDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT DISABILITY BENEFITS PLAN AND THE
INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT DISABILITY BENEFITS PLAN
Illness and NonIndustrial Accident Benefits
Illness and non-industrial accident benefits shall be governed by the following rules:
J. Eligibility
Employees who have completed six (6) months of continuous active service on the regular full-time payroll shall be eligible for the benefits provided herein.
2.	Waiting Period
The first five (5) working days included in the first seven (7) calendar days of any disability arc defined as the waiting period applicable to such disability.
3.	Short Term Disability (STD)
After five (5) days of continuous disability, an employee will receive 100% of base pay for four (4) months for so long as he/she remains continuously disabled: after four (4) months, employee will receive 75% of base pay for eight (8) months for so long as he/she remains continuously disabled. Total period of STD will be up to fifty-two (52) weeks maximum.
4.	Long Tenn Disability (LTD)
After one (I) year, employee will be eligible to apply for LTD. If approved, employee will receive 60% of base pay up to seventy-eight (78) weeks. For the first fifty-two (52) weeks of LTD, the definition of disability will be occupationally disabled; thereafter, the employee must be totally disabled to be eligible for additional LTD benefits.
Employment will be terminated if unable to return to work following the LTD period.
5.	Recurrence
The disability period benefits will be reduced by the amount of time used on any previous disability when, in the opinion of the Company's Medical Director, the current disability is a recurrence. If a recurrence commences two (2) years after the previous disability ended, it will be deemed to be a new disability.
6.	Benefits
Benefits for the working days of waiting periods shall be base pay (as defined in the Retirement Plan as amended) for such days but shall be allowed only at the discretion of the Disablement Benefits Committee. Such benefits shall be limited to a maximum often (10) working days in each calendar year. Up until December 31, 2000, but not thereafter, unused waiting period benefit days in excess of fifteen (15) will be accumulated in a bank and may only be used to supplement pay for STD or LTD benefits.
7.	Review of Absences
Employees abusing the Plan or having excessive absences shall be subject to disciplinary action by the Company. If the Local claims the Company has exercised any of the foregoing rights in an unjust or unreasonable manner, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXIV and Arbitration under Article XXXV.
77
8.	Miscellaneous Provisions
a.	No change in an employee's rate of pay shall become effective while he/she is receiving benefits.
b.	Employees shall not be entitled io receive time or compensation for vacations or holidays while receiving illness and non-industrial accident disability benefits.
c.	For the purpose of this Plan, a disability commencing during an employee’s scheduled vacation shall be considered to commence at tbe end of his/her vacation.
d.	Benefits shall cease when an employee is retired or when his/her employment is otherwise terminated.
e.	In the case of a non-industrial accident where a third party is held liable for tbe injury to an employee, the employee shall, as a condition of receiving benefits under the Plan, agree to indemnify the Company to tbe extent of his/her net recovery (that is, the net amount recovered less tbe employee's expenses in obtaining settlement and his'her hospital, doctors and nurses' bills) from such third person for tbe amount of waiting period any disability period benefits paid to him/her by the Company. Benefits for which the Company is so indemnified shall not, to the extent of indemnification, be considered as benefits paid under the Plan.
f.	If Federal or State legislation shall be enacted providing or requiring the provision of benefits payable rc the Company's employees in the event of disability, benefits payable under this Plan shall be reduced by the amount of such statutory benefits. If such reduction in benefits under this Plan results in a lower Company cost for all disability benefits (as a result of the statutory benefits being provided in part by employee contributions), the Company will negotiate with the Union and the Local tbe application of such reduction in cost to the provisions of other benefits on account of disability. death or retirement.
9.	Administration
The Disablement Benefits Committee, which will act on all problems arising under this Plan, except those referred to in paragraph 8 of this Plan, shall consist of the Senior Vice President of Human Resources, or his/her designated representative, the Medical Director of the Company or tbe Associate Medical Director and the President of the Local (or a member of the Local designated by its President). Such Committee shall administer and interpret this Plan and shall have full power to make rules and regulations for its administration with respect to the members of the Local which are not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan.
Industrial Accident Disability Benefits
Industrial accident benefits, for injured employees entitled to compensation under the Massachusetts Workmen's Compensation Act who elect to proceed against the Company's insurer for compensation, shall be governed by the following rules:
1.	While the incapacity for work resulting from tbe injury is total, the Company will pay to the employee [subject to paragraphs 3,4 and 8 below] the excess of the employee's base pay (as defined in the Retirement Plan as amended) at the time of the injury over the payments made by the Company’s insurer under the Act
2.	While the incapacity for work resulting from tbe injury is partial, the Company will pay to the employee [subject to paragraphs 3.4 and 8 below] the excess of (a) the employee's base pay at the time of the injury over (b) the payments made by tbe Company's insurer under the Act, or the wages earned, or both as the case may be; provided, however, that
78
no payments will be made under this paragraph to an employee who refuses to accept a position which is offered to him by the Company.
3.	If payments made by the Company's insurer under the Act are reduced due to a third party settlement, the Company will not be required to compensate the employee for said reduction in benefits under the Act. The payments) fay the Company, as set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2, will continue at the same level as paid prior to the third party settlement This will apply to industrial accidents that occur after May 15, 1994.
4.	If the employee shall accept lump sum payments from the Company's insurer in lieu, in whole or in part, of compensation from the insurer, further payments of benefits under this Plan shall cease.
5.	Benefits shall cease when an employee is retired or when his/her employment is otherwise terminated.
6.	No change in an employee's base pay shall become effective while he/she is receiving industrial accident benefits until such employee has been disabled for fifty-two (52) weeks, at which time his/her base pay will be increased to reflect general wage increases and other adjustments to the rating held by him/her at the time of injury.
7.	Employees shall not be entitled to receive time or compensation for vacations or holidays while receiving industrial accident benefits.
8.	If the present Massachusetts Workmen's Compensation Act is changed, or if other Federal or State legislation is enacted, providing or requiring the provision of benefits payable to the Company's employees with respect to its liability for industrial accidents, benefits payable under this paragraph shall be reduced by the amount of such increase in statutory benefits.
9.	The administration of the Plan shall be under the direction of the Medical Director and the Senior Vice President of Human Resources of the Company whose decision with respect to all questions arising thereunder, including questions respecting the duration of total and partial incapacity for work, shall be final.
79
TOPICAL INDEX
Page A
Absence, leave of.................................. 6
Amendments........................................ 37
Appendix: Disability Benefits Plans............... 77
Arbitration....................................... 36
Automobile, use of................................. 19
B Beginners' Ratings................................ 75
Board of Arbitration.............................. 37
Bulletin Boards.................................... 6
C Check off.......................................... 3
Clothing and equipment............................ 34
Conferences on grievances......................... 36
prior to arbitration......................... 36
with management.............................. 36
Conformation to laws and regulations............... 7
Contractors, work by.............................. 32
D
Days of work....................................... 7
Days off........................................... 8
work on second day off....................... 13
Death in family................................... 24
Deduction of Union dues............................ 3
Demotion.................................... 4,29, 35
when forces are reduced...................... 29
Disability benefits............................... 77
Discharge................................... 4,35
for prohibited activities.................... 35
for non-membership in Union................... 2
Discipline.................................. 4.35
maintenance of................................ 4
Disputes, settlement of........................... 35
Dual or combination jobs.......................... 31
Duration of Agreement............................. 38
8D
Page E
Emergency declared by Chief Executive Officer..........	5
existing in employee's home.................... 25
Employee definition....................................... 1
probationary.................................... 2
temporary...................................... 20
compliance with rules........................... 4
Employment, tenure of.............................. 25
Equipment.......................................... 34
F Fitness and ability................................ 26
G
Grievance, definition.............................. 35
Grievance procedure................................ 35
H Hearing on disciplinary cases...................... 35
Height premium..................................... 20
Holidays........................................... 23
during vacation................................ 21
definitions.................................... 23
pay and premiums............................... 23
absence before and after....................... 23
Health plans....................................... 33
Hours of work....................................... 7
I
Inclement weather.................................. 34
Information furnished to	Union...................... 6
Insurance.......................................... 32
J
Job progression definition...................................... 27
charts......................................... 26
Job specifications.................................. 9
suspension during emergency..................... 5
Jobs, dual or combination.................... 31
Jury duty.......................................... 25
81
Page
L
Laws and regulations................................ 7
Layoffs............................................ 29
Leave of absence.................................... 6
Lockouts............................................ 4
M Management rights................................... 4
Meals (or meal allowance).......................... 10
in connection with overtime.............. 11
lime off for................................... 11
Medical examinations............................... 33
Mileage allowance.................................. 19
Military duty allowance............................ 25
Mutual obligations.................................. 3
N Night Work Premiums................................ 46
Non-shiff employees................................. 7
Notice for travel time................................... 13
of vacancy..................................... 27
of filled vacancy.............................. 27
of promotion................................... 28
of lay off or reduction in force............... 29
of disciplinary action......................... 35
requesting arbitration.......................... 36
O Obligations, mutual................................. 3
Overtime............................................ 10
cancellation penalty............................ 14
meals during............................. 11
travel time associated with..................... 13
rest period..................................... 12
distribution of-.........................-	11
P Parking charges.................................... 20
Pay schedules....................................   48-74
overtime....................................... 10
premium........................................ 10
day............................................ 10
after 16 hours'work............................ 12
after 18 hours’ work........................... 12
for work on second day off..................... 13
travel......................................... 13
82
Page holiday......................................... 23
vacation........................................ 21
during emergencies............................... 5
for Union activities............................ 36
increase in rates............................ 48-74
height.......................................... 20
Payroll deductions. Union dues....................... 3
Pension plan........................................ 32
Picketing............................................ 4
Posting
of work schedules................................ 8
of notice of vacancy............................ 27
Premiums............................................ 10
Probationary employee................................ 2
Promotion........................................... 26
to job not requiring Union membership.......	3
R
Rates of pay......................................... 9
increase in.................................. 48-74
(see Pay in this Index)
Recognition of Union................................. I
Reduction in Forces................................. 29
Re-hiring after lay off............................. 29
Representation, employees represented................ 1
Rest period......................................... 12
Retarding or stopping work........................... 4
Retrogression....................................... 30
Rosters............................................. 26
Rules of Company..................................... 4
S Saturday work, distribution of....................... 8
Schedules, work...................................... 7
"A"............................................. 40
"C"	 46
"D"	 75
"F"............................................. 76
Second day off, premium on.......................... 13
Seniority........................................... 25
definitions..................................... 25
establishment of................................ 25
for filling vacancy............................. 27
after promotion or transfer..................... 27
after service in armed forces................... 25
or lay offs..................................... 29
for re-hiring................................... 29
83
Page
Seven consecutive days, work on.................... 13
Shift employees..................................... 7
Specifications, job................................. 9
Strikes and lockouts................................ 4
Union obligations............................... 4
Company obligations............................. 4
Students, co-operative............................. 31
Substitutions...................................... 30
Sunday premium..................................... 13
Sunday work, distribution of........................ 8
Supervisors, work by............................... 31
Suspension......................................... 35
T
Temporary assignments.............................. 30
to fill vacancy................................ 30
Temporary employee................................. 20
Tenure of employment............................... 25
Termination of agreement........................... 38
Territory, work outside............................. 9
Time off for meals.......................................... 8
for Union meetings.............................. 6
Tools and equipment................................ 34
Transfers.......................................... 28
preference to applications for................. 28
to job not requiring Union membership......	3
Travel premiums.................................... 13
associated with overtime....................... 13
for change in work area........................ 14
Trucking allowance................................. 20
U
Union recognition of..................................... I
membership...................................... 2
information furnished to........................ 5
use of bulletin board..........................  6
Union activities.................................... 5
84
V
Page
Vacancy filling of...................................... 27
posting of notice of............................ 28
notice when filled.............................. 28
Vacations eligibility for................................. 21
pay for......................................... 21
choice and assignment of........................ 22
W
Wages................................................. 9
(see Pay in this Index)
Weather, inclement................................... 34
Work hours and days of................................ 7
schedules........................................ 8
outside territory............................... 14
in inclement weather............................ 34
by contractors.................................. 32
by supervisors.................................. 31
retarding or stopping............................ 4
Workareas......................................... 14-19
Work locations, permission to visit................... 5
Work week............................................. 7
85
STIPULATIONS
FOR
PRODUCTION A MAINTENANCE AND OFFICE-TECHNICAL A PROFESSIONAL UNIT
LOCAL 369, UWU A, AFL-CIO
DATED; January 16,2007
STIPULATION#!
Llncworkers Working in Primary Zona* of Overhead Lino Installatioina
Subject to the provisions of Ihe Principal Agreement between the parties of even date, and without waiving or modifying my rights of either party contained therein it is agreed that the Company will use two (2) Lirreworicere (ether a combination of two (2) Linewtxtaa A; one (I) Ltnewotker A and one (1) Linewotfaer B; or a Leader - Overhead lines with either a Linsworictr A or Lineworker B) on the same pole for routine work on live conductors in the primary rone of overhead line operations under the conditicns outlined below:
I.	When connecting and disconnecting capacitors, oil switches, air-break switches, transformcm, boosters, regulators, protectors, controDere, and undervottsge relays.
2.	When cutting or counectinB a live primary wire.
3.	When transferring primary construction, (Two poles lashed together are considered to be a single pole, except when the distance between than at a primary working level is wo great to step safely from pole surface to pole surface.)
4.	Wiser: working in the primary area on Junction poles carrying more than one live primary wise.
5.	When tying cr untying live primary wires on double crossanmi
6,	When other work on live conductors in the primary zope of overhead line operations requires the use of twe Lmcworiura, consistent with safe and reasonable operation.
* A primary zone io considered to be the area of primary wires on poles or crossanns with a vertical distance between levels of primary wires of not more titan approximately six (6) feet and not greater than six and ooe-half (6W) feet.
Series circuit wires, and primary neutral wires on primary r^w^ns which may became alive if opened, are to be considered as live primary wires.
Stipulation#! is supplemented as follows regarding single bucket+4kV
Parasranh 1	Connect and disconnect transfanners - One Lincweritcr may be used in an insulated
bucket or lift with the second worker on the ground or on the pole.
Paragraph 2 Connect and disconnect lightning arrestors and cutouts - One LiaewoiLei may be used in tn insulated bucket or lift with the seocud worker ac the pole or ground. When jumpers are required, the second worker must be on tbe pale.
Pmxgviiih 3 When transferring primary construction, one of the two Lmeworken may work from an insulated bucket or lift that is adjacent to tbe same pole.
Pai mu noli 4	If the job demands four Uneworken under Paragraph 3, Stipulation One, two single
bucket vehicles can be used.
Paimnwh 5 When tying or untying live primary wires on double crossanns, one Lmeworicer may be used in an insulated bucket or lift with the second worker on the ground or on the pole.
Stipulation #1 - Page 2
Paragraph 6 Third Paragraph - When working on de-cneigized nenes street circuit wirea, a Lineworker may be used in an insulated bucket or lift with the second worker on the ground or on the pole.
Paragraph? New aupplementto Stipulation #1 in reference to work described in paragraph 2 & 4 of Stipulation #1
If there is a worker on the pole and a worker in the bucket, there shall be a qualified worker on the ground.
(a)	When energized primary wires are being cut.
(b)	While working in the primary area on junction poles carrying more than one live primary phase.
Where a third worker is required, the crew shall consist ofa Leader Overhead Litres, Ho: Stick Lincwotker or Linewocker A, and a Lineworker <wi<h a minimum rating of Grade B.
For NSTAR By Dated: /-/6-^oo7	For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
STIPULATION #2
Subject to the provision! of the Principe] Agreement between the pettier of even dele end without waiving or modifying apy rights of either party contained therein, it is agreed that the Company will give notice in writing to an employee cf discipiinary reprimands which are to became a part of the employee1* records. If such records are introduced in a grievance hearing or in a hearing on demotion, suspension or discharge of such an employee, the Unirm at the hearing shall have the right of examination of the records introduced.
U is further agreed that a request may be made by the Business Agent to expunge such duripimary reprimands or suspension records finm an employee's personnel tyr-tyd after nnr yer t»* paaawt Airing winch he hu received no written discqdmary reprimand or suspeasicn. If the record is expunged such action will be confirmed by a letter to die Local Any decision made by the Company co such request will be not be subject to the Grievance procedure or Arbitration.
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL M9, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:
/""/1 - X-Ooy
STIPULATION #3
Agreement of Intent Between tbe Partie* with Respect t* the Matter of Ont-of-Area Travel Thue Assodated with Temporary Upgrading!
In an effort to control the payment of Out-of-Are* Travel Time Prcmhum for Temporary Upgrading* to fill vacancies, the parties have agreed that such temporary upgradings shall be made within the Division in which the vacancies exist
h has been rmtually agreed that should such Travel Tune Premium be required to be paid, resulting from the inability of filling vacancies within a Division, the employee senior on the rating shall have prior rights to the payment of such pretnhmu.
For NSTAR
By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
/- llo- 2.001
STIPULATION M
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even data without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained therein, it is agreed that the attached » a list, dated January 11,1972, of shift and non-ahift assignments by job title and grade as refared to in Article X, Section 2, of said Principal Agreement, together with an award and opinion relating hereto.
For NSTAR
By	By
For LOCAL 169, UWUA, AFL-CIO
Dated: Z-/L-P.O97
Non-Shift
Jab Elk	Grades	Sbifi	Mon. thru Friday	Any	Bsuita
Automobile Mechanic	A	X	Massachusetts Avccne Garage & Service Center Automobile Mechanic	A	X	Masaacbuacttc Avenue Garage Automobile Mechanic	A	X	Massachusetts Avenue Gunge Automobile Mechanic	B	X	Massachusetts Avenue Garage & Service Center Automobile Mechanic	B	X	Massachusetts Avreiuc Garage Automobile Mechanic	B	X	Massachusetts Avenue Garage Automobile Mechanic	C	X	Massachusetts Avenue Garage Automobile Mechanic	C	X	Massachusetts Avenue Garage & Service Center Automobile Mechanic	D	X	Massachusetts Avenue Garage Automobile Mechanic	D	X	Massachusetts Avenue Garage Cable and Conduit hiatallre	A	X Cable and Conduit Installs	B	X Cable and Conduit Installer	B	X	Cable Division Shift Crews Cable and Conduit Installer	C	X Cable and Conduit Installer	C	X	Cable Division Shift Crews Cable and Conduit Installer	D	X Cable and Conduit Installer	D	X Pump Teams Leader-Automobile Repair	X	Massacbuaetti Avenue Garage Leader-Auromobik Repair	X Massachusetts Avenue Garage Note: Three shall be no more than seven (7) Cable and Conduit Installers Grade A assigned on a regular basis to any five (5) days, six (6) for Pump Team and one (1) for Ejector Truck. There shall be no more than three (3) Cable and Conduit Installers Grade A assigned on a regular basis to drift crews. Leadet-Crble and Conduit	X Leader-Cable and Conduit	X	Cable Division Shift Crews Mechanic-Buildings Maintenance	A	X	Downtown Office Buildings Mechanic-Buildingi Ma^'reitier	A	X	Downtown Office Buildings Mechanic-Buildings Maintenance	C	X	Downtown Office Buildings Mechanic-Buildings Maintenance	C	X	Downtown Office Sui (dings Mechanic-Electrical	A	X Maintenance Mechanic-Electrical	B	X Maintenance					
Non-Shift
Moo. thru Any Job Title	Gmrl« Shift Friday 2I&XS Remarks
Mechanic-Electrical	C
Maintenance
Mechanic-Equipment Service	A	X
Mechuric-Equiptncnt Service	B	X
Mechanic-Equipinent Service	B	X
Mechanic-Equipment Service	C	X
Mechanic-Mechanical Maintenance	A	X.
Mechardc-Mednnical Maintenance	A
Mechanic-Mechanical Maintenance	B	X
Mechamc-Mechaakal Maintenance	B
Mechanic-Mechanical Maintenance	C	X
Mochamo-MedunicaJ Maintenance	C
Opcratov-SuiaUtion	A	X
Operator-Subnotion	B	X
Operatoi-Substaiion	B
X
Tool Room - Window
Station S-2 X
Station S-2
X
Station S-2
X
Material Handler	X
Utility Worker-Bldg. Maintenance	A	X
Utility Worker-Bldg. Maintenance	A
Utility Worta^Bldg. Maintenance	B	X
Utility Worter-Bldg. Maintenance	B
Utility Worker-Bldg. Maintenance	B	X
X	The following joba only:
Central Div. - 2 Grado A’a Northern Div. - 2 Grade A’a SouthesnDiv. - 1 Grade A Westcen Div. - 1 Grado A
X ' X Currently five (5) Material handlen are subject co shifts at Mass Ave. Twelve (12) additional Distributicm & Warehousing pcsatnmel may be assigned to shifts atony location.
Service Centers
X	Massachusetts Ave
Maaaadruaetts Awe & Service Centers X	Massachusetts Ave
Cbartostnwn, Cambridge St and Prudential
VOLUNTARY LABOR ARBITRATION TRIBUNAL
bi the Matter of the Arbitration between UTILITY WORKERS OF AMERICA AFL-CIO, LOCAL NO. 369 -and-
Boston Edison Company
Case Number: 1130-0548-70
AWARD OF ARBITRATORS
The undersigned arbitrators), having been designated in accordance with the Arbitration Agreement entered into by the above-named parties, and dated April 25,1969 and having been duly sworn and having duly heard the proofs and allegations of the parties, Award as follows:
The changes of work schedule as proposed by the
Company in its letter to the Union of August 7,1970 are justified under article X, Section 5 of the contract
Eric J. Schmertz Chairman
John S. Madden concurring
Robert D. Manning dissenting
DATED: May24,1973
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF NEW YORK
On this 24th day of May 1973, before tne personally came and appeared Eric J. Schmertz to me known and known to me to be the individuals) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument and he acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
to do in the daytime on weekdays; (4) an increase in customers’ unwillingness to permit lines io be out of service for maintenance except at late night and early morning hours; (5) employee's increasing unwillingness to be available for planned overtime as shown by the increase in "ask-offe" (expression of a desire of the employee not to work overtime) and difficulties in obtaining employees for call-outs; (6) an increased amount of overtime work; and (7) the increasing unavailability of employees for daytime work because they are on paid rest periods due to extended overtime assignments the previous night
The data submitted show, for example, that tbe number of DSS and Transmission Lines that failed in service and had to be repaired in overtime increased 33% in a single year (1969-1970) whereas the number repaired during straight-time daytime hours remained practically the same.
Tbe changed conditions under which the Company now must operate justifies tbe proposed schedule changes in Ifae Cable Division. The clear need of tbe Company is to have employees available on a scheduled basis during off-bours, namely for nights and weekaids. This need is met by the proposed schedules.
Tbe record coauins uacontndicted evidence of substantial and significant changes in operating conditions and such evidence justifies the schedules in tbe Cable Division as proposed by the Company in its letter to tbe Union of August 7,1970 under Article X, Section J of the contract.
If there be future changes within the meaning of Article X, Section 5 of the contract, the procedural requirements oftfiat contract section will be followed. It states1
“5 It is understood and agreed that, if present operating conditions change or if technological improvements change existing equipment or introduce new equipment to such an extent as to justify the Company changing tbe present Monday through Friday schedules, the Company shall submit the changes to tbe Union for approval. If tike proposed changes do not meet with tbe Union’s approval, the issue shall be settled under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and by Arbitration under Article XXXHL”
Eric J. Schmertz Chairman
DATED: October 27, 1973
STATE OF New York)
COUNTY OF New York) ss.:
On this	day of October, 1973, before me personally came and appeared Eric J.
Schmertz to me known and known to me to be the individual described in and wbo executed the foregoing instrument and he acknowledged to me that he executed ike same.
STIPULATION #7
Joint Conodl Agraament
The Parties agree to the establishment of ■ Joint Council to discuss business process improvements, progress of joint con uni ttees, work place issues and business issues pertinent to the industry. The Joint Council will meet every 3- Thursday of each month for the duration of the Agreement The Joint Council’s focus should be to coordinate ongoing joint umon/msnagement initiatives.
For NSTAR By Dated:	* - /- /6-^oe7	For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
STIPULATIONS
Subject to the provision* of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date without waiving er modifying any rights of either petty contained dierein except m specifically provided herein, tbe Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree as fbDowa:
As to inclement weather grievances and artritratioe:
Section 1.	Grievances filed pursuant to the last sentence of paragraph 2 of Article XXK of said Principal Agreement shall be filed in writing with the Vice President-Human Resources or his designated representative on or before 5 XX) PM on Thursday following the first Monday after the day on which die work assignment in question was made and not thereafter, and shall, except as aforesaid, be processed in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (c), (f), and (g) of Article XXX11 of said Principal Agreement
Section 2.	With respect to a grievance so filed, if the Vice President-Human Resources or bn deug,>ated representative detenntnes, in tris sole discretion, the exercise of which shaft not be subject to the Grievance Procedure of said Principal Agreement or to Arbitration, that the weak assignment was improper under the provisions of Article XXIX of the Principal Agreement; the aggrieved employees aha!) receive, in fill! settlement of the grievance, additional compensation at their straight-time hourly rates for the number of hours of work which the Vice President-Human Resources or bis designated representative deems to have been improperly assigned, but not less than four (4) hours' pay for each employee involved at his/her straight-time rale.
Section 3.	If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled under Section* 1 and 2 of this Stipulation, it oisy be submitted to Arbitration under Article XXXm of said Principal Agreement
Section 4.	H in any case, the Board of Arbitration decides in favor of the aggrieved errqiloyee*, the Company will pay:
(a)	the costs, if any, of the American Arbitration Association in connection with Arbitration;
(b)	die compensation and expenses of die dud arbitrator,
(c)	the expenses of one copy of the transcript of testimony; and
(d)	rtstraight-tinrc hourly rates for tbe time jpeni during their regulariy scheduled working hours at Ihe Arbitration hearing by not more than (farce employees who are requested by die Union to be in attendance st such hearing; provided that such employees give or might reasonably bare been expected to give, testimony germane to the proceedings.
IC in any case, the Board of Arbitration does not so decide, the usual provisions of die Principal Agreement relative to *harfng of die cost and expenses of arbitration shaft apply, and the Company shall not pay the employee* described in subsection (d) of this Section.
Section 5.	The Board of Arbitration shall not have power to make an award or decision requiring the Company to pay the sum eel forth in Section 2 of this Stipulation or to pay or suffer any other penally or damages; the intent of the parties being tint the provision* of Section 4 of dris Stipulation set forth tiie maximum amount of die Company’* liability with respect to such Arbitration proceedings.
Stipxtlatioa *3-Page 2
As to mctement weather assignments:
Section 6L Employees on List *1 (Schedule F) of said Principal Agreement not required to perftam Aeir	I
scheduled outdoor work may be assigned to pet foam other work, irrespective of Job	|
Specification, in accordance with the listing in Appendix A, which is attached hereto, and they will be paid at their straight-time hourly cates in the same manner as if (hey bad performed their scheduled outdoor wok
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:
/- /4> -ZC07
APPENDIX A
I
' Items of Work for Inclement Weather Assignments to Employees of Overhead Divisions
i.	Housekeeping activities - trucks, sheds, platforms
2.	Check and replenish truck stock including rubber goods, rope, tods, equipment
3.	Reclaim line wire and service cable
4.	Check generators and portable pumps
5.	Make up dead ends, tree wire and moulding, rope slings, rewire street light taackets
6.	Cut tic wires
7.	Salvage line hardware
8.	Load tbe trucks for next day’s work
9.	Attend:
(a)	Safety meetings, including resuscitation meeting
(b)	Instruction and Job Training sessions
(c)	Training sessions for Major Emergency Plan
10.	Clean truck compartments
Items of Work for Inclement weather Assignments to Employees of Underground Divisions
In Cold Weather-KT or Below
1.	Reclaim cable including duct splicing and lead burning
2.	Install eyes and end seals on cable
3.	Prepare switch and transformer leads
4.	Salvage junction box parts * terminals, potheads, transformers, switches and cable eyes
5.	Attend:
(a)	Safety meetings, including resuscitation meeting
(b)	ystriiutKhi and Job Training sessions
(c)	Training sessions for Major Emergency Plan
6.	Repair transformers and switches in shops
Under Other Conditions of Inclemency
1.	Housekeeping activities - trucks, sheds, platforms
2.	Check and replenish truck atock including rubber goods, rope, tools, equipment
3.	Reclaim cable including duct splicing and lead burning
4.	install eyes and end seals on cable
5.	Prepare Twitch and transformer leads
6	Inspect customers' vaults
7.	Clieck ger enters and port’iHe pumps
8.	Salvage junction box parts - terminals, potheads, transformers, switches and cable eyes
9.	Clean cable tunnels - make repairs to walls, iron work and ladders
10.	bwpeet hunting tagging, fireproofing, foilleaders, hangers, cable racking and duct plugs in cable tunnels and station basements except at Summer Street and Congress Street
11.	Inspect and measure cable pulling ropes
12.	Load the trucks for next day's work
13.	Attend;
(a)	Safety meetings, including resuscitation meeting
(b)	butruetKo sad Job Training sessions
(c)	Training sessiemk for Major Emergency Plan
14.	Repair transformers end switches in shops
15.	Clean truck couipailuicnts
Supplemental Hems of Work for toc)ement Weather Assignments to EmPtavwt of Overhead ml Underground Divisions
The Congwny intends to assign the indoor activities listed above as a first option during inclement weather
The fidlowing items of work are added:
Permit Outages
Customer Arranged Service Outages
Patrols and Inspections
Loading of Poles, Reels and transformers
It is not intended that work will be performed in severe weather conditions or when conditions are detrimental to employee safety. The leadera/splicers will determine the degree of inclemency.
In addition tn the above, the Local agrees to meet with the Congiany to develop pilot programs far implementing additional assignments which can be performed m marginally inclement weather to be added to Appendix A. The first item to be developed wifi be the digging, setting and removing poles.
The following items of work are added in marginally inclement weather
Setting and Removing of Poles
■	When setting pole, it must be protected from all energized conductora (no rubbering in inclemency). The Company will not assign crew with intent it will just open holes.
■	When removing pole, it must be clear of attachments and cut below the secondary siea. (not to be performed as a single bucket function}
Street Lamp Work
• Lamp work will be performed by two^person crew (bead sire limited to 175 watt)
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:

STIPULATION 09
In administering the provisions of Section 8 of the Industrial Accident Disability Benefits Plan lite Medical Director will take into account lite following guide! iner
The decision as to the ability of an individual experiencing a Workn,'s Compensation Injury or Dhten to return to work, end the delineation of writ restrictions, is that of the Corporate Medical Director. Recognizing however, that reaching such inftmned daemons woriirnff* requires additional medical input, it is hereby delineated that the Medical Director, in making e determination, will consider
I.	The results of any exam of the individual undertaken m the Health Services Department
2.	The opinion of the individual’s private physician, particularly where that physician’s specialty is appropriate to the complaint under conridentian.
3.	The opinion of the exatmnmg physician at Liberty Mutual, if applicable.
If there is disagreement, or if the Medical Director wishes additional input, s/he may order an bdependent Medical Examination (IMF) front a qualified appropriate specialist hi order to maintain impartiality, IME’s are generally obtained through one of the companies currently specializing in independent exams (e.g. Medical Evaluation Specialists) and not through a private practitioner. These exams are obtained al the Company’s expense.
If the affected employee disagrees with the decision of the Medical Director, s/he may, at his or her own expense, obtain an IME through a rimileriy appropriate group, the tesult'of which will be considered in making a return to work determination.
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:
I- /(o* XOO?
STIPULATION ffl 0
Statement of Mutual Gaals
We ere committed to ■ course of conduct that strive* to conturually improve the competitive well being of the Company and the eontmuoiu learning, development, and growth of its employees. We ere dedicated to participating in a continuing process that recognizes the need for employee involvement tn adapting to change and helping to revise the processes that will cause change to occur. We agree that the formula for future success is based on ammhatwi mutual respect, open communications, shared success and innovative problem solving which allows the company through competitive excellence to sustain its continued growth. We are committed to streamlining processes that allow us to eliminate wasted effort and to provide a higher quality, more prompt service to our customers. We are committed to a more fully utilized, venatile, and better-trained work force and improved personal performance and job satisfaction through increased job flexibility.
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated.
/-/L- X«7
STIPULATION HI
Subject to the pnnriskas of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date, end without waiving or modifying th* right* of either party contained therein except as specifically provided herein, die Company end Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, during the period fiom tbe date hereof up to and inchiding May 15.2000, agree aa follow*;
Whenever the Company is contracting out mamtctuuKe, repair, or construction wort normally performed by employee* tn the classifications listed co the attached schedule, the Company will make every reasonable effort to fill, on a permanent or temporary basis, vacancies in those listed Haiti famtiom which normally perform foe work being contracted out, to the extent necessary, if any. to raise foe complement to foe correepottding figures on foe attached schedule, for tbe clmificahocs mvolvcd.
Excluded fan foe foregoing are those limited duty cases where employee* do not perform foe work of their job classifications.
For NSTAR	For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
By	By
ATTACHED SCHEDULE TO STIPULATION #11
Employee* on the job temporary or permanent at time of subcontracting
Splicer* Grade A plus Inspector Cable	64
Splicers Grade B	27
Splicers Grade C
Splicer* Helper Grade A	28
(Grandfathered)
Leader-Cable and Conduit plus one Heavy Equipment Operator	32
Cable and Conduit Installer Grade A	49
A combination of Splicers Grade A-B-C and the grandfathered Splicers Helper Grade A will be maintained at a total of 119 employees to fulfill tbe provisions of this stipulation. When the number falls below 119, or when the number of Grade A's falls below 64, the Con^aoy will raise the complement to tbe corresponding figure* by temporarily upgrading Splicers Grade B to Grade A for ihe period of time contractors are doing such work.
For NSTAR By -J ~	For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:
/-/t -3LOfl*7
STIPULATION #12
1.	Upon the temporary assignment of an employee to a position of Supervisor for any reason otar than a substitution for illness, s/he shall at the expiration of one hundred and twenty-five (125) calendar days be made a permanent Supervisor or returned to the bargaining unit
2.	Upon the temporary assignment of an employee to a position of Supervisor to substitute for a Supervisor absent because of illness or accident, s/be tali at the expiration of two hundred and fifty (250) calendar days be made a permanent Supervisor or returned to the bargaining unit The days referred to under paragraphs 1 and 2 ate to be ootnbmed and are not mutually exclusive.
3.	The periods of one hundred and twenty-five (125) days under paragraph I and two hundred fifty (250) days under paragraph 2 are meant to be an accumulative total days beginning January 1,1972. If an employee is temporarily assigned for five (5) days (Monday through Friday) s/he shall be deemed to be so assigned for seven (7) calendar days. If an employee is so assigned for a period of one to four days, s/he shall be deemed to be so assigned for tat number of days only, unless noo-wocicd days intervene. No employee shall be required to accept os retain a temporary assignment to a position of Supervisor.
4.	The above provisions shall be effective as of April 1,1973 as to any employee* temporarily assigned to Supervisory positions hereafter and win be effective as of April 15, 1973 as to any employees presently assigned to Supervisory positions.
5.	A permanent Supervisor can only return to ta bargaining unit in a begmner's job. AH seniority previously accumulated can be utilized far pension cs vacation credit purposes only. Otherwise ta returning Supervisor shall be considered a new ettqtloyee and shall not retain any seniority for any other purpose.
&	An employee accepting a temporary promotion to a position of Supervisor in accordance wift paragraph I willnotaocumulsteseniarity cohw/herpermanentratrng. The employee when returned to his/ta pc^nauent rating will retain tat seniority previously aocumuiatod on ta rating.
7.	The parties agree to discuss modifications to this Stipulation #11 during ta term of this AgreemoiL Any agreed upon modifications must be reduced to writing and will supersede ta above language.
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By

STIPULATION #13
Contractor Addendum
During the course of the 2000 contract negotiations, concerns wen expreMed by the parties on the future use by the Company of outside contractors for construction work under Article XXI1L Both parties agree then is a need to balance the Company’s desire to be efficient, flexible, and customer focused, and the Union's and employees' concern for work security for the continuing success of the business.
Both parties agree to establish a Jomt Committee to determine the most efficient and effective way to utilize employees and contractors to accomplish the Company’s work. The Joint commitlee will consist of the following members;
Company; General Manager of Construction
Human Resources Manager Labor Relations Consultant
Union:	President or Designee
Business Agent or Designee
Secrctary-Treasmr or Designee
Within thirty (30) days of the signing of this contract, the parties agree that foe Jomt Committw wiU meet to formulate foe guidelines regarding construction work and foe use of contractors for this work. Included on the agenda for this committee shall be foe "make ready” construction work, “maintenance -and repair work,” and the use of outside contractors.
The Committee has foe full backing of the Company and the Union and will make every effort to reach agreement on this issue. The parties agree that foe Committee may utilize foe services of a mediator to reach agreement if they deem it helpful.
The company agrees to routinely provide to the Committee, a list of all construction work, an*forpated or scheduled, for the next six (6) months. The Committee will meet on an ongoing basis to review anticipated work and to review the guidelines, as needed.
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:
/-/(>- T-.OO']
stipulation #n
Subject to the provisions of tbe Principe! Agreement between Ihe parties of even date, and without waiving or modifying the rights of either party contained therein, except as specifically provided hcrem, the Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree at follows:
L	A joint Company-Local safety committee shell consul of no more than seven (7) members
appointed by the Company and no more than seven (7) members appointed by the Local.
The propose of the committee will be to promote safe working conditioas and safety awareness on tbe part of both supervisor! and eogdoyees and other related items as either party may request
There shall ha iriMtmpof the Mmmitteg nm » mnnfltly havis The date thall be Selected by the parties. In addition, either party can call an emergency meeting if warranted. A written agenda will be prepared for each meeting. Both parties OBff recoaunend agenda items.
All regular working hours spent in connection with the work of this committee by Union oomnattee meuibeu shall be paid by the Congmiy.
n. Tbe Company shall provide health and safety information to tbe Local that shall include, but not be limited to:
■	One (t) complete set of ill Company Safety Procedures/Policies with updates when issued.
•	Reports of Company studies coneennng health and safety natters such as morbidity (frequency of work related illnesses or usuries for particular groups) and mortality (death rate data for particular groups) when such studies are conducted.
-	Reports ufall formal safety inspections of workplace eaxfittans.
•	Reports of formal Industrial Hygiene Surveys including air qualify testa and sound level surveys.
•	Annua) OSHA byury and Ulnesr Logs.
•	Asbestos Clearance Air Monitoring Result! (upon request by work location).
•	PCS Air Monitoring Results (upon request by work location).
•	PCS Oil Level Results (upon request by work location).
■	PCS Wipe Sampling Results (upon request by work location).
HL When, during tbe come of employment, an employee represented by Local 369 is seriously or fatally injured, the Company will expeditiously notify tbe duly authorised representative of the Local. Upon notification, the Local's authorised representative (as defined below) will participate in tbe Company's investigation of the incident, if any.
Responsibility for the Company notification to the Local rests with die Director Corporate Safety or hja/bcr duly authorized representative.
The Local’s authorized representative is the President of the Local or his/her duly authorized representative, which may be designated at the time of notification from the Company.
Stipulation #14 - Page 2
Compeasatkm of the Local's representative for time spent participating m an investigation will be administered u iolfows:
During the representative's normally scheduled work hours, l/he will be recorded as “Leave Allow, Conference with Management” on the employee's time sheet
Outside of the representative’s normally scheduled hours, s/he will be congiensated at one and one-half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate of pay. AU other premiums such as overtime, travel time, meals, etc. will not apply. Likewise, this time will not be considered for application to the employee's di visional recode of items such as overtime rosters. These hours will not be recorded on the employee's time sheet, but will be reported by memorandum from the Director Corporate Safety and will appear as a pay adjustment in a subsequent paycheck. These hous will be considered in conjunction with all other hours worked for determining the employee's eligibility for rest periods.
A serious injury is defined as requiring in-patient hospitalization of an injured employee. First aid and/or outpatient treated injuries are not included.
For NSTAR By	For LOCAL M9, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
STIPULATION #15
Hie Company will reimburse employees far the fall cost of the following licenses when required by their job:
Mychmette State Driver’s Licenses
a)	The Company will pay no part eftite cost ofa clast 3 license.
b)	The Company will reunburse the current fee for the class 1 or 2 pennit fee.
c)	The Company wiU reimburse the canon fee for the class 1 orZroadtesL
d)	The Company will reimburse the additional cost to change the license, iau 3 to 2,3 to I, and 2 to 1.
e)	Upon renewal, the Company wiU idnibunc for the additional cost of a class 1 or 2 license over the cost of class 3 licenses.
Riser’s Licenses
The Convapy wiU reimburse employees for the fuff cost of a agger's license if required tn the performance of bister job.
HVAC Licenses
The Company will reunbme employees 1 performance of luster job. For NSTAR By Dated:	for the ftd) coftof HVAC License? if required m the For LOCAL 369, UWU A, AFL-CIO By
STIPULATION #17
Joint Disability Committee
The parties have agreed to establish a Joint Disability Committee to develop a mechanum to address plan administration issues and those situations in which disabled employees may be eligible tot long-term disability benefits, but may have limited duty work capocity.
The focus of the Committee shall be to support tight duty or modified work programs, independent evaluation programs, the use of beginners’ ratings (Revised Schedule D) jobs, new jobs, or layoff status as possible accommodations for employee* with permanent or long-term restrictions.
The Ccnumttcc will also engage in claims management intervention and problem solving.
The Committee shall meet monthly to review program initiatives and more often, if necessary, to discuss the situation of a particular employee.
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL M9, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated:

/-/*■ - XOO7
STIPULATION #18
Work in Indcmant Weaflrer for Meter Readers	|
Subject to tbe provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of mo due and without	I
waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained tterein, Meta Readers win be expected to	I
perform meter reading wort regardless of weather conditians. However, super visety personnel are to	’
endeavor to rearrange work assignments to avoid insofar aa practicable unnecessary exposure to severe	I
stormy weather or unusually cold weather. Ten degrees Fahrenheit temperature or lower is to be	j
considered unusually cold weather. Walking meter reading routes win be suspended when (he outside air I temperature is 10 degrees Fahrenheit or below. Riding and Van Routes will continue regardless of the	'
outside air tenperature. The terqxnmire recorded at each service center will be the benchmark, except | for Mass Ave South Routes, which will use the recorded temperature at the Walpole Service Center. If i the Meter Readers have been ordered to work and if, in the opinion of the Steward, they should not have	J
been so ordered, the Steward may immediately appeal to irirficr Supervisor and if necessary to hWhcr Division Head and Department Head. If tbe decision is not satisfactrey to the Steward, the employees shall cootirme to wort, but the Steward may file a grievance under Article XXXII end Arbitration under Article XXXIII and the Business Agent of the Local may proceed with Oris grievance to foe Hunan ReeMnCMOrgsni?«*inn far immediate Ayisinn.
I
For NSTAR	For LOCAL 369, UWUA. AFL-CIO
By	By
STIPULATION 119
Jotat Benefit! Review Couuntttee
During the 2000 contract negotiations, the Creipany end the Union spent considerable time m addressing pension and health care costs. While the parties were able to reach agieeineut on a multi-year agreement, both expressed an interest in ongoing discussions of these issues. Accordingly, agreement was reached on the formulation of a Joint Benefits Review Committee.
The Company and the Union agree that, within sixty (60) days of the execution of the Contract, a Joint Benefits Review Committee will be established and begin discussnos. The Committee shall consist of no more than six (6) members - three (3) horn management and three (3) from the Local. Outside resources may be utilized to enrich the review process.
The purpose of the Committee will be to discuss pension and health care coats and explore alternatives to existing programs. The Committee will meet monthly over an eighteen I18) month period and may make changes to programs by mutual agreement Following this period, the Committee will dissolve unless extended by mutual agreement.
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
For NSTAR By
Dated:

STIPULATION *10
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date and without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained therein, it is agreed that whm an employee having beat given a wort assignment and in tbe th! filling of said work assignment uses tux/ber personal automobile without authorization by the Company, his/her additional productivity resulting from tbe use of said automobile shall not be used to compare with the productivity of another employee performing a similar work assignment without die use of an automobile.
For NSTAR By Dated: /-/(.-X007	For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
,	STIPULATION #21
' Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even dale, and | without waiving or modifying any rights of either party except» specifically provided herein, 1 the Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree to accept all present and future EBI ! validated tesla with recommended cut-off scores.
1
! For NSTAR
i By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
j n«sd; /-/c-A«57
STIPULATION <02
Subject to the provisians of the Principal A^eement between flic partial of even date, and without	J
waiving or modifying any rights of either party except as ipeciflcally provided herein, the Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree that the operation of computer terminal input nd output devices	!
shall be considered tn be contained in all Office-Technical and Professional job specifications and ahall	i
not be subject to negotiations under Article XII, paragraph 2 (b).	I
Fer LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By

GAS
Januaiy 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan. President
Local 369, Utility Worker* Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
ft is agreed that when an employee is given a verbal reprimand, if (he Steward or Che Chief Steward is immediately available at the time in the work location, the Steward or Chief Steward will be given an opportunity io be present at the time the reprimand is given. If the Steward is not present at the lime the reprimand is gives, hefahe shall be notified thereafter.
Very truly yours.
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 1
AXU? On. NSTAR W» w wrenw «*»•*—*-*>«<>«
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Worker* Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree; MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
It is agreed that is cmergencMt declared by the Chief Executive Officer where practicable and tn the sole discretion of the Company, employees win be assigned duties consistent or related to their job specifications.
The statement contained in this letter shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure or Arbitration.
Very truly youra,
Letter No. 2
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
JUSAAfJ <** ns™ wv *<”	gQ YfffC Wirtwwit, MiWWimwu 02090
SAS
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Wontera Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
It is agreed that the Company will notify the Business Agent of ifac Local regarding the use ofcontractors on ordinary maintenance and repair work.
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 3
° tLeCTfHC MS
Ona NSTAR War WwbmdL UnMIM Q2000
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
RE: Use of Telephone in Field
Dear Mr. Sullivan.'
It is agreed that where a telephone is available adjacent to the work location or within a reasonable distance there ftmn of an employee, he/she may, with pomissian of a supervisor, call the Business Agent of the Local on serious grievances provided there is no interference with the work.
It is understood that such telephone calls will be permitted to be made only on serious grievances requiring tbe immediate attention of die Business Agent
Very truly yam,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 4
ELECTH/C GAS
On»NSTA«W»y
VMMod. Mamdiwetb KOK
January 16, 2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Worker* Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 021M
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
It is agreed that subject to the provisions in the Leave of Absence Policy, ths Employee Participation in Community and Civic Service Policy and the NSTAR Code of Conduct, an employee shall be given a leave of absence without pay during the period that coincides with the term that he/she serve* in the public office to which hefche has been elected.
Such an employee will be transferred to the inactive payroll and shall be required to be examined by the Medical Director before returning to work.
Very truly yowa.
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 5
fanismft
*• ELECTRIC
GAS
One NSTAR Wfcy WMwood. MmmOmM 02090
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, Preaidcni
Local 369, Utility Worker* Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Coafirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, splicers win not be required to wipe joints from a bucket track; but may, cm occasion wha necessary, be assigned wc A involving sweating of conductors from a bucket trade with the understanding that the solder pot, if used, will be safely secured outside o£ and not attached to, the bucket track.
Voy truly yours.
David P, Dorfint
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 6
PLBCTft/C GAS
CMMSTARKW
Wwemood. UMMctwtMto 02000
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369. Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay Stale Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
The Company states that in those cases involving transfer or promotion where an employee of one department has been accepted by another department to fill a vacancy for which a regular posting has been made, such employee will be rekseed from hta/her former duties not more than 30 days from such acceptance except in cases where a grievance or arbitration is pending under paragraph 12 of Article XVII or the accepted employee is not actively at work for whatever reason.
The accepted employee must move when released from his/her former duties or forfeit his/her right to the assignment
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 7
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America. AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02194
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confinnins agreement reached during recent contract negoriattons, fire Company will, al the ruquest of the Local, make known to the Local whether or not a job vacancy will be filled.
Vay truly y curt,
Letter No. 8
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
•• etecrstG GAS
On* NSTAR Ww tVMMXid. MNMtfABMN mvo
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
It is agreed that in the interpretation of Article XVH, Section 17, that all taid-off employees wilfa seniority rights shall be given an opportunity to return to work if qualified and able to perform the weak available before any new employees are hired by the Company, and further, that an emergency declared by the Chief Executive Officer or his designated representative as defined in Article VII of the Agreement shall not affect those rights.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 9
9)Nsmn
•* etecTRic GAS
Wotanodl MMMduMtle 020SO
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Woken Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, employees with five (5) years or more of service, required to change classifications due to an occupational iqjury or disease arising out of or in the course of employment, shall retain the rate of pay of the original dasaificatKm, if transferred to a toww rale position. Subsequent raises in pay, or in any other upward pay or adjustments applying to foe former position, shall be granted as though the employee was atm in the original classification. Similarly, all other compensation and related benefits shall be maintained at the same or higher levels.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 10
vR? / V5W? Ono NSTAR Wf
****	gL gcfStC w***00d-	IBOfiO
GAS
lasosTj 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, tbe Company agrees that all verba! reprimands issued prior Io January 1,2005 will be expunged from the employee's record. AU other discipline will be reviewed in Joint Committee.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 11
^iNsmu
•• ELECTRIC GAS
tmvecvivttvt
WNMOd, IhmchiwM DOOM
January 16.2007
Mi. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mi. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, ft is agreed tttat in addition to the notice requirements contained in Article XII 2(b) of the principal agreement, the Company will, to the extent it has the information, provide the Local with the following data:
a)	The nature of the change.
b)	The approximate date on which the Company proposes to effect the change.
c)	The approximate number, type and location of employees likely to be affected by the change.
d)	The effects the change may be expected to have on the employees’ working conditions and terms of employment.
e)	Updated information, if any, on new developments which arise.
The Company will also endeavor to provide as much advance notice as possible of contemplated changes covered by this section beyond the specific notice requirements specified in this section.
Very truly yours,
David?. Doram
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 12
41 ELECTRIC GAS
Ona NSTAR W«y Wtttaood, Mmirhmsm 02090
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement readied during recent contract negotiations, tbe Company will provide an occupational accident death benefit with an insured benefit c-fS 100,000 for an employee who dies as a result of an accident on tbe job. This is in addition to other life insurance benefits provided by the Company.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorani
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 13
•• ELECTRIC GAS
On NSTAR Wty UMhooA >ta*KhuMtb OSOSQ
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan;
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, dependents of employees who die, as the result of an accident oo the job, shall receive hospital, dental and vision care benefits. Coverage for spouse will cease upon remarriage, reaching age 65 or becoming covered under another group plan. Coverage for dependent children wiU cease same as active employee*. Benefits to be paid at 100% by the Company.
Very truly yours.
David F.Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 14
<** OTAR Wly
<> gL eCTRIC W"*"00*1' MnMOuww 02090
GAS
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay Stale Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company will provide up to $48,000 (up to $12,000 per year) for the purpose of an educational assistance plan tor each dependent child of an employee who dies as the result of an accident on the job. This plan will be administered solely by the Company and payment will be made upon submission to it of bills from the college in connection with room and board, fees, registration, tuition and books.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. IS
•• ELECTRIC
GAS
OtHVSWVtm
Wcsbnod. UtSKlMM tBOBG
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary?. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan;
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations regarding Safety Policy #19, ihe Company agrees that said Policy will remain in force and cfibcl unless specifically deleted by both parties.
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 16
*4V jH tcnwc WWwood- “m**"*"®®5
QA8
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: Safety Shoes
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company will pay once annually the full cost of tbe purchase price not to exceed S85 for work shoes and SI 23 for lineworker books for all eligible employees.
Very truly yours.
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 17
SlNSTAR
eiecTRic
BAS
Ona NSTAR My VMtandl MBMdKMU02DD»
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Wcricera Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree; MA 02184
Re: Third Doctor Provision
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, and without waiving or modifying the provisums of Section (9) of the Industrial Accident Disability Benefits Plan, the Company is willing to utilise the cervices of a third doctor as provided in Section 6 of Article XXVHI on a case-by-case bp”*
Very truly yours,
David F. Donat
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 18
WffNSfflm On. MSTAR
GAS
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, Preridmt
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: New Fmnlovce Meeting with Union Reyieseutation
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Con firming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company agrees to allow union representation to meet with new employees for one half (1Z2) hour during their first week of employment
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 19
•• ELECTRIC GAS
Om NSTAR Wty WfltftMDd. Itandurti 02940
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers I hiion of A jnoica, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 021&4
Re: Fitness for Duty Policy
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company agrees that if an employee is required to separate from the Company under this policy, he/she will have the option of resigpation or retirement (if eligible) rather than termination. The Company agrees to pay costs not covered by employee’s insurance on voluntary referrals.
It was further agreed that tbe Company and the Local will confer on issues pertaining to th- use of outside GAO and Value Option.
v.iy uuly yours,
Dav'd F. Doi ant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 20
OAS
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P Sulhvan. President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of Amoka, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: Six f61 Month Work Asaiimments for OT&P Positions
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
It is mutually agreed by and between the parties hereto that travel time premiums in connection with out-of-area work assignments will be paid, or not paid, as follows:
1.	Normally, an employee will be entitled to travel time premiums when assigned to report to work outside his/her permanent work area unless authorized to travel during posted work hours.
2.	Employees may be assigned to any out-of-area assignments without the payment of travel time premiums provided foe assignment is for six (fii) or mov months.
3.	If, at foe time foe out-of-area work assignment is made, management has information font would indicate that foe assignment may be for six (6) months or more, they will so inform the steward; and foe employee will not receive travel time premiums. In tbe event tbe work assignment does not last for six (6) or more months, foe employee will be retroactively adjusted and paid foe applicable travel time premiums.
4.	In no evCTrt will travel time premiums be paid in connection with pemunmt work location changes.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 22
9)NsmH
ELECTRIC GAS
On* NSTAR my WWbMKtf, UMMChuMttl 02090
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
NSTAR Electric & Gas Corporation agrees to provide Local 369 with legal representation for all its members who require this assistance as a result of any act or acts in connection with:
the business of the Company.
Ulis assistance will be provided only when the employee is acting within the scope of his/her authority and meets the above-staled test
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter Na 23
ELECTRIC GAS
On* NSTAR
WMSnood, UMMChu»*» CaOBC
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, President
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFVC1O 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan:
Confirming agreement reached dining recent contract negotiations, whenever temporary clerical help is employed in an area of the Company, the Company will to the extent feasible provide upgradings within the affected progression chart to accomplish the necessary work and utilize the contractor help at the lower IcveL
The actions of the Company .pursuant io this letter, shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 24
ON NSTAR WV <»	WMwood.HtaadMMfe 02060
January 16,2007
Mr. Gary P. Sullivan, Presidetit
Local 369, Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Sullivan;
Tin Company agrees that, in addition to the information to be furnished under Article vm, Paragraph 9 of the Principal Agreement, it will notify the Local when members of the Local are selected by the Company for addition^ tnurring or education. The Company farther agrees Chat whenever possible a thirty (30) day advance notice will be given.
Tbe Company’s actions, pursuant to this letter, dull not be subject to the Grievance Procedure of Arbitration.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director, Employee & Labor Relations
Letter No. 25
NSTAR
EL EC TFUC GAS
Utility Workers Union Of America Local 369, AFL-CIO