H
u[
I \
Cornell University ILR School

BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@comell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/2Z)
Title: NStar Electric & Gas Corp (Production & Maintenance/Office-Technical & Professional Unit) and Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA), AFL-CIO, Local 369 (2000)
K#: 7943
Employer Name: NStar Electric & Gas Corp (Production & Maintenance/Office-
Technical & Professional Unit)
Location: Boston MA
Union: Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA), AFL-CIO
Local: 369
SIC: 4911
Sector: P
NAICS: 221
Number of Workers: 1900
Effective Date: 05/16/00
Expiration Date: 05/15/05
Number of Pages: 171
Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the
Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
^<H3

Agri
between
NStar Electric & Gas Corporation and
Utility Workers Union of America, A JX,-CXO.
£ Local No. 369, U.W.UA, A.F.U-CXa
Production & Maintenance ano Office-Technical & Professional Unit
Outed October 1,2061
y5l^/os
Page '
PART SIX	: BENEFIT PLANS
ARTICLE	XXIV:	Retirement Plan ............................  40
XXV:	Group Insurance............................    40
XXVI:	Hospitalization and Stagical Benefits Kan ...	40
XXVII:	Disability Benefits Han....................... 4)	*
XXVIH:	Medical Examinations......................... 41	i‘
PART SEV	EN: M ISC EL IANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS	\
ARTICLE	XXIX;	Work in Inclement Weather....................  42	'
XXX:	Ctotag and Equipment ......................... 42
FART EIGHT: DISCIPLINE AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
ARTICLE XXXI: Discipline. Suspension, Dischatge or DemMicn ..	43
XXXII:	Grievance Procedure........................... 44	/
XXXIII:	Arbitration ...............................   45
PART NINE: AMENDMENT AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE	XXXIV:	Amendments .................................. 46	.,
XXXV:	Duration of Agreement......................... 47	—
SCHEDULE A (P&M1................................................. 49	_
SCHEDULE A (OT&P)......................-.......................  50
HOURLY PAY (P&M) SCHEDULE C (effective May 16. 2000) ... 52-54 HOURLY PAY (P&M) SCHEDULE C (effective May 16.2001} ... 55-61 HOURLY PAY (PfcM) SCHEDULE C (effective May 16,2002) ... 66-72	“
HOURLY PAY (P&M) SCHEDULEC (effective May 16.2003) ... 78-83	_
HOURLY PAY (P&M) SCHEDULEC (effective May 16.2004) ... 88-93	;
HOURLY PAY (OT&P) SCHEDULEC (effectiveMay 16,2000) .. 52-54	‘
HOURLY PAY (OT&P) SCHEDULEC (effective May 16,2001) ■■ 61-65 HOURLY FAY (OT&P) SCHEDULE C (effective May 16,2002) .. 73-77	" ’
HOURLY PAY (OF&P) SCHEDULE C (effective May 16.2003) .. 84-88 HOURLY PAY (OT&P) SCHEDULEC(effective May 16,2004) .. 95-98
SCHEDULE D: BEGINNERS' RATINGS..................-......-. -	99
SCHEDULE F. WORK IN INCLEMENT WEATHER ......................... 100
APPENDIX: Bhtess and Ncnindustrial Accident and Industrial Accident Disability Benefit Plans ...........................   101
TOPICAL INDEX .. ...........................................105-109
AGREEMENT made and entered into (his 1st day of October, 2001 by and between the NSTAR Electric & Gas Corporation (NSTAR), a Massachusetts corporation hereinafter referred to as the "Company”, and the Utility Workers Union of America, hereinafter referred to as the “Union”, affiliated with the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Local Union No, 369, U.W.U.A., A.F.L.-C.I.O., hereinafter referred to as the “Local”.
WITNESSETH THAT the Company and the Union and the Local agree as follows;
PARTONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I
Recognition and Representation
1.	The Company recognizes the Union and the Local as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, or other conditions of employment of all employees of the Company in the Production & Maintenance and Office-Technical & Professional Unit, established by merger of the following; the former Utility Workers Union of America, A.EL.-C J.O., Local 39(2 (Production, Maintenance and Clerical Employees) certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Cases No. l-RC-3422 on October 3,1951 and No. 1-RC-17675 on August 9,1982; and the former Utility Workers Union of America, AEL-C.1.0., Local 387 (Office-Technical and Professional Employees) established by the merger of the former Professional Unit, certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. l-RM-85 on July 17,1950 and the former Office and Clerical Unit, certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case NO. l-RC-1638 on August 3,1950; and the former Brotherhood of Utility Workers of New England, Inc. Local 333 (New Bedford District) as certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 1-R 1725 on January 3, 1944; and the former Brotherhood of Utility Workers of New England, Inc. Local 338 (Plymouth District) as certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No, 1-R-1717 on January 11,1944; and the former Brotherhood ctf Utility Workers of New England, Inc. Local 339 (Cape & Vineyard District) as certified by the National Labor Relations Board; and the former Production and Maintenance Unit as certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. l-RC-1368 on June 29, 1950, as amended by direction of said Board on April 20,1955. Persons employed by the Company
I
who it isagreed are. represented by the Union under the foregoing certifications are those now or hereafter holding the job titles listed in either Schedule A-P&M or Schedule A-OT&P annexed. If, when new job titles are created or the duties of the incumbents of present job titles are changed, there shall be a disagreement whether an incumbent is or is not eligible for representation by the Union under any of the foregoing job titles, the question shall be decided under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and the provisions for Artri-tiation under Article XXXIII. The term “employee” or “employees” as used in this Agreement means a person or persons employed by the Company in Med Production & Maintenance and Office-Itehrucal & Professional Unit.
2.	For putposes of this Agreement, NSTAR shall have five (5) Districts: two (2) Northern and three (3) Southern. The two (2) Northern Districts (namely P&M and OT&P), and the three (3) Southern districts (namely New Bedford, Plymouth, and Cape & Vineyard), shall consist of lire Work Areas and Work Centers outlined in Article XHI, para, 10,
3.	The term "‘probationary employee” as used in this Agreement means a newly-hired employee during the first six (6) months of continuous employment by the Company, during which period the Company will determine the suitability of such ne w employee for acceptance as a regular employee. If such employee is released by the Company for any reason during such period, such actions will not be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXIII. Otherwise, the probationary employee will be covered by this agreement and will have the ftill benefit of the Grievance Procedure and the Provisions for Arbitration. Upon becoming a regular employee, s/he will be placed on the appropriate roster and his/her seniority determined in accordance with Article XVH.
4.	The Company (meaning for the purposes of this agreement, NSTAR and all subsidiaries) agrees that the Company will remain entirely neutral with regard to any future UWUA organizing efforts, neither opposing, expressing an opinion nor aiding the Union in its ongoing efforts.
In addition, with prior consultation with the Director of Labor Relations, the Union .shall have reasonable access for communications to employees in a manner which does not disrupt operations.
Prior to requesting recognition, the Union will present signed authorization cards from sixty five percent (65%) of the employees to an arbitrator mutually selected by the parties through the American Arbitration Association. If there is a disagreement between the parties as to the appropriateness of the group seeking recognition, the arbitrator shall have the authority to determine
2
whether the group is appropriate for recognition. If so, the arbitrator will be provided signature samples from the Company records to verify the authenticity of the cards presented by (he Union.
Upon the Arbitrator’s written award finding that the cards presented, in feet, constitute sixty five percent (65%) of the appropriate group seeking recognition, NSTAR shall extend recognition to the Local.
ARTICLE H
Union Membership
The Company agrees that it will requite as a condition of employment that all probationary and regular employees now employed or hereafter employed under job titles subject to this Agreement or hereafter transferred to such job titles shall become members of the Union and shall continue as members thereafter so long as this Agreement is in effect, except as follows:
a.	Employees who, because of entering into the military service of the United States prior to the date hereof, have left the employ of the Company and have been or shall be re-employed in accordance with the provisions of law to the extent that this exception is required by law;
b.	Present employees during the period of one (1) month after the date of this Agreement;
c.	Probationary employees employed hereafter, during the first month or (30) days of their employment as such, whichever shall be longer;
d.	Employees regularly employed on a part-time basis, paid by the hour and working not more than twenty (20) hours a week;
e.	If a steam plant or electric plant or other business is hereafter acquired by the Company, employees of the former owner to the extent that the Company may, in order to effect such acquisition, be obligated to assume any legal obligations as to such employees inconsistent with these Union membership requirements;
f.	Employees with respect to whom the Company has reasonable grounds for believing (1) that membership in the Union was not available to the employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable toother members, or (2) that membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than the failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and the initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
2.	If an employee shall become subject to discharge by the Company because of the foregoing provisions as to membership in the Union, the questions
3
whether such discharge is justifiable or required under all the circumstance and is lawful shall be decided (if the Company or the Union requests, but with out prejudice to such other rights as the employee may have) in accortianc with the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and the provisions for Arb nation in Article XXXIII,
3.	Any employee subject to the foregoing requirements as to Union membershi who is transferred or promoted to a job title which is not subject to thost requirements shall have the privilege of withdrawing from the Union mem bership; and the Union and the Local agree that such withdrawal shall not pre vent any such employee from retaining employment in the event that Ihereafte the employee is transferred back to his/her former rating. The seniority statu of such an employee transferred back shall be determined by mutual agree ment between the parties hereto.
ARTICLE HI Pay Roll Deductions
I.	The Company will recognize assignments to the Local of wages of employees for payment of their membership dues each week and for payment of initiation fees when made in accordance with the provisions of Section 302(cX4) of the Labor Management Relations Act of June 23, 1947 (Public Law 101, 80th Congress) and of Section 8 of Chapter 154 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.) of Massachusetts, and the Company will remit such membership dues to the Union or Local as directed by the Union.
2.	The Company agrees to deduct such dues and initiation fees each week for each employee to whom any earned wages are due, unless his/her assignment of wages provides that such deductions be made at some other time. When wages for that week are payable in advance for vacation purposes, the deduction will be made from the advanced wages for that week.
ARTICLE IV
Mutual Obligations
The Company recognizes art obligation to promote good employee relations by maintaining rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment that are equitable, reasonable, and fair, and the Union and (he Local recognize the obligation of the Company to furnish adequate unintenvpted service to the public and to maintain such earnings as will enable the Company adequately to perform its duties. The Company will not discriminate against an employee because of his/her membership in or his/her lawful acti vity on behalf of the Union.
4
Neither the Company nor the Local will unlawfully discriminate against an employee because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or handicap.
ARTICLE V
Management Rights
1,	The Union and the Local recognize the right and power of the Company to select and hire all employees; to promote employees; to determine the necessity for filling a vacancy; to transfer employees from one position to another; to suspend, discipline, demote, or discharge employees; to assign, supervise, or direct all working forces and to maintain discipline and efficiency among them; to lay off employees and to stagger employment when required because of lack of work or curtailment of work; and generally to control and supervise the Company’s operations and to exercise the other customary functions of Management in carrying on its business without hindrance of interference by the Union, the Local, or by employees. If the Local claims that the Company has exercised the right to suspend, discipline, demote, or discharge employees in an unjust or unreasonable manner, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXID. If the Local claims that the Company has exercised any of the other foregoing rights in a capricious or arbitrary manner, such claims shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXHL
2,	The Company, the Union, and the Local recognize the responsibility of the employees to comply with reasonable rules, regulations, and practices prescribed by the Company.
ARTICLE VI
No Strikes or Lockouts
1.	Recognizing that the Company as a public utility is under a paramount duty of providing continuous service in the interest of health, safety, and convenience of the community it serves, the Company, the Union, and the Local agree that the strikes and lockouts are undesirable means of settling disputes between them. The Company agrees that there will be no lockout of the employees during the terms of this Agreement or during any period of time while negotiations are in progress between the parties for a continuance or renewal of it. The Union and the Local agree that, during said term and any such period of negotiation, neither the Union, nor the Local, nor the employees will cause or participate, directly or indirecdy, in any strike or in any retarding or stopping of work or picketing for any cause whatsoever.
5
2.	The Union and the Local agree that, in the event of any unauthorized strike or retarding or stopping of work or picketing, it will cooperate with the Company in getting the employees to return to, and remain at, work and in securing a termination of any unauthorized strike or retarding or stopping of work or picketing in violation of the provisions of this Article. The Union and the Local recognize the right of the Company to take disciplinary action, including discharge, against any employees who engage in any strike, intentional retarding or stopping of work or picketing in violation of the provisions of this Article
3.	The Company agrees that, in the event of an unauthorized strike, retarding or stopping of work or picketing on the part of any of the employees during the life of this Agreement or during any period of time while negotiations are in progress between the parties for a continuance or renewal of it, there shall be no liability on the part of the Union or the Local or on the part of any of their officers, agents, or members who do w! participate therein provided that the Union or die Local or their officers, agents. and members take the action specified in the foregoing paragraph.
4.	The Company agrees that it shall not compel employees covered by this Agreement to cross any picket line that may be established on or around customers’ premises as a result of a labor dispute. However, the Union and the Local, realizing the Company’s obligation to maintain uninterrupted service, will attempt to obtain permission from the striking Union for safe passage through such picket line whenever necessary.
ARTICLE VII
Emergencies Declared by Chief Executive Officer
In cases of emergency, the existence of which is declared by the Chief Executive Officer or in his/her absence by a designated alternate, the Company will notify an officer of the Local immediately. During the period of such emergency, the Company may suspend any or all of the Job Specifications, and employees may be assigned to serve the best interest of the Company. Any question regarding the proper pay of an employee while performing, during such an emergency, duties not consistent with his/her regular Job Specification shall be submitted in writing to the Company no later than thirty (30) days after the Company notifies an officer of the Local of the termination of such emergency. Such question shall be reviewed by a committee consisting of two (2) members designated by the Local and two (2) members designated by the Company; and if they are unable to agree, the question, provided it was so submitted but not otherwise, shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXHI.
6
ARTICLE VIII Union Activities
Employees shall not engage in Union activities during working hours or on Company property except with the consent of the Vice President-Human Resources or his designated representative, upon request of the President, Vice President or Secretary-Treasurer of the Local or any other member of the Local duly authorized by its President.
The Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative shall give such consent, including permission for accredited representatives of the Local, to visit work locations during working hours in connection with matters arising out of this Agreement when such consent may, in the judgment of the Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative, be given without serious interference with the work. The person in charge of the work location will furnish, if required, a guide for reasons of personal safety. The fulltime representatives, acting as Business Agent, Secretary-Treasurer and President of the Local, or a designated alternate will, upon proper identification, have the right to visit any specified work location where members of the Local are at work after securing permission from the Vice PresidentHuman Resources or his/her designated alternate. The person in charge of the work location will furnish, if required, a guide lor reasons of personal safety. The Union Steward at the work location, after arranging with his/her Supervisor, may confer at reasonable times and for reasonable periods with employees or with his/her Supervisor concerning grievances, provided there is no serious interference with the work.
Upon request of the President or Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Vice President-Human Resources, the Company will, on reasonable notice, and so far as the exigencies of its business permit, allow up to forty (40) employees (but at any one time not more than three (3) employees from any one division of the Company) time off, without loss of seniority but without pay, to attend business or committee meetings or conventions of the Union or affiliate.
Upon written request of the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Vice President-Human Resources, the Company shall grant a leave of absence for a period of three (3) years to the full-time representatives acting as Business Agent. Secretary-Treasurer, and President of the Local. Upon reinstatement they will retain the same Company and Department seniority and seniority on the ratings that they would have had if they had not been on leave of absence. Upon their permanent promotion to the next higher Taring on the job progres
7
sion chart showing the ratings held by them at the time of their leave of absenct they shall advance on said next higher rating to the roster position they wool have had:
a.	if they would have been promoted to said next higher rating during th period of their leave of absence had they not taken such leave; and
b.	if they are found qualified by fitness and ability and are promoted at th time when the first vacancy occurs after their return fan leave o absence.
7. Upon the request of the President of the National Union or his/her designate! alternate to the Vice President-Human Resources, the Company shall grant leave of absence for a period not to exceed one (1) year to not more than te (10) employees (but at any one time not more than two (2) from any one div sion of the Company) for Local or National Union activity.
K in case of any leave of absence authorized by the Vice Hresidenr-Humai Resources or his/her designated representative extending over a period of fou (4) consecutive weeks, participation in the Company's group insurance, retire ment, and hospitalization and surgical benefit plans shall be a subject of specia arrangement with the Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designate! representative. The Company will not pay any part of the cost of such partita pation.
9.	Any employee granted a leave of absence under this Article shall, at th expiration of his/her leave of absence, be required to submit to a physica examination by the Company's Medical Director; but, irrespective of ths result of such examination, s/he will be reinstated in accordance with his, her seniority.
10.	The Company shall upon request of the Local furnish to the individual des ignated to the Company by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local informatior with respect to the rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other con ditions of employment of any employee,
11.	The Company agrees to permit the Local to use designated Company bulletir boards for pasting notices dealing with official union business provided that in the opinion. of the Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative such notices are noncontroversial in nature and do not adversely affect the best interests of the Company.
8
ARTICLE IX
Conformation to Laws, Regulations, and Orders
1. It is understood and agreed that all agreements herein are subject to all applicable laws now or hereafter in effect and to the lawful regulations, rulings, and orders of regulatory commissions having jurisdiction. If any of said laws, regulations, rulings, or orders shall conflict with any provisions of this Agreement, the parties, shall confer in an effort to negotiate a lawful substitution or modification; but, if as a result of such conference no substitution or modification is agreed upon, the disagreement shall not affect the remaining provisions of this Agreement and shall not constitute a question subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII or Arbitration under Article XXXm.
1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to require the Company, the Union, or the Local to commit an unfair labor practice or other act that is forbidden by, or is an offense under, existing or future laws affecting the relations of the Company with its employees.
PART TWO
WORK DAY, WORK WEEK AND WORK SCHEDULES
ARTICLE X
Work Day and Work Week
1.	The workday shall consist of eight (8) hours and the workweek shall consist of five (5) days of eight hours each.
2.	For non-shift employees the working bouts will be included between approximately 7:00 AJd. and fiflO RM. and normally the five (5) regular workdays will be Monday through Friday. For the purpose of this Agreement "non-shift employees’’ are defined as those whose posted schedules specify work on any five days of the calendar week between the hours stated in the preceding sentence, and all other employees are defined as “shift employees.”
3.	The present established practice in applying Section 2 with respect to scheduling employees as shown on Stipulation #4 shall not be changed unless such changes are mutually agreed to,
4.	The Union and the Local agree that the limitations on scheduling contained in this Article shall not apply to employees assigned to ordinary maintenance and repair work formerly performed by contractors outside the hours specified for non-shift employees as defined in paragraph 2 of this Article.
5.	It is understood and agreed that, if present operating conditions change or if technological improvements change existing equipment or introduce new
9
equipment to such an extent as to justify the Company changing the present Monday through Friday schedules, the Company shall submit the changes to the Local for approval. If the proposed changes do not meet with the Local’s approval, the issue shall be settled in the Grievance Procedurein Article XXXJJ and by Arbitration under Article XXXDI,
ARTICLE XI
Work Schedules
Work schedules shall be posted by departments for all employees in accordance with the following rules;
I.	Department wotk schedules for employees shall be posted for each four (4) week period in final form as described below They shall specify the times at which the scheduled employees begin and end each work day and shall specify the normal work days (in forty (46) hour weeks), and the normal days off for the period,
2.	The hours of a work day, as posted, shall be consecutive, except for time out for meals; but in positions where the nature of the work requires continuous operation, eight (8) consecutive hours may be worked, during which lunch may be eaten without interruption to service or deduction in pay. Such time out for meals, in those operations where time is usually taken out for meals, shall commence not less titan four (4) nor more than five (5) hours after the scheduled starting time.
3.	The Company workweek shall be the calendar week commencing on Sunday at 12:00 AM. and two (2) of an employee’s normal days off shall be consecutive for at least three (3) times in every twenty-eight (28) days. •
4.	Schedules for the employees concerned shall be posted in final form not later than 3.00EM. on the Wednesday before the period starts and shall be submitted to the Local’s interested steward or stewards not later than 3:00 PM. on the preceding Wednesday,
5.	In the event of a disagreement between the steward or stewards and the department head regarding any feature of a final schedule not settled under the provisions of Article X, such schedule shall become effective when posted, but thereafter, the disagreement may be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXHI.
6.	The following shall not constitute a change in the final posted schedule:
a.	A change of forty-five (45) minutes or less of the time for starting and ending one cr more work days from the times posted in the applicable work schedule.
10
b.	Hours woriced in lieu of posted hours at the request of or to suit the convenience of the employees.
c.	A change in hours of work incident to a permanent promotion of the employee.
7.	Departures from the regular daily assignments may be made for the convenience of an employee with the consent of the Company subject to the provisions of paragraph 6(b) of this Article.
8.	The Company will endeavor to distribute Saturday and Sunday work equitably among the employees at a given work location engaged in the grade of work for which Saturday and Sunday scheduled work assignments are required.
PART THREE
COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE XII Wages
1.	Except as provided in this Article, and in Article XXXV of this Agreement, the classifications and rates of pay contained in the Hourly Pay Schedule (Schedule C) annexed hereto, effective May 16, 2000, shall not be changed or amended during the life of this Agreement unless by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.
2.	a. It is agreed that the Job Specifications (Schedule B) dated April 3,1955, as amended, are incorporated into this Agreement and shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement, except as they may be changed in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (b).
b. The Company, the Union, and the Local will continue to cooperate when the introduction of any new machinery, equipment, systems, operations, or procedures occurs which calls for changes in present Job Specifications or new Job Specifications.
The Company will give the Local 90 days’ advance notice of such contemplated introduction of any new machinery, equipment, systems, operations, or procedures and during the 90-day period the Company will negotiate with the Local what changes in present Job Specifications or new Job Specifications are appropriate, the rates of pay for the same, and the treatment of employees directly or indirectly affected by such changes. During such negotiations the parties will give due consideration to training programs for employees so affected, to their promotional opportunities and seniority rights. The Company agrees that no
JI
present employee will be laid off or reduced in pay as a result of suet changed or new Job Specifications. Reasonable training will be giver to the affected employee or employees where necessary to assist their to qualify for the job or jobs to which they have been assigned.
If no agreement is reached at the end of the 90-day period, the Company may establish and put into effect such changed or new Job Specification no sooner than twenty (20) days thereafter. However, the Company may install and operate such new machinery or equipment and institute changed or new Job Specifications as a result thereof after negotiator with the Local irrespective of the time limits above and whether or no agreement is reached. Any dispute arising between the parties concern ing the true interpretation or application of this subparagraph (b) shal be subject to arbitration under Article XXXIff of the Agreement, excep lilial Ilie Board of Aibitiaiiori or Arbitrator selected by the operation o this Article XU, 2 (b) shall not have the right or power to preclude ot delay the installation or operation of the new machinery or equipmen selected by the Company, provided that the foregoing shall not be deemed to affect the rights and powers of arbitrators in respect of any grievances arising under other provisions of this Agreement.
3,	The Company agrees that, if employees are required to work outside of the territory served directly by the Company in older to render assistance to other companies, said employees shall be paid the contractors’ rates in the area where the work is performed or the rates of said other company or their regular rates whichever is the greater, plus reimbursement for necessary subsistence and traveling expenses not otherwise furnished. This section shall not apply to work performed on the properties, lines, or equipment, wherever located, which belongs to the Company,
4.	The following rules wilt govern the compensation of employees who are required to perform work for the Company outside of territory served directly by the Company and outside of cities and towns whose requirements are supplied by it either in whole or in part, hereinafter called “NSTAR territory":
a.	Such work by an employee for a normal workday shall be paid for al the employee’s regular hourly rate and overtime work shall be paid for at his/her overtime rate. Hours so worked shall be reported in the usual manner on time sheets,
b.	For any scheduled day on which an employee is required to be outside NSTAR territory and does not work eight (8) hours, s/he shall be paid for any hours worked in accordance with paragraph (a) above and for
12
the difference between eight (8) hours and the hours worked at his/her tegular hourly rate.
c.	Far the purpose of these rules, hours spent in authorized travel and not otherwise compensated for will be reported as such and shall be paid for at his/her regular hourly rate.
d.	Expense money for transportation, meals, and lodgings when required will be advanced to the employee prior to his/her departure for any work assignment outside NSTAR territoty and will be accounted for by the employee, with appropriate supporting vouchers, upon his/her return.
e.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c), and (d) above, this paragraph 4 shall not apply to work performed on the properties, lines or equipment, wherever located, which belong to the Company. Payday shall normally be on Thursday of each week. Empiloyees whose day off is Thursday or who work on other than the day shift on Thursday may obtain their checks from the Paymaster at the Summit Building, One NSTAR Way, Westwood, Wednesday RM. When a holiday falls on a Wednesday, the Company will pay at least earned base pay on Thursday.
ARTICLE Xin
Overtime and Premium Pay
Overtime compensation and premium rates shall be paid employees subject to this Agreement in accordance with the following rules:
a.	Eachetnployee’sovertimerateshallbeoneandone-halffl'Altimesliis/ her regular hourly rate.
b.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee shall be paid a premium rate which shall be his/her overtime rate for all hours worked outside the hours established by schedules posted in accordance with the provisions of Article XI of this Agreement as his/her basic, normal or regular work day and work week, and no other extra compensation shall be paid for hours so waked. An employee shall not be paid the premium rate for more than forty (40) hours in any pasted period when the work outside his/her posted schedule was due to a change in his/her schedule or shift or days of relief after the schedule was posted. The preceding sentence shall not apply to A.C. Reserve Operators for whom premiums are provided in paragraph 2 of this Article XHL The following shall not constitute work outside an employee’s basic, normal, or regular workday or workweek.
13
r
i.	A change of forty-five (45) minutes or less of the time for startirt and ending one or more work days from the times posted in th applicable work schedule.
li.	Hours worked in lieu of posted hours al the request of or to su the convenience of the employee.
iii.	A change in hours of work incident to a permanent promotion r the employee.
c.	When an employee is called in to work overtime which is not continuou with other hours worked, hi s/her compensation for the overtime, includ ing any pay for travel time, shall not be less than his/her overtime rat for four (4) hours.
d.	So fur as practicable, overtime work shall be distributed equitably amonr those employees engaged in the grade of work for which overtim assignments aic icquitcd. A record of the overtime worked within adivi sion by employees represented by the Union tn accordance with th/ Agreement will be made available to the steward or stewards represent ing employees in that division and will be posted at least once even month. Any demonstrated inequity in the distribution of over-time shal be corrected by the Company by future assignments of overtime work Should the Company fail to make such a correction satisfactory to the laical, the question shal) be settled under the Grievance Procedure ir Article XXXII and by Arbitration under Article XXXTII.
e.	Employees required to work overtime shall not be required to take time off to compensate for overtime worked or to be worked.
2.	A.C. Substation Operators in the Electric and System Operations Departmen not scheduled for regular shift rotation shall be posted as “Reserve Operators? If a Reserve Operator is assigned to a shift other than that on which s/he is shown on the posted schedule s/he shall receive a premium, which shall be his, her overtime rate, for the first eight (8) hours worked on the first day of such change, but not when s/he returns to his/her posted schedule. If a Reserve Operator is assigned to a shift other than his/her posted schedule long enough to take the days off pasted therefore, s/he shal! be paid apremium rate, which shall be his/her overtime rate, the first time s/he is required to work on the days off established on his/her posted schedule and s/he shall be deemed to have established new days off. Subsequent changes from this new shift to any shift, other than his/her pasted schedule, during the same-posted period shall be handled similarly. A Reserve Operator returning to his/her posted schedule shall be paid a premium rate, which shall be his/her overtime rate, the first time
14
s/he is required to work on the days off established on the shift from which s/he is returned.
3.	a. An employee required to work two ( 2) hours overtime continuous with the expiration of his/her regularly scheduled work day shall be furnished with a meal or a meal allowance not to exceed seven dollars and fifty cents ($750) per meal and an additional meal or meal allowance for each additional five (5) hours of continuous overtime work; provided that, from and after May 16, 2001, the seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) shall be increased to seven dollars and seventy five cents ($7.75); and provided that from and after May 16, 2002, the seven dollars and seventy five cents ($7.75) shall be increased to eight dollars ($8.00).
b.	An employee required to work two hours or more overtime immediately preceding hisA*tr regularly scheduled work hours shall be furnished with a meal or a meal allowance not to exceed seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per meal two hours after such overtime starts and an additional meal or meal allowance for each additional five (5) hours of continuous overtime work; provided that, from and after May 16, 2001, the seven dollars and fifty cents ($750) shall be increased to seven dollars and seventy five cents ($7.75); and provided that from and after May 16,2002, the seven dollars and seventy five cents ($7.75) shall be increased to eight dollars ($8.00).
c.	Employees who are entitled to the premium for work in excess of sixteen (16) hours provided in Article XHI, paragraph 4, shall receive a meal or meal allowance every fifth hour of work, to be computed from the time of the next preceding meal or meal allowance without regard to whether such work is of continuous duration, until released from work for ait least an eight (8) hour rest period.
d.	Employees required to work overtime who continue into tbeir regularly scheduled hours outdoors, but normally would not have been required to work outdoors due to weather conditions, shall continue to receive a meal or meal allowance every five (5) hours until released from such outdoor work.
e.	Employees called in for overtime work which does not immediately precede or follow regular scheduled hours shall receive a meal or meal allowance not to exceed seven dollars and fifty cents ($750) after each five (5) hours of such overtime work; provided that from and after May 16,2001, the seven dollars and fifty cents ($750) shall be increased to seven dollars and seventy five cents ($7.75); and provided that from and after May 16,2002, the seven dollars and seventy five cents ($7.75) shall be increased to eight dollars ($8.00).
15
f,	Employees entitled to a mcalornieal allowance under this paragraph 3 who— are allowed time off to eat such meal shall be paid for only one-half (1/2) houi-of such time off, AU employees so entitled wiU be given time off to eat such meal except:
(1)	In cases where conditions exist which are hazardous to the general public, customer, and Company equipment; and
(2)	In cases involving employees such as station operating personnel who normally eat their meals on the job and for whom there is no relief available. However, when relief is available for such station operating personnel, these employees shall be allowed time off for meals but such time off shall be limited to one such period between the overtime work and their regular scheduled tour of duty.
g.	(1) When an employee is notified prior to theconclusionofhis/hersched-uled workday and s/he is required to start woikal his/her ‘"scheduled starting time’’ on hvsftwt scheduled day off and to work all or any pan of his/her “scheduled hours," s/he shall not receive any meal or meal allowance during said “scheduled hours,’’
(2)	When an employee, having received the notice mentioned above, is required to start work at his/her “scheduled starting time" on his/her scheduled day off, works his/her full span of "scheduled hours” and then continues to work hours thereafter, s/he shall receive meals or meal allowances in accordance with paragraph 3(a).
(3)	When an employee, without the notice mentioned above, is required to work any hours on his/her scheduled day off, s/he shall receive meals or meal allowances in accordance with paragraph 3(e),
(4)	When an employee, regardless of notice, is required to start work on his/ her scheduled day off at a time other than his/her “scheduled starting dme." s/he shall receive meals or a meal allowance in accord with paragraph 3(e), (5) Hie terms “scheduled hours” and "scheduled starting time” as used in paragraph (g) shall be construed to mean the same hours and starting time for which the employee is scheduled on a regular scheduled workday. When an employee is scheduled on "Relief,” the term “regularly scheduled work day" as used in this subparagraph shall be consented to mean the hours scheduled on the day shift.
4.	a. In a twenty-four (24) hour period in which there has been no rest period of at least eight (S) continuous hours, an employee who has worked sixteen (16) hours or more shall receive, in addition to his/her regular rate, an overtime premium equal to his/her regular hourly rate for such hours worked in excess
16
of sixteen (16) hours, and s/he shall continue to receive said premium until his/ her release from such work for ar least an eight (8) hour nest period. S/he shall be entitled, when released from such work, to a rest period of eight (8) hows without pay before returning to work; provided, however, that if the rest period extends into his/her next regular scheduled hours for six (6) or more hours, s/he shall be excused from duty for that regularly scheduled period without loss of pay, and provided further that, if the rest period extends into hisdter next regular scheduled hours for less than six (6) hours, s/he shall be excused from duty for that portion of his/her scheduled houts which is covered by the rest period without loss of pay. The provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply to an employee who is scheduled to work sixteen (16) hours in the twenty-four (24) hour period.
b. In the case of an employee who has worked eighteen (18) hours or more in any twenty-four (24) hour period, s/he shall be entitled, when released from such work, to a rest period of ten (10) continuous hours without pay before reluming to wonk; provided, however, that if the rest period extends into his/her next regular scheduled hours for six (6) or more hours, s/he shall be excused from duty for the regularly scheduled period without loss of pay, and provided further that, if the rest period extends into higher next tegular scheduled hours for less than six (6) hours, s/he shall be excused from duty for that portion of his/her scheduled hours which is covered by the rest period without loss of pay. This paragraph shall not be applied in a manner to defeat the intent for which the Article was written.
5.	Any employee who, in any seven (7) day period, works his/her second scheduled day off, having worked at least six (6) hours or having been called in to work any hours on his/her first day off and all of his/her scheduled hours in said period, shall receive a premium (which includes his/her overtime pay) equal to his/her regular hourly rate for any hours worked on his/her second day off. If, during such scheduled hours of work, such employee is entitled to a paid rest period, or is not required to work on a scheduled holiday, these rest period and holiday hours are to be considered as worked for the purpose of this paragraph An employee who has earned a premium in accordance with this paragraph will not be entitled to another premium until s/he has again qualified for it on the basis of work performed after the period for which the premium was earned.
6.	An employee scheduled to work on a Sunday shall be paid, in addition to his/ her tegular hourly rale, a premium of thirty five per cent (35%) of his/her regular hourly rate for each scheduled iiour worked on a Sunday.
17
7.	The following provisions shall govern travel associated with overtime:
a.	An employee required to work overtime shall be allowed and conipen sated for forty (40) minutes overtime al the overtime rate specified ir-paragraph 1 of this Article, hereinafter called “travel time,” except as pro vided in paragraph 9 of this Article, when obliged to travel to or lion work, subject to the provisions in subdivisions (b), (c), and (d) of thi^-paragraph.	-
b.	When called to work overtime that does not immediately precede ot followposted work hours, an employee shall be entitled to travel tiirx-both ways.
c.	Whenever overtime work immediately precedes posted work hours and begins between the hours of 11:30 PM and 6:30 A.M. or whenever overtime work immediately follows posted work hours and ends between the hours of IL30 RM. and 6:30 A.M., an employee shall be entitled to travel titre one way.
d.	(1) When an employee, having received not less than forty (40) hours’ prior notice, is required to start work at his/her “scheduled starting time” on his/her scheduled day off and to work aD or part of his/her “scheduled hours,” s/he shall not receive any travel time under paragraph 7.
(2)	When an employee, having received the notice mentioned above, is required to start work at his/her “scheduled starting time” on his/her scheduled day off, works his/her full span of “scheduled hours” and then continues to work hours thereafter, s/he shall receive travel time in accord with subparagraph (c) of this paragraph.
(3)	When an employee, without the notice mentioned above, is required to work any hours on his/her scheduled day off, s/he shall receive travel time in accordance with subparagraph (b) of this paragraph
(4)	When an employee, regardless of notice, is required to start work on his/her scheduled day off at a time other than his/her “scheduled starting time,” s/he shall receive travel time in accord with subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.
(5)	The terms “scheduled starting time” and “scheduled hours" as used in subparagraph (d) of this paragraph shall be construed to mean the same hours and starting time for which the employee is scheduled on a regularly scheduled workday. When an employee is scheduled on “Relief,” the term “regularly scheduled work day” as used in this subparagraph shall be construed to mean the hours scheduled on the day shift.
18
If an overtime assignment is cancelled by Jess than twelve (12) hours’ notice to the employee prior to the start of the overtime work, s/he shall receive two (2) hours pay at his/her regular straight-rune hourly rate.
), The following provisions shall govern travel associated with change in work area:
a.	When an employee is assigned to work outside his/her posted work area, one (I) hour each way al his/her straight-time rate shall be included in calculating his/her time.
b.	An employee shall not be entitled to travel time provided in die preceding paragraph if, at the option of theComparty, s/he is authorized travel during his/her posted working hours.
c.	An employee working overtime outside Jiis/ber posted work area shall be allowed and compensated for the travel time as provided in paragraph 7(a) or for travel provided in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, but not both.
d.	Posted “Work Areas” and posted “Work Centers,” as referred to in this paragraph shah be in accordance with paragraph 10 of this Article
10. The Company’s Work Areas and Work Centers are the following:
Northern Districts
All Departments
Boston Area
Comprising all of Boston within the area bounded by a line fan Neponset Bridge via Neponset Circle, Galitvan Boulevard, Morton Street, Ariwrway, Jamaica way and Riverway to Fenway; thence via Brookline Avenue, Park Drive, Medfield Street, St. Mary’s Street and Granby Street to the Charles River Dam to Charlestown Avenue to Somerville-Boston line and via the Mystic River shoreline to Neponset Bridge,
Electric Operations (Operations West and Central) and Asset Management
Work Areas	Work Centers
1. Boston: Comprising that part of the Boston Area under “All Departments” including Dedham, Dorchester. Hyde Park, Milton, Roslin date, Roxbury and West Roxbury.	Posted reporting points in the area.
19
Work Areas	Wort Centers	
2. Framingham: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Cochituate, Framingham, Holliston, Hopkinton. Maynard, Natick, Sherbont and Sudbury.	Framingham Service Center	
3, Northeast: Comprising Arlington, Burlington, Cambridge, Chelsea, East Boston, Somerville, Stoneham, Winchester and Woburn for Overhead Section; and in addition, Acton, Bedford, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Maynard, Waltham, and Watertown for Underground Section,	Somerville Service Center	■
4. Walpole: Comprising Bellingham, Canton, Dover, Medfield. Medway, Millis, Norfolk, Sharon, Walpole and Westwood.	Walpole Service Center	
5, Waltham: Comprising Bedford, Brighton, Brookline, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Newton, Waltham, WaMr»0W!.k Way-Jand, ano Weston.	Waltham Service Center	
Electric Operations (Station Operations and Support)
Work Areas	Wort Centers
1. Boston; Comprising that part of the Boston Area under "Ail Departments" including Cambridge, Allston, Dorchester, Roxbury, Brighton and Brookline,	Posted reporting points in area including Mass Ave, Stations 36 and 329.-
2. South Comprising Ashland, Cochituate, Framingham, Hollisttm, Hopkinton, Natick, Shetborn, Dedhatn, Roslindale, Hyde Park. Milton, Needham, West Roxbury, Sudbury Bellingham, Canton, Dover, Medfield, Medway, Millis, Norfolk, Sharon, Walpole, Westwood, Blackstone, Quincy. Weymouth, Holbrook and Milford.	Pasted reporting points in area including Framingham Service Center, Walpole Service Center, Stations 13, 20, 24, 65, 146, and 446.
3. North Comprising Arlington, Charlestown, Chelsea, East Boston, Deer Island, Somerville, Cambridge (Station 509 Transmission), Allston, Watertown, Newton, Lincoln, Acton, Maynard, Waltham, Wayland, Weston, Bedford, Burlington, Carlisle, Lexington, Stoneham, Winchester, Woburn and Everett.	Posted reporting points in. area including Somerville Service Center, Waltham Service Center, Stations 16, 17, 33, 34, 2)1 and 250,
20
Fukl Services
Work Ar>>fts (P&M North)	Work Areas (OT&P North)	Work Centers
Region It Comprising Arlington, Bedford, Brighton. Brookline. Burlington, Carlisle. Charlestown, Chelsea, East Boston, Lexington, Lincoln, Newton, Somerville. Stoneham, Waltham, Watertown, Weston, Winchester, and Woburn.	Mass Ave: Comprising Back Bay, Boston-Fenway, Boston-North End, Boston-South End, BostonWest End, Beacon Hill, Downtown Boston, East Boston, South Boston, Bellingham. Brighton, Brookline, Canton, Charlestown, Chelsea, Dedham, Dorchester, Dover, Hyde Park, Jamaica Plain, Mattapan, Medfield, Medway, Millis, Milton, Needham, Newton (partial), Norfolk, Roslindale, Roxbury, Sharon, Walpole, West Roxbury, and Westwood.	P&M Job Site Reporting OT&P Mass Ave
Region 2: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Bellingham, Canton, Dover, Framingham, Hol listen, Hopkinton, Maynard, Medfield, Medway, Millis, Natick, Norfolk, Sharon, Sherborn, Southboro, Sudbury, Walpole Wayland and Westwood.	Southboro: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Framingham, Holliston, Hopkinton, Maynard, Natick, Sherborn, Sudbury and Wayland.	P&M Job Site Reporting OT&P Southboro
Region 3: Comprising Boston, Dedham, Dorchester, Hyde Park, Jamaica Plain, Milton, Needham, Roxbury, South Boston and West Roxbury,	Waltham: Comprising Arlington, Bedford, Burlington, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Newton (partial), Somerville, Stoneham, Waltham, Watertown, Weston, Winchester and Woburn.	P&M Job Site Reporting OT&P Waltham
21
AU Other Northern District Departments
Work Areas	Work Centers
L. Boston: Comprising that part of the Boston Area under "AU Departments" including Dedham, Dorchester, Hyde Park, Milton, Roslindaie, Roxbury and West Roxbury,	Posted reporting points in the area.
2, Framingham: Comprising Acton, Ashland, Cochituate, Framingham, Hol list on, Hopkinton, Maynard. Natick, Sherbom and Sudbury.	Framingham Service Center and other posted reporting points in the area.
3. Northeast: Comprising Arlington, Burlington. Cambridge, Chelsea, East Boston, Somerville, Stoneham, Winchester and Woburn,	.	Somerville Service Center and other posted reporting points in the area.
d, Walpole: Comprising Bdringham, Canton, Dover. Medfield, Medway, Millis. Norfolk, Sharon, Walpole and Westwood.	Walpole Service Center and other posted reporting points in the area.
5. Waltham; Comprising Bedford, Brighton, Brookline, Carlisle, Lexington, Lincoln, Newton, Waltham, Watertown, Wayland, and Weston.	Waltham Service Center and other pasted reporting points in the area.
Southern Districts
Work Areas	Work Centers
Plymouth; Comprising Marshfield, Pembroke, Duxbury, Kingston, PJympton, Carver, Plymouth, Wareham, Rochester and Marion.	Plymouth Service Center and other reporting points in the area.
New Bedford: Comprising, Lakeville, Freetown, Westport, Dartmouth, New Bedford, Acushnet, Fairhaven and Maltapoisett.	New Bedford Service Centers (Gas and Electric), Acushnet, Wareham, Doty Street. Carver Street and other reporting points in the area.
22
Work Areas	Work Centers
Yarmouth: Comprising Bourne. Sandwich. Falmouth, Mashpee, Barnstable, Yarmouth, Dennis, Brewster, Harwich, Chatham, Orleans, Eastham, Wellfleet. Truro, Provincetown and Martha’s Vineyard,	Yarmouth Service Center, Falmouth Garage, Orleans Garage, Martha’s Vineyard and other repotting points in the area.
. 1, New tegular work centers may be established from time to time by the Company, together with the work areas to be associated therewith. If the Local shall not agree to the boundaries of such a work area as established by the Company, it may, within ten (10) day s after notice of such establishment, submit the question of the proper boundaries for settlement under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXil and Arbitration under Article XXXE and the Board of Arbitration chosen thereunder shall have the power to moke its decision retroactive to the date of the change.
12, a. When an employee withCompanyauthorizationuseshislKrownautomo-bile in the performance of his/her work, the Company shall allow such employee the sum of thirty four and one half cents (34.5ft!) per mile for the distance traveled on Company business or in connection with Company work, provided that for each day s/be so used his/her automobile s/he shall receive a minimum of three dollars ($3.00).
b.	If an employee with Company authorization uses his/her own automobile in the performance of his/her work and is required to truck tools and equipment that are cumbersome or bulky or weigh tn excess of twenty (20) pounds, the Company shall allow such employee the sum of thirty four and one half cents (34.5f ) per mile for the distance traveled on Company business or in connection with Company work, provided that for each day s/he so uses his/her automobile s/he shall receive a minimum mileage allowance of three dollars ($3.00) and s/he shall also receive far each day s/he so uses his/her automobile a trucking allowance of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25).
c.	No mileage or trucking allowance shall be payable in connection with travel between the employee's home and his/her posted work center or weak area when s/he is reporting for or leaving his/her regular scheduled work.
d.	The Company will reimburse an employee entitled to an allowance for the use of his/her automobile in accordance with the preceding subparagraphs for parking charges actually paid in the downtown Boston area while his/her auto
23
mobile was being used on Company business or in connection with Company— work.
e.	If an employee without prior notice is called in to work overtime betweer™ the hours of 1:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M. and uses his/her own automobile with Company authorization, the Company shall allow such an employee the sum of thirty four and one half cents (34.5g) per mile for the distance traveled between his/her home or the outside perimeter of the Company’s territory nearest his/her home to the reporting point, whichever is the lesser, provided that for each such call-in s/he shall receive a minimum mileage allowance of three dollars ($3.00).
f.	No allowance shall be made when an employee uses his/her automobile for his/her own convenience, even though such use is with the Company’s knowledge and consent
g.	It is the intention of the Company to reduce as far as practicable Dk use of employee-owned automobiles.
h.	Should the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) increase the mileage allowance during the term of this agreement, the Company mileage allowance will increase accordingly. Such increase will become effective one month following publication by the IRS. The Company’s minimum allowance shall not be affected by an IRS change.
13. a. A fixed peimum of one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20) per hour will be paid for hours an employee works at heights of eighty-five (85’) feet or more above the ground on poles or structures, which are part of the Company’s Overbid Transmission. Said premium shall be paid to personnel when working in the Sumner, Congress, Mystic or Weymouth tunnels.
b, A fixed premium of one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20) per hour will be paid for hours a mechanic welder assigned to a fossil station works from a bosun chair or sky climber at heights of eighty-five feet (85’) or more above the ground.
ARTICLE XIV
Vacations and Vacation Compensation
1. a. Eligibility: All regular employees (including part time employees) are covered by this agreement and are eligible for vacation according to the provisions below.
b.	Vacation Year. The vacation year commences on January Istofeachcal-endar year and ends December 31st of that year.
TA
c.	Vacation Benefits: Annual vacation allowance is based on years of service with the Company. Vacation is not accrued during the current vacation year into future vacation years.
d.	itattion Allowance Schedule (Full time employees).
Years of Service	Vacation Allowance
Less than 1 year	I day for every 2 months
One year but less than 5 years	10 days
Five years but less than 15 years	15 days
Fifteen years but less than 20 years	2G days
"TWenty years but less than 30 years	25 days
Thirty years or more	30 days
(1)	The vacation benefit is graniedon January 1 oftheyearin which the 1“, S*, IS*1,2091, or 30th anniversaries are reached.
(2)	New Employees: During the Is* calendar year of employment, employees will be eligible for a vacation benefit equal to one (I) day for every two (2) months of employment from the Is1 of the month following their date of hire through year end of that year. If the date of hire is the first of the month, the entire month will be credited towards the total calculation. .
e.	Vacation Allowance (part- time employees), Part-ti me employees who complete one (!) year of part-time service will be eligible for vacation time equal to one (1) normally scheduled (part-time) workweek upon their part-time anniversary date of hire. Employees who complete two (2) years of part-time service will be eligible for vacation time equal to two (2) normally scheduled (part-time) workweeks upon their part-time anniversary date of hire. Employees who complete five (5) or mote years of part-time service will be eligible for vacation time equal to three (3) normally scheduled (part-time) workweeks upon their part-time anniversary date of hire.
2. Thepayforeachdayorweekofvacationfbranernployeeentitledtheretodur-ing the first and second calendar years of employment shall be based upon his/ her regular hourly rate in effect immediately preceding his/her vacation. After the second calendar year of employment the pay for each day or week of vacation for such employee shall be computed from the average of his/her weekly earnings for the calendar year preceding the year in which his/her vacation occurs or hi s/her regular pay for a normal week not exceeding forty (40) hours, whichever is greater. If during such employee's vacation period a holiday recognized by the Company under Article XV occurs, s/he shall receive a day’s
25
pay as provided in said Article XV in addition to his/her vacation pay provided for in the preceding sentence; provided however, that at die option of the Company the employee may elect to take the holiday as an additional day off concurrently with his/her vacation period in lieu of the day’s pay. The employee may also take the additional day off at a later time provided his/her request is submitted and approved tiiirty (30) days prior to the day s/he is requesting off, 3. Two (2) weeks of a vacation shall be continuous except in extraordinary cases and by agreement between the employee’s steward and his/her department head.
4.	So far as practicable, considering the nature of the Company’s business, vacations shall be arranged by department beads, in conference with stewards, so that the vacation spread shall be as short as possible, and conditions permitting, . two-week vacations shall be confined to the period between June fifteenth and September fifteenth. A third, fourth, fifth or sixth week of vacation earned under subparagraphs (e), (g) or (j) of paragraph 1, shall be scheduled by the department head, in conference with stewards, and usually shall be outside the normal vacation period. Each employee shall submit to his/her Supervisor his/ her choice of dates for third, fourth, fifth, or sixth week of vacation on or before October first of that year. In extraordinary circumstances vacations may be rescheduled. Vacations will be chosen and assigned under this paragraph on the basis of Company seniority as defined tn paragraph 2 of Article XVII except where different vacation patterns are agreed upon. In case of dispute between a department head and the stewards concerning vacation scheduled, the matter shall be referred to the Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative for final decision.
5,	a. In the event that an employee in any calendar year does not have his/her foil vacation for a reason which is beyond the control of the employee, an adjustment shall be made immediately after the end of that year by paying the employee as of December 31 of that year for vacation due as provided in paragraph 2 of this Article but not taken. The term “reason which is beyond the control of the employee" is defined to include any action by the Company affecting an employee’s vacation. However, at the option of the Company, provided the employee so requests in writing not later than December 15 of any year, any weeks or days of vacation due to the employee as of December 31 of that year under paragraph 2 of this Article but not taken may be carried over to and taken in the following calendar year but not thereafter.
26
b.	Al the option of the Company, provided the employee so requests in writing not later than March 15 in any calendar year, his/her vacation due for that year under paragraph 2 of this Article may be carried over to and taken in the following year, but not thereafter. In so requesting carry-over of vacation the employee shall state his/her reasons for such request and shall indicate whether or net s/he desires the carried ever vacation to be separate from or consecutive with his/her regular vacation in said following calendar year.
c.	TheCwnpany will give an answer to any requests of an employee made under the foregoing subparagraphs (a) and (b) within thirty (30) days from the date of the receipt of said request
d.	It is understood and agreed that under no circumstances will carryover of vacation as provided in this paragraph 5 be permitted beyond the end of the calendar year next following the year in which the vacation was due.
6. In the case of an employee retiring from employment, s/he shall have the option either to be allowed the vacation accrued to his/her credit prior to his/her retirement date or to work up to retirement date, in which case an adjustment shall be made by paying the employee for vacation due but not taken. In the event an employee elects to work up to his/her retirement date s/he shall give notice in writing not less than ninety (90) days prior to such retirement
ARTICLE XV Holiday's, Personal Days and Hollday/Personal Day Compensation
1.	The following days shall be recognized as holidays on the day on which they are observed:
New Year’s Day	Independence Day
Washington's Birthday	Labor Day
Patriot's Day	Columbus Day
Memorial Day	Veterans’ Day
Thanksgiving Day	Christmas Day
Insofar as practicable, employees will not be required to work on a holiday. In addition to the above holidays, employees are entitled to two (2) personal days annually. An employee may elect to take personal days at any time providing s/he submits request thirty (30) days prior to the day/days s/he is requesting off and said request is approved by the employee’s department manager. However, it is agreed that no more than three (3) employees in any job cias-
27
sification shall be allowed a particular day off. This is in addition to the normal complement of employees allowed on vacation.
2.	If an employee is not required to work on any of the aforementioned holidays or persona! days which occur while this Agreement is in effect, s/he shall be entitled to a holiday or personal day allowance equivalent to eight (8) hours’ pay at his/her straight-time rate,
3.	If, during any period which includes his/her scheduled work periods immediately before and after a holiday or personal day, an employee is on leave of absence or is absent on sick leave, or is without pay, s/he will not be paid or receive time off for scheduled time not worked on the holiday or persona! day.
4.	Except as provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article, if an employee is required to work on a holiday which falls on a scheduled work day, s/he shall be paid, in addition to the pay provided in paragraph 2, as follows:
a.	S/he shall be paid a premium equal to one and one-half (116) times his/her regular hourly rate for each scheduled hour worked; however, where the scheduled hours worked are not continuous with other hours worked on the holiday, s/he shall be paid not less than the amount due for four (4) hours of such work.
b.	S/he shall be paid his/her regular hourly rate for each unscheduled hour worked, and in addition, a premium equal to one and one-half (116) times his/her regular hourly rate for each such hour worked; however, where the unscheduled hours worked are not continuous with other hours worked on the holiday, s/he shall be paid, including travel time pay, if any, not less than the amount due for four (4) hours of such woric.
c.	Only the greater of the foregoing minimum pay provisions shall apply to any period of continuous work covering both scheduled and unscheduled hours.
If an employee is requited to work on an approved and schedu led persona! day, the persona! day will be rescheduled.
5.	Except as provided in paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article, if an employee is required to work on a holiday which falls on his/her scheduled day off, paragraph 2 of this Article shall nek apply and hours so worked shall be paid for as follows:
a.	S/heshall be paid his/her regular hourly rale, andin addition, apremium equal to one and one-half (116) times his/her tegular hourly rate for each of the first eight (8) hours or less so worked; however, s/he shall be paid, including travel time pay if any, not Jess than die amount due for four (4) hours of such work.
28
b.	S/he shall be paid his/her regular hourly rate, and in addition, a premium equal to one and one-half (1 l/l) times his/her regular hourly rate for each such hour worked in excess of eight (8) hours.
i. Anempfoyeerequiredtowcriconaholidayduringhourswhicharecontinuous with hours worked on the day preceding or the day following the holiday shall not be entitled to the minimum holiday pay for hours worked stated in paragraphs 4 and 5; however, such employee shall be paid for the hours worked on the holiday in accord with the otherwise appl icable provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5. In no event shall such employee’s pay for the entire period worked under the paragraph be less than an amount equal to his/her regular hourly rate for eight (8) non-overtime hours,
7.	For the purpose of this Article it is agreed that a holiday begins at 12:01 A.M. and ends with 12:00 Midnight on the day on which it is observed; but, when a posted shift begins or ends on a holiday, all of the hours of the shift shall be considered as worked on the holiday if fifty per cent (50%) or more of the hours of the shift, as posted, fall within the holiday; otherwise, all the hours of the shift shall be considered as worked on the day which is not the holiday
8.	In years that a holiday falls on a Saturday, employees will have the option of taking an extra day’s pay or taking an additional personal day. If a personal day is elected the employee must give 6 months notice prior to the holiday of which option s/he is selecting. Such personal days must be taken between January 2nd and April 30th or between September 15th and December 1st of the calendar year in which the Saturday holiday falls. The employee must receive department approval at least 30 days prior to the requested day-off.
ARTICLE XVI
EXCUSED ABSENCES FROM WORK
1.	(a) Employees shall be allowed time off without loss of pay for all scheduled work days falling within the three day period next following the dale of a death in the immediate family. In cases where the funeral is held on the fourth day following death, the employee shall be allowed this day off without loss of pay if it is a scheduled workday. The “immediate family” shall include the wife, husband, son, daughter, father, mother, sister, brother, father-in-law, mother-inlaw, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandson, granddaughter, grandmother and grandfather of the employee. The “immediate family” shall include also a person who is actually a member of and living in the employee’s household through a tie of obligation or friendship. In extraordinary cases the Vice President-Human Resources or his designated representative may in his/her
29
discretion, allow time off in the event of death of other persons. Should a deal occur in the immediate family of an employee who is on vacation, the fortgoing provisions of this section shall apply and the days allowed due to th— death will not be considered to be vacation, but will be re-scheduled. Normall;— such days will be re-scheduled outside the normal vacation period and will no interfere with the scheduled vacation of another employee.
(b) Employees shall be allowed one day off without loss of pay to attend ttx funeral of a brother-in-law or sister-in-law when the funeral is held on a scheduled workday.
2.	Any employee permitted to leave the joborremdriawayfrom work because of an emergency existing at home shall, at the discretion of the Vice PresidentHuman Resources, or his designated representative, suffer no loss of pay.
3,	(a J An employee hired prior to April 1 in any year who is absent for an ordered short tour of military training duty with an reganizcd Reserve or National Guard unit will be paid the difference (if any) between higher regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours and his/her certified military pay for each week of such absence, provided that said difference will not be paid for more than three (3) weeks, covering fifteen (15) Company work days, in any calendar year, (b) An employee absent as a result of being called for jury duty will be paid his/her regular hourly rate for forty (40) hours each week or for eight (8) hours for each day of such verified absence. The employee’s days off during fire week of such absence tor jury duty shall be deemed to be Sunday and Saturday. An employee shall be eligible for payment under this paragraph only once every three (3) yeais,
(c) An employee subpoenaed as a witness in a Massachusetts Court during scheduled work hours shall bo paid for no more than eight (8) hours <rf such time for each day on which s/he is required to comply with said subpoena provided that s/he shall be eligible for this payment only once every three (3) years. An employee shall net be eligible if s/he is a party to the court action and must submit a copy of the subpoena to his/her supervisor as soon as it is received.
PART FIVE
TENURE OF EMPLOYMENT
ARTICLE XVII
Seniority
1, The following provisions as to seniority were first established as of December 5,1950 and have been amended by subsequent Agreements between the Com-
30
parry, the Union, and the Local by this Agreement As so amended they shall continue in effect
2.	Company seniority is defined as length of continuous service with the Company. Department or division seniority is defined as total length of service in a given department or division, and neither department nor division seniority shall be impaired by a consolidation of departments. Seniority on the rating is defined as the total time worked in a given permanent rating. For these seniority provisions ‘‘rating''is defined as a grade within a job title or the job title itself if it is not subdivided into grades.
3.	Die Company seniority of each present employee and his/her seniority in the department, division, and rating in which s/he is employed shall be maintained. The seniority of an employee hired after December 5,1950 shall bedetennined in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article,
4.	In determining an employee’s Company seniority the continuity of his/her service shall be deemed to be broken by termination of employment by reason of resignation or discharge or by reason of lay-off for more than three (3) years. Company seniority of employees who are granted leave of absence for any of the following leasonssball accnie farthepenod of any such leaves: (a) military service for the period during and after which they have re-employment rights under the Selective Service Act of (948 as amended; (b) absence on Union business as provided in Article Vlfl of this Agreement; (cj leave of absence authorized by the Vice President Human Resources.
5.	(a) Subject to the limitations of applicable laws prevailing when the question arises, any employee who, subsequent to the enactment of the Selective Service Act of 194? as amended, left the employ of the Company for entry into any of the armed forces of the United States of America will retain the same Company and department seniority and seniority on the rating that Vhe would have had if s/he had remained in the employ of the Company during the period of absence, provided that his/her military service is terminated with a certificate of satisfactory completion of service and that within ninety (90) days thereafter s/he shall apply in writing to the Company for re-employment,
(b)	The Company shall assign such an employee the rating held by him/her at the time of such entry provided s/he is then qualified by fitness and ability to perform the work in such rating; but, if s/he is mentally or physically unfit to perform the work in such rating, the Company shall endeavor to provide him/her with employment in any rating tn any department of the Company for which the Company deems him/her to be mentally, physically and otherwise qualified and provided, also, that his'her Company seniority including the
31
I—______
aforesaid military service Shall be greater than that of the employee to be dis placed.
(c)	(I) Upon permanent promotion, under the provisions of this Article XVH__ of an employee who has served in the armed forces of the United States of America to the next higher rating on the job progression chart showing the rating held by him/her at the tune of entry into the armed forces, s/he shall advance on said next higher rating to the roster position s/he would have ha±
(A)	if s/he would have been promoted to said next higher rating during the period of his/her sendee in the armed forces had s/he remained in the employ of the Company; and
(B)	if s/he is found qualified by fitness and ability and is promoted either at the time when the first vacancy occurs after his/her return ' from service in the armed forces or within six (6) months of said time in cases where special tanning or license requirements are involved.
(2)	Such advancement on the roster for said next higher rating, which shall be known as “roster readjustment,” shah not, however, be available to such an employee:
(A)	if s/he rejects any permanent promotion under the provisions of teas Article to the first vacancy which is to be filled in such higher rating after his/her return from service in the armed forces for which s/he is first in order of seniority and is found qualified by fitness and ability; or
(B)	if s/he is unable to qualify by fitness and ability for tbe fast vacancy which is to be filled in stud next higher rating after his/her return from service in the armed forces or within six (6) months after the occurrence of said first vacancy if special training or a license is required for said first vacancy.
(3)	Roster readjustment shall not in any event apply to positions filled by the posting procedure provided in this Article, It is mutually agreed that an employee must be on the Company’s active payroll in order to be eligible to file an application for a posted vacancy.
(4)	bi the absence of an established roster for a job progression chart the seniority on the rating as defined in this Article XVU, Section 2, of an employee promoted to the next higher rating shall be readjusted in the same manner as though there had been an established roster.
(5)	‘'The next higher rating" as used in this subparagraph (c) shall be interpreted so as to provide for a second roster readjustment in die rating which is the next above such next higher rating on the progression chart within one (1) year after the employee’s first roster readjustment, provided that s/he is able to qualify for such second readjustment by fitness and ability. Except as provided in this subdivision (5), such second readjustment shall be subject to all the provisions of this subparagraph (c) regarding roster readjustment.
6.	“lob Progression" as used herein is defined as the pattern of movement from one rating as defined in paragraph 2 of this Article to another rating which is normally (a) more favorable to the employee with respect to rate of pay, and (b) related to the former rating in terms of jet) content. Employees permanently or temporarily promoted to a position of next higher rating on a progression chart shaft be paid the rate of the new classification or his/her former job classification, whichever is greater.
7.	During the term of this Agreement, the Company, after agreement with the Local, shall preparejob progression charts showing the ratings, and all job progressions between ratings, in which employees subject to this Agreement may be employed.
8.	After the job progression charts have been prepared, the Company shall prepare and post a roster for each job progression chan setting out the names, job titles and grades, Company, department and divisional seniority and seniority on the rating of al) employees subject to the chart. Thereafter, when there are changes affecting the employees oti any fasten the Company shall prepare and post at least once every six (ft) months a revised roster. If any employee is aggrieved by his/her seniority status as first posted or any posted change therein, the Local may within thirty (30) days after such posting, and not thereafter, request the Company in writing to correct such posting; and upon adequate proof of error, the employee's seniority status shill be corrected in accordance with the facts.
9.	When a vacancy is to be filled in a job title and grade represented by the Local, the employee senior in the next lower rating on the applicable roster shall be entitled to the promotion if qualified by fitness and ability to fill the vacancy. Temporary filling of vacancy shall be made in the same manner until an appointment is made as provided herein.
10.	In increasing and reducing forces, in making promotions, in making demotions for other than disciplinary reasons, and in making appointments to fill vacancies in existing ratings and in newly created ratings, the Company shall deter
33
mine the fitness and ability of all applicants for the new or different positions and its decision shall be final except as follows; (a) if the Local claims that tb(— Company has exercised its rights in making promotions or in making appointments to fill vacancies in existing ratings and in newly created ratings in an unjust or unreasonable manner, or that such action was due to discrimination against an employee because of his/her membership in, or his/her lawful activity on behalf of, the Union, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXX11 and Arbitration under Article XXXT1I; (b) if the Union or the Local claims that the Company has exercised any of its other rights set fortfl in this paragraph in a capricious or arbitrary manner, such claim shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXX11 and Arbitration under Article XXXm.
11.	(a) Notice of a vacancy in an existing rating or in a newly created rating, if such rating cannot be filled by an employee from tint same roster who is qualified by fitness and ability, shall be posted at places accessible to all employees and shall remain posted for a period of twelve [12) days, within which period applicants eligible and desiring to fill such vacancy shall apply in writing to the representative of the Company designated in the notice. Such notice shall also set forth the job title and grade of the vacancy to be filled, the currently posted hours of work and days of relief, and the rate of pay. The Company wi 11 review the applications and preference will be given to employees represented by Local 369 according to their Company seniority status within the job titles represented by Local 369. If there is no applicant or no applicant who is qualified by fitness and ability to perform the duties of the vacancy, the Company shall have the right to hire a new employee to fill such a vacancy. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, employees during their first six (6) months of employment taking a permanent assignment to a position that appears on a progression chart shall not be eligible for transfer to a position on another progression chart except for those positions that are filled by posting procedure. It is understood and agreed that the Company may pest notices of vacancies for O.H, Lineworker Grade C jobs prior to the time the vacancy exists for the purpose of establishing a list of qualified applicants for the O.H. Lineworter Grade C position when the vacancies do occur, and the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this Section 11 shall not apply until said vacancy does exist.	■	’
(b)	V/ithin oik (I) week afterthe expiration of the posting period provided for in this paragraph 11, the Company shall name the accepted applicant, but such acceptance shall not become effective until at least seven (7) days after
34
the notice to the Local provided for in paragraph 12. The Company stall assign the accepted employee to the vacancy within sixty (60) days after the acceptance becomes effective, or unless a grievance is pending under paragraph 12 of this Article, pay him/her the applicable rate of pay following the stud sixtyday period and until s/he is assigned to the vacancy. Exceptions to the periods set out in the preceding sentence may be mutually agreed upon by the Vice President-Human Resources and the President of the Local or their designated representatives. Seniority in this new rating shall commence on tbe date the acceptance to fill the vacancy becomes effective.
(c)	When the filling of such a vacancy causes a vacancy in another rating, the Contpany will fill that vacancy in the same manner as provided in paragraphs 9 and 11.
12	The Local shall be notified in writing by the Vice President-Human Resources, or his/her designated representative, giving the name of the employee who has been selected for promotion or to fill a vacancy. Such notice shall be given not less than seven (7) days prior to the effective date of such promotion or filling of vacancy. The selection of the employee by the Company for promotion or to fill the vacancy shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article ■ XXXH or Arbitration under Article XXXIII except in cases where the Local shall claim that the Company has exercised its rights in an unjust or unreasonable manner or that such action was due to discrimination against an employee because of his/her membership in, or his/her lawful activity on behalf of, the Union.
13.	An employee accepting promotion or transfer to a new rating shall retain unimpaired his/her seniority previously established in his/her former rating without the right to displace juniors in tbe former raring so long as s/he may have employment in the new rating or in any rating in the same job progression for which s/he is qualified by fitness and ability. If, in the opinion of the Company, s/he is qualified to fill the hew rating, s/he shall not return to the rating from which s/he came until a vacancy occurs therein, and s/he shall not have the right to attempt to qualify for another vacancy within ninety (90) days after such return. Any employee assigned to a vacancy shall have thirty (30) days in which to qualify. If, in the opinion of the Company, s/he is unable to qualify, s/he may return to the rating from winch s/he came without loss of seniority therein. Should an employee after accepting a new rating desire to return to his/her previous rating, and so informs the Company within thirty (30) days after being assigned to the new rating, s/he may return to his/her farmer rating when a vacancy occurs without loss of seniority therein. An employee who
35
does not elect to return to his/her former rating, within the thirty (30) days a-outlined in this Article and continues on this rating for a period tn excess oi ninety (90) days shall not have the option to return to his/her farmer rating when a vacancy exists,
14,	When forces are reduced, the employee having the least seniority on the rating shall be demoted or laid off first Any employee demoted because of reduction in forces shall return to the rating previously held with accumulated seniority attained since his/her promotion,
15.	When forces are reduced in the lowest rating of a job progression the employee in that rating with the least Company seniority shall be laid off first. An employee who has transferred to his/her rating from another roster and not through job progression shall, instead of being laid off, have the right to return to a position on his/her former roster without loss of seniority status on that roster if then qualified by fitness and ability to perform available work. Instead of being laid off because of a reduction in forces, an employee who has been promoted to his/her rating from a lower rating in the same job progression shall have the right to displace juniors in such lower rating if qualified by fitness and ability. If the employee attained His/her rating neither from another rosier nor through job progression, his/her demotion or layoff shall be in accordance with his/her Company seniority as determined by mutual agreement of the parties hereto. Layoffs shall be made in accordance with Company seniority, employees with the least Company seniority being laid off first, with the right, however, if qualified by fitness and ability to perform the available work, to displace juniors in any beginners ciass of work on any roster.
16.	Notice of layoff or demotion because of a reduction in forces shall be given in the same manner and subject to the provisions of paragraph 12 of this Article except that such notice shall be given not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of such layoff or demotion.
17.	Wb,en forces ase reduced to any rating, employees who have been laid off shall be returned to work in the inverse order in which they have been laid off provided that they are qualified and have the ability to perform the work available. The right to be recalled and the right of laid-off employees to accumulate seniority shall cease after three (3) years from the date of layoff. A laid-off employee who is notified by registered mail to return to work must report to the Human Resources and Labor Relations Organization, within seventy-two (72) hours after such notice has been received by him/her or, having been sent to the last address s/he has given to such Organization, has been returned undelivered to the Company; and, when reporting, s/he shall advise the said Orga
36
nization whether or wt sfoe wiB return, Should the employee fail to advise the Human Resources and Labor Relations Organization within said seventy-two (72) hours that s/he will return to work or fail to «m to work within seven (7) days after advising said Organization that s/he will do so, the next employee shall be called. All tod-off employees with seniority rights shall be given an opportunity to return to work if qualified and able to perform the work available before any new employees are fared by the Company. This paragraph shall not be effect! »<e in the event of an emergency declared by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or his/her designated representative as defined in Article VH of this Agreement.
18.	No employee in the bargaining unit who has five (5) or more years of continuous service and who is desirous of continuing employment with the Company will be tod off or reduced in pay for lack of work. It is understood, however, that when forces are reduced that any such employee may be assigned to work of a lower rating in accordance with the frowioas of this Article.
ARTICLE XVIII Retrogression
1.	If an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of service with the Company is, in the opinion of the Medical Director, unable thereafter to perform his/her regular duties due to a physical condition or impairment, the Company shall endeavor to assign him, for the duration of his/her employment by the Company, to a rating with comparable pay which, in the opinion of the Company, s/he is capable of performing or to a job of lower rating. His/her seniority on the rating into which s/he is placed will be determined by agreement of the Company and. the Local.
2.	If s/he is assigned to a comparable rating, sfoe shall continue to receive the same regular hourly rate as theretofore. If s/he has twenty (20) but less than twenty-five (25) years of continuous active service and s/he is assigned to a lower rating, higher compensation shall be established and shall continue thereafter at a rate not more than ten percent (10%) below the regular hourly rate of the rating from which s/he first retrogressed. If s/he has fifteen (15) but less than twenty (20) years of continuous active service and s/he is assigned to a lower rating, his/her compensation shall be established and shall continue thereafter at a rate not more than twenty per cent (20%) below the regular hourly rate of the rating from which s/he first retrogressed.
If s/he has twenty-five (25) years or more of continuous active service with the Company and is assigned to a lower rating, his/her compensation shall be
37
established and shall continue thereafter at the same hourly rate of his/her rating at the time s/he first retrogressed or at a rate not more than ten per cent (10%) below the regular hourly rate of the rating from which s/he first retrogressed, whichever is higher.
ARTICLE XIX Substitutions and Temporary Assignments
I. a. Upontbesubstitutionofanempioyeeforanothereinployeeofhigherrating in order to cover the absence of the latter for one (I) day or more, the substituting employee shall, during the period of substitution, be paid as if the substitution were a promotion.
b.	While it is the intent that under normal conditions the Job Specificati on will apply, it is understood that an employee may be requited to perform for less than a calendar day the duties of higher ratings without an increase in pay, but not for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime rates.
c.	The substitution of an employee for another to cover absence on account of illness or disability shall not be changed during the illness or disability of such other employee m order to avoid the payment of increased compensation, d. The necessity fora substitution shall be the responsibility of the department head, but the decision as to the employee to be assigned for substitution shall be made by the department head in accordance with the provisions of Article XVII (Seniority), paragraphs 9 and 10.
2,	Upon the temporary assignment of an employee to a position of higher rating other than as a promotion or substitution, s/he shall, during the period of assignment, be paid as if the assignment were a promotion,
3.	An employee temporarily upgraded for a continuous period of twelve (12) months for reasons other than a substitution for another employee shall at the expiration of the said tw elve (12) nwth period bernade permanent on the rating to which s/he was first upgraded within said period. If, however, s/he is not the senior qualified employee on the rating from which s/he was first upgraded, the senior qualified employee shall be eligible to be made permanent on such rating
ARTICLE XX
Dual or Combination Job
1.	In the event that it is necessary to combine the work of more than one rating in order to make a regular full-time job, the compensation of the employee will be based open the rating for the highest grade work to which s/he is assisted regularly twenty per cent (20%) or more of higher time in a scheduled work week.
38
2.	The Companywnllnotassignhighergtade worktoemployeesoflowerraiingfor the purpose of avoiding the creation of a full-time position in the higher grade.
ARTICLE XXI
Work by Supervisors
1.	No supervisor shall act in other than a supervisory capacity except under urgent conditions. This is not intended to prevent a supervisor from protecting life or property, giving occasional or emergency assistance, or performing work for the purpose of instruction. However, the primary function of a supervisor is supervision, and s/he is not toperform work that will eliminate a man/woman or interfere with supervision.
This section will also apply to an employee while s/he is assigned temporarily to die directive duties of a supervisor in his/her absence.
ARTICLE XXH
Students
I.	It is agreed that the Company may employ persons as cooperative or engineering students, not to exceed thirty (30) on the Company’s properties at any one time, which students may be transferred from time to time from one job to another as desired by the Company for training in connection with the cooperative educational program. The cooperative or engineering students are not included within the scope of this Agreement, but their employment shall not result in the layoff or loss of promotional opportunity of any regular employees included within its scope.
2.	It is also understood that, in furthering the purpose of the educational program for these cooperative or engineering students, their activities will not conflict with the usual work assignments of regular employees, and upon request the Company will furnish lo the Local information concerning rates of pay and nature of work assignments of such students. Such students will be assigned to work activities only when associated with regular employees. Overtime work resulting from an assignment, which extends beyond the regular work period, will be permitted, but planned overtime will be assigned these students only what regular employees usually assigned to the work are not available for such work. It is understood that Company policy does not permit cooperative or engineering students to operate Company vehicles in the course of their employment
39
ARTICLE XXIII Contractors
It is the policy of the Company to have its ordinary maintenance and repair work and such construction work, as is now the {Resent practice, performed by its own employees except in cases of emergency, necessity or temporary peaks of work. The Company will continue to review the matter of assigning ordinary maintenance and repair work on its property to outside contractors for the purpose of reducing such work assignments io the end that such work assignments be performed by employees of the Company when economically feasible to do so. When it becomes necessary for the Company to use the services of outside contractors on ordinary maintenance and repair work, the rasters of employees assigned to ordinary maintenance and repair work in any Section using such outside contractors will be maintained at their normal status so long as contractors are working in such Section,
It is not the intention of the Company that the use of the services of outside contractors shall result in the layoff, demotion or reduction of pay of its regular employees.
PART SIX
BENEFIT PLANS
ARTICLE XXIV Retirement Plan
The plan is incorporated into a separate Agreement between the parties, which will continue in effect according to rhe terms of that Agreement.
ARTICLE XXV Group Insurance
The Company’s Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan is incorporated into a separate Agreement between the parties which will continue in effect unchanged so long as this Agreement shall be in effect.
ARTICLE XXVI
Hospitalization and Surgical Benefits Plan
The Company's Hospitalization and Surgical Benefits Plan, as amended, will continue in effect unchanged so long as this Agreement shall be in effect
40
ARTICLE XXVU Disability Benefits Plan
The Company’s Disability Benefits Plan is incorporated into a separate Agreement between the parties, which will continue in effect unchanged so long as this Agreement shall be in effect
ARTICLE XXVIII Medical Examinations
The Medical Director shall examine and pass upon the physical fitness of:
L Employees at their request, annually or by arrangement
2.	Employees returning to work upon recoveiy from incapacity for ten {10) working days or more.
3.	Employees returning from leave of absence of more than four (4) weeks.
4,	Employees requesting transfer to new positions,
5,	When it is obvious, or if either the Company or the Local has information that the physical condition of an employee is such that it would be injurious to him-	-
self, his/her fellow employees, or the public, s/he may also be required to take a physical examination. Any employee upon whom his/her own physician has placed restrictions shall be subject to examination until the restriction is removed.
If any such employee is not satisfied with the conclusions arrived at by the Medical Director, s4ie may at his/her own expense submit a report from a doctor of his/her own choosing for consideration by the Company. Should any conflict result between the examination reports of the doctors involved, the Local and the Company shall by agreement select a third doctor who shall be a specialist certified by his/lier respective Board who will consider the case submitted to him/her and render a decision within one (1) week from the date srhe receives the case, and his/her decision will be binding upon the parties hereto.
Should the Company and the Local be unable to agree upon a third doctor then the matter will be referred to the Massachusetts Medical Society for the selection of the third doctor who shall be a specialist certified by his/her respective Board who will consider the case, and his/her decision will be binding upon the parties hereto.
Each party shall compensate the doctor chosen by it for the time spent and expenses incurred in the case, and the parties shall share equally in paying the compensation and expense of the third doctor.
41
PART SEVEN
MISCELLANEOUS WORKING CONDITIONS
ARTICLE XXIX
Work in Inclement Weather .
I.	a. Employee; on List#! (Schedule Fjexcqirurider emergencyorurgentcon-dilions will not be required to perform their normal work outdoors during stormy weather or unusually hot or cold weather conditions which would be considered as detrimental to the health or safety of employees.
Temperature at ten degrees (10’) or less Fahrenheit will be considered severe weather.
For Overhead Line Forces only, temperatures at fifteen degrees (15°) or less Fahrenheit accompanied by high winds will be considered severe weather. Employees not required to perform their scheduled outdoor work may be assigned toother wtskindocss which will be consistent or related totheir skills, and they will be paid at their regular hourly rates in the same manner as if they had performed their scheduled outdoor work.
b.	Employees on List #2 (Schedule F) will be expected to perform their normal work regardless of weather conditions. However, supervisory personnel are to endeavor to rearrange work assignments to avoid insofar as practical unnecessary exposure to severe or extreme conditions.
c.	Employees whose job titles do not appear on List # 1 or List #2 (Schedule F) will be required to perform their normal work regardless of weather conditions, However, outdoor assignments will be made only when, in the opinion of management, such assignments should not be deferred.
2.	If in die opinion of a steward foe weather conditions are detrimental to the health or safety of foe employee s/he represents, the steward may appeal to his/ her immediate supervisor, and if necessary, to his/her Di vision Head. If foe decision is not satisfactory to the steward, foe man/woman shall continue to work, but the steward may file a grievance under Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXIII.
ARTICLE XXX
Clothing and Equipment
1.	a. RirihesafayarKfprotectionofitsemptoyeestheContpany shall continue to have available rubber hats, rubber coats, tubber boots, rubber gloves and work gloves for use by employees when necessary for their safety and protection.
b. The Company will provide individual rubber hats and rubber boots for employees whose duties require frequent use of such clothing. The determi
42
nation of the number of employees entitled to individual rubber clothing will be in the discretion of the department head. An employee assigned individual rubber clothing will be responsible for loss resulting from his/her negligence.
2.	The Company will supply necessary protective clothing for exposures occurring outside the ordinary activities of a man/woman's employment.
3.	The Company agrees to have available suitable clothing with which to work in any place where the assigned duties of an employee require exposure to acids, or in lieu thereof at the Company’s discretion it will reimburse such employee for any damage sustained to his/her clothing while so employed.
4.	TheCompany willselectandfiimishthenecessaryequipmentandpropertools for carrying out any assigned work.
PART EIGHT
DISCIPLINE AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
ARTICLE XXXI
Discipline, Suspension, Discharge or Demotion
1.	Upon the suspension for disciplinary reasons of an employee, other than a pro-bationaiy employee as defined in Article 1, the Company will notify an officer of the Local verbally and the Secretary-lheasurer of the Local in writing and will give similar notice five (5) working days before the discharge or demotion for disciplinary reasons of any employee, other than a probationary employee.
2.	The Local shall have the right within ten (ICfi workirg days after such notice to appeal in writing to the Vice President-Human Resources co behalf of the employee suspended, discharged or demoted for disciplmaiy reasons, and, upon receipt of such appeal, the Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative will confer with the President and the Executive Board of the Local and other representatives of the Local not to exceed five (5> in number.
3.	After such a conference, a hearing on such appeal shall be conducted by the Company upon request of the Local. The hearing shall be conducted for the Company by a representative or representatives of the Company designated by the President of the Company or the Vice President-Human Resources at which the employee involved shall be represented by the Local and the parties shall have the right to call witnesses.
4.	If, as a result of such hearing, the Company and the Local cannot agree upon whether or not the employee is to be reinstated or upon the conditions of his/her reinstatement, the disagreement shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXH, and may be submitted to immediate Arbitration under Article XXXIH.
I
43
I
I
ARTICLE XXXn Grievance Procedure
1.	Any dispute arising between (tie parties during the term of this Agreement concerning (he true interpretation and meaning of this Agreement er respecting rates of pay, wages, hours of emptoyrrent or other conditions of employment which have not been settled by this agreement shall be treated as a grievance and every reasonable effort shall be made to settle such grievance in the following manner
a.	The employee or employees and his/her or their steward shall discuss the grievance with the immediate supervisor or first line of supervision,
b.	If no settlement is reached, the grievance may be taken up by the steward and the chief steward (or in the absence of the chief steward by another steward if available at tbe work location) of the department, section, or division with the representative designated by the Company to handle grievances for fl»e department, section, or division involved,
c.	If the grievance has not been satisfactorily adjusted within five (5) days from its inception it may then be reduced to writing by the Local and forwarded to the Vice President-Human Resources with a request for a conference that shall include the names of the persons who will represent the aggrieved employee or employees. A copy of the written grievance, which shall clearly set forth the issues to be decided, shall be forwarded by the Local to the head of the Department involved. Within five (5) working days after receipt of the grievance and request, the Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative, subject to the provisions of subparagraph (g) of this Article, will arrange fora conference with the steward and chief steward, the Business Agent of the Local, and not more than five (5) members of the Executive Board of the Local. Within ten (10) working days after said conference, the Company shall provide a written answer to the grievance.
d.	AH grievances which are of too broad a scope to be settled by or within a Department shall in the first instance be submitted in writing by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Local to the Vice President-Human Resources with a request for a conference, which shall include the names of the persons who will represent the aggrieved employee or employees.
e.	The Company shall have the right to initiate grievances for settlement under the provisions of this Agreement by written notice to the President of the Local, and within five (5) days thereafter a conference as provided in subparagraph (c) shall be arranged.
44
f.	The Management of the Company shall by its Vice President-Human Resources or his/her designated representative give permission, if requested, for accredited representatives of the Local to visit work locations during working hours in connection with grievances arising out of this Agreement whenever such permission may in the judgment of said Vice President be given without serious interference with the proper performance of the duties of the employees.
g.	Employees shall not be paid for time spent when engaged in union activities except that they shall	paid tfercrEgrAsrhcurtyrates for ame spent
during their scheduled working hours when conferring with the Management and when attending other meetings at the request of the Company.
. The term “conferring with the Management” shall include conferences between officers of the Local or stewards within the division concerned and the responsible officials of the Company within the department concerned and conferences with the Vice President Human Resources except that when conferring with the Vice President-Human Resources under subparagraphs (c) and (d) of this Article not more than two (2) representatives of (he Local and an aggrieved employee, when his/her attendance is necessary, shah be paid in accordance with this pwision,
ARTICLE XXXDI Arbitration
1.	If any grievance arises during the term of this Agreement which is not settled by mutual agreement of the parties under the Grievance Procedure in the preceding Article within fifteen (15) days after it has been delivered as provided therein, such grievances shall be settled in the following manner.
a.	If all parties shall mutually agree, by immediate referral to arbitration as provided in this subparagraph (d) below.
b.	By one or more further conferences, as may be needed, between the Executive Board of the Local (with the addition of National Representatives of the Union) and the responsible officials of the Company.
c.	By final conference between the President of the Company (or his/her designated representative) and the President of the Union (or his/her designated representative).
d.	ft any grievance is not settled by agreement in the aforesaid conferences, then it shall be submitted at the request of either party to a Board of Arbitration to be selected in the following manner one atbi trator shall be chosen by the Company and one by the Local and the two arbitrators so cho
45
sen shall meet promptly and as often as may be necessary to select the ■ third arbitrator who shall be Chairman of the Board.
e.	If the two arbitrators chosen by the Company and the Local are unablt— to agree upon the choice of the third arbitrator within five (5) days, s/he— shailbeappointedby the American Arbitration Association under its rales for appointment from panels,
f.	TheBoardof Arbitration so chosen shall meet promptly and as often as may be necessary for the purpose of settling said grievance. The decision of said Board shall be in writing and signed by all members of the Board concurring therein. The decision of the majority of the Board shall be final and binding upon both parties, and a copy (together with the signed opinion, if any, from a dissenting arbitrator) shall he delivered promptly to each of the parties,
g.	No Board of Atbitration or arbitmt™- ct^dl have the power to add io or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or to pass upon ordecide any question except the grievance submitted to the Board in accordance with the foregoing provisions. No award or decision of a Board or Arbitration shall be retroactive for more than thirty (30) days before the grievance was reduced to writing as provided in paragraphs (c) and (e) of the provisions for Grievance Procedure in the preceding Article. However, any arbitration decision which increased the rate of pay under Article XU, 2(b) which involved the introduction of new machinery, equipment, systems, operations, or procedures shall be retroactive to the date the employee was fust assigned to the new duties,
h.	Either party when requesting arbitration shall do so by delivering to the other party a notice in writing setting forth the grievance and the name of the arbitrator chosen by the party so requesting arbitration.
i.	Each party shall compensate the arbitrator chosen by it for the time spent and expenses incurred in the arbitration, and the parties shall share equally in paying the compensation and expenses of the third arbitrator.
AMENDMENT AND DURATION OF AGREEMENT
ARTICLE XXXIV Amendments
J.	This Agreement is intended to cover the entire subject matter of the Company’s relations with its employees as defined in Article I, except as provided in the Stipulations attached hereto, and except as provided for in Article DC entitled ‘■‘Conformation to Laws, Regulations and Orders”; neither party shall have the
46
right without the consent of the other parties to insist upon any addition thereto, change therein or deletion therefrom. Amendments to this Agreement may be made, however, and amendments proposed in writing by one party shall be considered by the others and discussed by the parties jointly; but, if as a result of such negotiations no amendments are agreed to, the disagreement shall not constitute a dispute subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXH or to Arbitration under Article XXXHL
ARTICLE XXXV
Duration of Agreement
This Agreement, except as otherwise provided in this Article as to the NSTAR Pension Plan, shall upon the execution and delivery thereof, take effect as of May 16,2000 and continue in effect to and including May 15,2005 and thereafter from that date from year to year unless any party by written notice to the others given not less than sixty (60) days prior to May 15,2005 or io May 15 of any subsequent year shall express its intention of terminating this Agreement cm such date.
If, when such a notice of termination is given, a new contract has not been agreed to on or before the date upon which this Agreement is terminated, the parties may extend this Agreement for such further time as they shall mutually agree.
Effective as of May 16,2000, the regular hourly pay rates of all employees covered by this Agreement shall be as set forth in “Hourly Pay Schedule C.” Such increase shall not apply to the nigjit work premiums as sei forth in Schedule C.
a.	The NSTAR Pension Plan shall remain in effect to and including May 5, 2005 and shall be reviewed in 2005 by written notice from either party to the others given not less than sixty (60) days prior to May 15, 2005.
b.	If notice is given in accordance with Section 4(a) of this Article and no agreement on the changes proposed in the NSTAR Pension Plan has been reached by May 15,2005, the parties will make every effort to reach agreement thereafter. All provisions of the Agreement will remain in foil force and effect thereafter except that
(1)	If no agreement has been reached by May 15,2005, the provisions of Article VI, Section J will be waived until such Agreement is reached; and
(2)	All provisions of the Agreement will be without force or effect during any period of any strike, retardirig or stopping of work, or picketing that is authorized.
47
5. ThisAgreementshaHbebindingiipcnthepartiesheretoandonallsuccesso amdassigns of the Employer, whether by sale; transfer; lease; acquisition; co solidation of operations or any portion of operations; or change of name.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, This Agreement is signed in triplicate in the narn and behalf of the parties by their duly authorized representative on the day an year first above written.
FOR NSTAR
By David E Dotant
FOR UTILITY WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO
inald E. Wightman
FOR LOCAL NO. 369, UWUA, AFbdO
L Gary P, Sullivan, Secretary-Treasurer of Local 369, Utility Workers Union o America, AFL-CIO, hereby certify that at a special meeting of said Local duty called and held May 15.2000, at which a quorum was present, the above Agree went was accepted and approved by the membership of said Local by a majority of the members present and voting.
Dated: October I, 2001
48
SCHEDULE A (P&M) JOBS IN UNIT
Appliance Assembler Automobile Mechanic Backhoe Operator (Electric) Backhoe Operator (Gas) Chauffeur
Construction Inspector-Cable Construction Inspector-Conduit Construction Inspector-Engineering Dispatcher Distribution Dispatcher Distribution Dispatcher Apprentice Electric Customer Service
Designer
Expediter Inspector Field Service Technician Field Service Technician Trainee Fitter & Service Fossil Station Laborer Gas Pump Attendant Hot Stick Line Worker Inspector-Cable Injector-Conduit Inspector-Installations Inspector-Overhead Instrument & Lab Lead Person Instrument & Lab Technician Instrument & Repair Technician Janitor Power Plants Laboratory Helper Laborer (Gas) Lamp Ranger Leader-Automobile Repair Leader-Building Painter Leader-Cable & Conduit Earth
Auger Open Leader-Equipment Service
Leader-Mechanical Maintenance Leader-Overhead Lines Lead Technician (Gas)
Line Worker-Overhead
Low Tension Trouble Shooter
LNG Operator & Repair
Technician (Gas)
Maintenance & Repair Technician
Helper (Gas)
Maintenance Mechanic Special Materia] Coordinator
Material Handler
Mechanic
Mechanic Apprentice
Mechanic-Buildings Maintenance
Mechanic-Central Shop
Mechanic-Electrical Maint. Aerial
Lift
Mechajik-ElecnricaJ Maintenance Mechanic-Equipment Service Mechanic-Mechanical Maintenance Office Cleaner
Oil Cable Inspector-Maintenance Operating Mechanic
Operating Mechanic Apprentice Operator-Generating Station Operator-Substation
Overhead Hot Stick Trouble
Shooter
Painter-Buildings Painter-Production Power Plant Assistant Repair Technician (Gas)
Report Dispatcher Roving Operator Service Dispatcher
49
Service Technician/Fitter (Gas) Station Electrician Leadman
Steam Fitter Special
Stock Keeper
System Dispatcher
System Dispatcher Apprentice
Technical Investigator
Technici an-Laboratory
Technician-La boraioty-Crane
Operator
Transportation Dispatcher
Transportation Inspector-
Maintenance
Tracking Couruinulor
UG Lineworker Gass 3
UG Lineworker Gass 2
UG Lineworker Class 1
UG Lineworicer Leader Underground Trouble Shooter Utility
Utility Worker-Prudential
Utility Worker-Building
Maintenance
Water Tender
Welder Utility (Gas)
Working Foreperson UG
Distribution
Working Leader (Gas)
Working Leader-Meter representative (Gas)
SCHEDULE A (OT&P) JOBS IN UNIT
Account Support Representative
Accountant
Accountant/Analy st Administrator Coordinator
Associate Buyer-Planner
Associate Economic Development
Specialist
Buyer-Planner
Checker-Mechanical
Chemist
Clerk
Compliance Analyst
Computer Operator
Computer Operator-Leader Computer Operator-Trainer
Computer Technician Construction Cost "Itch.
Contract Management Engineer Cost Control Tbchnician
Customer Relations Control Clerk
Customer Sendee Clerk Customer Service Engineer Customer Service Representative Customer Service Associate
□ata Input and Control Clerk Department Administrative
Assistant
Distribution Planner (Gas) Drafting Technician
Duplicating Machine Operator Economic Development Specialist Electrical Control Clerk EDS Office Assistant
Engineer
Engineer Analyst-SC ADA Engineer-As sociate
Estimator
Facilities Technical Assistant
Field Clerk (Gas)
Field Meter Representative (Gas)
JO
Field Monter
Field Services Representative Field Service Coordinator Held Service Meter Reader Fixed Asset Analyst Gas Sales Representative Graphic Artist Graphic Design Specialist Group Leader Inserter Machine Operator Key Punch Operator Lead Computer Technician Lead Senior Designer Legal Claims Special Collector Logistics Systems Coordinator Meter Office Administrator Meter Reader Meter Route Clerk Mid Account Executive Office Assistant
Operations Office Assistant Payroll Representative Project Engineer-Energy
Management
Records Keeper
Research Clerk
Right-of-Way Agent
Rights, Permits & Work Order
Clerk
Route Clerk
Senior Customer Service
Representative
Senior Customer Relations Control Clerk
Senior Designer
Senior Telecommunications
Analyst
Senior Buyer-Planner
Service Technician
Software Staff Analyst
Special Collections Coordinator
Special Collector
Supply Management Technician Systems & Procedure Analyst Technical Clerk
Telecommunications Coordinator
Telephone Operator
51
NSTAR
HOURLY PAY SCHEDULE C
Production & Maintenance and Office-Technical & Professional Unit
1.	This hourly pay schedule sets forth the tegular hourly pay rates for a] 1 job classifications and progression steps within these classifications. It includes the fourpercent (4.0%) general wage increase effect! ve May 16,2000, the two percent (2.0%) lump sum effective May 16,2000 for those Office-Technical & Professional Workers identified in Schedule A(OT&P), the three and one-half percent (3-5%) general wage increase effective May 16, 2001 for those Production & Maintenance Workers identified in Schedule A (P&M), the three and one-half percent (3.5%) lump sum effective May 16, 2001 for those Office-Technical & Professional Workers identified in Schedule A (OT&P),the three and one-half percent (3-5%) general wage increase effective May i 6, 2002, the two percent (2%) general wage increase effective May 16,2003, and the two percent (2%) general wage increase effective May 16,2004,
2,	"Night Woik“ premiums shall be paid as follows:
a.	A premium of one dollar and twenty five cents ($1.25) per hour will be paid for hours worked on posted schedules starting after 1:59 P.M. and before 10:00 P.M., provided that, from and after May 16,2001 the one dollar and twenty five cents ($ 125) shall be increased to one dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) and provided that, from and after May 16,2002, the one dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) shall be increased to one dollar and thirty five cents ($1.35).
b.	A premium of one dollar and twenty five cents ($1.25) per hour will be paid for hours worked on posted schedules starting after 9:59 P.M. and before 6.W A.M., provided that, from and after May 16, 2001 the one dollar and twenty five cents ($ 1.25) shall be increased to one dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) and provided that, from and after May 16,2002, the one dollar and thirty cents ($1.30) shall be increased to one dollar and thirty five cents ($1.35).
3.	Progression in P&M hourly pay schedules having more than one step shall be as follows;
a An employee on the first step of a two-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top of his/her schedule.
b. An employee on the first step of a three-step schedule shaft work on that step for sax (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where
52
he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top of his/her schedule.
4.	Progression in OT&P hourly pay schedules having more than one step shall be as fellows:
LIST I
a.	An employee- on the first step of a two-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
b.	An employee on the first step of a three-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
c.	An employee on the first step of a four-step schedule shall work on that step for three (3) months then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
d.	An employee on the first step of a five-step schedule shall work on that step for three (3) months then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for three (3) months and then be advanced to the third step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
Lisrn
e.	An employee on the first step of a two-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
f.	An employee on the first step of a three-step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
g.	An employee on the first step of a four step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
h.	An employee on the first step of a five step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where
53
s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
i.	An employee on the first step of a six step schedule shall work on that step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the thud step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fifth step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
LIST 111
j.	An employee shall work on the first step for six (6) months and then be advanced to the second step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the third step where s/he shall work for twelve (12) months and then be advanced to the fourth step where s/he shall work for six (6) months and then be advanced to the fifth step where s/he shall work for twelve (12) months and then be advanced to the top step of his/her schedule.
54
Local 369 - Production and Maintenance As of May 13,2001
ob Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
\sst Dist Sys Desp A			$28.78	$29.89		
Asst Dist Sys Desp B		$23,57	$24.47	$2535	
Juto Mechanic A		$26.27			
Wq Mechanic B		$22.73	$23.63		
\u!d Mechanic C		,	$19.88	$20.52	$21.43	
Wo Mechanic D		$18.73	$19.49	$20.32	
Jackhoe Operator (Elec)		$22.97			
Jackhoe Operator (Gas).				$25.38			
2&C lust Loading		$21.97			
Zable And Corduit InsUlta..,,	$18.88	$20.96	$2207	
Cable Splicer IC		$28.45	$29.36		
Cable&Conduit Inst A		$24.44			
Hatile&Conduit Inst B		$22.07			
Cable&CotKiuit Inst C		$18.53	$19.19		
Cable&Conduit Inst D	-	-	$)6.O4	$16.72	$17.60	
Chauffeur		$2052	$21.43	$22.37	
Conduit Inspector-Maint A.,. ♦.	$2535			
Conduit Inspector-Maini B		$23.20	$24305		
Const Insp Cable A	$29.92	$30.63		
Const Insp Cable B		$26.36	$28.45		
Const Insp Conduit A		$29.18			
Const Insp Conduit B		$28.36			
Const Insp Conduit C		$24.45			
COnst Insp Engineering		$27.87	$28.99		
Const Insp O H <	.......	$27.69	$29.18		
Cust Svc Designer		$2958			
Dispatcher		$32.69			
Dtstrib Disp App 1		$29.06			
Distrib Disp App 2		$29.40			
Distrib Disp App 3 				$30.12			
Distribution Disp		$31.05			
Driver Boom Track		$2423			
Driver Line Truck		$21.32	$22.64	$23.42	
Elec Cus Svc D&gnr			$30.84			
Elec Meter Tech			$26.63			
55
Job Tide	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step
PI tv MeterTbster A	....	$25.76			
Elec Meter Tester B		$21.41	$22.93	$24.15	
Elec Meter Tester C	-	$21.41	$22.36		
Elec Meter Tester D			$18.14	$1959	$20.87	
Elec Mtr & Svc Inv		$27.08			
Engineer Associate Grl		$2420	$25.07	$26.64	
Expeditor Inspec		$23.57	$24.53	$25.76	
Field Adjuster		$25.90	$27.08		
	$21.89	$22.95	$24.01	$25.0
Field Serv Tech-L2		$26.02	$27.08		
Held Serv Tech-L3B&A		$28.32	$28.96		
Held Serv Tech-MB		$27.70			
Field Serv Tech-Trainee		$20.86			
Fitter & Srv Tech IC				
(Ply-Gas]		$26.10			
Fitter & Srv Tech 2C				
(Ply-Gas)			$22.25			
Fitter & Srv Tech 3C				
(Ply-Gas)		$20.69			
Fossil Station Laborer	... ■	$18.53	$19.06	$1956	
Ground Helper-Line Work		$1749	$19.17	$20.91	
H S Line Muter.		$28.26	$2933		
Heavy Equipment Operator....	$24.26			
Helper Underground		$19 55			
Hot Stick Ground Helper. ......	$17.81	$19.47	$2126	
Insp Hec Maint		$25.38	$26.16		
Insp Installations A		$26.04	$26.84		
Insp Installations B			$26.04			
Inspector Cable		$24.83	$25.79	$26.66	
Inspector Conduit	>	■ -	$20.73			
Inspector Overhead		$24.15	$24.97		
Inst A 1 ab ( ARd Person.	$29.46			
Inst & Lab Tachnician		$27.99			
Inst & Repair Tech IC (Gas)...	$27.82			
Installer A	—		$25.76			
Installer B		$2235	$24.15		
Installer C		$18.38	$19.72	$21.01	
Inves Eng’G Suburb		$2.9.36			
56
job Title	Step]	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Inves Engineering A		$29.00			
Inves Engineering B			$24.87	$25.79	$26.64	
Inves Engineering C		$21.92	$23.20	$24.32	
Investigatar-Trans^Dist A		$2535	$26.04	$27.58	
Investigator-Trat^&Dist B		$22.65	$23.90	$25.07	
Janitor Power Plants		$27.10			
Laboratory Helper.		$16.76	$17.49	$19.09	
Laborer (Gas)			-		$19.19			
Lamp Maint bispec A		$2334	$24.83		
Lamp Maint Inspec B		$21.92			
Lamp Maim Inspec C		$19.72	$21.01		
Lamp Maine Inspec D		$1724	$18.12	$18.88	
Lamp Pat Insp SB		$25.10			
Lamp Patrol Inspector		$23.16	$34.87		
Lamp Ranger		$2637			
Lead Technician (Gas)	.		$26.01			
Leader, Autc Repair.				$27.01	$28,16		
Leader, Bldg Painter		$24.15	$24.97	$26.16	
Leader, C & C Earth AO		$24.79			
Leader C & C Gas	$23.04	$24,07		
Leader, Cable & Conduit		$2836			
Leader, Elec Maint		$26.77	$28.03	$29.45	
Leader, Elec Meter Tech		$29.45			
Leader, Elec Meter Test		$2631	$27.93		
Leader, Equip Service				$2634	$28.49		
Leader Meeh Maim...........	$26.77	$28,03	$29.45	
Leader, Ovcrtiead Lines		$30.89			
Leader. UG Linewoiter			$28.92			
Linewoifar 0 H A.............	$26.04	$27.13		
Lineworker 0 H B		$22.71	$24.15		
Lineworker OHC		$20.73	$21.41		
Lineworker, UG Class #1		$28.72			
Lineworker, UG Class #2		$24.92			
Lineworker, UG Class #3		$1921	$2137	$22.50	
LNG Oper & Repair Tech				
(Gas)			$2530			
Maint it Repair Tech IC (Gas).	$2530			
57
Job Hile	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Maim & Repair Tfech 2C (Gas).	$22.96			
Maim & Repair Tech 3C (Gas),	$21.67			
Maint & Repair Tech Hlpr				
(Gas)		$20.34			
Maim Mechanic Special		$27.99			
Maintenance Mechanic A		$25.18			
Material Cootdinator		$25.41			
Material Handler, 			$19.38	$20.99	$22.60	$24.17
Meeh Bldg Maim A ..,		$24.89	$25.76		
Meeh Bldg Maim B		$21.92	$22.82		
Meeh Bldg Maint C	$20.12	$21.01		
		$2616		
Meeh Elec Maint A GrOO		$26.16	$26.93		
Meeh Elec Maim B		$23.07	$24.01		
Meeh Elec Maint C.	$20.39	$21.70	$22.65	
Meeh Efec Service A .,					$24.08	$25.25		
Meeh Elec Service B -				$2132	$22.32	$23.56	
Meeh Equip Service B					$24.42	$25.70		
Meeh Equip Service C._		$19.7]	$20.97	$21.88	
Meeh Meeh Maint A		$25.38	$26.16		
Meeh Meeh Maint B,..........	$23.07	$24.01		
Meeh Meeh Mainl C....		$20.39	$21.70	$22.65	
Mechanic.. »*	*.».	$28.60			
Mechanic Apprentice E			$20.39			
Mechanic Apprentice F		$21.16			
Mechanic Apprentice G			$21.88			
Mechanic Apprentice H		$22.65			
Mechanic Apprentice J				$23.38			
Mechanic Apprentice K		$24.13			
Mechanic Apprentice L		$24.87			
Mechanic Apprentice M		$25.63			
Mechanic Apprentice N			$26.36			
Mechanic Apprentice P	,,	$27.09			
Mechanic Apprentice R		$27.85			
Mechanic Cntrl Shp A		$25.42	$26.09	$29.00	
Mechanic Cntrl Shp B		$24.49	$25.03	$25.57	
Mechanic-Welder			$27.52			
58
JobUtfe	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
G H Hot Stick TSh.			$29.45	$31.26		
Oil Cab Insp Maint A		$25.75	$26.73		
Oil Cab Insp Maine B	—	$22.32	$23.20		
Opcr Gen Station A		$29.29			
Oper Gen Station B,		$27.38			
Opet Gen Station C		$2465	$26.24		
Oper Gen Station D		$21.47	$22.41	$23.26	
Operating Meeh Apprentice....	$18.12	$19.72	$21.21	$2235
	StepS	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
	$23.38	$24.13	$24.76	$2563
	Step 9	Step 10	Step 11	
	$2636	$27.09	$27.85	
Operating Mechanic.		$28.99			
Operator Subsist A				$2738			
Operator Substat B			$22.35	$24.12	$26.25	
	$18.12	$19.72	$2121	
Overhd Tib! Shootr . d	h .	$27.07	$28.79		
	$26.14			
Painter Production B		$2258	$2361	$24.59	
Power Plant Assistant		$21j61			
Repair Technician IC (Gas)....	$23.72			
Repair Technician 2C (Gas)...	$21.41			
Repair Technician Helper				
(Gas)			$2034			
Report Despalcher		$20.44	$2139	$22.53	
Roving Operator		$25.22			
Service Dispatcher A		$23.24	$24.76		
Service Dispatcher B		$22.64			
Service Dispatcher C		$18.43	$19.74	$2132	
Service TeclVHtter (NB-Gas)...	$26.95			
Splicer A.		$28.16			
Splicer B		$24.04	$25.01		
Splicer C.		$1838	$1935	$2042	$2264
Srvc Tfech/Fitter IC (NB-Gas)..	$25.92			
Srvc TechTFitter 2C (NB-Gas)..	$21.79			
Srvc Tech/Fitter 3C (NB-Gas)..	$20.50			
Srvc Tech/Fitter Hlpr				
(NB-Gas)		$19.88			
59
Job Tide	Step 1	Step 2	StepS	Step 4
Station Electrician—Leader ....	$29.46			
Steam Fitter Special		$29.46			
Stock Keeper A ►*	*	- ■	$24.12	$24.92		
Stock Keeper B		$22.58	$23.56		
Stock Keeper C				$20.73	$22,08		
Stock Keeper D				$16.80	$17.65	$18.88	
Stock Keeper DupJ A —		520.12	$21.41	$22-57	
Slock Keeper Dupl B .,,		$1749	$18.38	$1920	
Sys Disp App 1		$29.06			
Sys Disp App 2		$2940			
Sys Disp App 3-		$30,12			
System Dispatcher		$31.05			
Tech Investigator		$28.23	$30.21		
Tfech Lab-Crare Opr		$2681			
Ibchnician Lab A				$24.20	$25.07	$26.64	
Technician Lab B		$21.41	$2X18	$22.99	
Trans Insp Maint		$25.83	$27.14		
Transport Dispatch		$21.04	$21.75	$2257	
Truck Driver A				$22.93	$23.69		
Truck Driver B		$20.63	$21.30	$22.06	
Truck Driver Help A		$21.01			
Thick Driver Help B		$1672	$17.74	$19.55	
Hucking Cootdinator				$25.41			
U G Trouble Shoot		$27.98	$29.36	$30.99	
Underground App		$28.45	$29.37		
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai A		$19.72	$20.63	$21.93	
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai B 			$17.34	$18.14	$19.57	
Util Wrkr Gen Sta A			$21.92			
Util Wrkr Gen Sta B		$17.98	$19.20	$20.63	
Util Wrkr Substa		$17.98	$1920	$20.74	
Utility A (Gas)		$25.11			
Utility B (Gas)			$22.07			
Utility C (Gas)		$20.87			
Utility Worker A		$18.56			
Utility Woiker-Pra			$22.82			
Water Tender		$26.52			
Welder Utility (Gas)	-		$2648			
63
obTTtie		Step I	Step 2		Step 3	Step 4
forking Foreperson UG Disc..		$27.98	$29.36		$30.99	
forking Leader Gas Dist-NB..		$26.95				
taking Leader Gas EMsl-Ply..		$27.66				
taking Leader-Meter Rep ■						
(Gas)			$25.81				
Local 369	- Office-Technical and Professional					
	As of May 16,2001					
ob Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
recount Supp Rep...	$23.26	$24.12	$24.92	$27.11	$28.09	
accountant		$23.29	$25.13	$26.82	$28.11	$30.59	
Accountant? Analyst...	$23.29	$25.13	$26.82	$28.11	$30.59	
Ulmin Coordinator...	$20.97	$21.52	$22.07	$22.62	$23.17	
Assc Buyer-Planner ..	$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Assoc Stf Anal-Tos...	$17.72	$19.07	$20.43			
tiling Associate		$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
tiling Represent		$20.19	$20.97	$21.72			
tiling Specialist		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
□yer/Mat Cont Spc .	$25.77	$26.39				
uyer-Planner		$24.18	$24.74				
VI Representative,...	$24.18	$24.74				
Checker Mechanical..	$27.24	$27.85				
Zhemist. 				   t	$24.64	$25.54	$26.44	$28.50	$29.48	$31.49
?lerk Grid		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
llerk Grl 1		$23.20	$23.78				
llerk Grl 2		$24.18	$24.74				
:ierk Grl 3		$25.77	$26.39				
Cleric Gr2 ... 	  „	$10.65	$11.30	$11,73	$12.31	$12.96	
□erk Gr3		$13.08	$13.68	$14.39	$14.85	$15.41	
Herk Gr4		$13.95	$14.71	$15.29	$15.93	$16.62	
Zlerk Gr5		$16.31	$17.01	$17.72			
Zlerk Gr6		$17.35	$17.95	$1857			
Zlerk Gr7...			$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Clerk Gr8		$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Zlerk Gt9		$20.19	$20.97	$21,72			
Jomp Open Leader...	$24.18	$24.74				
Compliance Analyst..	$23.29	$25.13	$26.82			
61
Job Title Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step
Computer Operator...	$23.20	$23.78			
Computer Technician. Const Cost	$23.26	$24.12	$24.93	$27.12	$28.08
Technician Grid...	$21.27	$21.92	$22.5)		
Const Cost Technician Grl 1 ... Const Cost	$23.20	$23.78			
Technician Grl2... Const Cost	$24.18	$24.74			
Technician Gr9 ....	$20.19	$20.97	$21.72		
Contract Mgmt Eng..	$25.45	$27.26	$28.96	$30.66	$32.37
Control Clerk GrIO..,	$21.27	$21.92	$22.51		
Control Clerk Gr8....	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29		
Control Clerk Gr9.... Cost Control	$20.19	$20 97	$21.72		
Technician		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51		
Credit Rep		$19.07	$19.66	$20.29		
Cust Rei Cntrl Clerk. Customer Serv	$20.19	$20.97	$21.72		
Representative		$18.23	$19.23	$20.23		
Customer Service					
Associate	$15.00	$16.00			
Customer Service					
Engineer	 Customer Service	$23.26	$24.12	$24.92	$27.11	$28.09 $30.0
Rep	 Customer Svc Clerk	$23.20	$23.78			
Gr6		$17.35	$17.95	$18.57		
Customer Svc Clerk Gr8	 Data Input & Con	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29		
Clerk GrIO	 Data Input & Con	$21.27	$21.92	$22.51		
Clerk Gr?		$18.18	$18.71	$19.41		
Data Input & Con Clerk GrS	 Data Input & Con	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29		
Clerk Gr9		$20.19	$20.97	$2L72		
62
Job Title	Slept	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
Dept Admin Assist						
GrlO		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Dept Admin Assisi						
Grll		$23.20	$23.78				
Dept Admin Assisi						
Gr9				$20.19	$20.97	$21.72			
Distribution Planner						
(Gas)		$24.85 '					
Drafting Tech GrJO ..	$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Drafting Tech Grl I...	$23.20	$23.78				
Drafting Tech Grl2 ..	$24.18	$24.74				
Drafting Tech Grl 4 ..	$27.24	$27.85				
Drafting Tech Gr3....	$13.08	$13.68	$14.39	$14.85	$15.41	
Drafting Tech Gr5....	$16.31	$17.01	$17.72			
Drafting Tech Gr6....	$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Drafting Tech Gr7....	$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Drafting Tech Gr8.... Dupl Machine Oper	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Gr2	 Dupl Machine Opcr	$10.65	$11.30	$11.73	$12.31	$12.96	
Gr3		$13.08	$13.68	$14.39	$14.85	$15.41	
Dupl Machine Oper Gr5	 Dupl Machine Oper	$16.31	$17.01	$17.72			
Gr?			$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Energy Center Cferk ,	$17.72	$17.95	$18.57	$18.71	$19.40	
Eng Analyst-Scada ...	$23.85	$25.55	$27.26	$28.96	$30.66	$32.37
Engineer	 Engineer Associate	$23.26	$24.12	$24.92	$27.11	$28.09	$30.00
Gr2		$24.64	$26.44				
Engineer Gr4		$33.24					
Estimator 		 Facility & Equip	$23.20	$23.78				
Specialist			$25.55	$27.26	$28.96	$32.08	$32.37	
Facility Tech Assistant. ............ $29.26
Field Clerk (Gas).... $22.80
63
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step
Field Meter Rep						
(Gas)		$19.12					
Field Monitor	 Field Service	$23.85	$25.55	$27 26	$28.96	$30.66	
Coordinator	 Field Service Meter	$27.24					
Reader						$16.15	$17.22	$18.18	$18.71	$19.41	
Field Service Rep I...	$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Field Service Rep IL.	$24.18	$24.74				
Fixed Asset Analyst,, Gas Sales	$25.77	$26.39				
Representative	 Graph Design	$28,75					
Specialists........	$24.18	$24.74				
Graphic Artist		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Group Leader		 Inserter Meeh	$20.19	$20.97	$21.72			
Operator	 IS Asset Staff	$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Analyst			$23.44	$24.55	$25.65	$26.76	$27.86	
Key Punch Operator . Lead Senior	$17.3$	$17.95	$18.57			
Designer		$27,24	$27.85				
Leader, Computer						
Tech		$33.24					
Legal Cla Spec Col .. Logistics Sys	$23.20	$23.78				
Coordinator Grl2..	$24.18	$24.74				
Logistics Sys Coordinator Gr!4.. Meter Office	$27.24	$27.85				
Administrator Gr6 . Meter Office	$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Administrator Gr7 .	$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Meter Office Administrator Gr8 . Meter Route Clerk	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Gr9		$20.19	$20.97	$21.72			
64
obTOe	Step 1	Step I	Step 3	Step 4	Steps	Step€
Mid Account						
Executive		$23.26	$24.12	$24.92	$27.11	$28.09	$30.00
Office Administrator						
Gr6 					$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Office Administrator						
Gr7		$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Office Administrator						
GrS		$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Office Assistant GrS..	$13.08	$13.68	$14.39	$14.85	$15.41	
Office Assistant Gr5..	$1631	$17.01	$17.72			
Office Assistant Gr6..	$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Office Assistant Gt7..	$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Office Assistant Gr8..	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Office Assistant Gr9..	$20.19	$20.97	$21.72			
Operations Office						
Admin Gr6		$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			*
Operations Office						
Admin Gr7		$18.18	$18.71	$19.41			
Operations Office						
Admin GrS		$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Payroll Represent						
GrIO		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Projct Eng-Enr Mgt..	$25.55	$27.26	$28.96	$30.66	$32.37	
Records Keeper						
Grl 2		$24.18	$24.74				
Rghts.Prmt&Wo Clrk						
GrIO		$21.27	$21.92	$22.51			
Rghts(Prmt&Wo Clrk						
Gr6 . 		$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Right Of Way Agent						
Grl 2		$24.18	$24.74				
Right Of Way Agent						
GrS		$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Right Of Way Agent						
Gr9		$20.19	$20.97	21.72			
Route Clerk A		$23.20	$23.78				
Route Clerk B		$25.77	$26.39				
Service Technician .,.	$23.20	$23.78				
65
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	StepS	Step
Software Staff						
Analyst			$23.44	$24.55	$25 65	$26.76	$27.86	
Spec Collctns Coot						
- Grl3		$25.77	$26.39				
Spec Collctns Coor						
Grl4		$27.24	$27.85				
Special Collector		$23.20	$23.78				
Sr Buyer Planner		$27.24	$27.85				
Sr Computer						
'Technician		$30.00					
Sr Cus Rei Con						
Clerk 		$23.20	$23.78				
Sr Customer Service						
Rep		$23.00	$24.00	$25.00			
Sr Cvst Serv Assoc..,	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Sr Designer		$24.18	$24.74				
Sr Dta Ent & PC						
Clerk 		$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Sr Tdecornununications						
Anal			$30.35	$30.89	$31.44	$32.00	$32.55	
Supl Mgmt Tech I....	$17.35	$17.95	$18.57			
Supl Mgmt Tech II...	$19.07	$19.66	$20.29			
Supl Mgmt Tech III..	$20.19	$20.97	$21,72			
System Operations						
Assistant		$21.27	$21.92	$22.5 i			
Systems S Procedure						
Analyst		$24.29	$26.05	$27.92	$29.67		
Technical Clerk						
Grl 3		$25.77	$26.39				
Telecommunications						
Coordinator		$23.20	$23.78				
Telephone Operator..	$16.31	$17.01	$17.72			
Local 369 - Production and Maintenance As or May 16, 2002
Jah Title	Step!	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Asst Dist Sys Desp A		.	$29.79	$30.94		
Asst Dist Sys Desp B		.	$24.39	$25.33	$26.24	
66
Step 4
Job Title	Step I	Step 2	Step 3
Auto Mechanic A	$27.19		
Auto Mechanic B		$23.53	$24.46	
Auto Mechanic C		$20.58	$21.24	$22.18
Auto Mechanic D		$19.39	$20.17	$21.03
Backhoe Operator (Elec)		$23.77		
Backhoe Operator (Gas)		$26,27		
C&C Inst Loading			$22,74		
Cable And Conduit Installer.	$19.54	$21.69	$22,84
Cable Splicer IC (NB)		$29,45	$30.39	
Cable&Conduit Inst A		$25.30		
Cable&Conduit Inst B		$22.84		
Cable&Conduit Inst C		$19.18	$19.86	
Cable&Conduit Inst D		$16.60	$17.31	$18,22
Chauffeur		$21.24	$22.18	$23.15
Conduit Jnspector-Maint A...	$26.24		
Conduit Inspector-Maint B...	$24.01	$24.89	
Const Insp Cable A 			$30.97	$31.70	
Const Insp Cable B 			$27.28	$29.45	
Const Insp Conduit A		$30.20		
Const Insp Conduit B		$29.35		
Const Insp Conduit C		$25.31		
Const Insp Engineering		$28.85	$30.00	
Const Insp OH,,.				$28.66 '	$30,20	
Cust Svc Designer.			$30.62		
Dispatcher	,.. ......	$33.83		
Distrib Disp App 1			$30.08		
Distrib Disp App 2			$30.43		
Distrib Disp App 3			$31.17		
Distribution Disp		$32.14		
Driver Boom Track			$25.08		
Driver Line Truck		$22.07	$23.43	$24.24
Elec Cus Svc Dsgnr ,	$31.92		
Elec Meter Tech	$27,56		
Elec Meter Tester A				$26.66		
Elec Meter Tester B>	$22. J 6	$23.73	$25.00
Elec Meter Tester C			$22,16	$23.14	
Elec Meter Tester D.		$18.77	$20.28	$21.60
67
Job Title	Step 1	Step 7	Step3	Step 4
Elec Mtr & Svc Jnv		$28.03			
Expeditor Inspec		$24.39	$25.39	$26.66	
Field Adjuster			$26.81	$28.03	•	
Field Serv Tech-Ll			$22.66	$23.75	$24.85	$25.96
Field Serv Tech-L2	.	$26.93	$28.03		
Field Serv Tech-L3B		$28.6?			
Field Serv Tech-L3B&A		$29.31	$29.97		
Field Serv Tech-Trainee		$21.59			
Finer & Srv Tech IC				
(Ply-Gas)				$27.01			
Fitter & Srv Tech 2C				
(Ply-Gas)		$23.03			
Fitter &. Srv Tech 3C				
(Ply-Gas)		$21.41			
Fossil Station Laborer		$19.18	$19.73	$20.24	
Ground Helper-Line Work ...	$18.10	$19.84	$21.64	
H S Line Worker		$29.25	$30.36		
Heavy Equipment Operator..	$25.11			
Helper Underground		$20.23			
Hot Stick Ground Helper ....	$18.43	$20.15	$22.00	
Insp Elec Maint			$26.27	$27.08		
Insp Installations A		$26.95	$27.78		
Insp Installations B		$26.95			
Inspector Cable		$25.70	$26.69	$27.59	
Inspector Conduit		$21.46			
Inspector Overhead		$25.00	$25.84		
Inst & Lab Lead Person		$30.49			
Insl & Lab Tachnician		$28.97			
Inst & Repair Tech IC				
(Gas)		$28.79			
Installer A		$26.66			
Installer B ........			$23.13	$25.00		
	$19.02	$20.41	$21.75	
Inves Eng’G Suburb		$30.39			
Inves Engineering A		$30.02			
Inves Engineering B 			$25.74	$26.69	$27.5?	
Inves Engineering C		$22.69	$24.01	$25.17	
Investigator-Trans.&Dist A ..	$26.24	$2695	$28.55	
68
Investigator-Trans.&Dist 3 ..	$23.44	$24.74	$25.95
Janitor Power Plants .			$28.05		
Laboratory Helper								$17.35	$18.10	$19.76
Laborer (Gas)- -			$19.86		
Lamp Maint inspec A	..	$24.36	$25.70	
Lamp Maint Inspec B. *	*	$22.69		
Lamp Maint Inspec C		$20.41	$21.75	
Lamp Maint Inspec D		$17.84	$18.75	$19.54
Lamp Pat Insp S B		$25.98		
Lamp Patrol Inspector,			$23.97	$25.74	
Lamp Ranger...		$26.98		
Lead Technician (Gas)			$26.92		
Leader, Auto Repair			$27.96	$29.15	
Leader, Bldg Painter			$25.00	$25.84	$27.08
Leader, C & C Earth A 0....	$25.66		
Leader, C & C Gas		$23.85	$24.91	
Leader, Cable & Conduit....	$29.35		
Leader, Elec Main)				$27.71	$29.01	$30.48
Leader, Elec Meter Tech		$30.48		
Leader, Elec Meter Test		$27.23	$28.91	
Leader, Equip Service		$27.78	$29.49	
Leader, Meeh Maint, 				$27.71	$29.01	$30.48
Leader, Overhead Lines		$31.97		
Leader, UG Lineworker		$29.93		
Li ne worker O HA		$26.95	$28.08	
Lineworker OHB			$23.50	$25.00	
Lineworker 0 H C 			$21.46	$22.16	
Line worker, UG Class #1....	$29.73		
Lineworker, UG Class #2....	$25.79		
Li ne worker, UG Class #3....	$19.88	$22.12	$23.29
LNG Oper & Repair Tech			
(Gas)			$26.19		
Maint & Repair Tech IC			
(Gas)		$26.19		
Maim & Repair Tech 2C			
(Gas)		$23.76		
Maint & Repair Tech 3C			
(Gas)		$22.43		
69
Job Hile	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Maint & Repair Tech Hlpr				
(Gas)		$21.05			
Maint Mechanic Special		$28.97			
Maintenance Mechanic A....	$26.06			
Material Coordinator			$26.30			
Material Handler				$20.06	$21.72	$23.39	$25,02
Meeh Bldg Maint A			$25.76	$26.66		
Meeh Bldg Maint B		$22.69	$23.62		
Meeh Bldg Maint C		$20.82	$21.75		
Meeh Elec Maint A		$26.27	$27.08		
Meeh Elec Maint AGrOO....	$27.08	$27.87		
Meeh Elec Main! B		$23.88	$24.85		
Meeh Elec Maint C		$21.10	$22.46	$23.44	
Meeh Elec Service A		$24.92	$26.13		
Meeh Elec Service B		$22.07	$23.10	$24,38	
Meeh Equip Service B		$25.27	$26.60		
Meeh Equip Service C	,	$20.40	$21.70	$22.65	
Meeh Meeh Maint A		$26.27	$27.08		
Meeh Meeh Maint B		$23.88	$24.85		
Meeh Meeh Maint C		$21.10	$22.46	$23.44	
Mechanic		$29.60			
Mechanic Apprentice E		$21.10			
Mechanic Apprentice F		$21.90			
Mechanic Apprentice G		$22.65			
Mechanic Apprentice H		$23.44			
Mechanic Apprentice J		$24.20			
Mechanic Apprentice K		$24.97			
Mechanic Apprentice L		$25.74			
Mechanic Apprentice M		$26.53			
Mechanic Apprentice N		$27.28			
Mechanic Apprentice P		$28.04			
Mechanic Apprentice R		$28.82			
Mechanic Cntrt Shp A		$26.31	$27.00	$30.02	
Mechanic Cntrl Shp B		$25.35	$25.91	$26.46	
Mechanic-Welder				$28.48			
0 H Hot Stick T Sh		$30.48	$32.35		
Oil Cab Insp Maint A		$26.65	$27.67		
70
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Dil Cab Insp Maim B		$23.10	$24.01		
□per Gen Station A		$30.32			
Oper Gen Station B		$28.34			
Dper Gen Station C		$25.41	$27,16		
Oper Gen Station D		$22.22	$23.19	$24.07	
Operating Meeh Apprentice..	$18.75	$20.41	$21.95	$23.13
	Step5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
	$24.20	$24.97	$25.63	$26.53
	Step 9	Step 10	Step 11	
	$27.28	$28.04	$28.82	
Operating Mechanic		$30.00			
Operator Substat A~.	$28.34			
Operator Substat B		$23.13	$24.96	$27.17	
Operator Substat C		$18.75	$20.41	$21.95	
	$28.02	$29.80		
Painter Production A		$27.05			
Painter Production B		$23.37	$24.44	$25.45	
Power Plant Assistant		$22.37			
Repair Technician IC (Gas) ,	$24.55			
Repair Technician 2C (Gas) .	$22.16			
Repair Technician Helper				
(Gas) ..						$21.05			
Report Despatcher		$21.16	$22.14	$23.32	
Roving Operator		$26.10			
Service Dispatcher A		$24.05	$25.63		
Service Dispatcher B		$23.43			
Service Dispatcher C		$19.08	$20.43	$22.07	
Service Tech/Fitter (NB-				
Gas)		$27.89			
Splicer A		$29.15			
Splicer B		$24.88	$25.89		
Splicer C		$19.23	$20.23	$21.13	$23.43
Srvc TecWFitter IC				
(NB-Gas)		$26.83			
Srvc Tech/Fitter 2C				
(NB-Gas)		$22.55			
Srvc Tech/Fitter 3C				
(NB-Gas)		$21.22			
71
Job Title		Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step
Srvc Tech/Fitter Hl or				
(NB-Gas)^. x... 					$20.58			
Station Electrician—Leader..	$30.49			
Steam Fitter Special		$30.49			
Stock Keeper A		$24.96	$25.79		
Stock Keeper B		$23.37	$24.38		
Stock Keeper C	-		$21.46	$22.85		
Stock Keeper D		$17.39	$18.27	$19.54	
Stock Keeper Dupl A		$20;82	$22.16	$23.36	
Stock Keeper Dupl B		$18.10	$19-02	$19.87	
Sys Disp App 1		$30.08			
Sys Disp App 2		$30.43			
Sys Disp App 3		$31.17			
System Dispatcher		$32.14			
Tech Investigator		$29.22	$31.27		
Itch Lab-Crane Opr		$27.75			
Technician Lab A		$25.05	$25.95	$27.57	
Technician Lab B —		$22.16	$22.96	$23.79	
Trans Insp Maint		$26.73	$28.09		
Transport Dispatch		$21-78	$22.51	$23.36	
Truck Driver A		$23.73	$24.52		
Truck Driver B			$21.35	$22.05	$22.83	
Truck Driver Help A		$21.75			
Truck Driver Help B		$17.31	$18.36	$20.23	
Tracking Coordinator		$26-30			
U G Trouble Shoot		$28.96	$30.39	$32.07	
Underground App	-		$29,45	$30.40		
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai A		$20.41	$21.35	$22.70	
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai B		$17.95	$18.77	$20.25	
Util Wrkr Gen Sta A		$22.69			
Util Wrkr Gen Sta B		$18.61	$19.87	$21.35	
Util Wrkr Substa	-	$18.61	$19.87	$21.47	
Utility A (Gas)		$25.99			
Utility B (Gas) 		$22.84			
Utility C (Gas)		$21.60			
Utility Worker A		$19.21			
Utility Worker-Pro		$23.62			
72
ob Title	Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4
Vater Tender................... $27.45
Velder Utility (Gas).......	$27.41
Vorking Foreperson UG Dist NB......................... $28.96	$30.39	$32.07
Vorking Leader Gas Dist-NB............................. $27.89
Vorking Leader Gas Dist-Ply............................ $28.63
Vorking Leader-Meter Rep (Gas).......................... $26.71
Local 369 - Office-Technical and Professional As of May 16,2002
ob Title	Slept	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
\ccount Supp Rep		.. $24.07	$24.96	$25.79	$28.06	$29.07	
kccoimtanl		.. $24.11	$26.01	$27.76	$29.09	$31.66	
Kccountant/Anal yst		.. $24.11	$26.01	$27.76	$29.09	$31.66	
Vdmin Coordinator		.. $21.70	$22.27	$22.84	$23.41	$23.98	
kssc Buyer-Planner....	.. $22.01	$22.69	$23.30			
Vssoc Stf Anal-Tos		.. $18.34	$19.74	$21.15			
Idling Associate		.. $18.82	$19.36	$20.09			
idling Represent		.. $20.90	$21.70	$22.48			
idling Specialist		.. $22.01	$22.69	$23.30			
iuyer/Mat Coat Spc ...	.. $26.67	$27.31				
iuyer-Planner		.. $25.03	$25.61				
71 Representative		.. $25.03	$25.61				
Checker Mechanical....	.. $28.19	$28.82				
Chemist		.. $25.50	$26.43	$27.37	$29.50	$30.51	$32.59
Jerk GrIO		.. $22.01	$22.69	$23.30			
Jerk Grll		.. $24.01	$24.61				
Jerk Grl2			.. $25 03	$25.61				
Jerk Grl3		.. $26.67	$27.31				
Jerk Grl		,. $11.02	$11.70	$12.14	$12.74	$13.41	
Jerk Gr3		.. $13.54	$14.16	$14.89	$15.37	$15.95	
Jerk Gr4		.. $14.44	$15.22	$15.83	$16.49	$17.20	
Jerk GrS		.. $16.38	$17.61	$18.34			
Jerk Gr6		.. $17.96	$18.58	$19.22			
73
Job Title   Step !Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step
Clerk Gr7		$18 82	$19 36	$20 09
Clerk Gr8		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Clerk Gr9		$20.90	$21.70	$22.48
Comp Oper Leader		$25.03	$25.61	
Compliance Analyst		$24.11	$26.01	$27.76
Computer Operator		$24.01	$24.6!	
Computer Technician		$24.07	$24.96	$25.80 $28.07 $29.06
Const Cost Technician			
GriO		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
Const Cost Technician			
Grll		$24.01	$24.61	
Const Cost Technician			
		C'K Al	
Const Cost Technician			
Gr9		$20.90	$21.70	$22.48
Contract Mgmt Eng		$26.34	$28.21	$29.97 $31.73 $33.50
Control Clerk GrIO.		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
Control Clerk Gr8		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Control Clerk Gi9...		$20.90	$21.70	$22.48
Cost Control Technician .	$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
Credit Rep		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Cust Rei Cntrl Clerk		$20.90	$21.70	$22.48
Customer Serv			
Representative		$18.87	$19.90	$20.94
Customer Service			
Associate		$15.53	$16.56	
Customer Service			
Engineer		$24.07	$24.96	$25.79 $28.06 $29.07 $31.05
Customer Service Rep ...	$24.01	$24.61	
Customer Svc Clerk Gr6.	$17.96	$18.58	$19.22
Customer Svc Clerk GrB.	$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Data Input & Con Clerk			
GriO		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
Data Input & Con Clerk			
Gr7		$18.82	$19.36	$20.09
Data Input & Con Clerk			
Gtfi		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
74
Step 6
Job Tide	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5
Data Input & Con Clerk					
Gr9				$20.90	$21.70	$22.48		
Dept Admin Assist GrlO.	$22.01	$22.69	$23.30		
Dept Admin Assist Grl i .	$24.01	$24.61			
Dept Admin Assist Or® ..	$20.90	$21.70	$22.48		
Distribution Planner					
(Gas)		$25.72				
Drafting Tech Grit)		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30		
Drafting Tech Grll		$24.01	$24.61			
Drafting Tech Grl 2		$25.03	$25.61			
Drafting Itch Grt4		$28.19	$28.82			
Drafting Tech Gr3			$13.54	$14.16	$14.89	$15.37	$15.95
Drafting Itch Gr5				$16.88	$17.61	$18.34		
Drafting Itch Grti	„	$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Drafting Tech Gr7		$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
Drafting Tech Gr8				$19.74	$20.35	$21.00		
Dupl Machine Oper Gr2 .	$11.02	$11.70	$12.14	$12.74	$13.41
Dupl Machine Oper Gr3 .	$13.54	$14.16	$14.89	$15.37	$15.95
Dupl Machine Oper Gr5.	$16.33	$17.61	$18.34		
Dupl Machine Oper Gr7.	$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
Electric Control Clerk....	$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Energy Center Clerk		$18.34	$18.58	$19.22	$19.36	$20.08
Eng Analyst-Scada.		$24.68	$26.44	$28.21	$29.97	$31.73
Engineer...			$24.07	$24.96	$25.79	$28.06	$29.07
Engineer Associate Grl..	$25.05	$25.95	$27,57		
Engineer Associate Gr2..	$25.50	$27.37			
Engineer Gr4		$34.40				
Estimator		$24.01	$24.61			
Facility & Equip					
Specialist		$26.44	$28.21	$29.97	$33.20	$33.50
Facility Tech Assistant.,,	$30.28				
Field Clerk (Gas)		$23.60				
Field Meter Rep (Gas)...	$19.79				
Field Monitor			$24.68	$26.44	$28.21	$29.97	$31.73
Field Service					
Coordinator		$28.19				
Field Service Meter					
Reader,...... 				$16.72	$17.82	$18.82	$19.36	$20,09
$33.50
$31.05
75
Job Title	Step 1	Step!	Step 3	Step 4	StepS Step 6
Field Service Rep I..		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30		
Field Service Rep II.		$25.03	$25.61			
Fixed Asset Analyst		$26.67	$27.31			
Gas Sales Representative.,,.	$29.76				
Graph Design Specialist ,	$25.03	$25.61			
Graphic Artist		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30		
Group Leader				$20.90	$21.70	$22.48		
Inserter Meeh Operator..	$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
<S Asset Staff Analyst....	$24.26	$25.41	$26.55	$27.70	$28.84
Key Punch Operator		$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Lead Senior Designer....	$28.19	$28.82			
Leader, Computer Tech ..	$34.40				
Legal Cla Spec Col		$24.0 i	^24*61			
Logistics Sys					
Coordinator Gri2		$25.03	$25.61			
Logistics Sys					
Coordinator Gr!4		$28.19	$28.82			
Meter Office					
Administrator Gr6		$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Meter Office					
Administrator Gr7 . * »..	$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
Meter Office					
Administrator GrS . -.. -	$19.74	$20.35	$21.00		
Meter Route Clerk Gt9 ..	$20.90	$21.70	$22.48		
Mid Account Executive ..	$24.07	$24.96	$25.79	$28.06	$29.07 $31.05
Office Administrator Gr6....	$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Office Administrator Gr7....	$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
Office Adrrurastrator Gr8 ...	$19.74	$20.35	$21.00		
Office Assistant Gr3		$13.54	$14.16	$14.89	$15.37	$15.95
Office Assistant Gr5		$16.88	$17.61	$18.34		
Office Assistant GrtS		$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Office Assistant Gr7		$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
Office Assistant Gr8		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00		
Office Assistant Gr9		$20.90	$21.70	$22.48		
Operations Office Admin					
Grt					$17.96	$18.58	$19.22		
Operations Office Admin					
Or?					$18.82	$19.36	$20.09		
76
Jeb Title Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Suy 4 Step 5 Step 6
Operations Office Admin
Gr8		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Payroll Represent GriO..	$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
Projct Eng-Enr Mgi		$26.44	$28.21	$29.97 $31.73 $33.50
Records Keeper Gr12....	$25.03	$25.61	
RghtsJhmt&Wb Cbk GriO.	$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
RghtsJ’rmt&Wb Chk Gr6...	$17.96	$18.58	$19.22
Right Of Why Agent Grl 2 ..	$25.03	$25.61	
Right Of Way Agent Gr8...	$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Right Of Why Agent Gr9....	$20.90	$21.70	$22.48
Route Clerk A		$24.01	$24.61	
Route Clerk B		$26.67	$27.31	
Service Technician		$24.01	$24.61	
Software Staff Analyst...	$24.26	$25.41	$26.55 $27.70 $28.84
Spec CoUctns Coor Grl3....	$26.67	$27.31	
Spec Collctns Coot Grl4....	$28.19	$28.82	
Special Collector		$24.01	$24.61	
Sr Buyer Planner		$28.19	$28.82	
Sr Computer Technician .	$31.05		
Sr Cus Rei Con Clerk....	$24.01	$24.61	
Sr Customer Savice Rep....	$23.81	$24.84	$25.88
Sr Cvst Serv Assoc		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Sr Designer		$25.03	$25.61	
Sr Dta Ent & PC Clerk	$17.96	$18.58	$19.22
Sr Telecommunications			
Anal			$31.41	$31.97	$32.54 $33.12 $33.69
Supl Mgmt Tech I		$17.96	$18.58	$19.22
Supl Mgmt Tech II..		$19.74	$20.35	$21.00
Supl Mgmt Tech HI		$20.90	$21.70	$22.48
System Operations			
Assistant		$22.01	$22.69	$23.30
Systems & Procedure			
Analyst		$25.14	$26.96	$28.90 $30.71
Technical Clerk Grl 3 ....	$26.67	$27.31	
Telecom munications			
Coordinator		$24.01	$24.61	
Telephone Operator		$16.88	$17.61	$18.34
77
Local 369 - Production and Maintenance As of May 16,2003
Joi,™	.	Step I	Step 2	Step 3
Asst Dist Sys Desp A.....		$30.39	$31.56	
Asst Dist Sys Desp B	.....	$24.88	$25.84	$26.76
Auto Mechanic A 			$27.73		
Auto Mechanic B ................	$24.00	$24.95	
Auto Mechanic C	-		$20.99	$21.66	$22.62
Auto Mechanic D			$19.78	$20.57	$21.45
Backhoe Operator (Elec}		$24.25		
Backhoe Operator (Gas)		$26.80		
C&C Ijiii Loadlu£...............	$23.19		
Cable Aad Conduit Installer		$19.93	$22.12	$23.30
Cable Splicer IC (NB)	—	$30.04	$31.00	
Cable&Conduit Inst A		$25.81		
Cable&Conduji Inst B		$23.30		
Cable&Conduit Inst C		$19.56	$20.26	
Cable&Conduit Inst D 			$16.93	$17.66	$18.58
Chauffeur			$21.66	$22,62	$23.61
Conduit Inspector-Maint A		$26.76		
Conduit Inspector-Maint B		$24.49	$25.39	
Const Iitsp Csble A ..............	$31.59	$32.33	
Const Insp Cable B		$27.83	$30.04	
Const Insp Conduit A					$30.80		
Const Insp Conduit B	...♦	$29.94		
Const Insp Conduit C. ..........	$25.82		
Const Insp Engineering		$29.43	$30.60	
Const Insp O H				$29.23	$30.80	
Cust Svc Designer,...	.		$31.23		
Dispatcher				$34.51		
Distrib Disp App 1		$30.68		
Distrib Disp App 2	...»	$31.04		
Distrib Disp App 3	  *	$31.79		
Distribution Disp	$32.78		
Driver Boom Truck 				$25.58		
Driver Line Thick	,,,........	$22.51	$23.90	$24.72
Elec Cus Svc Dsgnr			$32.56		
EJec Meter Tech					  -	$28.11		
Step 4
78
JoftTWe	Step i	StepZ	Step 3	Step 4
Eke Meter Tester A			$27.19			
Elec Meter Tester B			$22.60	$24.20	$25.50	
Elec Meter Tester C,	...	$22.60	$23.60		
Elec Meter Tester D		 ...	$19.15	$20.69	$22.03	
Elec Mir & Svc Inv		$28.59			
Expeditor Inspec			$24.88	$25.90	$27.19	
Field Adjuster		$27.35	$28.59		
Field Serv Terii-Ll	-	- - -	$23.11	$24.23	$25.35	$26.48
Field Serv Tech-1,2 	..		$27.47	$28.59		
Field Serv Tech-L3B		$29.24			
Field Serv Tech-L3B£A		$29,90	$30.57		
Field Serv Tech-Trainee		$22.02			
Finer & Srv Tech IC(Ply-Gas)		$27.55			
Fitter & SrvTfedt 2C (Ply-Gas)		$23.49			
Fitter & Stv Itch 3C (Hy-Gas)		$21.84			
Fossil Station Laborer,			$19.56	$20.12	$20.64	
Ground Helper-Line Work		$18.46	$20.24	$22.07	
H S Line Worker			$29.84	$30.97		
Heavy Equipment Operator		$25.61			
Helper Underground		$20.63			
Hot Stick Ground Helper		$18.80	$20.55	$22.44	
Insp Elec Maint	,	$26.80	$27.62		
Insp Installations A		$27.49	$28.34		
Insp InstrillatiattR R	..	$27.49			
Inspector Cable		$26.21	$27.22	$28.14	
Inspector Conduit.	$21.89			
Inspector Overhead		$2550	$26.36		
Inst & Lab Lead Person		$31.10			
Inst & Lab Technician 			$29.55			
Inst & Repair Tfedt JC (Gas)		$29.37			
Installer A			$27.19			
Installer B	  *		$23.59	$25.50		
installer C		$19.40	$20.82	$22.19	
Inves Eng'G Suburb	.		$31.00			
Inves Engineering A 			$30.62			
Inves Engineering B		$26.25	$27.22	$28.12	
Inves Engineering C				$23.14	$24.49	$25.67	
79
Step 4
Job Title	Step 1	Step:	Step 3
Investigawr-Trans.&Dist A		$26.76	$27.49	$29.12
In’vestigator-Trans.&.Dist B 			$23,91	$25.23	$26.47
Janitor Pq w^r Plants			$28.61		
Laboratory Helper		$17.70	$18.46	$20.16
Laborer (Gas)		$20.26		
Lamp Maint Inspec A		$24.85	$26.21	
Lamp Maint Inspec B				$23.14		
Lamp Maim Inspec C		$20.82	$22.19	
Lamp Maim inspec D		$18.20	$19.13	$19.93
Lamp Pat Insp S B		$26.50		
Lamp Patrol Inspector		$24.45	$26.25	
Lamp Ranger		$27.52		
Lead Technician (Gas)						$27.46		
Leader, Auto Repair	—		$28.52	$29.73	
Leader, Bldg Painter		$25.50	$26.36	$27,62
Leader, C & C Earth AO		$26.17		
Leader, C & C Gas		$24.33	$25.41	
Leader, Cable & Conduit		$29.94		
Leader, Elec Maint		$28.26	$29.59	$31.09
Leader, Elec Meter Tech						$31.09		
Leader, Elec Meter Test		$27,77	$29.49	
Leader. Equip Service		$28.34	$30.08	
Leader, Meeh Maint	.........	$28.26	$29.59	$31.09
Leader, Overhead Lines			$32,61		
Leader, UO Li ne work er		$30.53		
Lineworker O H A ...............	$27.49	$28.64	
Line worker O H R				$23.97	$25.50	
Lineworker OH C..			$21.89	$22.60	
Lineworker, UG Class #1			$30,32		
Lineworker, UG Class #2		$26.31		
Lineworker, UG Class #3		$20.28	$22.56	$23.76
LNG Oper & Repair Tech (Gias).....	$26.71		
Maint & Repair Tech IC (Gas).		$26,71		
Maint & Repair Tach 2C (Gas)		$24.24		
Maint & Repair Tech 3C (Gas)		$22.88		
Maint & Repair Tech HJpr (Gas)....	$21.47		
Maint Mechanic Special		$29.55		
80
Job Title	Slept	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Maintenance Mechanic A		$26.58			
Material Coordinator		$26.83			
Material Handler		$20.46	$22.15	$23.86	$25.52
Meeh Bldg Maint A		'$26.28	$27.19		
Meeh Bldg Maint B		$23.14	$24.09		
Meeh Bldg Maint C		$21.24	$22.19		
Meeh Elec Maint A		$26.80	$27.62		
Meeh Elec Maint A GrOO		$27.62	$28.43		
Meeh Elec Maint B		$24.36	$25.35		
Meeh Elec Maint C		$21.52	$22.91	$23.91	
Meeh Elec Service A		$25.42	$26.65		
Meeh Elec Service B		$22.51	$23.56	$24.87	
Meeh Equip Service B		$25.78	$27.13		
Meeh Equip Service C		$20.81	$22.13	$23.10	
Meeh Meeh Maint A		$26.80	$27.62		
Meeh Meeh Maint B		$24.36	$25.35		
Meeh Meeh Maint C		$21.52	$22.91	$23.91	
Mechanic		$30,19			
Mechanic Apprentice E		$21.52			
Mechanic Apprentice F		$22.34			
Mechanic Apprentice G		$23,10			
Mechanic Apprentice H		$23.91			
Mechanic Apprentice J		$24,68			
Mechanic Apprentice K		$25.47			
Mechanic Apprentice L		$26.25			
Mechanic Apprentice M		$27.06			
Mechanic Apprentice N		$27.83			
Mechanic Apprentice P		$28.60			
Mechanic Apprentice R		$29.40			
Mechanic Critrl Shp A		$26.84	$27.54	$3062	
Mechanic Cntrl Shp B		$25.86	$26.43	$26.99	
Mechanic-We Ider..		$29.05			
O H Hot Stick T Sh		$31.09	$33.00		
Oil Cab Insp Maint A		$27.18	$28.22		
Oil Cab Insp Maint B		$23.56	$24.49		
Oper Gen Station A		$30.93			
Oper Gen Station B		$28.91			
8!
Job Title	Step 1	Step!	Step 3	Step 4
Oper Gen Station C		$25.52	$27.70		
Oper Gen Station D			$22.66	$23.65	$24.55	
Operating Meeh Apprentice		$19.13	$20.82	$22.39	$23.59
	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8
	$24.68	$25.47	$26.14	$27.06
	Step?	Step 10	Step 11	
	$27.83	$28.60	$29.40	
Operating Mechanic			$30.60			
Operator Substat A		$28.91			
Operator Subset B........		$23.59	$25.46	$27.71	
Operator Substat C,. *					$19.13	$20.82	$22.39	
Ovrrfjd TrbJ	.	-		$28.58	$30.40		
Painter Production A			$27.59			
Painter Produciion B					$23.84	$24.93	$25.96	
Power Plant Assistant		$22.82			
Repair Technician IC (Gas)		$25.04			
Repair Technician 2C (Gas)		■ $22.60			
Repair Technician Helper (Gas)		$21.47			
Report Despatcher		$21.58	$22.58	$23.79	
Roving Operator			$26.62			
Service Dispatcher A		$24.53	$26.14		
Service Dispatcher B		$23.90			
Service Dispatcher C				$19.46	$20.84	$22.51	
Service TbclvHtter (NB-Gas)		$28.45			
Splicer A	    —	$29.73			
Splicer B				$25.38	$26.41		
Splicer C		$19.61	$20.63	$21.55	$23.90
Srvc Tah/Htter IC (NB-Gas)		$27.37			
Srvc TedVHtter 2C (NB-Gas)			$23.00			
Srvc TecWHtter 3C (NB-Gasl		$21.64			
Srvc TedvHfcr FBpr (NB-Gas)			$20.99			
Station Electrician—Leader		$31.10			
Steam Fitter Special	$31.10			
Stock Keeper A		$25.46	$26.31		
Stock Keeper B		$23.84	$24.87		
Stock Keeper C		$21.89	$23.31		
Stock Keeper D		$17.74	$18.64	$19.93	
Stock Keeper OupJ A		$21.24	$22.50	$23.83	
82
Step 4
Job Tide	Step!	SlepJ	Step 3
Stock Keeper Dnpl B			$18.46	$19.40	$20.27
Sys Disp App 1		$30.68		
Sys Disp App 2		$31.04		
Sys Disp App 3		$31.79		
System Dispatcher		$32.78		
Tech investigator		29.8	31,9	
Tech Lab-Crane Opr		$28.31		
Technician Lab A 		$25.55	$26.47	$28.12
	$22.60	$23.42	$24.27
Trans Insp Maint			$27.26 '	$28.65	
Transport Dispatch 			$22.22	$22.96	$23.83
	$24,20	$25.01	
Truck Driver B 					$21.78	$22.49	$23.29
Truck Driver Help A		$22.19		
Truck Driver Help B		$17.66	$18.73	$20.63
Trucking Coordinator				$26.83		
U G Trouble Shoot		$2954	$31,00	$32,71
Underground App		$30.04	$31.0!	
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai A		$20.82	$21,78	$23.15
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai B		$18.31	$19,15	$20.66
Util Wrkr Gen Sta A		$23.14		
Util Wrkr Gen Sta B		$18.98	$20.27	$21.78
Util Wrkr Subsia 			$18.98	$20.27	$21.90
Utility A (Gas)	-	$26.51		
Utility B (Gas)		$23.30		
Utility C (Gas)		$22.03		
Utility Worker A 			$19.59		
	$24.09		
Water Tender	—		$28.00		
Welder Utility (Gas)		$27.96		
Working Foreperson UG Dist NE..	$29.54	$31.00	$32.71
Working Leader Gas Dist-NB			$28.45		
Working Leader Gas Dist-Ply 			$29.20		
Working Leader-Meter Rep (Gas)..	$27,24		
83
Local 369 ~ Offiee-'IK'hnk-al and Professional As of May 16,2003
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step S
Account Supp Rep		$24.55	$25.46	$26.31	$28,62	$29.65
Accountant			$2459	$2653	$28.32	$29.67	$32-29
Accountant/Analyst		$2459	$2653	$28.32	$29.67	$32.29
Admin Cootdinaiar		$22.13	$22,72	$23.30	$23.88	$24.46
Assc Buyer-Planner		$22.45	$23.14	$23.77		
Assoc Stf Anal-lbs.		$18.71	$20.13	$21.57		
Billing Associate		$19.20	$19.75	$20.49		
Billing Represent	 Billing Specialist		$21.32	$22.13	$22.93		
	$22.45	$23.14	$23.77		
BuyaZMst Cant Spc		$27.30	$27.86			
Buyer-Planner.		$25.53	$26.12			
Cd Representative			$25.53	$26.12			
Checker Mechanical 		,	$28.75	$29.40			
Chemist			$26.01	$16.96	$27.92	$30.09	$31,12
Cleric GriO		$22.45	$23.14 $25.10	$23.77		
CMcGrll		$24.49				
Clerk Grl 2		$2553	$26.12			
Clerk Grl 3		$2720	$27.86			
Oerk Gr2	.	$11.24	$11.93	$12.38	$12.99	$13.68
Clerk Gr3			$13.81	$14.44	$15.19	$15.68	$16.27
Clerk GM			$14.73	$15.52	$16.15	$16.82	$1754
Cterfc Gr5				$17.22	$17.96	$18.71		
Clerk Gr6				$1822	$18.95	$19.60		
Cfcrk Gr?					$19.20	$19.75	$20.49		
Clerk GrS		$20.13	$20.76	$21.42		
Clerk Gr9		$2132	$22.13	322.93		
Comp Oper Leader		$2553	$26.12			
Compliance Analyst		$2459	$26.53	$28.32		
Computer Operator.		$24,49	$25-10			
Computer Technician		$24.55	$25.46	$26 32	$28.63	$29.64
Const Cost Technician GriO.	$22.45	$23.14	$23.77		
Const Cost Technician Grit.	$24.49	$25.10			
Const Cost Technician Grl2.	$25.53	$26.12			
Const Cost Technician Gr9.	$21.32	$22.13	$22,93		
Contract Mgmt Eng		$26.87	$28.77	$3057	$32.36	$34.17
Steps
$33.24
84
Job nth Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step J Step 6
Control Clerk Grl 0		$22.45	$23.14	$23.77
Control Clerk Gr8		$20.13	$20.76	$21,42
Control Clerk Gr9		$21.32	$22.13	$22,93
Cost Control Technician....	$22.45	$23.14	$23,77
Ciedit Rep		$20.13	$20.76	$21.42
Cust Rei Cntrl Clerk		$2132	$22.13	$22.93
Customer Sav			
Representative		$19.25	$20.30	$2136
Customer Service Associate .	$15.84	$16.89	
Customer Service Engineer.	$2455	$25.46	$26,31 $28.62 $29.65 $31,67
Customer Service Rep		$24.49	$25.10	
Customer Svc Clerk Gt6...	$1832	$18.95	$19.60
Customer Svc Clerk GrS ...	$20.13	$20.76	$21.42
Data Input & Con Clerk			
GrlO		$22.45	$23.14	$23,77
Data Input & Con Clerk			
Gr7				$1930	$19.75	$20.49
Data Input & Con Cletk			
Gr8		$20.13	$20.76	$21,42
Data Input & Con Clark			
Gr9		$2132	$22.13	$22.93
Dept Admin Assist Grl 0...	$22.45	$23.14	$23-77
Dept Admin Assist Grll ...	$24.49	$25.10	
Dept Admin Assist Gr9 ....	$21.32	$22.13	$22.93
Distribution Planner (Gas)...	$2623		
Drafting Tech GrlO		$22.45	$23.14	$23.77
Drafting Tech Grll		$24.49	$25.10	
Drafting Tech Grl2		$25.53	$26.12	
Drafting Tech Grl4		$28.75	$29.40	
Drafting T?ch Gr3 .........	$13.81	$14.44	$15,19 $15.68 $16,27
Drafting Tech Gr5		$17.22	$17.96	$18.71
Drafting Tech Gr6 .		$18.32	$18.95	$19.60
Drafting Tech Gr7		$19.20	$19.75	$20.49
Drafting Theft Gi8		$20.13	$20.76	$2142
Dupl Machine Oper Gt2...	$11.24	$11.93	$12.38 $12.99 $13.68
Dupl Machine Oper Gr3...	$13.81	$14,44	$15.19 $15.68 $16.27
Dupl Machine Oper Gt5,..	$17.22	$17.96	$18.71
Dupl Machine Oper Gr7...	$19.20	$19.75	$20.49
85
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 4
Electric Control Clerk		$1832	$18.95	$19.60			
Energy Center Clerk		$18.71	$18.95	$19.60	$19.75	$20,48	
Eng Analyst-fcrcia		$25.17	$26.97	$28.77	$3057	$32.36	$34.17
Engineer				$24.55	$25.46	$26.31	$28.62	$29.65	$31.67
Engineer Associate Grl ....	$25.55	$26.47	$28.12			
B^ineerAssociateGr? ~.	$26.0] $35.09	$27.92				
						
Estimator		. ..,..	$24.49	$25.10				
Facility & Equip Specialist..	$26.97	$28.77	$30.57	$33.86	$34.17	
Facility Tecti Assistant		$30.89					
Field Clerk (Gas)		$24.07					
Meter Ren	. -...	$20.19					
	$25.17	$2697	$28.77	$3057	$32.36	
Held Service Cocniinatar...	$28.75					
Held Service Meter Reader..	$17.05	$18.18	$19.20	$19.75	$20.49	
FkH Service Rep I		522.45	$23.14	$23.77			
Field Service Rep II		$25.53	$26.12				
Fixed Asset Analyst		$27.20	$27.86				
Gas Sales Representative...	$30.36					
Graph Design Specialist....	$2553	$26.12				
Graphic Artist		$22.45	$23.14	$23.77			
Group Leader		$21.32	$22.13	$22513			
Inserter Meeh Operator.....	$19220	$19.75	$20.49			
IS Asset Staff Analyst		$24.75	$25.92	$27.08	$28.25	$29.42	
Key Punch Operator		$18.32	$18.95	$19.60			
Lead Senior Designer		$28.75	$29.40				
Leader, Computer Tech ....	$35.09					
Legal Cla Spec Col	 Logistics Sys Coordinator	$24.49	$25.10				
Grl 2	 Logistics Sys Coordinator	$2553	$26.12				
Gr)4....		$28.75	$29.40				
Meter Office Administrator Gr6		 Meter Office Administrator	$18.32	$18.95	$19.60			
Gr7	 Meter Office Administrator	$19,20	$19.75	$20.49			
Gr8		$20.13	$20.76	$21.42			
86
Job Title Step I Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step S Step 6
Meter Route Clerk Gr9 ...	$21.32	$2213	$22.93
Mid Account Executive....	$24.55	$25.46	$26.31 $28.62 $29.65 $31.67
Office Administrator Grf> ..	$18.32	$18.95	$19.60
Office Admiiustnator Gr7...	$1920	$19.75	$20.49
Office Administrator GrS...	$20.13	$20.76	$21.42
Office Assistant Gr3.		$13.81	$14.44	$15.19 $15.68 $16.27
Office Assistant Gr5		$17.22	$17.96	$18.71	■
Office Assistant Gift.		$1832	$18.95	$19.60
Office Assistant Gr7		$1920	$19.75	$20.49
Office Assistant Gr8		$2013	$20.76	$21.42
Office Assistant Gr9		$2132	$22.13	$22.93
Operations Office Admin			
Gr6		$1832	$18.95	$19,60
Operations Office Admin			
Gr7		$1920	$19.75	$20.49
Operations Office Admin			
Gr8				$20.13	$20.76	$21.42
Payroll Represent GrIO ..	$22.45	$23.14	$23.77
Projct Eng-Enr Mgt		$26.97	$28.77	$30.57 $32.36 $34.17	■
Records Keeper Grl2		$25.53	$26.12	
Rgjitsprmt&Wc Ckk GrIO .	$22.45	$23.14	$23.77
Rghis.Prmt&Wo Clrk Gift...	$18.32	$18.95	$19.60
Right Of Way Agent Grl2.	$25.53	$26.12	
Right Of Way Agent GrS....	$20.13	$20.76	$21.42
Right Of Way Agent Gi9 ..	$21.32	$22.13	$22.93
Route Cleric A		$24.49	$25.10	
Route Clerk B				$27.20	$27.86	
Service Technician 				$24.49	$25.10	
Software Staff Analyst		$24.75	$25.92	$27.08 $2855 $29.42
Spec Collctns Coor Grl3...	$27.20	$27.86	
Spec Cotkrtns Coor Grl4. .	$28.75	$29.40	
Special Collector		$24.49	$25.10	
SrBuyer Planner			$28.75	529.40	
Sr Computer Technicinn		$31.67		
Sr Cus Re! Con Clerk		$24.49	$25.10	
Sr Customer Service Rep ..	$2479	$25.34	$26.40
Sr Cvst Serv Assoc		$20,13	$20.76	$21.42
Sr Designer					$2553	$26.12	
87
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4 Step 5	Step 6
Sr Dta Ent & PC Deris....	$18.32	$18.95	$19.60		
Sr Tetecommunicaticms					
Ana)		$32,(M	$32.61	$33.19 $33.78 $34.36		
Supl Mgmt Tech I		$18.32	$18.95	$19.60		
Sup< Mgmt Tech JI		$20.13	$20.76	$21.42		
Sup! Mgmt Tech ID		$2132	$22.13	$22,93		
System Operations Assistant.	$22.45	$23.14	$23.77		
Systems & Procedure					
Analyst		$25.64	$27.50	$29.48 $31.32		
Technical Clerk Grij		$27.20	$27.86			
Ifelecommunictitions					
Cooraiiwior			*24,49	$25.10			
Telephone Operator		$1722	$17.96	$18.71		
Local 369	- Production and Maintenance				
	As of May 16,2004				
Job Title		Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
Asst Dist Sys Desp A	.		$31.00	$32,19		
Asst Dtsl Sys Desp B			$2538	$26.36	$2730	
Auto Mechanic A			$2828			
Auto Mechanic B			$24.48	$25,45		
Auto Mechanic C			$21.41	$22.09	$23.07	
Auto Mechanic D			$20.18	$20.98	$21.88	
Backhoe Operator (Elec)			$24.74			
Backhoe Operator (Gas)			$27.3*			
CtfcC Inst Loadfcig			$23.65			
Cable And Conduit Installer..		$20.33	$22.56	$23.77	
Cable Splicer IC (NB)..'.....		$30.6*	$31.62		
Cable&Conduit Inst A			$26,33			
Cable&Conduit Inst B 				$23.77			
Cabfe&Oonduit Inst C					$19.95	$20.67		
Cable&Conduit Inst D			$17.27	$18.01	$18.95	
		$22 09	$23.07	$24.08	
Conduit Inspector-Main* A...		$27.30			
Conduit Insptcior-Maint B,. -		$24.98	$25.90		
Const Insp Cable A			$32.22	$32.98		
Const Insp Cable B			$28.39	$30.6*		
88
fob Title	Step 1	Step!	Step 3	Step 4
Const Insp Conduit A		$31.42			
Const Insp Conduit B		$3054			
Const Insp Conduit C				$2634			
Const Insp Engineering			$30.02	$31.21		
Const Insp OH		$29.81	$31.42		
Cust Svc Designer		$31.85			
Dispatcher		$3520			
Distrib Disp App 1		$3129			
Distrib Disp App 2		$31.66			
Distrib Disp App 3		$32.43			
Distribution Disp			$33.44			
Driver Boom Truck		$26.09			
Driver Line Thick				$2296	$2438	$2521	
Etec Cus Svc Dsgnr		$3321			
Elec Meter Itch		$28.67			
Etec Meter Tester A		$27.73			
Eles Meter Tester B			$23.05	$24.68	$26.01	
Elec Meter TesterC			$23.05	$24.07		
Elec Meter Tester D		$19.53	$21.10	$2247	
Elec Mtr & Svc Inv		$29.16			
Expeditor Inspec		$2538	$2642	$27.73	
Field Adjuster		$27.90	$29.16		
Field Serv Tech-Ll		$2357	$24.71	$25.86	$27.01
Field Sav Tech-12		$28.02	$29.16		
Field Serv Tech-L3B..			$29.82			
Field Serv Tech-L3B&A		$3050	$31.18		
Field Serv Tech-Trainee		$2246			
Fitter A Stu Tech IC (Pty-Gas)....	$28.10			
fitter & Stv Tech 2C (Ply-Gas)....	$23.96			
Fitter & Srv Itoh 3C (Ply-Gas)....	$2228			
Fossil Station Laborer		$19.95	$2052	$21.05	
Ground Helper-Line Work		$18.83	$20.64	$2251	
H S Une Worker		$30.44	$3159		
Heavy Equipment Operator		$26.12			
Helper Underground		$21.04			
Hot Stick Ground Helper		$19.18	$20.96	$22.89	
Insp Etec Maim		$27.34	$28.17		
89
Step 4
1
Job Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3
Insp Installations A.					.	$28.04	$28.91	
Insp Installaiicns B		.	$28.04		
Inspector Cable			.	$26.73	$27.76	$28.70
Inspector Conduit			.	$22.33		
Inspector Ovediead 			.	$26.01	$26.89	
Inst & Lab Lead Person	....	.	$31.72		
Inst & Lab Tachnician			.	$30.14		
Inst & Repair Tech IC (Gas)			.	$29.96		
Installer A,				.	$27.73		
Installer B				.	$24.06	$26.01	
Installer C			.	$19.79	$21,24	$22.63
jtiypc Hn"*G Stsburfj	...			
Inves Engineering A		.	$31.23		
Inves Engineering B 		.	$26.78	$27.76	$28.68
Inves Engineering C			.	$23.60	$24,98	$26.18
Invesugator-Ttnns.&DLst A		.	$27.30	$28.04	$29.70
Investigator-Trans.&Dist B		.	$2439	$25.73	$27.00
Janitor Power Plants		.	$29.18		
Laboratory Helper			.	$18.05	$18.83	$20.56
Laborer (Cas)..		.	$20.67		
Lamp Maint Inspec A			.	$25.35	$26.73	
Lamp Maint Inspec B..		.	$23.60		
Lamp Maint Inspec C		.	$21.24	S22.63	
Lamp Maim Inspec D		.	$18.56	$19.51	$20.33
Lamp Pai Insp SB			.	$27.03		
Lamp Patrol Inspector			.	$24.94	$26.78	
Lamp Ranger... -		.	$28.07		
Lead Technidan (Gas)		.	$28.01		
Leader, Auto Repair		$29.09	$30.32	
Leader, Bldg Painter			$26.01	$26.89	$28.17
Leader, C & C Earth AO..		$26.69		
Leader, C & C Gas				$24.82	$25.92	
Leader. Cable Jt Conduit	....	$30.54		
Leader, Elec Maint			$28.83	$30.18	$31.71
Leader, Elec Meter Tech			$31.71		
Leader, Elec Meta1 list		$28.33	$30.08	
Leader, Equip Service			$28.91	$30.68	
90
>b Title	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4
eader, Meeh Maint		$28.83	$30.18	$31.71	
cadet, Overhead Lines		$33.26			
eader, UG Lineworker		$31.14			
ineworirer 0 HA		$28.04	$29.21		
inewofker OH B		$24.45	$26.01		
meworker 0 H 				$22.33	$23.05		
jneworker, UG Class #1		$30,93			
meworker, UG Class #2		$26.84			
jnewoiker, UG Class #3 ,,- - -		$20.69	$23.01	$2424	
NG Oper & Repair Tech (Gas) ,..	$27.24			
laint & Repair Tech IC (Gas)		$27.24			
taint & Repair Tech 2C (Gas)		$24.72			
laint & Repair Tech 3C (Gas).,,,.	$23.34			
taint & Repair Tech Rlpr (Gas)...	$21.90			
laint Mechanic Special.»♦		$30.14			
laintenance Mechanic A 						$27.11			
laterial Coordinator		$2737			
laterial Handler -			$20.87	$22.59	$24.34	$26.03
lech Bldg Maint A						$2681	$27.73		
lech Bldg Maint B		$23.60	$24.57		
lech Bldg Maint C		$21.66	$22.63		
lech Elec Maim A ►..»«.»«		$27.34	$28.17		
tech Elec Maint A GtOO	-	$28.17	$29.00		
lech Elec Maint B-		$24.85	$25.86		
lech Elec Maint C		$21.95	$23.37	$24.39	
tech Elec Service A		$25.93	$27.18		
lech Elec Service B		$22.96	$24.03	$25.37	
lech Equip Service B..,..		$26.30	$27.67		
lech Equip Service C.....		$21.23	$2257	$23.56	
lech Meeh Maim A		$27.34	$28.17		
lech Meeh Maim B.	,..		$24.85	$25.86		
lech Meeh Maim C		$21.95	$23.37	$24.39	
lechanfc				$30.79			
lechanic Apprentice E ..........	$21,95			
Mechanic Apprentice F		$22.79			
ledtank Apprentice G		$23.56			
lechank Apprentice H		$2439			
91
Job HHe	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step
Mechanic Apprentice J		$25.17			
Mechanic Apprentice K		$25,98			
Mechanic Apprentice L		$26.78			
Mechanic Apprentice M		$27.60			
Mechanic Apprentice N		$28.39			
Mechanic Apprentice P 			$29.17			
Mechanic Apprentice R		$29.99			
Mechanic Cntrl Hip A		$27.38	$28.09	$31.23	
Mechanic Cntrl Shp B		$26.38	$26,96	$27 53	
Mechanic-Welder			$29.63			
O H Hot Stick TSh			$31.71	$33.66		
Qi' Cab Insp M’"*lt A		<^771			
Oil Cab Insp Maint B		$24.03	$24.98		
Oper Gen Station A		$31.55			
Oper Gen Station B		$29.49			
Oper Gen Station C		$26.44	$28.25		
Oper Gen Station D			$23.11	$24.12	$25.04	
Operating Meeh Apprentice		$19.51	$21.24	$22.84	$24.0l
	Step 5	Step 6	Stop?	Step
	$25.17	$25.98	$26.66	$27.6(
	Step 9	Step 10	Stop 11	
	$28.39	$29.17	$29.99	
Operating Mechanic.		$31.21			
Operator Substat A		$29.49			
Operator Substai B.			$24.06	$25.97	$2826	
Operator Substat C		$19.51	$21.24	$22.84	
Overhd TYbl Shootr		$29,15	$31.01		
Painter Production A							$28.14			
Painter Production B		$24.32	$25.43	$26.48	
Power Plant Assistant		$23.28			
Repair Technician IC (Gas)		$25.54			
Repair Technician 2C (Gas)		$23.05			
Reptdr Technician Helper (Gas)....	$21.90			
Report Despatcher		$22.01	$23.03	$24,27	
Roving Operator					$27.15			
Service Dispatcher A		$25.02	$26.66		
Service Dispatcher B		$24.38			
Service Dispatcher C		$19.85	$2126	$22.96	
92
ob Tills	Step 1	Step!	Step 3	Step 4
service Tech/Fiuer (NB-Gas)		$29.02			
Splicer A		$3032			
Splicer B				$25.89	$26.94		
Splicer C.				$20.00	$21.04	$21.98	$24.38
Srvc Tech/Hner IC (NB-Gas)		$27.92			
Srvc TectVFitter 2C (NB-Gas)		$23.46			
Srvc TectVRcer 3C (NB-Gas)		$2107			
SrvcTech/Frtter Hlpr(NB-Gas)....	$21.41			
Station ElectAitm—Leader		$31.72			
Steam fitter Special.. ♦..		$31.72			
Stock Keeper A		$25.97	$2684		
Steck Keeper B				$24.32	$25.37		
Stock Keeper C.						$2133	$23,78		
Steck Keeper D		;...	$18.09	$19.01	$20.33	
Stock Keeper Dupl A -. -. -	,,	$21.66	$23.05	$24.31	
Stock Keeper Dupl B 			$18.83	$19.79	$20.68	
Sys Disp App 1		$3119			
Sys Disp App 2		S31J66			
Sys Disp App 3				$32.43			
System Dispatcher		$33.44			
Tech Investigator					tt				$30.40	$3154		
Tech Lab-Crane Opr		$28.88			
Technician I ah A		$26.06	$27.00	$28.68	
technician Lab B					 t..	$23.05	$23.89	$24.76	
Trans Insp Maint*... * ,	..	$27.81	$29.22		
Transport Dispatch			$2166	$23.42	$24.31	
Truck Driver A	............	$24.68	$25.51		
Truck Driver B		$2122	$2194	$23.76	
Truck Driver Help A.. -. -		$2163			
Buck Driver Help B				$18.01	$19.10	$21,04	
[lucking Coordinator			$27.37			
U G Trouble Shoot		$30.13	$31.62	$33.36	
Underground App		$30.64	$31.63		
Util Wrkr Bldg Mai A		$2124	$22.22	$23.61	
Util Wtkr Bldg Mai B		$18.68	$19.53	$21.07	
Util Wrkr Gen Sta A *.. .,. ., < ......	$23.60			
Util Wrier Gen Sta B.		$19.36	$20.68	$22.22	
93
Job Title		Step i	Step 2		Step 3	Step
Util Wrkr Substa,,				$19.36	$20.68		$22.34	
Utility A (Gas)				$27,64				
Utility B (Gas)...				$23,77				
Utility C (Gas)			$22,47				
Utility Worker A				$19.98				
Utility Worker-Pru			$24.57				
Water Tender.				$28.56				
Welder Utility (Gas!			$2852				
Working Foreperson UG Dist NB.,		$30.13	$31.62		$33.36	
Working Leader Gas Disl-NB				$29.02				
Working Leader Gas Dist-Ply				$29.78				
Wo^drtg L Eater-Rep	(Gas).,	$27,78				
Local 369-	- Office-Technical and Professional					
	As of May 16,2004					
Job Title	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	StepS	Step 6
Account Supp Rep		$25.04	$25.97	$26.84	$29.19	$30.24	
Accountant			$25.08	$27.06	$28.89	$30.26	$32.94	
Accountant/Analyst		$25.08	$27.06	$28.89	$30.26	$32.94	
Admin Coordinator		$2257	$23.17	$23.77	$24.36	$24.95	
Assc Buyer-Planner		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25			
Assoc Stf Anal-Tos		$19.08	$2053	$22.00			
Billing Associate			$19.58	$20.15	$20.90			
Billing Represent.			$2175	$2257	$23.39			
Billing Specialist		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25			
BuyerZMat Cent Spc			$27.74	$28.42				
Buyer-Planner.				$26,04	$26.64				
(2/1 Representative		$26.04	$26.64				
Checker Mechanical -		$29.33	$29.99				
Chemist			$26.53	$2750	$28.48	$30.69	$31.74	$33.90
Clerk Grl0				$22,90	$23.60	$24.25			
Clerk Grl 1			$24.98	$25.60				
Clerk Grl 2		$26.04	$26.64				
Grl 3.	;,. 			$27.74	$28.42				
CtakGrZ		$11.46 $14.09	$12.17	$12.63	$13.25 $15.99	$13.95	
Clerk GrJ			$14.73	$15.49		$16.60	
Clerk Gr4..			$15.02	$15.83	$16.47	$17.16	$17.89	
94
ob Title Step 1 Step 1 Step 3 Step 4 Step S Step 6
- lerk GrS		$17.56	$18.32	$19.08
Clerk Gr6		$18.69	$19.33	$19.99
□ok Grt		$19.58	$20.15	$20.90
Cleric GrS		$20.53	$21.18	$21.85
Cleric Gr9		$21.75	$22.57	$23.39
Comp Oper Leader		$26.04	$26.64	
Compliance Analyst- ------	$25.08	$27.06	$28.89
Computer Operator		$24.98	$25.60	
Computer Technician				$25.04	$25.97	$26.85 $29.20 $30.23
Const Cost Technician			
GrIO		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25
Const Cost Technician			
GrJl			$24.98	$25.60	
Const Cost Technician			
Grl2		$26.04	$26.64	
Const Cost Technician Gr9.	$2175	$22.57	$23.39
Contract Mgmt Eng		$27.41	$29.35	$31.18 $33.01 $34.85
Control Clerk GrIO		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25
Control Clerk GrS	—	$20.53	$21.18	$21.85
Control Clerk Gt9		$21.75	$22.57	$2339
Cost Control Technician....	$22.90	$23.60	$2425
Credit Rep			$20.53	$21.18	$21.85
Cust Rd Cntrl Clerk		$21.75	$22.57	$23.39
Customer Serv			
Representative		$19.64	$20.71	$21.79
Customer Service			
Associate. -	$16.16	$17.23	
Customer Service Engineer.	$25.04	$25.97	$26.84 $29.19 $30.24 $32.30
Customer Service Rep		$24.98	$25.60	
Customer Svc Clerk Gift...	$18.69	$19.33	$19.99
Customer Svc Clerk Gr8...	$20.53	$21.18	$21.85
Data Input & Con Cleric			
GrIO		$22.90	$23.60	$2425
Data Input & Cem Clerk			
Gr7		$19.58	$20.15	$20.90
Data Input & Cot Clerk			
Gr8		$2053	$21.18	$21.85
95
Joh Tide	Step 1	Step 2	Steps	Step 4	Step!	Step
Data Input & Con Clerk						
Gr9		$21.75	$22.57	$23.39			
Dept Admin Assist GrlO...	$22.90	$23.60	$24:25			
Dept Admiji Assist Grl 1 ...	$24.98	$25.60				
Dept Admin Assisi Gr9		$21.75	$2257	$2339			
Distribution Planner(Gas)..	$26.75					
Drafting Tech GrlO		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25			
Drafting Itch Grll 				$24.98	$25.60				
Drafting Tech Grl2		$26.04	$26.64				
Drafting TbchGr!4..		$2933	$29.99				
Drafting Tech Gr3 			$14.09	$14.73	$15.49	$15.99	$1660	
Drsfung Tc^t"! Gt5 .........	$S736	O' 1 O t"! 4>io.J4	C in ho 41 i J.VL>			
Drafting Tech Gr6		$18.69	$1933	$19.99			
Drafting Tech Gr7		$19.58	$20.15	$2090			
Drafting Tech Gr8 					$20.53	$21.18	$21.85			
Dupl Machine Oper Gi2 ...	$11.46	$12.17	$12.63	$13.25	$13.95	
Dupl Machine Oper Gr3 ...	$14.09	$14.73	$15.49	$15.99	$16.60	
Dupl Machine Oper Gr5 ...	$1756	$18.32	$19.08			
Dupl Machine Oper Gr7 ..,	$1958	$20.15	$20.90			
Electric Control Clerk		$18.69	$19.33	$19.99			
Energy Center Clerk		$19.08	$1933	$19.99	$20,15	$20.89	
Eng Anaiyst-Seada		$25.67	$2751	$29.35	$31.18	$33.01	$34.85
Engineer		$25.04	$25.97	$26.84	$29.19	$30.24	$32.30
Engineer Associate Cirl ....	$26.06	$27.00	$28.68			
Engineer Associate Gr2 ...	$26.53	$28.48				
Engineer Gr4		$35 79					
Estim;it(jr		$24.98	$25.60				
Facility & Equip Specialist,	$27,51	$29.35	$31.18	$3454	$34.85	
Facility Tech Assistant		$3151					
Field Clerk (Gas)		$2455					
Field Meter Rep (Gas)		$20.59					
Field Monitor		$25.67	$2751	$2935	$31.18	$33.01	
Held Service Coordinator *.	$29.33					
Field Service Meter						
Reader		$17.39	$18.54	$1958	$20.15	$20.90	
Field Service Rep 1		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25			
Field Service Rep ft - - -		$26.04	$26.64				
Fised Asset Analyst		$27.74	$28.42				
96
b Title	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step*
as Sales Representative...	$30.97					
raph Design Specialist....	$26.0+	$26.6+				
raphic Artist		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25			
to up Leader		$21.75	$22.57	$2339			
setter Meeh Operator		$19.58	$20.15	$20.90			
Asset Staff Analyst		$25.25	$26+4	$27.62	$28.82	$3001	
ey Punch Operator		$18.69	$19.33	$19.99			
ead Senior Designer		$29.33	$29.99				
cader, Computer Tech ....	$35.79					
.cgal CJa Spec Col		$24.98	$25.60				
ogistics Sys Coordinator						
Grl2		$26.0+	$26.64				
.ogistics Sys Coordinator						
Grl4.		$29.33	$29.99				
feter Office Administrator						
Gr6			$18.69	$19.33	$19.99			
deter Office Administrator						
Gr7				$1958	$20.15	$20.90			
deter Office Administrator						
Gr8		$20.53	$21.18	$21.85			
kleter Route Clerk Gr9 ... -	$21.75	$2257	$23.39			
did Account Executive ....	$25.04	$25.97	$2684	$29.19	$30.24	$32.30
Mee Administrator Grfi...	$18.69	$1953	$19.99			
Jftioe Administrator Gr7...	$1958	$20.15	$20.90			
Mice Administrator G18...	$20.53	$21.18	$21.85			
Mice Assistant Gr3		$14.09	$14.73	$15.49	$15.99	$16.60	
Mice Assistant Gr5		$1756	$18.32	$19.08			
Office Assistant Gf6,				$18.69	$1933	$19.99			
ZMfice Assistant Gr7..		$1938	$20.15	$20.90			
Mice Assistant Gr8		$20.53	$21.18	$21.85			
Mice Assistant Gi9		$21.75	$2257	$2339			
Operations Office Admin						
Gr6		$18.69	$1933	$19.99			
operations Office Admin						
Gr7		$1958	$20.15	$2090			
Operations Office Admin						
Gr8		$2053	$21.18	$21.85			
Payroll Represent GrlO ....	$22.90	$23.60	$24.25			
97
Job Title
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step
Projct Eng-Enr Mgt		$27.51	$29.35	$31.18	$33.01	$3485
Records Keeper Grl2	 Rghts.Prmt&Wci Clrk	$26.04	$26.64			
GriO		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25		
Rghts.Prnit&Wo Clrk Gr6..	$18.69	$19.33	$19.99		
Right Of Way Agent Grl 2 .	$26.04	$26.64			
Right Of Way Agent GrS ..	$20.53	$21.18	$21.85		
Right Of Way Agent Gt9 ..	$21.75	$22.57	$23.39		
Route Clerk A		$24,98	$25.60			
Route Clerk B		$27.74	$28.42			
Service Technician		$24.98	$25.60			
Soft’eVaTc SlAiI* Analyst .....	$25.25	$26.44’	$27.62	$28.82	$3lujj
Spec Collctns Coot Grl3...	$27.74	$28.42			
Spec Collctns Coor Gr14.,.	$29.33	$29.99			
Special Collector		$24.98	$25.60			
Sr Buyer Planner		$29.33	$29.99			
Sr Computer Technician		$32.30				
Sr Cus Rei Con Clerk		$24.98	$25.60			
Sr Customer Service Rep..	$24.78	$25.85	$26 93		
Sr Cvsl Serv Assoc		$20.53	$21.18	$21.85		
Sr Designer		$26X4	$26.64			
Sr Dta Ent & PC Clerk .... Sr Telecommunications	$18.69	$19.33	$19.99		
Anal		$32.68	$33.26	$33.85	$34.46	$35.05
Supl Mgmt Tbch I		$18.69	$19.33	$19.99		
Supl Mgmt Tech n		$20.53	$21.18	$21.85		
Supl Mgmt Tech UI	 System Operations	$21.75	$22.57	$23.39		
Assistant		$22.90	$23.60	$24.25		
Systems & Procedure					
Analyst		$26.15	$28.05	$30.07	$31.95	
Technical Clerk Grl 3	 Telecommunications	$27.74	$28.42			
Coonfinatnr		$24.98	$25.60			
Telephone Operator		$17.56	$18.32	$19.08		
98
SCHEDULED
Beginners’ Ratings
Automobile Mechanic D
Field Service Technician (Trainee)
Laboratory Helper
Office Cleaner
O&M Mechanic (Apprentice)
Underground Lineworker BI
Utility Worfcer-BuiHing Maintenance B
Gas Pump Attendant
Laborer (Gas)
Clerk Grade 2 through 6
Customer Service Associate
Customer Service Clerk Grade 6
Drafting Technician Grade 3 through 8
Duplicating Machine Operator Grade 3 through 5
Field Service Meter Reader
Office Assistant Grade 3 through 6
Telephone Operator Grade 5
99
SCHEDULEF Work in Inclement Weather ARTICLE XXIX
List Na J
Cable and Conduit Installer
Driver-Line Truck
Ground Helper-Line Wark
Lamp Maintenance Inspector
Lamp Ranger
Leader-Cable and Conduit-Earth Auger
Leader-Overhead Lines
Line Worker
Splicer
Splicer’s Helperfwhen working with
Splicer)
List No. 2
Automobile Mechanic
Cable and Conduit Installer (when working with Conduit InspectorMaintenance)
GiNe and Conduit Installer “A" and Helper Leader-Cable and Conduit (when assigned to Pump Team or Ejector Schedule)
Conduit Inspector-Maintenance Electric Meter Tester
Installer
Lamp Patrol Inspector Leader-Automobile Repair Low Tension Trouble Shooter Mechanic-Electrical Maintenance Mechanic-Electric Service Mechanic-Steam Meter Operating Mechanics Operator-Substation Overhead Trouble Shooter
Splicer’s Helper—Helper Underground (when working with Underground Trouble Shooter or Low Tension Trouble Shooter)
Thick Driver
Truck Driver Helper
Undetground Trouble Shooter Utility Worker-Generating Station Utility Worker-Building Maintenance Utility Wotkw-SwbfAMion
100
APPENDIX
ILLNESS AND NONINDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT DISABILITY BENEFITS PLAN
AND THE INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT DISABILITY BENEFITS PLAN
Illness and Notundustrial Accident Benefits
Illness and nonindustrial accident benefits shall be governed by the following rules:
1.	ELIGIBILITY
Employees who have completed six (6) months of continuous active service on the regular fill 1-time payroll shall be eligible for the benefits provided herein.
2.	WAITING PERIOD
The first five (5) working days included in the first seven (7) calendar days of any disability are defined as the waiting period applicable to such disability.
3.	SHORT TERM DISABILITY (STD)
After five (5) days of continuous disability, an employee will receive 100% of base pay for four (4) months for so long as s/he remains continuously disabled: after four (4) months, employee will receive 75% of base pay for eight (8) months for so Long as s/he remains continuously disabled. Total period of STD will be up to fifth-two (52) weeks maximum.
4.	LONGTERM DISABILITY (LTD)
After one (1) year, employee will be eligible to apply for LTD; if approved. employee will receive 60% of base pay up to seventy-eight (78) weeks. For the first fifty-two (52) weeks of LTD, the definition of disability will be occupationally disabled, thereafter; tbe employee must be totally disabled to be eligible for additional LTD benefits. Employment will be terminated if unable to return to work following the LTD period.
5.	RECURRENCE
The disability period benefits will be reduced by the amount of time used on any previous disability when in the opinion of the Company’s Medical Director the current disability is a recurrence. If a recurrence commences two (2) years after the previous disability ended, it will be deemed to be a new disability.
101
6.	BENEFITS
Benefits for the working days of waiting periods shall be base pay (at-defined in the Retirement Plan as amended) for such days, but shall tx allowed only at the discretion of the Disablement Benefits Committee Such benefits shall be limited to a maximum of ten (10) working days in each calendar year. Up until December 31, 2000, but not thereafter unused waiting period benefit days in excess of fifteen (15) will be accumulated tn a bank and may only be used to supplement pay for STD ot LTD benefits.
7.	REVIEW OF ABSENCES
Employees abusing the Plan or having excessive absences shall be subject to disciplinary action by the Company, If the Local claims the Company has exercised any of the foregoing rights in an unjust or unreasonable manner, such claim sliall be subject to the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXIII,
8.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
a.	No change in an employee's rate of pay shall become effective while s/he Is receiving benefits.
b.	Employees shall not be entitled to receive time or compensation for vacations or holidays while receiving illness and nonindustrial accident disability benefits.
c.	For the purpose of this Plan, a disability commencing during an employee’s scheduled vacation shall be considered to commence al the end of his/her vacation.
d.	Benefits shall cease when an employee is retired or when his/her employment is otherwise terminated.
e.	In the case of a nonindustrial accident where a third party is held liable for the injury to an employee, the employee shall, as a condition of receiving benefits under the Plan, agree to indemnify the Company to the extent of his/her net recovery (that is, the net amount recovered less the employee's expenses in obtaining settlement and his/her hospital, doctors, and nurses’ bills) from such third person for the amount of waiting period any disability period benefits paid to him/her by the Company, Benefits for which the Company is so indemnified shall not, to the extent of indemnification, be considered as benefits paid under the Plan.
f.	If Federal or State legislation shall be enacted providing or requiring the provision of benefits payable to the Company’s employees
102
S' S'
in the event of disability, benefits payable under this Plan shall be reduced by the amount of such statutory benefits. If such reduction in benefits under this Plan results in a lower Company cost for all disability benefits (as a result of the statutory benefits being provided in part by employee contributions) the Company will negotiate with the Union and the Local the application of such reduction in cost to the provisions of other benefits on account of disability, death or retirement.
ADMINISTRATION
The Disablement Benefits Committee, which will act on all problems arising under this Plan, except those referred to in Section (8) of this Plan, shall consist of the Vice President in charge of Human Resources or his designated representative, the Medical Director of the Company or the Associate Medical Director, and the President of the Local (or a member of the Local designated by its’ President). Such Committee shall administer and interpret this Plan and shall have full power to make rules and regulations for its administration with respect to the members of the Local which are not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan.
Industrial Accident Disability Benefits
ndustrial accident benefits, for injured employees entitled to compensation under Massachusetts Workmen's Compensation Act who elect to proceed against Company’s insurer for compensation, shall be governed by the following
ules:
While the incapacity for work resulting from the injury is total, the Company will pay to the employee [subject to paragraphs (3), (4), and (8) below] the excess of the employee’s base pay (as defined in the Retirement Plan as amended) at the time of the injury over the payments made by the Company’s insurer under the Act.
2.	While the incapacity for work resulting from the injury is partial, the Company will pay to the employee [subject to paragraphs (3), (4), and (8) below] the excess of (a) the employee’s base pay at the time of the injury over (b) the payments made by the Company’s insurer under the Act, or the wages earned, or both as the case may be; provided, however, that no payments will be made under this paragraph to an employee who refuses to accept a position which is offered to him by the Company.
3,	If payments made by the Company’s insurer under the Act are reduced due to a third party settlement, the Company will not be required to compensate
103
the employee for said reduction in benefits under the Act. The payments) b the Company, as set forth in paragraphs (I) and (2), will continue at the sain level as paid prior to the third party settlement. This will apply to industrial acc dents that occur after May 15, 1994.
4.	Ifthe employee shall accept lump sum payments front the Company’s insure in lieu, in whole or in part, of compensation from the insurer, further paymen of benefits under this Plan shall cease.
5.	Benefits shall cease when an employee is retired or when his/her employmer is otherwise terminated.
6.	No change in an employee’s base pay shall become effective while s/he i receiving industrial accident benefits until such employee has been disable* for 52 weeks, at which time his/her base pay will be increased to reflect genera wage increases and other adjustments to the rating held by him/her at the tint of injury.
7.	Employees shall not be entitled to receive time or compensation for vacation or holidays while receiving industrial accident benefits.
8.	If the present Massachusetts Workmen's Compensation Act is changed, or i other Federal or State legislation is enacted, providing or requiring the provi sion of benefits payable to the Company’s employees with respect to its liabil ity fbr industrial accidents, benefits payable under this paragraph shall bt reduced by the amount of such increase in statutory benefits.
9.	The administration of the Plan shall be under the direction of the Medica Director and die Vice President in charge of Human Resources of the Com pany whose decision with respect to all questions arising thereunder, including questions respecting the duration of total and partial incapacity for work, shal be final.
IM
TOPICAL INDEX Page A
Absence, leave of .............................................  8
Amendments..................................................    46
Appendix: Disability Benefits Plans..........................  101
Arbitration...................................................  45
Automobile, use of..........................................    23
B
Beginners* Ratings............................................  99
Board of Arbitration..........................................  45
Bulletin Boards.............................................     8
C
Check-off....................................................... 4
Clothing and equipment ......................................   42
Conferences on grievances.....................................  44
prior to arbitration...................................    44
with management.......................................     45
Conformation to laws and regulations..........................   9
Contractors, work by.......................................     40
D
Days of work............................................      9-10
Days off.................................................... 10-11
work on second day off................................     17
Death in family............................................  29-30
Deduction of Union dues.......................................   4
Demotion...............................................    5.36.43
when forces are reduced..................................  36
Disability benefits...................................    101
Discharge.................................................... 5.43
for prohibited activities.................................  5
for non-membership in Union..............................   3
Discipline.................................................   5.43
Maintenance of............................................. 5
Disputes, settlement of......................................   43
Dual or combination jobs....................................    38
Duration of Agreement.........................................  47
E
Emergency declared by Chief Executive Officer........................ 6
existing in employee's home............................    29
Employee definition ...............................................  1
probationary..............................................  3
temporary...............................................   24
compliance with rules....................................   5
Employment, tenure of.......................................... 30
Equipment...................................................    42
105
F fitness and ability...........................................   Hl
. . , G
Grievance, definition .......................................... 44
Grievance procedure..........................................    44
H
Hearing on disciplinary cases..............................      44
Height premium..............................................     24
Holidays during vacation..........................................    25
definitions ..............................................  27
pay and premiums........................................... 28
absence before and after...............................     29
Hospital lira lion benefits ...................................  40
Hears of work...............................................      9
I
Inclement weather..............................................  42
Information furnished to Union...............................     8
Insurance..................................................      40
J
Job progression.............................................     33
definition................................................  33
charts....................................................  33
Job specifications............................................   11
suspension during emergency................................. 6
Jobs, dual or combination....................................... 38
Jury duty....................................................... 30
L
Laws and regulations...........................................   9
Lay offs....................................................     36
Leave of absence...............................................   7
Lockouts....................................................      5
M
Management rights.............................................    5
Meals (or meal allowance).....................................   10
in connection with overtime............................  15.16
time off for..........................................      16
Medical examinations...........................................  41
Mileage allowance..............................................  23
Military duty allowance.......................................   30
Mutual obligations..............................................  4
N
Night Work Premiums..........................................    52
Non-shift employees.............................................  9
Notice for travel time.............................................  18
106
Page
of vacancy.................................................   33
of filled vacancy............................................ 34
of promotion................................................  35
of lay off or reduction in force............................. 36
of disciplinary action...................................     43
requesting arbitration ...................................... 45
O
Obligations, mutual .............................................. 4
Overtime........................................................  13
cancellation penalty......................................... 19
meals during................................................. 15
travel time associated with.................................. 18
rcstpcriod................................................... 16
distribution of............................................   14
P
Parking charges................................-................. 23
Pay schedules..................................—............... 55-98
overtime..................................................... 13
premium..................................................     13
day.......................................................... 13
after 16 hours’ work........................................  16
after 18 hours’ work......................................... 17
for work on second day off................................    17
travel ...................................................... 18
holiday...................................................... 27
vacation .................................................... 24
during emergencies............................................ 6
for Union activities......................................... 45
increase in rates......................................... 55-98
height.................................—..................... 24
Payroll deductions. Union dues.................................... 4
Picketing.........................—.............................   5
Posting
of work schedul es..........................................  10
of notice of vacancy......................................... 34
Premiums.......................................................   13
Probationary employee............................................. 3
Promotion............................................—........... 32
to job not requiring Union membership......................... 4
R
Rates of pay..................................................... il
increase in............................................... 55-98
(see Pay in this Index)
Recognition of Union.............................................. I
Reduction in Forces.............................................. 36
Re-hiring after lay off.......................................... 36
107
Puge
Representation, employees represented.............................. 1
Reserve operators................................................. 14
Rest period....................................................... 17
Retarding or stopping work....................................... 7-8
Retirement plan................................................... 40
Retrogression..................  —..............................   37
Rosters........................................................... 32
Rules of Company , ,......................................          5
S
Saturday work, distribution of....................................   Il
Schedules, work.................................................... 9
"A"........................................................... 49
“C"........................................................... 52
“D"........................................................... 99
"F’.........................................................     100
Second day off, premium on......................................... i7
Seniority........................................................      30
definitions.................................................. 31
establishment of............................................. 31
for filling vacancy........................................... 35
after promotion or transfer................................... 35
after service in armed	forces................................ 31
or lay offs.................................................. 36
for re-hiring................................................ 36
Seven consecutive days, war! on................................... 17
Shift employees................................................... 10
Specifications, job............................................         11
Strikes and lockouts............................................... 5
Union obligations ...........................................  6
Company obligations...............................;........... 6
Substitutions..................................................... 38
Sunday premium ................................................... 17
Sunday work, distribution	of..................................... 11
Surgical benefits................—......—.........—............... 40
Supervisors, work by.............................................. 39
Suspension...................................................      43
'	T
Temporary assignments............................................. 38
to fill vacancy.............................................. 38
Temporary employee................................................ 24
Tenure of employment..........—.........—.........—............... 30
Termination of agreement.......................................... 47
Territory, workoutside...........................................  12
Time off for meats................................................. 10-16
for Union meetings...........................................  7
Tools and equipment............................................... 42
Transfers......................................................... 35
108
I
Page preference to applications for..............................  34
to job not requiring Union membership...................... 3-4
Travel premiums ...........................................     18-19
associated with overtime................................. 18-19
for change in work area..................................... 19
Trucking allowance................................................ 23
V Union recognition of...................................................   I
membership................................................    3
information furnished to..................................... 7
use of bulletin board........................................ 8
Union activities...............................................     7
V
Vacancy filling of..................................................  34
posting of notice of........................................ 34
notice when filled........................................   34
Vacations eligibility for.........................................   24-27
pay for...............................................       25
choice and assignment of.................................... 27
W
Wages............................................................. Il
(see Pay in this Index)
Weather, inclement................................................ 42
Work hours and days of...........................................   9
schedules................................ -................. 10
outside territory.........................................   19
in inclement weather........................................ 42
by contractors.......................................        40
by supervisors.............................................. 39
retarding or stopping......................................   5
Work areas....................................................  19-23
Work locations, permission to visit...............................  7
Work week ........................................................  9
109
STIPULATIONS
FOR
PRODUCTION & MAINTENANCE AND OFFICE-TECHNICAL & PROFESSIONAL UNIT
LOCAL 369, UWLA. AFI^-CIO
DATED: October 1,2001
STIPULATION #1
Re: UNE WORKERS WORKING IN PRIMARY ZONE* OF OVERHEAD UNE INSTALLA EIONS
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date, and without waiving or modifying any rights of cither party contained therein it is agreed that the Company witi use two (2) Linewmkecs (ether a combination of two (2) Lineworkers A; one (1) Li ne worker A and one (1) Lineworker B; or a Leader—Overhead lines with either a Lineworker A or Lineworker B) on the same pole for routine work on live conductors in the primary zone of overhead line operations under the conditions outlined below:
1,	When connecting and disconnecting capacitors, oil switches, air-break switches, transformers, boosters, regulators, protectors, controllers, and undervoltage relays,
2.	When cutting or connecting a live primary wire,
3.	When transferring primary construction. (Two poles lashed together are considered to be a single pole, except when the distance between them at a primary working level is too great to step safely from pole surface to pole surface.)
4.	When working in the primary area on junction poles carrying more than one live primary wire.
5.	When tying or untying live primary wires on double crossarms.
6.	When other work on live conductors in the primary zone of overhead line operations requires die use of two Lirreworkers, consistent with safe and reasonable operation,
*	A primary zone is considered to he the area of primary wires on poles or eras-sarms with a vertical distance between levels of primary wires of not more than approximately six (6) feet and not greater than six and one-half (6'A) feet
Series circuit wires, and primary neutral wires on primary crossarms which may become alive if opened, are to be considered as live primary wires.
STIPULATION ONE IS SUPPLEMENTED AS FOLLOWS REGARDING SINGLE BUCKET + 4 KV
110
Paragraph J Connect and disconnect transformers—One Lineworker may be used in an insulated bucket or lift with the second worker on the ground or on the pole.
Paragraph 2	Connect and disconnect lightning arrestors and cutouts—One
Lineworker may be used in an insulated bucket or lift with the second worker on the pole or ground. When jumpers are required, die second worker must be on the pole.
Paragraph 3 When transferring primary construction, one of the two Lin-eworkens may work fro an insulated bucket or lift that is adjacent to the same pole.
Paragraph 4	If the job demands four Lineworkers under Paragraph 3, Stipu-
lation One, two single bucket vehicles can be used.
Paragraph. 5	When tying or untying live primary wires on double crossanns,
one Lineworker may be used in an insulated bucket or lift with the second worker on the ground or on the pole.
Paragraph 6	Third Paragraph—When working on deenergized series street
circuit wires, a Line worker may be trssd in art insulated bucket or lift with the second worker on the ground or on the pole
Paragraph 7 New supplement to Stipulation One in reference to wosk described in paragraph 2 & 4 of Stipulation One:
If there is a worker on the pole and a worker in the bucket, there shall be a qualified worker on the ground,
(a)	When energized primary wires are being cut.
(b)	While working in die primary area on junction poles carrying more than one live primaty phase.
Where a third worker is required, the crew shall consist of a Leader Overhead Lines, Hot Stick Lineworker or Lineworker A, and a Lineworker with a minimum rating of Grade B.
For NSTAR By
111
I
STIPULATION 42
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties o even date and without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contains-therein, it is agreed that the Company will give notice in writing to an employet-of disciplinary reprimands which are to become a part of the employee’s records. If such records are introduced in a grievance hearing or in a hearing on demotion, suspension or discharge of such an employee, the Union at the hearing shall have the right of examination of the records introduced.
It is further agreed that a request may be made by the Business Agent to expunge such disciplinary reprimands or suspension records ftotn an employee's personnel record after one year has passed during which he has received no written disciplinary reprimand or suspension. if the record is expunged such action will be confirmed by a letter to the Local, Any decision made by ths Company on such request will be not be subject to the Grievance procedure or Arbitration.
For NSTAR
For LOCAL .W), UWUA, AH.-CM) By
Dated: October K2001
112
STIPULATIONS
Agreement of Intent Between the Parties with Respect to the Matter of
Tut-of-Area Travel Tune Associated with Temporary Upgradings
In an effort to control the payment of Out-of-Area Travel Time Premiums or Temporary Upgradings to fill vacancies, the parties have agreed that such tem-orary upgradings shall be made within the Division in which the vacancies exist.
It has been mutually agreed that should such Travel Tune Premium be equired to be paid, resulting from the inability of filling vacancies within a Divion, the employee senior on the rating shall have prior rights to the payment of uch premiums.
or NSTAR
or LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFDC1O ’y
fated: October 1,200j
113
STIPULATION #4
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties o even date without waiving or modifying any rights of either party containei therein, it is agreed that the attached is a list, dated January 11,1972, of shift an non-shift assignments by job title and grade as referred to in Article X, Sectio 2, of said Principal Agreement, together with an award and opinion relatin thereto.
For NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
114
VOLUNTARY LABOR ARBITRATION TRIBUNAL____________________ _
In the Matter of the Arbitration between
UTILITY WORKERS OF AMERICA
AFL-CIO, LOCAL NO. 369 - and -
Boston Edison Company
Case Number: 1130-0548-70
AWARD OF ARBITRATORS
The undersigned arbitraiorfs), having been designated in accordance with the Arbitration Agreement entered into by the above-named parties, and dated April 25,19® and having been duly sworn and having duly heard the proofs and allegations of the parties, Award as follows:
The changes of work schedule as proposed by the Company in its letter to the Union of August 7, 1970 are justified under article X, Section 5 of the contract.
Eric J, Schmertz Chairman
John S. Madden concurring
Robert D. Manning dissenting
DATED: May 24, 1973
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF NEW YORK
On this 24th day of May 1973, before me personally came and appeared Eric J, Schmertz to me known and known to me to be the individual(s) described in and who executed the foregoing instrument and he acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
118
Voluntary Labor Arbitration Tribunal jt the Matter of the Arbitration jetween
Jtility Workers of America
■XFL-C1O, LOCAL 369
and
Opinion of
Chairman
Case No. 113OQ548 7O
Boston Edison Company
Boston Edison Company is a public utility supplying electricity in the Greater Boston Aiea. Local Union No. 369, Utility Workers Union of America lias represented the production and maintenance unit of 2,000 employees since 1950.
The applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement contains the following provision (Section 5 of Article X):
“5. It is understood and agreed that, if present operating conditions change or if technological improvements change existing equipment or introduce new equipment to such an extent as to j ustify the Company changing the present Monday through Friday schedules, the Company shall submit the changes to the Union for approval. If the proposed changes do not meet with the Union's approval, the issue shall be settled under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXH and by Arbitration under Article XXXDL”
By letter dated August 7,1970 the Company proposed certain changes in schedules in the Cable EM vision. These changes involve a total of 36 employees, 18 of whom would be employees presently in the Cable Division; the other 18 would be either bidders from other departments or newly-hired employees.
Thechanges in schedules would provide basically for shift and weekend coverage where there is now no scheduled coverage and overtime has to be relied upon for the work during such hours.
The Company submitted documentary evidence and testimony in support of its need of the changed schedule. Among the factors relied on were (1) the change in recent years from a single winter peak operation to a two-peak (winter and summer) operation, with the result that there is only a short period of a few months in the spring and fall when Motkiay-through-Friday day-time cable repair work
119
on the underground system can be planned, whereas formerly there was a periot as long as nine months for such work; (2) the growth of the system and cable divt sion work-load; (3) the increase in the traffic problem making cable work in th streets more difficult to do in the daytime on weekdays; (4) an increase in cus tomera’ unwillingness to permit lines to be out of service for maintenance excep at late night and early morning hours; (5) employee's increasing tmwillingnes to be available for planned overtime as shown by the increase in “ask-offs’ (expression of a desire of the employee not to work overtime) and difficulties ir obtaining employees for call-outs; (6) an increased amount of overtime work; anc (?) the increasing unavailability of employees for daytime work because they are on paid rest periods due to extended overtime assignments the previous night
The data submitted show, for example, that the number of DSS and Transmission Lines that failed in service and had to be repaired in overtime increased 33% in a single year (1969-19?0) whereas the number repaired during straight-time daytime hours remained practically the same.
The changed conditions under which the Company now must operate justifies the proposed schedule changes in the Cable Division. The clear need of the Company is to have employees available on a scheduled basis during off-hours, namely for nights and weekends. This need is met by the proposed schedules.
The record contains uncontradicted evidence of substantial and significant changes in operating conditions and such evidence justifies the schedules in the Cable Division as proposed by the Company in its letter to the Union of August 7, 1970 under Article X, Section 5 of the contract.
If there be future changes within the meaning of Article X, Section 5 of the contract, the procedural requirements of that contract section will be followed. Il states;
“5 It is understood and agreed that, if present operating conditions change or if technological improvements change existing equipment or introduce new equipment to such an extent as to justify the Company changing the present Monday through Friday schedules, the Company shall submit the changes to the Union for approval. If the proposed changes do not meet with the Union’s approval, the issue shall be settled under the Grievance Procedure in Article XXXII and by Arbitration under Article XXXIII,’'
120
Eric J. Schmertz
Chairman
DATED: October 27, 1973
>TATE OF New York) 70UNTY OF New York) ss.:
On this day of October, 1973, before me personally came and appeared Eric Schmertz to me known and known to me to be the individual described in and vho executed the foregoing instrument and he acknowledged to me that he xecuted the same.
121
STIPULATION #5
Workforce Mobility Committee Agreement
The Parties agree to the establishment of a Joint Workforce Mobili Committee.
The goals of the committee shall be to establish mutually agreed upon way of achieving a mobile and efficient wotk force to meet the needs of the custome while fully utilizing current resources and remaining cost effective. The commt tee will explore the deployment of resources across the NStar customer servic territory white providing appropriate guidelines and processes under which sue deployment will take place.
The committee shall be composed of two (2) Union and two (2) Compan representatives, and the members shall be selected by the parties. The committe shall meet at the conclusion of contract negotiations and conclude by Septembe 30, 2000 with recommendations to the Joint Council.
For NSTAR
By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
122
STIPULATION #6
ubject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even late without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained therein xcept as specifically provided herein, the Company and Local 369, UWUA, kFL-CIO agree as follows:
Promotions, on a permanent basis, of qualified employees now or hereafter assigned to the Cable, Conduit or Northeastern Divisions will be made from a single roster comprised of employees assigned to said three Divisions, The filling of vacancies on a permanent basis in any of said three Divisions by lateral transfer action will also be made from said single roster provided that a written request for such transfer is submitted to the Company by the employee desiring such transfer.
Temporaiy filling of vacancies by lateral transfer action and temporary promotions of qualified employees in the Cable and Conduit Divisions at the Massachusetts Avenue Service Center wall continue to be made from a separate roster of employees assigned on a permanent basis to the Cable and Conduit Divisions, Temporaiy filling of vacancies by lateral transfer action and temporary promotions of qualified employees in the Northeastern Division at the Northeast Service Center will continue to be made from a separate roster of employees assigned on a petmanent basis to the Northeastern Division.
This Stipulation is applicable to the Northeastern Division only to employees now or hereafter holding job titles that are also held by employees assigned to the Cable and Conduit Divisions.
for NSTAR
for LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFLCIO iy
123
STIPULATION #7
Joint Council Agreement
The Parties agree to the establishment of a Joint Council to discuss business pro cess improvements, progress of joint committees, work place issues and busines issues pertinent to the industry. The Joint Council will meet every 3"1 Thursda of each month for the duration of the Agree mcnt. The Joint Council’s focus shoul be to coordinate ongoing joint union/management initiatives.
For NSTAR By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
124
STIPULATION #8
object to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even ate without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained therein scept as specifically provided herein, the Company and. Local 369, UWUA, lFL-CIO, agree as follows:
AS TO INCLEMENT WEATHER GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
ection L Grievances filed pursuant to the last sentence of paragraph 2 of Article XIX of said Principal Agreement shall be filed in writing with the Vice resident-Human Resources or his designated representative on or before 5:00 M, on Thursday following the first Monday after the day on which the work signment in question was made and not thereafter, and shall, except as aforesaid, : processed in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (c), (f), and (g) of rticle XXXII of said Principal Agreement,
ection 2. With respect to a grievance so filed, if the Wee President-Human esources or his designated representative determines, in his sole discretion, the tereise of which shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure of said Principal greement or to Arbitration, that the work assignment was improper under the ^visions of Article XXIX of the Principal Agreement, the aggrieved employees all receive, in full settlement of die grievance, additional compensation at their raight-time hourly rates for the number of hours of work which the Vice resident-Human Resources or his designated representative deems to have been iproperly assigned, but not less than four (4) hours’ pay for each employee volved at his/her straight-time rate.
setion 3. If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled under Sections 1 and 2 of is Stipulation, it may be submitted to Arbitration under Article XXXHI of said mcipal Agreement.
xtion 4. If, in any case, the Board of Arbitration decides in fever of the aggrieved nployees, the Company will pay:
(a)	the costs, if any, of the American Arbitration Association in connection th Arbitration;
(b)	the compensation and expenses of the third arbitrator,
(c)	the expenses of one copy of the transcript of testimony; and
(d)	al straight-time hourly rates for the time spent during their regularly heduled working hours at the Arbitration hearing by not more than three nployees who are requested by the Union to be in attendance at such hearing,
125
provided that such employees give or might reasonably have been expected give, testimony germane to the proceedings.
If, in any case, the Board of Arbitration does not so decide, the usual ptovisio of the Principal Agreement relative to sharing of the cost and expenses of art nation shall apply, and the Company shall not pay the employees described in su section (d) of this Section,
Section 5. The Board of Arbitration shall not have power to make an award decision requiring the Company to pay the sum set forth in Section 2 of this Stip lation or Io pay or suffer any other penalty or damages, the intent of the parn being that the provisions of Section 4 of this Stipulation set forth the maxima amount of the Company’s liability with respect to such Arbitration proceeding
AS TO INCLEMENT WEATHER ASSIGNMENTS
Section 6, Employees on List tfi tSchedule F) of said Principal Agreement n required to perform their scheduled outdoor work may be assigned to perfon other work, irrespective of Job Specification, in accordance with the listing Appendix A, which is attached hereto, and they will be paid at their straight-tire hourly rates in the same manner as if they had performed their scheduled outdot work
126
APPENDIX A I Items of Work for Inclement Weather Assignments to Employees of Overhead Divisions Housekeeping activities—trucks, sheds, platforms Check and replenish truck stock including rubber goods, rope, tools, equipment
Reclaim line wire and service cable
Check generators and portable pumps
Make up dead ends, tree wire and moulding, rope slings, rewire street light brackets
Cut tie wires
Salvage line hardware
Load the trucks for next day’s work
Attend;
(a)	Safety meetings, including resuscitation meeting
(b)	Instruction and Job Training sessions
(c)	Training sessions for Major Emergency Plan
0, Clean truck compartments
Items of Work for Inclement weather Assortments to Employees of Underground Divisions
n Cold Weedier - 1(P or Below	.
Reclaim cable including duct splicing and lead burning
Install eyes and end seals on cable
J. Prepare switch and transformer leads
I. Salvage junction box parts—terminals, potheads, transformers, switches and cable eyes
5.	Attend:
(a)	Safety meetings, including resuscitation meeting
(b)	Instruction and Job Training sessions
(c)	Training sessions for Major Emergency Plan
5. Repair transformers and switches in shops
Under Other Conditions of Inclemency
1, Housekeeping activities—trucks, sheds, platforms
127
2.	Check and replenish truck stock including rubber goods, rape, tools, equi men!
3,	Reclaim cable including duct splicing and lead burning
4.	Install eyes and end seals on cable
5.	Prepare switch and transformer leads
6.	Inspect customers’ vaults
7.	Check generators and portable pumps
8,	Salvage junction box parts—terminals, potheads, transformers, switches ar cable eyes
9.	Clean cable tunnels—make repairs to walls, iron work and ladders
10.	Inspect bonding, tagging, flreproofing, fairieadere.hangets, cable racking an duct plugs in cable tunnels and station basements except at Summer Strei and Congress Street
11.	Inspect and measure cable pulling ropes
12.	Load the trucks for next day’s work
13.
Attend:
(a)	Safety meetings, including resuscitation meeting
(b)	Instruction and Job Training sessions
(c)	Training sessions for Major Emergency Plan
14.	Repair transformers and switches in shops
15.	Clean truck compartments
Supplemental Items of Work for Inclement Weather Assignments t Employees of Overhead and Underground Divisions.
The Company intends to assign the indoor activities listed above as a first optic during inclement weather:
The following items of work are added:
Permit Outages
Customer Arranged Service Outages
Patrols and Inspections
Loading of Poles, Reels and transformers
It is not intended that work will be performed in severe weather conditions o when conditions are detrimental to employee safety. The leader&'splicers wil determine the degree of inclemency.
In addition to the above, the Local agrees to meet with the Company to develop pilot programs for implementing additional assignments which can be performer
128
n marginally inclement weather to be added to Appendix A. The first item to be developed will be the digging, setting and removing poles.
The following items of work are added in marginally inclement weather
Setting and Removing of Poles
•	When setting pole, it must be protected from all energized conductors (no rubbering in inclemency). The Company will not assign crew with intent it will just open holes.
•	When removing pole, it must be clear of attachments and cut below the secondary area, (not to be performed as a single bucket function)
Street Lamp Work
•	Lamp work will be performed by two-person crew (head size limited to 175 watt)
For NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
129
STIPULATION #9
In administering the provisions of Section 8 cf the Industrial Accident Disabilit Benefits Plan the Medical Director will take into account the following guideline The decision as to the ability of an individual experiencing a Worker’s Competi sation Injury or Illness to return to work, and the delineation of work restriction is that of the Corporate Medical Director. Recognizing however, that reachin such informed decisions sometimes requires additional medical input, it ishereb delineated that the Medical Director, in making a determination, will consider 1. The results of any exam of the individual undertaken in the Health Service
Department.
2.	The opinion of the individual's private physician, particularly where that phy sician’s specialty is appropriate to the complaint under consideration.
3.	Tbe opinion of the examining physician at Liberty Mutual, if applicable.
If there is disagreement, or if the Medical Director wishes additional input, s/h tnay order an Independent Medical Examination (1ME) from a qualified appropriate specialist. In order to maintain impartiality, IME’s are generally obtainec through one of the companies currently specializing in independent exams (e.g Medical Evaluation Specialists) and not through a private practitioner. These exams are obtained at the Company’s expense.
If the affected employee disagrees with the decision of the Medical Director, s/he may, at his or her own expense, obtain an IME through a similarly appropriate group, the result of which will be considered in making a return to work determination.
.For. NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
130
STIPULATION #10
Statement of Mutual Goals
Ve are committed to a course of conduct that strives to continually improve the ompetitive well being of the Company and the continuous learning, develop-nent, and growth of its employees. We are dedicated to participating in a con-nuing process that recognizes the need for employee involvement in adapting o change and helping to revise the processes that will cause change to occur. We gree that the formula for future success is based on consultation, mutual respect, pen communications, shared success and innovative problem solving which dlows the company through competitive excellence to sustain its continued growth. We are committed to streamlining processes that allow us to eliminate vaster! effort and to provide a higher quality, more prompt service to ourcustom-■rs. We are committed to a more fully utilized, versatile, and better-trained work oree and unproved personal performance and job satisfaction through increased ob flexibility.
-or NSTAR 3y
-or LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
131
STIPULATION #11
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of eve date, and without waiving or modifying the rights of either party contained thcreir except as specifically provided herein, the Company and Local 369, UWUA AFL-CIO, during the period from the date hereof up to and including May 15 2000, agree as follows:
Whenever the Company is contracting out maintenance, repair, or constructior work normally performed by employees in the classifications listed on the attached schedule, the Company will make every reasonable eflbrt to fill, on a per manent or temporary basis, vacancies in those listed classifications which nor mally perform the work being contracted out, io the extent necessary, if any. to raise the complement to the corresponding figures on the attached schedule, fb the classifications involved.
Excluded from the foregoing are those limited dwy cases where employees do not perform the wotk of their job classifications.
For NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
132
ATTACHED SCHEDULE TO STIPULATION #11
Ernptayes on tb, job temporary or parmanem at fate rf subcontracting
plicers Grade A plus Inspector Cable	64
plicers Grade B	27
plicers Grade C
plicers Helper Grade A	28
jrandfathered)
eader-Cable and Conduit plus one Heavy
quipment Operator	32
able and Conduit Installer Grade A	49
l combination of Spliceis Grade A-B-C and the grandfathered Splicers Helper trade A will be maintained at a total of 119 employees to fulfill the provisions f this stipulation. When the number falls below 119, or when the number of Irade A’s falls below 64, the Company will raise the complement to the coneponding figures by temporarily upgrading Spikers Grade B to Grade A for the leriod of time contractors are doing such work.
or NSTAR
w LOCAL 369, UWUA AFL-CIO Jy
133
STIPULATION #12
1.	Upon the temporary assignment of an employee to a position of Supervist for any reason other than a substitution for illness, s/he shall at the expiratio of one hundred and twenty-five (125) calendar days be made a permane Supervisor or returned to the bargaining unit.
2.	Upon the temporaiy assignment of an employee to a position of Supervise to substitute for a Supervisor absent because of illness or accident, s/he sha at the expiration of two hundred and fifty (250) calendar days be made a pe manent Supervisor or returned to the bargaining unit. The days referred t under paragraphs I and 2 are to be combined and are not mutually exclusiv
3.	The periods of one hundred and twenty-fi ve (125) days under paragraph 1 and tw hundred fifty (250) days under paragraph 2 are meant to be an accumulative ton days beginning January 1,1972. If an employee is temporarily assigned for fiv (5) days (Monday through Friday) s/he shall be deemed to be so assigned for seve (7) calendar davs. If an employee is so assigned for a period of one to four day s/he shall be deemed to be so assigned for that number of days only, unless non worked days intervene. No employee shaft be required to accept or retain a tem poraty assignment to a position of Supervisor.
4.	The above provisions shall be effective as of April 1, 1973 as to any employee temporarily assigned to Supervisoty positions hereafter and will be effective as o April 15, 1973 as to any employees presently assigned to Supervisory positions
5.	A permanent Supervisor can only return to the bargaining unit in a beginner job. AH seniority previously accumulated can be utilized for pension or vaca tion credit purposes only. Otherwise the returning Supervisor shall be consid ereda new employee and shall not retain any seniority for any other purpose
6.	An employee accepting a temporary promotion to a position of Supervisor ir accordance with paragraph I will not accumulate seniority on his/her penna rent rating. The employee when returned to his/her permanent rating will retain (hate seniority previously accumulated on the rating.
134
STIPULATION #13 Contractor Addendum
During the course of the 2000 contract negotiations, concerns were expressed by the parties on the future use by the Company of outside contractors for construction work under Article XXH1. Both parties agree there is a need to balance the Company's desire to be efficient, flexible, and customer focused and the Union’s and employees ’ concern for work security for the continuing success cf the business. Both parties agree to establish a Joint Committee to determine the most efficient and effective way to utilize employees and contractors to accomplish the Company’s work. The Joint committee will consist cf the following members;
Company General Manager of Construction Human Resources Manager Labor Relations Consultant
Union:	President or Designee
Business Agent or Designee Secretary-Treasurer or Designee
Within thirty (30) days of the signing of this contract, the parties agree that the Joint Committee will meet to formulate the guidelines regarding construction wotk and the use of contractors for this work. Included on the agenda forthis committee shall be the "mate ready” construction work, "maintenance and repair work,” and the use of outside contractors.
The Committee has the foil backing of the Company and the Union and will make every effort to reach agreement chi this issue. The parties agree that the Committee may utilize the services of a mediator to reach agreement if they deem it helpful. The company agrees to routinely provide to the Committee, a list of all construction work, anticipated or scheduled, for the next six (6) months. The Committee will meet on an ongoing basis to review anticipated work and toteview the guidelines. as needed.
i-or NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
By
135
STIPULATION #14
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date, and without waiving or modify ing the rights of either party contained therein, except as specifically provided herein, the Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree as follows:
I,	A joint Company-Local safely committee shall consist of no mote than seven (7) members appointed by the Company and no more than seven (7) members appointed by the Local’
The purpose of the committee will be to promote safe working conditions and safety awareness on the part of both supervisors and employees and other related items as either party may request
There shall be meetings of the committee on a monthly basis. The date shall be selected by the parties. In addition, either party can call an emergency meeting if warranted. A written agenda will be prepared for each meeting. Both parties may recommend agenda items.
All regular working hours spent in connection with the work of (his committee by Union committee members shall be paid by the Company.
II.	The Company shall provide health and safety information to the Local that shall include, but not be limited to:
•	One (I) complete set of all Company Safety Procedures/Polici’es with updates when issued.
•	Reports of Company studies concerning health and safety matters such as morbidity (frequency of work related illnesses or injuries for particular groups) and mortality (death rate data for particular groups) when such studies are conducted.
•	Reports of all formal safety inspections of workplace conditions.
•	Reports of formal Industrial Hygiene Surveys including air quality tests and sound level surveys.
•	Annual OSKA Injury and Illness Logs.
•	Asbestos Clearance Air Monitoring Results (upon request by work location).
•	PCB Air Monitoring Results (upon request by work location).
•	PCB Oil Level Results (upon request by wort; location).
•	PCB Wipe Sampling Results (upon request by work location),
HI. When, during the course of employment, an employee represented by Local 369 is seriously or fatally injured, the Company will expeditiously notify the duly authorized representative of the Local. Upon notification, the Local's
136
authorized representative (as defined below) will participaie in the Company's investigation of the incident, if any.
Responsibility for the Company notification to the Local rests with the Director Corporate Safety or his/her duly authorized representative.
The Local’s authorized representative is the President of the Local or his/her duly authorized representative, which may be designated at the time of notification from the Company.
Compensation of the Local’s representative for time spent participating in an investigation will be administered as follows:
During the representative’s normally scheduled work hours, s/he will be recorded as “Leave Allow, Conference with Management” on the employee’s time sheet
Outside of the representative’s normally scheduled hours, s/he will be compensated at one and one-half (11/2) times higher regular hourly rate of pay. All other premiums such as overtime, travel time, meals, etc. will not apply. Likewise, this time will not be considered for application to the employee’s divisional records of items such as overtime rosters. These hours will not be recorded on the employee's time sheet, but will be reported by memorandum from the Director Corporate Safety and will appear as a pay adjustment in a subsequent paycheck. These hows will be considered in conjunction with all other hours worked for determining the employee’s eligibility for rest periods.
A serious injury is defined as requiring in-patient hospitalization, of an injured employee. First aid and/or outpatient treated injuries are not included.
For NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
Dated: October 1,200
137
STIPULATION #15
The Company will reimburse employees for the full cost of the following license when required by their job;
Massachusetts State Driver's Licenses
a)	The Company will pay no part of the cost of a class 3 license.
b)	The Company will reimburse the current fee for the class 1 or 2 permit fee c) The Company will reimburse the current fee for the class 1 or 2 road test d) The Company will reimburse the additional cost to change the license, i.e.r .
to 2, 3 to 1, and 2 to 1.
e) Upon renewal, the Company will reimburse for the additional cost of a clas 1 or 2 license over the cost of class 3 licenses.
Rigger r Licenses
The Company will reimburse employees for the full cost of a rigger’s license i lequiied in the pei folniauce of his/her job.
HVAC Licenses
The Company will reimburse employees for the foil cost of HVAC Licenses t required in the performance of his/her job.
For NSTAR
By
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
138
STIPULATION #16
[he parties recognize the need to resolve grievances whenever possible to avoid he expense and delay associated with arbitration. Thus, the parties enter into this Agreement to use mediation under the auspices of Mediation Research and education Project, Incorporated after completion of a hearing under Article KXXIII 1(b).
rhe following procedures will be followed in the use of mediation:
. No grievance may be taken to arbitration during the period of May 16, 1994 through May 15,2000 inclusive without first having gone to mediation, except when either party requests that mediation be bypassed.
.. Within fifteen days of theUnion’s requestfor arbitration, the parties will schedule a Mediation Conference to be held at the earliest available date of a member on the mediation panel. The Mediation Conference will normally be held at an offsite location.
Each party should have one principal spokesperson at the Mediation Conference. The spokesperson for the Company will normally be the Director of Employee Relations or hi s designated representative. The spokesperson for die Union will normally be the President or his designated representative. An attorney will not be used by either party at the Mediation Conference. The number of employees who shall suffer no loss in pay under Section XXXII 1(g) of the Working Agreement shall be no more than two (2).
Proceedings before the mediator shall be informal in nature. The presentation of evidence is not limited to that which has been presented in the grievance proceedings. The rules of evidence will not apply, and no record of the Media--tion Conference shall be made.
All written material that is presented to the mediator or to the other party shall be returned to the party presenting the material at the termination of the Mediation Conference. The mediator may, however, retain one copy of the written grievance, to be used solely for purposes of statistical analysis.
The mediator will have the authority to meet separately with any person or persons, but will not have the authority to compel the resolution of a grievance. The mediator shall conduct no more than three conferences per day and the session will begin at 9:00 AM.
The Company and Union spokesmen at the Mediation Conference may accept the resolution proposed by the mediator and such settlement or any other settlement resulting from the Conferences shall not be precedent-setting, unless both parlies agree.
139
9.	ff no settlement is reached during the Mediation Conference, the mediator shai provide the parties with a written advisory opinion within seven (7) day unless both parties agree that no opinion shall be provided.
10.	The mediator shall state the grounds of his/her advisory opinion.
11.	If no settlement is reached at the Mediation Conference, the grievance ma be scheduled for arbitration in accordance with Article XXXUL
12.	In theevent that a grievance that has been mediated is subsequently arbitrated no person serving as a mediator between these parties may serve as arbitrate Nothing said or done by the mediator may be referred to at arbitration. An settlement proposal made by either party at the Mediation Conference shal not be referred to at the arbitration hearing.
13,	The parties agree to share equally the costs associated with mediation.
14.	The assessment of costs for mediation cases heard after May 16,1994 whic have been appealed to arbitration under Article XXXIIH of the collective bar gaming agreement will be as follows:
I In Non-Discipline Cases
a)	If the Union fails to accept the mediator’s recommendations, it maj appeal the case to arbitration. If the arbitrator renders the same or les favorable decision than the mediator, the full costs of that arbitration an then paid by the Union. If, however, there is a more favorable ruling than the mediator's, then the cost is split.
b)	If the Company fails to follow a mediator’s recommendation anr receives the same or a less favorable decision from a subsequent arbi tration, the Company pays the full cost of that arbitration. If the arbi trator’s award is more favorable to the Company than the mediator’ recommendation, the cost of the arbitration is split
□. In Discipline Cases
a)	If the mediator upholds the discipline in full or in part, the Local may appeal the case to arbitration. If the arbitrator concurs with Ihe media tor’s recommendation, the Union will pay the full cost. However, if tht arbitratorreducesthedisriplinelcwer than ihe mediator’sor eliminates it, the cost will be split.
b)	If the mediator reduces or eliminates the discipline and the Company refuses to accept the mediator’s recommendation and the case i‘ moved to arbitration, and then if the arbitrator reduces the discipline to the same degree as the mediator or eliminates it, the Company pay1-the full cost of the arbitration; otherwise, the cost will be split.
140
Payment of full arbitration costs for cases appealed from mediation shall include the full cost of the arbitrator, a transcript, and the meeting facility. Each patty’s own cost shall not be included in this assessment
For NSTAR
Fbr LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
141
STIPULATION #17 Joint Disability Committee The parties have agreed to establish a Joint Disability Committee to develop a mechanism to address plan administration issues and (hose situations in which disabled employees may be eligible for long-term disability benefits, but may have limited duty work capacity.
The focus of the Committee shall be to support light duty or modified work programs, independent evaluation programs, the use of beginners’ ratings (Revised Schedule D) jobs, new jobs, or layoff status as possible accommodations for employees with permanent or long-term restrictions.
The Committee will also engage in claims management intervention and problem solving.
The Committee shall meet monthly to review program initiatives and more often, if necessary, to discuss the situation of a particular employee.
For NSTAR
Rr LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
142
STIPULATION #18
Work in Inclement Weather for Meter Readers
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date and without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained therein, Meter Readers will be expected to perform meter reading work regardless of weather conditions. However, supervisory personnel are to endeavor to rearrange work assignments to avoid insofar as practicable unnecessary exposure to severe stormy weather or unusually cold weather. Ten degrees Fahrenheit temperature or lower is to be considered unusually cold weather. Walking meter reading routes will be suspended when the outside air temperature is 10 degrees Fahrenheit or below. Riding and Van Routes will continue regardless of the outside air temperature. The temperature recorded at each service center will be the benchmark, except for Mass Ave South Routes, which will use the recorded temperature at the Walpole Service Center. If the Meter Readers have been ordered to work and if, in the opinion of the Steward, they should not have been so ordered, the Steward may immediately appeal tohis/her Supervisor and if necessary to his/her Division Head and Department Head. If the decision is not satisfactory to the Steward, the employees shall continue to work, but the Steward may file a grievance under Article XXXII and Arbitration under Article XXXHI and the Business Agent of the Local may proceed with this grievance to the Human Resources Organization for immediate decision.
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
143
STIPULATION #19 Joint Benefits Review Committee
During the 2000 contract negotiations, the Company and the Union spent considerable time in addressing pension and health care costs. White the parties were able to reach agreement on a multi-year agreement, both expressed an interest in ongoing discussions of these issues. Accordingly, agreement was reached on the formulation of a Joint Benefits Review Committee.
The Company and the Union agree that, within sixty (60) days of the execution of the Contract, a Joint Benefits Review Committee will be established and begin discussions. The Committee shall consist cf no more than six (6) members — three (3) from management and three (3) from the Local. Outside resources may be utilized to enrich the review process.
The purpose of the Committee will be to discuss pension and health care costs and explore alternatives to existing programs. The Committee will meet monthly over an eighteen (18) month period and may make changes to programs by mutual agreement. Following this period, the Committee will dissolve unless extended by mutual a^eanent.
For NSTAR
Bar LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO By
144
STIPULATION #20
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date and without waiving or modifying any rights of either party contained therein, it is agreed that when an employee having been given a work assignment and in the fulfilling of said work assignment uses his/her personal automobile without authorization by the Company, his/her additional productivity resulting from the use of said automobile shall not be used to compare with the productivity of another employee performing a similar work assignment without the use of an automobile.
For NSTAR
lw LOCAL 369,1JWLJA. AFL-CIO
145
STIPULATION #21
Subject to the provisions of toe Principal Agreement between toe parties of even date, and without waiving or modifying any rights of either party except as specifically provided herein, the Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree to accept all present and future EEI validated tests with recommended cut-off scores.
For NSTAR
For LOCAL 369. UWUA, AFL-CIO
146
STIPULATION #22
Subject to the provisions of the Principal Agreement between the parties of even date, and without waiving or modifying any rights of either party except as specifically provided herein, the Company and Local 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO, agree that the operation of computer terminal input and output devices shall be considered to be contained in all Office-Technical and Professional job specifications and shall not be subject to negotiations under Article XII, paragraph 2 (b).
For NSTAR
For LOCAL 369, UWUA, AFL-CIO
By
Dated: October4, 2001
147

WD9ty<ttanSErMl OoBlon, M«WdXi«9ttS C2lt9
October 1, 200
Me Panick Carney, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay Stale Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr Carney:
It is agreed that when an employee is given a verbal reprimand, if the Stewart or the Chief Steward is immediately available at the time in the work location the Stewart or Chief Stewart will be given an opportunity to be present at the time the reprimand is given. If the Stewart is not present at the time the reprimand is given, s/he shall be notified thereafter.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 1
148
^AfSm/7 WO Bcry*M0n StHrtl Boston. Mnutfussns 02199 GAS
October 1,2001
dr. Patrick Camey, President
jocal 369
Jtility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
20 Bay State Drive
raintree, MA 02184
Jear Mr. Camey:
t is agreed that in emergencies declared by the Chief Executive Officer where racticable and in the sole discretion of the Company, employees will be assigned uties consistent or related to their job specifications.
[he statement contained in this letter shall not be subject to the Grievance Pro-edure or Arbitration.
ifery truly yours,
Javid F. Dorant
Jirector—Labor Relations
Letter No. 2
149
I
Instar
(MS'
flDG ScyHton Street Boston. Maaiecrmseils 02199
October 1, 200
Mr. Rurick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Camey:
It is agreed that the Company will notify the Business Agent of the Local regardin the use of Contractors on ordinary maintenance and repair work.
Vptv fimlv vntirc
• —	’-%r ✓ - —-T
David F. Doran t
Director-—Labor Relations
Letter No. 3
150
BOO Boston StfMl Boston, Maa^dMneHs 02199
*• ftFcrjt/c
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Carney, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA G2184
Dear Mr. Camey:	Re: Use of Telephone in Field
It is agreed that where a telephone is available adjacent to the work location or within a reasonable distance there from of an employee, s/he may with permission of a Supervisor call the Business Agent of the Local on serious grievances, provided there is no interference with the work.
It is understood that such telephone calls will be permitted to be made only on serious grievances requiring the immediate attention of the Business Agent.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 4
151
^/VSTZU?
GA3
BOO Boston Efrwl Boston. M*»#clXrt»rt» 02199
October 1, 200
Mr. Patrick Carney, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Carney:
It is agreed that subject to the provisions of Personnel Administration Guideline 1.3, dated April 1989, an employee shall be given a leave of absence without pay during the period that coincides with the term that s/he serves in the public office to which srhe has been elected.
Such an employee will be transferred to the inactive payroll and shall be required to be examined by the Medical Director before returning to work.
Very tnrly yours,
David F, Dorant
Director-—Labor Relations
Letter No. 5
152
«)Q 0cyi*kw» S*«t taatan,M»*«ctaMttsO219*
GAS
October I, 2001 fr. Patrick Camey, Resident ocal 369 dlity Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 20 Bay State Drive raintree, MA 02184
tear Mr. Camey:
onfirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, splicers will ot be required to wipe joints from a bucket truck, but may on occasion when ecessary be assigned work involving sweating of conductors from a bucket truck ath the understanding that the solder pot, if used, will be safely secured outside f and not attached to the bucket truck.
ery truly yours,
avid F. Dorant
hrector—Labor Relations
Letta- No. 6
153
£LFCrff/C GAS
BD0 Boydton Stml Euston, M»stac#KBMt8 07109
October 1, 20(
Mr. Patrick Camey, Resident
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr, Camey:
The Company states that in those cases involving transfer or promotion where t employee of one department has been accepted by another department to fill vacancy for which a regular posting has been made, such employee will t released from his/her former duties not more than 90 days from such acceptaiK except in cases where a grievance or arbitration is pending under paragraph 12 Article XVII or the accepted employee is not actively at work for whatever reaso
The accepted employee must move when released from his/her former duties forfeit his/her right to the assignment
Very truly yours,
David F, Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 7
1
154
••	ri fcrfi/c
ms
800 Boytiton Street Boston, MaaUchusette 02199
October I, 200!
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 20 Elay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Camey:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company frill, at the request of the Local, make known to the Local whether or not a job vacancy will be filled.
Miry truly yours,
David F. Doiant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 8
155
i
^I\ISTAR
SAS
aDOBeyWon Onton,	02199
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Carney, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union Of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Carney:
It is agreed that in the interpretation of Article XVII, Section 17, that all laid-ofl employees with seniority rights shall be given an opportunity to return to wort if qualified and able to perform the work available before any new employees are hired by the Company, and further, that an emergency declared by the Chie Executive Officer or his designated representative as defined in Article Vn of the Agreement shall not affect those rights.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 9
156
fa NSTAR
MUBoytafcnSfrMl Bolton, HMKhusdfa Hitt
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFLCO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
October 1, 2001
Dear Mr. Camey:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, employees with five (5) years or more of service, required to change classifications due to an occupational injuty or disease arising out of or in the course of employment, shall retain the rate of pay of the original classification, if transferred to a lower rate position. Subsequent raises in pay, or in any other upward pay or adjustments applying to the former position shall be granted as though the employee was still in die original classification. Similarly, all other compensation and related benefits shall be maintained at the same or higher levels.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 10
157
SOO SwUktn Stttj Botiofi, MaaBfftuwflS 02199
October 1,2001
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Camey;
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company agrees that all verbal reprimands issued prior to January 1,2000 will be expunged from the employee’s record. All other discipline will be reviewed in Joint Committee.
Very truly yours.
David F. Dorant Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 11
158
ffifWSTAJt
Beaton street Boeicn. Ua&swhjsetts OFiBfi
SAS
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA (Hl84
Dear Mr. Camey;
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, it is agreed that in addition to the notice requirements contained in Article XII 2(b) of the principal agreement, the Company will, to the extent it has the information, provide the Local with the following data:
(a)	The nature rtf the change.
(b)	The approximate dale on which the Company proposes to effect the change.
(cj The approximate number, type and location of employees likely to be affected by the change.
(d)	The effects the change may be expected to have on the employees’ working conditions and terms of employment
(e)	Updated information, if any, on new developments which arise.
The Company will also endeavor to provide as much advance notice as possible of contemplated changes covered by this section beyond the specific notice lEquiretnaiis specified in this section.
Very truly yours,
David E Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 12
159
^/VSTXIR BOO Bcyfeton SitmI Borton, MasMehusefe 02199 GAS
Mr. Patrick Carney, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
October 1, 2001
Dear Mr, Carney:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company will provide an occupational accident death benefit with an insured benefit of $ 100.000 for an employee who dies as a result of an accident on the job. This is in addition to other life insurance benefits provided tty the Company.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labar Relations
Letter No, 13
160
^nstar
BtOBcykMcnSrMl Boston, MaaMCbusetti 02199
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
October 1, 2001
Dear Mr, Camey:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, dependents of employees who die, as the result of an accident on the job shall receive hospital, dental and vision care benefits. Coverage for spouse will cease upon remarriage, reaching age 65 or becoming covered under another group plan. Coverage for dependent children will cease same as active employees. Benefits to be paid at 100% by the Company.
Vfety truly yours.
David F, Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 14
161
ffifVSTAR
£1£CTR/C
600 tension Street Bottort. Maes&ctiMefts 02teg
GAS
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of AritenCa, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
October 1, 2001
Dear Mr. Camey:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company will provide up to $48,000 (up to $12,000 per year) for the purpose of an edu-catWBaJ as’ismnce plan for each dependent child of an employee who dies as the result of an accident on the job. This plan will be administered solely by the Company and payment will be made upon submission to it of bills from the college in connection with room and board, fees, registration, tuition, and books.
Very tally yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No, 15
162
IVO	fiDO BojdrstoA SW Boston.. Lta»c6us0tts 021^9
** EiECrwc
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Carney, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr. Carney:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations regarding Safety Policy #19, the company agrees that said Policy will remain in force and effect unless specifically deleted by both parties.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No, 16
163
^/vsTXk/r
f* EiECTfffC
GAS
Boston. Massacfmsetts 02f«
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: Safety Shoes
Dear Mr. Camey:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company will pay once annually the full cost of liie purchase price net tc exceed $25 for work shoes and $125 for lineworker boots for all eligible employees.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 17
164
$nstar SOO BoytSton Straet Boston, MxisckjfHa 02199 * €L£CTJ?/C
/JAS
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: Third Doctor Provision
Dear Mr, Camey;
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, and without waiving or modify ing the provisions of Section (9) of the Industrial Accident Disability Benefits Plan, the Company is willing to utilize the services of a third doctor as provided in Section 6 of Article XXVH1 on a case-by-case basis.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 18
165
ffififSTAR
£7/43*
Bo/fefon Streef Boston. Afeiianhuietfi tf?fM
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Camey, Resident
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
12D Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: New Employee Meeting with Union Representation
Dear Mr, Camey:
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company agrees to afiow union representation to meet with new employees for '4 hour curing their first week of employment.
Very truly yours,
David F. Durant
Director—Labor Relations
Lefler No. 19
166
^fVSTAR
SOO Ballon Sireei Boston. MatoKhuMtft 02199
ffAS
Mr. Patrick Carney, Resident
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
October 1, 2001
Re: Fitness for Duty Policy Dear Mr. Carney;
Confirming agreement reached during recent contract negotiations, the Company agrees that if an employee is required to separate from the Company under this policy, he/she will have the option of resignation or retirement (if eligible) rather than termination. The Company agrees to pay costs not covered by employees insurance on voluntary referrals.
It was further agreed that the Company and the Local will confer on issues pertaining to the use of outside EAO and Value Option.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 20
167
^IVSTAR
GAS
aw feoittlon &reet Button, Masiadv»tti 02199
October 1,2001
Mr. Patrick Camey, President
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Re: Stipulations, Letters and Side Agreements
Dear Mr. Camey:
In recognition of the need to review, consider and update the Stipulations, Letters and Side Agreements between the parties, rhe Company and Ilie Local Itave agreed to establish a Committee for this purpose. The Committee will consist of four (4) members, two (2) to be selected by the Company and two (2) to be selected.
The Committee will meet as needed to complete this review. The parties agree that the Committee will make every effort to file a final report with mutual recommendations, to the extent posable, by May 15, 2001.
Very truly yours.
David F. Dorsnt
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 21
168
^NSTAR
ftecr/i/c GAS
tDO 3oyt**on Etocfori,	02199
Mr. Patrick Camey, Resident
Local 369
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO 120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 021R4
October 1,2001
Re: Six (6) Month Work Assignments for OT&P Positions
Dear Mr. Camey:
It is mutually agreed by and between the parties hereto that travel time premiums in connection with out-of-area work assignments will be paid or not paid as follows:
1.	Normally an employee will be entitled to travel time premiums when assigned to report to work outside his/her permanent work area unless authorized to travel during posted work hours.
2.	Employees may be assigned to any out-of*area assignments without the. payment of travel time premiums provided the assignment is for six (6) or more months.
3.	If, at the time the out-of-area work assignment is made, management has information that would indicate that the assignment may be for six (6) months or more, they will so inform the steward and the employee will not receive travel time premiums. In the event the work assignment does not last far six (6) or more months, the employee will be retroactively adjusted and paid the applicable travel time premiums.
4.	In no event will travel time premiums be paid in connection with permanent work location changes.
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No. 22
169
^NSTAR
000 Soyikion Steel Babw. Mmadusttts 02199
October 1, 2001
Mr. Patrick Carney, President	■
Local 3W
Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
120 Bay State Drive
Braintree, MA 02184
Dear Mr, Camey:
The Company agrees that in addition to the information to be furnished under Article Vin, Paragraph 9 of the Principal Agreement, it will notify the Local when members of the Local are selected by the Company for additional training or education. The Company further agrees Stat whenever possible a 30-day advance notice will be given.
The Company’s actons pursuant to this letter shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure of Arbitration,
Very truly yours,
David F. Dorant
Director—Labor Relations
Letter No, 25
172
NSTAR
EL EC TRfC GAS
Utility Workers Union of America
Local 369, AFL-CIO