1

Table of Contents
ARTICLE 1	Authorization ......................................3
ARTICLE II	Employment Representation...........................3
ARTICLE 111	Parties.............................................5
ARTICLE IV	Recognition of the Union........................... 7
ARTICLE V	Union Security......................................7
ARTICLE VI	Safety & Security ................................ 10
ARTICLE VII	Hiring Hall ...................................... 12
ARTICLE VIII	Seniority......................................... 13
ARTICLE IX	Military Service ................................. 14
ARTICLE X	Jury Duty ........................................ 14
ARTICLE XI	Union Representatives & Unauthorized Actions...... 15
ARTICLE XII	Employees’ Security .............................. 15
ARTICLE XIII	Check Off & Teamster Drive ....................... 18
ARTICLE XIV	Wages .............................................20
ARTICLE XV	Hours and Overtime ............................... 22
ARTICLE XVI	Vacation and Benefit Days .........................23
ARTICLE XVII	Job Classification and Duties..................... 26
ARTICLE XVIII	Protection of Rights and Strikes and Prohibitions..27
ARTICLE XIX	Discipline ....................................... 28
ARTICLE XX	Grievance and Arbitration Procedure............... 29
ARTICLE XXI	Welfare Benefits.................................. 31
ARTICLE XXII	Pension & Retirement Plan .........................33
ARTICLE XXIII	Management Rights..................................35
ARTICLE XXIV	General Provisions................................ 36
ARTICLE XXV	Non-Discrimination Clause .........................36
ARTICLE XXVI	Duration .....................:................... 37
APPENDIX A...................................................... 39
AARAXS^E^EjIWjBLjQXEjEiS^LkOAGAX^ZX^
AGREEMENT made as of 12:00 A.M. March 6, 2004, between METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION, INC., herein referred to as the “Association”, a party hereto in its own behalf and on behalf of its members, and GARAGE EMPLOYEES UNION LOCAL NO. 272, affiliated with the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, AFL-CIO hereinafter referred to as the “Union”:
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the aforesaid Association is composed of various persons, firms, and corporations owning, managing and/or operating Parking Facilities as defined herein; and
WHEREAS, the Union is the collective bargaining agent for the employees employed within such Parking Facilities;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual terms, conditions and provisions herein set forth, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
.CALLE.CTLUE^BARGAiNINGAGREEIVIENT
________ ______________________________J
ARTICLE I
Authorization
The Association warrants and represents that it is duly authorized to enter into this Agreement for and on behalf of itself and all of its members who have authorized the Association to represent it in collective bargaining with the Union with respect to a Parking Facility, which representation shall include any other Parking Facilities (as defined in Article III, Section 2) owned, operated or managed as part of a multiple unit or chain operation of which the member is a part (herein collectively and individually referred to as the “Employer” or “Employers”) and the Union warrants and represents that it is duly authorized to enter into this Agreement for and on behalf of itself and the employees for which it is the recognized exclusive bargaining representative (herein called “Employee” or “Employees”), now and hereafter employed by the Employer.
ARTICLE II
Employer Representation
The signatory Association is hereby recognized as the sole collective bargaining representative for the Employers.
Simultaneously with the execution hereof, the Association will provide the Union with a list of such Employers and will keep the same up-to-date.
The Association shall notify the Union and Local 272 Welfare & Pension Funds, in writing, as soon as the Association is aware of a change of ownership, management or operation of a Parking Facility heretofore owned, managed or operated by an Employer of which it is aware or of the admission to membership of a prior non-member Employer, in which case such new member shall thereafter be entitled to the rights and privileges and be subject to the terms and conditions of the within Agreement. This shall not operate to reduce the rate of pay or working conditions of the Employees of said unit if they are at that time enjoying a higher rate of pay and better working con
ditions. The Employer shall notify the Union, not less than thirty (30) days (or as soon as the Employer is aware) prior to the effective date thereof, of a change in ownership, management or operation of a Parking Facility owned, managed or operated by said Employer.
In the event of an Employer’s termination of membership in the Association by reason of resignation, expulsion or any other cause, such Employer’s liability under this Agreement shall, nevertheless, continue until the expiration hereof. The Association will likewise notify the Union, in writing within twenty-four (24) hours, of the resignation, suspension or expulsion of the Employer member.
Each such unit or corporation owning, managing and/or operating a Parking Facility of a multiple unit or chain operation, controlled or managed by the same person or group of stockholders of which an /Association member is now or hereafter may be a port, shall be bound by the terms hereof.
(a)	From and after the effective date hereof, if, from the point of view of the Association and/or any Employer, the Union, whether directly or indirectly, or whether orally or in writing, enters into a contract or agreement with any other employer operating (or employer association whose members operate) parking establishments or locations in (x) the Borough of Manhattan and/or (y) with respect to the other four (4) boroughs of the City of New York, within a six (6) square block radius of the Employer (said other employer or employer association being hereafter referred to as the “Other Employer”) which:
(i)	grants to the other Employer a more favorable rate of pay, contributions, benefits, hours, working conditions or other terms or conditions of employment than is stated in this Agreement (all of the foregoing being sometimes hereinafter referred to as “More Favorable Condition(s) “); and/or
(ii)	does not include all of the job classifications contained in this Agreement (the “Excluded Job Classification(s)”) (unless such Excluded Job classifications are already covered in a contract which that employer has with another union), the parties shall meet within forty-eight (48) hours after hand-delivered written notification from the Association to the Union of the Association’s intention to invoke the provisions hereof. If
*
I
^OALEC.T.IMEuBARfiAININJiMAGREEMEN.T^
within such forty-eight hours the parties are unable to agree on modifications to this Agreement, any Employer may (i) put into effect any such More Favorable Condition and/or (ii) shall be released from the obligation to apply this Agreement to Excluded Job Classifications.
(b)	The terms “Other Employer” shall not include any new establishment or location after March 6, 1995 in the Boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens or Staten Island.
(c)	Failure on the part of the Association to assert its rights under this Paragraph, whether intentional or as a result of oversight, shall not constitute a waiver of the Associations’ right to require enforcement of the Paragraph on other occasions.
(d)	The provisions of this Paragraph are made expressly subject to the arbitration provisions contained in Article XX hereof, except that the procedural and time restrictions contained in Article XX shall not apply.
(e)	The Union agrees to file with the Association a copy of each collective bargaining agreement it enters into with such Other Employer within thirty (30) days next following the execution of said collective bargaining agreement. Nothing herein shall prevent the Association from requiring the Union to provide the Association with a true copy of such agreement.
ARTICLE ill
Parties
This Agreement shall apply to and be binding upon the Association, the Employers, the Union, the Employees and their respective successors, legal representatives and assigns. No provisions or obligations shall be affected, modified, altered, impaired or changed in any respect by any change in the legal status, ownership or management of the Employer or its business, or any change, geographical or otherwise, in the location of any of the Employers places of business.
This Agreement shall apply to and be binding upon the Employer
^^G/AR.AkGiEMEiMjEjLiQA^EiEiSAl^CLCjA^bat^ySir^
with respect to all Employees of (a) all parking garages owned, operated and/or managed by the Employer, now or in the future, in the boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx other than garages which are subject to a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization other than Local 272; (b) all parking garages owned, operated and/or managed, by the Employer as of the effective date of this Agreement in the boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island and Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties other than garages which are subject to a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization other than Local 272; and (c) any combination parking locations (on which a garage and open parking lot exist on the same site) in the boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx where Local 272 may obtain status as exclusive collective bargaining representative. All of the above are herein referred to as “Parking Facility” or Parking Facilities .
If the Employer shall sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of its business, or cause it to be merged or consolidated with any other person, firm or corporation, the contract by which such sale, transfer, disposition, merger or consolidation is made shall provide that the person, firm or corporation thereafter to operate the business shall, as of the effective date of closing pursuant to such contract, assume all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement henceforth to be performed, and it shall retain in its employ all Employees then employed in the business.
If the Employer acts as managing agent for an owner-operator or lessee of a Parking Facility, the Employer shall be liable as a principal, for all wages, vacation and benefit days and Welfare and Pension Fund contributions due to or for Employees during the period when the Employer acted as managing agent, and all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall so apply.
The Employer will not enter into individual contracts with any of the Employees subject to the jurisdiction of the Union.
GAXLE,CX1ME^BARGAI.NI.N,G^ AGREEMENT
ARTICLE IV
2
3
5
Recognition of the Union
Each Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all Employees of the Employer.
Employees for whom the Union is recognized as exclusive bargaining agent are Working Managers or Working Foremen, Washers, Floor men, Transporters, Cashiers and all other persons now or hereafter performing one or more of the functions of the said included job classifications as hereinafter defined.
Persons in excluded occupations, when transferred to or performing one (1) or more of the functions of the included job classifications, part-time or full-time, shall be considered Employees, except when such transfer is for emergency circumstances.
Every person hereafter doing covered work at each location, including corporate officers or partners, shall be an Employee covered by the provisions hereof, except that each Employer, whether it be an individual, a partnership or a corporation, shall be entitled to one (1) officer or managing partner of such Employer, who may, at the Employer’s option, be exempt from the terms of this Agreement.
Within fourteen (14) days of a written request, the Employer shall furnish the Union with a list of all its Parking Facilities, Employee names, addresses, social security numbers, job classifications and wage rates and such other information as may be reasonably necessary for contract enforcement and grievance adjustment.
ARTICLE V
Union Security
The Employer grants to the Union the maximum union security (but not less than the “union shop”) permissible under applicable law. This shall be subject to such certification as may be required under applicable law.
In the event the Employer assumes the operation of any other garage or parking business that has at that time in force and effect a contract
GARAGEMEMRL".OJfiEE;SML.O.CAlL,ih2t7i2
with the Union which provides for higher rates of pay or better conditions of any kind for the Employees therein covered, so much of such other contract which provides for higher rates of pay or better conditions shall be deemed incorporated herein for such other garage or parking business for the length of such contract or this one, whichever is longer.
All present Employees covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union, as a condition of continued employment, shall maintain such membership in good standing in the Union. All present Employees who are not members of the Union shall be required, as a condition of continued employment, to become and remain members in good standing in the Union on or after the thirtieth (30th) day following the execution of this Agreement or its effective date or their date of employment, whichever is later. All Employees thereafter hired shall be required, as a condition of a continued employment, to join and become members of the Union on or after the thirtieth (30th) day of their hiring, and to maintain membership in good standing in the Union. “Good standing,” for the purpose of the Agreement, shall mean the payment or tender of periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required by the Union.
The failure of a person to become a member of the Union at the required time shall obligate the Employer, upon written notice from the Union to such effect and to the further effect that Union membership was available to such person on the same terms and conditions generally available to other members, forthwith to discharge any such person. Further, the failure of any person to maintain his Union membership in good standing as required herein shall, upon written notice to the Employer by the Union to such effect, obligate the Employer to, and it shall forthwith, discharge such person.
It is specifically agreed that the Employer assumes no obligations, financial or otherwise, except those stated in this Paragraph arising out of the provisions of this Paragraph, and the Union hereby agrees that it will indemnify and hold the Employer harmless for any claims, actions or proceedings by any Employer or by any government agency arising from actions taken by the Employer upon notice from the Union hereunder.
(a)	In the event the Employer commences owning, operating or managing the operation of a parking garage in the boroughs of
^CjOXLELCXIMEwBARiGAINiliN.GikA.GiREEilVIiENX
Manhattan or the Bronx that is not covered by a Union contract, then the provisions of this contract shall immediately take full force and effect.
(b)	In the event the Employer commences owning, operating or managing a parking garage in the boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens or Staten Island and Nassau, Suffolk or Westchester Counties that is not covered by a Union contract, the Employer shall be obligated to and shall recognize the Union as the sole collective bargaining representative for the Employees and the parties shall negotiate terms and conditions applicable to that parking garage with due regard for any different economic and business conditions in the geographic location of the parking garage.
(c)	In the event the Employer commences owning, operating or managing the operation of a Parking Facility covered by a Local 272 Contract, the contract shall remain in full force and effect and the Employer shall retain all members of Local 272. In the event an Employee doing covered work at such Parking Facility is not a member of Local 272, he shall become a member of Local 272 in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be binding on the purchasers from or transferee of the Employer, whether it involves a single unit of a corporation or company.
Subject to and limited by the provisions of this Agreement, the Employer shall have the right to make changes in its method of operation for a valid business purpose. In the event the Employer desires to make any changes, the Employer shall first notify the Union in advance and discuss such desired change(s), with the Union in advance of implementation. If advance notice to, or discussion with, the Union is not possible, discussions concerning the impact of such desired change on Employees shall be held within three (3) business days after the change. Failure to discuss the change with the Union can be grounds for its rescission. Following the parties’ discussions, and beforehand in emergency situations, the Employer may implement the desired changes. Nothing in this Paragraph, including the Union’s discussion of the change(s) with the Employer, shall operate as a waiver of any of its rights, including seniority, under this Agreement.
jQ,A.RAJGiiEaMEiIVIiRLjQXEiE.S^LkOJCLA.L^2X2a
O The Employer will post and agree to keep posted a copy of this Agreement in the location best suited to permit any of its Employees to examine and read the same.
9	In the event the Employer becomes involved in a controversy with any other Union, the Union will use its best efforts to help effect a fair settlement.
10	In the event of any change in the applicable law during the term of this Agreement, this Agreement will be modified to incorporate such change in law and the Union will be entitled to, and will receive, by such change, the maximum union security which may be lawfully permissible.
ARTICLE VI
1
2
3
4
Safety & Security
The Employer shall supply and maintain all equipment necessary to the operation of its business or performance by the Employees of their functions therein.
All Employees required, as part of their regular job classification and duties, to operate motor vehicles shall, as a condition of their continued employment, keep and maintain a valid operator’s or chauffeurs license issued by the State of New York or the state of their residence, if same is other than New York. Such license must be maintained in good standing, retained and made accessible by the Employee at all times when on duty and produced to the Employer for inspection, at the request of the Employer. The failure or refusal of an Employee to comply with the foregoing will subject the Employee to immediate discipline, including discharge, in appropriate cases.
All motor vehicles supplied by the Employer for use by the Employees in the performance of their duties on the public streets and highways shall be covered by such insurance as is required by applicable law of the State of New York or rules of the New York State Motor Vehicle Bureau.
No Employee shall be required to work under conditions or to oper-
CALLEATLV.E B A R G A I N INA^ A AR E E M E N T
5
7
10
ate a motor vehicle or use equipment, which would be unsafe or hazardous to health.
When the Employer requires Employees to wear uniforms, it shall furnish such uniforms to the Employees. Employees shall be responsible for maintaining their uniforms in clean condition. Employees shall return them to the Employer on termination of employment for any reason in clean condition.
There shall be established and maintained a Joint Labor Management Committee (the “Safety & Security Committee”), composed of two (2) members, each designated by the Union and the Association respectively, which shall meet as required to address and discuss industry-wide issues of safety and security.
The Employer shall indemnify each Employee and defend ail litigation against an Employee and hold him/her harmless from any financial loss including the reasonable cost of legal services sustained by him/her by reason of any claim or suit instituted against him/her arising from any act done or omission during the course of his/her employment in connection with the care, maintenance, operation or protection of the property of the Employer or any property entrusted to the Employer or within his/her possession or control. The within indemnity against financial loss, including the cost of legal services, shall not be effective if an Employee shall have been adjudged to have been guilty of willful negligence.
The Employer will reimburse an Employee for any established loss suffered by the Employee not to exceed the equivalent of one (1) week’s wages upon satisfactory proof that such loss was occasioned by a burglary, robbery or other criminal act during the course of employment without negligence on the part of the particular Employee contributing thereto.
The Employer may, in its discretion to determine fitness for initial employment in the industry, require applicants to pass such physical examinations and tests (including, but not limited to, drug and alcohol tests), as such Employer determines is necessary.
An Employee who takes, at the direction of a physician, prescription drugs that may cause drowsiness or impair motor skills must notify his Employer before reporting to work.
iGA*RAlGiEAEiMiBlM0iYiEiE^
ARTICLE VII
Hiring Hall
Any person, whether a member of the Union or not, may request referral at the Hiring Hall and must be referred to a job in the chronological order of the request. The Union will maintain a “Referral Register. ”
A person seeking a referral shall come to the Hiring Hall and sign the Referral Register with his/her name, the date, and union affiliation, if any, together with the hourly wage at which he/she last worked.
All hirings shall be through the Hiring Hall, subject to the following:
(a)	Except for those Employees who have been discharged for theft, drunkenness, use of drugs, or material falsification of an employment application, all Employees hired from the Hiring Hall shall receive wages equivalent to the wages received in the position in which they were last employed in the industry.
(b)	An Employer shall notify the Hiring Hall of a vacancy. The Employer may accept or reject an applicant referred by the Hiring Hall for any reason. The Employer may after 24 hours from first notifying the Hiring Hall of the vacancy, except in case of a weekend or holiday, hire an Employee from any other source, regardless of whether additional applicants are referred by the Hiring Hall after such 24 hour period.
(c)	The Employer shall be required to give the Union written notice of all New Hires no later than thirty (30) days after such New Hire begins work. If an Employer fails to notify the Union of a New Hire within thirty (30) days of the New Hire’s employment, the Employer shall be required to pay to the Local 272 Welfare Fund the sum of $500.00 per New Hire, as liquidated damages, for each full month that the Employer so fails to notify the Union, retroactive to the date of hire.
.CALLEjCXiME^BARGAINJN.G^AGREEIVIENX
ARTICLE VIII
1
2
3
Seniority
The Employer recognized the general principle that senior Employees shall have preference to work at the job for which the pay is highest, provided that such Employee is qualified for such work.
The seniority of any Employee shall mean his/her length of continuous service with his/her Employer.
New Employees shall be on trial for a period of sixty (60) days and, within that period, shall be subject to being laid off or discharged for any reason whatsoever at the sole discretion of the Employer. After a new Employee has completed his/her trial period, his/her seniority shall govern in the event of a layoff. In the event of the reduction of the work force, the Employees with the lowest seniority shall be laid off first. In the event of a rehiring, the Employees so laid off (or if transferred to another location in lieu of layoff) shall be offered reemployment in the order of seniority.
In the event of a discharge or layoff which is determined not to have been justified, the Employee so discharged or laid off, if reinstated through grievance procedure, shall not lose his/her seniority and shall, subject to the arbitrator’s determination, be entitled to all the benefits of this Agreement and his/her job which would have accrued to him/her had there been no discharge or layoff.
An Employee shall lose his/her seniority status if said Employee quits, voluntarily resigns or is discharged for just cause.
ARTICLE IX
Military Service
In the event that an Employee covered by this Agreement is called to active military service in the Armed Forces of the United States, such Employee shall be considered on leave of absence during the period of such service, and shall be entitled to all rights of re-employment,
13
aaamtatdG A.R A jG iE	.lyitR.L JOLXlElE JSmlIh dOJCL
preservation of status and other benefits as provided by the Selective Service Act of 1948, as amended.
ARTICLE X
Jury Duty
No Employee shall be laid off, deprived of allowances or pay for vacation or benefit days or suffer diminution of any rights, to which he/she would otherwise be entitled by reason of absence for jury duty.
Jury duty will be paid no more than once every two (2) years for all Full-Time Employees who are summoned to serve. Payment shall be the difference between their per diem jury pay and their regular rate of pay, exclusive of carfare reimbursement, where such service occurs on a scheduled work day, provided that such payment shall be made for a period of no more than four (4) weeks (or such shorter period as the Employee shall be on jury duty). In order to receive jury duty pay, an Employee must notify Employer promptly upon receipt of the call for jury duty, provide a copy of such notice or summons to the Employer, present to the Employer written evidence of attendance at jury service and a copy of the receipt for payment of jury duty.
ARTICLE XI
Union Representatives & Unauthorized Actions
Only a duly authorized officer, official or business representative of the Union may instruct Employees in the proper method of compliance with, or shall interpret for such Employees, the terms of this Agreement.
Employees of an Employer have no authority to settle grievances, take strike action or any other action which shall interrupt any
s
2
■C&LX££XIME^BARAA.IKLNJGLAGBEKMKMX
Employer’s business, except as authorized by official action of the Union.
Each Employer recognizes these limitations and shall not hold the Union liable for any unauthorized acts. The Employer in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, including discharge, in the event any Employee has taken unauthorized strike action, employed a slow down or work stoppage, or interrupted the Employer’s business, in violation of this Agreement and discharge under such circumstances shall be deemed to be for just cause.
A duly authorized officer or business representative of the Union, and his automobile, shall be permitted to enter the premises of the Employer during all working hours for the purpose of adjusting complaints or ascertaining whether safety standards are maintained or whether the terms and conditions of this Agreement are being observed.
ARTICLE XII
Employees’ Security
In the event the Employer takes over the operation of a Parking Facility that is under contract with the Union, the Employees therein shall not be considered new Employees by virtue of such new ownership and management, and such Employees shall continue to receive vacation and benefit days and all other rights granted herein, by virtue of seniority in said particular Parking Facility. The successor Employer shall be obligated only for its pro rata share of each Employee’s benefit day entitlement.
An Employee who has completed the sixty (60) day trial period shall be retained in the same unit and location in which the Employee was hired. Within the limitations prescribed by this Article, an Employee may be transferred for any legitimate business reason.
The Employer shall be required upon request to provide the Union with the business reason justifying the transfer. The legitimacy of a
kGAiR^iGiEhiEiMiRI^OjiXiEiEiSiaLkCkCiAiLihrZtTKZ]
transfer shall be subject to the grievance procedure under Article XX. The Union shall have the burden of establishing that the Employer does not have a legitimate business reason for the transfer.
Where a transfer is made, except in emergency circumstances, the Employer shall provide the Employee and the Union with one (1) week’s advance notice. Where the Employee is transferred due to emergency circumstance, the Employer shall notify the Union as soon as practicable thereafter. Employees transferred shall continue to receive vacation and benefit days and all other rights granted herein by virtue of seniority in the Employee's former place of employment within such multiple unit or chain operation and full company seniority shall prevail at the new location for purposes of layoff, selection of work shifts and vacation and benefit days off.
In the event that an Employee transferred to a new location loses employment at such new location within one hundred fifty (150) days of the date of transfer on account of either the closing of the location or the takeover of the location by an Employer that is not obligated to retain the Employee, such Employee shall have the right within five (5) working days of loss of employment to bump back to the location from which the Employee was transferred without any loss of employment or seniority rights.
Whenever there has been a change in the ownership, management and/or operation of a location (the “Transferred Location”) from one Employer (“Outgoing Employer”) to another Employer who would be obligated to retain the employees at the Transferred Location pursuant to its collective bargaining agreement with the Union (“Incoming Employer”), then:
(a)	any employee who was transferred into the Transferred Location within one hundred fifty (150) days of the effective date of the change in the ownership, management and/or operation of the Transferred Location (“Location Transfer Date”) shall be transferred back to the location from which he was transferred without any loss of seniority;
(b)	any employee who was transferred out of the Transferred Location within 150 days of the Location Transfer Date and who remains an employee of the Outgoing Employer as of the Location Transfer Date may be transferred back to the
AGX>XiL-1EkCjTilMErtB/ARiG>A'liNiliNLG>AjBiRiEBMlEiN!Ti
5
Transferred Location without any loss of seniority at the Outgoing Employer’s option;
(c)	any transfer required by (a) above shall take place within five (5) working days of the Location Transfer Date. The Outgoing Employer shall be responsible and shall be obligated to pay, for any wages or benefits lost by any transferred employee as a result of any delay in effecting the transfers required by (a) above.
In the event an Employer fails to pay wages when due or fails for a period of ten (10) days to abide by the requirements of Article XIII (check off), Article XXI (Welfare Benefits) or Article XXII (Pension), the Union shall have the right to call an immediate work stoppage or strike at any or all Parking Facilities of the Employer employing Union members. Notice of such work stoppage or strike shall be given to the Employer no less than forty-eight (48) hours in advance.
The work stoppage or strike shall not occur if, during the notice period, the Employer submits an arbitrable issue for expedited arbitration before one of the named contract arbitrators, if any, or if none, to the American Arbitration Association under its expedited labor arbitration rules. The hearing shall be conducted within ten (10) days from receipt of the demand for arbitration by the arbitrator and the Union. The award shall issue within five (5) business days of the hearing, and shall include provision for the payment by the Employer of costs and fees in favor of the Union if the Employer’s position is rejected by the arbitrator.
A strike or work stoppage may commence if the Employer fails to comply with an award in favor of the Union within five (5) days of issuance. The work stoppage or strike may continue until the delinquency is cured. The wages of all Employees shall continue until the delinquency is cured, but such work stoppage or strike shall not be deemed a breach, violation or abandonment of this Agreement and, except as set forth within this subparagraph, shall not be subject to the arbitration procedures hereof.
Employees shall have preference to select their work shift according to their seniority and their job classification; provided, in the Employer’s judgment, they qualify and a vacancy exists.
Employees shall not be held responsible for vehicles not properly
AGARAGiE^EMBLjOLY.EiEjS^LAC.AL^2X2
_________________________________________________________________I
equipped to comply with New York State Motor Vehicle Laws and shall be compensated for fines and time lost if summoned to court, etc., because of same.
Any Employee required to appear in court at the request of the Employer, or at the summons of the National Labor Relations Board, as the result of some action taken on behalf of the Employer, shall be paid in full for such time by the Employer. No payment shall be less than a full days’ pay, but the Employee shall be available for work if the proceeding does not extend the full day.
This Agreement shall not, in any way, alter, change, modify or deprive any of the Employees of conditions that they are now enjoying or working under which are better than those specified in this Agreement, and they shall continue to enjoy such better conditions 4-L* x* l*frt rtf 4-1-4 •r' A rt	rtVt +1
uul 11KJ LI M5 111C L21 UllO
The Employer shall make reasonable attempts to accommodate Employees whose normal duties would require him/her to violate the Sabbath or other religious laws.
An Employee who is absent from work, as provided herein, shall be entitled to reinstatement by the Employer to the position and seniority held at the time the absence began, provided the Employee returns to work no later than the following lengths of time:
(a)	When such absence is a result of disability or illness - ninety (90) days;
(b)	When such absence is a result of a leave of absence requested by the Employee and granted by the Employer - the date following the expiration of the approved leave of absence;
(c)	When such absence is a result of an on-the-job injury for which the Employee has been awarded Workers’ Compensation Insurance Benefits - one hundred eighty (180) days.
18
CdDX L EC T I.VK BA R G AlN ING. A G R E E M E NT
ARTICLE XIII
Check Off & Teamster Drive
Each Employer shall, on or about the first (1st) day of each month, deduct from the wages of each Employee covered by this Agreement, the monthly Union dues thereof and forward such deductions, by mail, to the office of the Union and identify with such deductions the names of the Employees and their ledger numbers provided that the Employer has received from each Employee on whose account such deductions were made, a written assignment on a form prepared by the Union which shall not be irrevocable for a period of more than one (1) year or beyond the termination date of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner. The phrase “Union Dues” shall include initiation fees and regular dues provided for by rule, by-law or constitution of the Union. It shall be a violation of this Agreement to make such deductions and payment on behalf of any Employees not actually employed by the Employer.
If an Employee shall be on a paid vacation leave during the regular monthly Union dues check off period, the Employer shall deduct the monthly dues for such Employees immediately before or after such period and forward them to the Union office.
If an Employer fails to pay the monthly Union Dues within ten (10) days of the date when deducted, a late penalty of interest at the rate of 1^% per month shall be imposed until payment is made.
The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay check of all Employees covered by this Agreement voluntary contributions to DRIVE. DRIVE shall notify the Employer of the amounts designated by each contributing Employee that are to be deducted from his/her pay check on a weekly basis for all weeks worked. The phrase “weeks worked” excludes any week other than a week in which Employee has earned a wage. The Employer shall transmit to DRIVE National Headquarters on a monthly basis, in one check, the total amount deducted along with the name of each Employee on whose behalf a deduction is made, the Employee’s social security number and the amount deducted from the Employee’s pay check. The International
19
>G’A’RAGE<iEMe.L«.O>Y<EESaUOXAI-*2t7£2
Brotherhood of Teamsters shall reimburse the Employer annually for the Employer’s actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering the weekly payroll deduction plan.
It is specifically agreed that the Employer assumes no obligations, financial or otherwise except those stated in this Article, arising out of the provisions of this Article, and the Union hereby agrees that it will indemnify and hold the Employer harmless for any claims, actions or proceedings by any Employee or government agency arising from authorized deductions made by the Employer hereunder pursuant to written agreement. Once the checked off dues are remitted to the Union, their disposition thereafter shall be the sole and exclusive prerogative and responsibility of the Union.
ARTICLE XIV
Wages
(a)	“A” Level Employee(s) shall mean all present Employees for whom contributions were made to the Pension Plan (as referred to in Article XXII hereof) at any time during the thirty-six (36) months preceding February 6, 1989.
(b)	The minimum wage scale for all “A” Level Employees is set forth in Appendix A to this Agreement.
(a)	All Employees on the payroll of an Employer as of March 6, 2004 who have been employed by that Employer for at least six (6) months shall receive a lump sum payment of $550.00 no later than April 15, 2004. All Employees on the payroll of an Employer as of March 6, 2004 who have been employed for less than six (6) months shall receive a lump sum payment of $550.00 when they have been employed by the Employer for six (6) months.
(b)	All Employees shall receive wage increases as follows:
March 7, 2005	-	$.25 per hour
March 6, 2006	-	$.25 per hour
March 5, 2007	-	$.25 per hour
March 3, 2008	-	$.25 per hour
^ALEvCJLIME^BARiGAINilNLGMAvGiREE.MENj;
(a) The hiring rate for Employees hired on or after March 6, 2004 shall be $6.00 per hour.
For purposes of computing overtime, premium pay and Welfare & Pension Fund Contributions, all hours of an Employee in a work week shall be deemed to have been performed for one (1) Employer where the Employer is a multiple unit or chain operation controlled or managed by the same person, group or stockholders.
There shall be no reduction in the wages of any “A” Level Employee who is presently receiving or who has heretofore received wages in excess of those set forth in Appendix A. In the event any such Employee has been or is receiving such wages in excess of those set forth, this Agreement shall be deemed modified by the parties with respect to such Employee to provide that wages for that Employee shall be the wages he/she is presently receiving or heretofore received.
Each Employee shall be paid on each pay day in full for all regular time and overtime worked. All Employees will be paid on the Employer’s time and on the Employer’s property. Part-time Employees shall be paid in full no later than the pay day of the Employer’s next pay period.
Employees who perform the work in a category of employment which receives wages higher than his/her category, as set forth in Appendix A, as applicable, shall be paid such higher wages for such work.
If the Federal Government institutes wage controls in any form and a portion of the Agreement is deferred or cut back, the parties shall meet promptly to attempt to allocate the monetary equivalent of the disapproved wages or benefits in a manner that would result in government approval. If the monetary equivalent of the deferred or cut back portion cannot be reallocated, the Employer will pay the amount directly attributable to the deferment or cut back to the affected Employee when legally permissible.
1
GARA.GE>.EMBLkQ.Y.EES^L.O.CJAL,2J.2
n. _ _j
ARTICLE XV
Hours and Overtime
1	(a) A work week shall consist of five (5) days and/or nights aggregat-
ing forty (40) hours, or of four (4) days and/or nights aggregating forty (40) hours, to consist of a workshift of, respectively, eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours exclusive of any unpaid meal period.
(b)	An Employee’s regular work week, workshifts and days off shall not be changed without one week’s prior notice except in emergency circumstances. Except for Working Managers or Foremen, such schedule changes shall be posted and Employees shall have forty-eight (48) hours within which to express in writing their shift choice by seniority. Reasonable changes in starting and quitting times shall not constitute a schedule change for bidding purposes.
(c)	Except for Part-Time Employees and steady relief Employees, the interval between the end of an Employee’s regularly scheduled work shift and the beginning of the Employee’s next regularly scheduled work shift shall not be less than the number of hours in the scheduled work shift prior to the interval.
2	(a) A work schedule providing for non-consecutive two (2) days off during the work week is permitted where the nature of the operation of a particular Employer does not permit consecutive days off.
(b)	Where the nature of the operation of a particular Employer requires, split shifts may be scheduled for Employees hired after March 6, 1995 or for Employees already working a split shift as of March 6, 1995. Employees working a split shift shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours work or pay. Split shifts shall be Posted and bid in accordance with seniority. If no Employee bids, the Employer may assign eligible Employees to split shifts in inverse order of seniority.
(c)	Except for steady relief of Employees and Employees regularly assigned to more than two (2) locations, split assignments to more than two (2) locations in a work week may be required of any Employee, with due regard for seniority, where the nature of

T3 ‘
.CQLLE.CjrjVE^ARGAININGAGREEIVIENT
the operation of a particular Employer so requires. Travel time between assignments to separate locations during the same shift shall be compensated as working time.
Whenever an Employee works in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week, such excess shall be overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1/ times) the Employee’s regular hourly rate. Employees are required to work a reasonable amount of scheduled overtime, and, in emergency circumstances, of unscheduled overtime. An Employee who works in excess of his/her scheduled hours in a day shall not have an involuntary reduction in scheduled hours on another day during that week.
Payments for overtime and vacation and benefit days shall all be paid in cash or check and compensation for same shall never be made by granting time-off.
ARTICLE XVI
Vacation and Benefit Days
(a)	Subject to Paragraph 5 hereof, Full-Time Employees shall be entitled to days of vacation as follows;
(i)	Five (5) days per year during each of the first two (2) years of employment;
(ii)	Ten (10) days per year during each of the third (3rd) through fifth (5th) years of employment;
(iii)	Fifteen (15) days per year during each of the sixth (6th) through tenth (10th) years of employment; and
(iv)	Twenty (20) days during the eleventh (11th) and each succeeding year of employment.
(b)	Subject to Paragraph 5 hereof, Full-Time Employees shall be entitled to benefit days as follows:
(i)	Six (6) days per year during each of the first (1st) through fifth (5th) years of employment; and
23
LG!A1RMGlEliE|MlBI@jME|EtSMl^OlC/AllM2irZr2j
(ii)	Twelve (12) days per year during the sixth (6th) and each succeeding year of employment.
Part-Time Employees shall earn a pro rata share of a Full-Time Employee’s vacation and benefit days. Employees who are regularly scheduled to work and work sixteen (16) or fewer hours per week shall not earn vacation and benefit days.
A vacation or benefit day shall mean eight (8) hours’ pay at an Employee’s then current straight time rate of pay.
Each Employee shall be entitled to be paid for his unused vacation and benefit days on the anniversary date of his employment unless the Employee elects to defer payment to a date no later than the time the Employee takes vacation.
tai Ari Employee’s vacation and benefit da”S shall be earned on a pro rata basis during an Employee’s anniversary year of employment. Such pro rata vacation or benefit days shall be taken on an accrued full-day basis only. The taking of or payment for partial vacation or benefit days shall not be permitted.
(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Paragraph 5, during his first (1st) anniversary year of employment an Employee shall not be entitled to receive payment for any vacation or benefit days during the first six (6) full months of said first (1st) anniversary year of employment. Following the completion of an Employee’s first six (6) months of employment he shall be entitled to use accrued vacation or benefit days as provided in Paragraph 5 (a) hereinabove.
(c)	(i) No Employee shall be required by his Employer to work through his vacation.
(ii)	Without the prior consent of his Employer, no Employee shall be permitted to work during his said vacation.
(iii)	Said vacation must be taken during the anniversary year of employment immediately following the anniversary year of employment during which it was earned.
(d)	Vacations shall be scheduled during the period commencing May 1st and ending October 31st and at other times the Employer deems to be convenient.
1
.CxOXLEiCXI.VjEu.BARGA'INItN.GarAvGRElEiMEiNiT,
(i)	During the period from January 1st through March 31st of each calendar year, Employers shall ask their Employees to choose their vacation periods during said calendar year.
(ii)	Employees shall notify their Employers of their choice for vacation dates no later than April 30th of each calendar year.
(iii)	Schedule of vacations shall be fixed by the Employer in accordance with Employee’s company seniority. Should any differences arise among Employees concerning vacation periods, Employees having greater company seniority shall . have preference in selection of vacation periods.
(iv)	The number of Employees granted vacation at any one time shall be determined solely by the Employer.
(v)	An Employee who has not indicated his choice of vacation time may be assigned a vacation by his Employer from available dates remaining.
(vi)	The Employer reserves the right to change vacation dates in those cases where such change is necessary to the basic operation of its business. In exercising such right, the Employer shall make such change in reverse seniority order and on no less than thirty (30) days notice unless impossible to do so.
(vii)	Employees entitled to either three (3) or four (4) weeks vacation may not schedule more than two (2) weeks consecutively without the consent of the Employer.
All Employees shall be available for regularly scheduled work which falls on any holiday. In the event an Employee is permitted or required by his Employer to take the day off for any holiday, upon his request, such Employee shall be entitled to be paid for one (1) accrued vacation or benefit day for such scheduled but non-worked holiday. If the Employee works the holiday, the Employee shall be entitled, at the Employee’s option, to be paid for one (1) accrued vacation or benefit day in addition to the pay for hours worked on such day.
When an Employee is absent because of sickness, and upon his request, he will be entitled to be paid for one (1) accrued vacation or benefit day for each such day of absence.
jG.AiRAKGtE>M.E1MtR1LjQXE1E.S^LjDj(XA;L^2X2.
J
An Employee who is permitted by his Employer to take a day off on a regularly scheduled workday shall, upon his request, be entitled to be paid for one (1) accrued vacation or benefit day for such day of absence.
All permanent Employees shall be given three (3) work days off with pay in the event of the death of a spouse, child, stepchild, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, brother or sister-in-law, or father or mother-in-law. Such Employee shall receive his/her straight time wage for such day upon presentation of appropriate certified or authenticated death certificate and an affidavit setting forth his/her relationship to the decedent if not set forth in the death certificate.
ARTICLE XVII
Job Classification and Duties
The duties of the Employees shall be as follows:
(a)	The duties of Washers shall be to perform any and all work required of them by their Employer during their working hours in the operation and conduct of such Employer’s Parking Facility, which duties shall include the washing and cleaning of motor vehicles.
(b)	The duties of all other Employees (Floormen and Transporters) shall be the same as those required of Washers, except that such workers shall not be required to wash or grease motor vehicles.
(c)	The duties of Working Foremen or Working Managers shall be to perform any and all services required of them to ensure the efficient operation of the particular units in which they are employed, including the duties required of a Floorman. (Neither Working Foremen nor Working Managers nor Transporters shall at any time be required to wash or grease motor vehicles).
(d)	The duties of Cashiers shall include the collection and safekeeping of monies received for and on behalf of the Employer in the operation of its business and record-keeping in relation thereto.
26
3
JS.0 L L E.CTIME A R G A I N I NJGl,AG R E E M E NT
ARTICLE XVIII
Protection of Rights and Strikes and Prohibitions
There shall be no strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, picketing, sitdowns, boycotting, or any other concerted interruption or interference with the operations of the Employer, or lockout of Employees by the Employer, for any reason whatsoever, for the duration of this Agreement, it being the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that every dispute or controversy of any matter which may arise between the Union or any Employees and an Employer or the Association, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be disposed of by arbitration as hereinafter provided.
The Union, its officers, agents, representatives and members, shall not in any way, directly or indirectly, authorize, assist, encourage, participate in or sanction any strike, work stoppage, slowdown, sit-down, boycott, or any other concerted interruption or interference with the operations of the Employer, or ratify, condone or lend support to any such conduct or action, including honoring or recognizing any strike, picket line or picketing in any form at any Employer location covered by this Agreement by any Union not a party to this Agreement, except in connection with such action as is established or sanctioned by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement and it shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action if any Employee exercises any right protected by statute or by the terms of this Agreement or this Article in particular.
ARTICLE XIX
Discipline
After the first sixty (60) days of employment, no Employee may be disciplined except for just cause. Just cause may include the following:
27
A.	Habitual lateness.
B.	Habitual absence.
C.	Use or possession of alcohol or controlled substances on duty or being under the influence thereof while on duty.
D.	Negligent damage of vehicles, Employer’s property or equip-ment.
E.	Refusal to obey order of superior or breach of Employer work rules.
F.	Abuse of or discourtesy to customers.
G.	Incompetence to perform duties.
H.	Unsuitability that hinders performance under this Agreement of the efficient operation of the Parking Facility within which the Employee is employed.
I.	Theft or conduct jeopardizing the safety of an Employee or others.
J.	Material misrepresentation of fact on employment application.
Any Employee discharged must be paid in full for all wages owed to the Employee by the Employer, including earned vacation and benefit days, if any, within the normal pay period of the Employer.
(a)	In any cases involving the discharge or suspension of any Employee, the Employer must promptly notify the Union and the Employee in writing of the discharge or suspension and the reason thereof. Any discipline may be referred to the grievance machinery as set forth in Article XX hereof.
(b)	No employee shall be discharged for reasons stated in Paragraph 1. Subdivisions A, B, D, G and H unless the Employer shall have given the Union at least one (1) prior warning notice of the specific complaint against the Employee except in the case of gross or habitual negligence under (D). Warning notices shall be retained in an Employee’s file for one (1) year from the date of the infraction, except for warning notices related to lateness and absenteeism which shall be retained in an Employee’s file for two (2) years from the date of the warning. After the expiration of
n
jCxOXLEjCXIME^aARKGAJiNiliNkGitfAkGiRiEiEMEiNiT^.1
the one (1) year or two (2) year period, respectively, the warning notice(s) shall be removed from the Employee’s file.
The Employer shall not require, request or suggest that an Employee or applicant for employment take a polygraph or any other form of lie detector test.
ARTICLE XX
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
If a dispute, claim, grievance, or difference shall arise between the Union and Employer about the interpretation or application of a particular clause of this Agreement or about an alleged violation of a particular provision of this Agreement (such dispute, claim, grievance, or difference is hereinafter referred to as a “grievance”), such grievance shall be handled as follows:
(a )The party asserting the grievance must submit the grievance, in writing, to the other party within ten (10) calendar days (i) after the occurrence of the incident or event giving rise to the grievance; or (ii) the date the Employee, with reasonable diligence, should have known of the grievance.
(b) The Union and the Employer and/or the Association shall meet at the Union office within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date on which the grievance was submitted. In the event the Employer fails to appear for a scheduled meeting without prior notice to the Union, this step shall be deemed waived and the grievance may be submitted directly to arbitration. Additionally, in the event an Employer cancels, or fails to appear for, two (2) scheduled meetings, this step shall be deemed waived and the grievance may be submitted directly to arbitration.
(a)	In the event the Union and the Employer and/or the Association fail to meet in a timely manner or meet and fail to resolve the grievance within twenty (20) calendar days of the date the griev-
A; R A kG iE Jia E	Ri	Ei E jS^L kO*Cj AiLw2i^2 j
ance was submitted, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration no later than forty-five (45) calendar days after the grievance was submitted.
(b)	The arbitrator shall be selected either (i) by mutual agreement between the parties; or (ii) pursuant to the rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association. Upon the submission of a grievance to arbitration, the arbitrator shall give the parties an opportunity to.be heard and to offer evidence with respect to such dispute. After such hearing, the arbitrator shall as promptly as possible, decide the aforesaid grievance. Such decisions shall be final and binding upon the parties thereto, all of which agree to abide by such decision. The arbitrator’s fees and any AAA fees shall be paid by the Union and Employer in equal shares and all other expenses shall be borne solely by the parties incurring such costs or expenses.
The failure of the party asserting a grievance to follow this grievance procedure, within the times specified above, shall unless consented to in writing by the other party, be deemed abandonment of the grievance. It is the intent of this provision that all grievances shall be taken up and disposed of promptly and that, unless taken up and followed up promptly, shall be considered abandoned by the party asserting such grievance. In no event shall the arbitrator have authority to issue an award, judgment, decision or order which is inconsistent with the express provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE XXI
Welfare Benefits
The parties shall maintain and continue the Welfare and Insurance Plan (“Welfare Plan”) for the benefit of the employees which Plan shall be operated and supervised by a Board of Trustees composed of an equal number of representatives of the Association and of the Union all in accordance with the Amended Agreement and Declaration of Trust for the Local 272 Welfare Fund dated October 22, 1964, as presently constituted or as the same may be hereafter amended.
CjOlLL.EGTIVE^B.ARGAINING._ AGREEMENT
L___________________________ ______________________ ________________ ...J
2 (a) Each Employer shall make Welfare Contributions of $1.28 per hour after the Employee has been employed for six (6) months.
(b)	In the event that the actuaries to the Fund determine at the beginning of any Fund fiscal year that during, that fiscal year the surplus in the Fund will be an amount that is less than the equivalent of three (3) months of benefit payments, the Trustees shall be authorized to increase the required contribution rate to the Fund, provided that (1) such authority is limited to a total increase in the contribution rate during the term of this Agreement of ten cents ($.10) per hour and (2) in the event that more than ten cents ($.10) per hour is required, the Trustees may require further contributions as necessary to maintain existing benefits and a surplus equal to three (3) months of benefit payment unless the Association, within thirty (30) days after written notice from the Trustees to the Association of the need to further increase the contribution rate, reopens the agreement for the limited purpose of negotiations on additional contribution rate increases.
(c)	For the purpose of the waiting period prior to the obligation to contribute in paragraph 2 (a) above, the full waiting period shall be applicable to any Employee who has not worked in covered employment for another Employer subject to a collective bargaining agreement with Local 272 during the prior twelve (12) months. In the case of an Employee who had been so employed, the waiting period for the new Employer shall be reduced by the period of time the Employee has been employed by the predecessor Employer(s).
3	Contributions to the Welfare Plan (herein “Welfare Contributions”) shall be made for all hours for which an Employee is required to be paid by the terms hereof, including vacation and benefit days, provided that such contribution shall not be required for more than forty (40) hours per week, and not in excess of fifty two (52) weeks in any year for an Employee. A multiple Employer or chain operator shall be deemed to be one (1) Employer for the purpose of the preceding limitation.
4	(a) All required Welfare Contributions shall be made monthly and each Employer shall furnish the Trustees of the Welfare Plan with
31
LG/AiRAvGlEtElMlRL^^^
a written report which shall include an enrollment card for all new Employees, and a list of all Employees whose employment terminated during the preceding month.
(b) In no event shall the benefits of the present Welfare Plan, or their equivalent, be denied to covered Employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Employer shall provide such reports with the required contributions within twenty (20) days after the first (1st) day of each month and shall be considered in default on the twenty-first (21st) day of said month.
Each Employer shall make available to the Trustees of the Plan, or their duly authorized agents, such payroll and other records of such Employer as may be pertinent or helpful to the carrying on by the Trustees of their duties. In the event an audit of such payroll or other records of any Employer reveals a deficiency or default in payment, such Employer may be assessed the cost of such audit in such reasonable amount as the Trustees or Arbitrators may determine.
In the event of the institution against an Employer in default of a law suit or arbitration or other proceeding to recover any amount due Welfare Contributions under the terms hereof, wherein it is determined by settlement or decision, judgment or otherwise that such an amount was due and unpaid, in addition to such amount so determined, the Employer may be assessed and shall pay an additional sum equal to the reasonable value of the services employed for instituting, maintaining and/or concluding such proceeding, not to exceed in any case twenty (20%) percent of the amount so determined to be due by the Board of Trustees.
If an Employer fails to pay Welfare Contributions when due, a late penalty of interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1J^%) per month shall be imposed from the first day of the month following the month for which such contributions should have been made until payment is made.
li.CiOiULtEi.CniliMiEiMBjAtRiGrA'lllNlltNLGiiiAvGiRiElEtMiEtNiiTii
ARTICLE XXII
Pension & Retirement Plan
The parties shall maintain and continue the Labor-Management Pension Plan (“Pension Plan”) for the benefit of Employees, which Pension Plan shall be operated and supervised by a Board of Trustees composed of an equal number of representatives of the Association and the Union all in accordance with the Local 272 Labor-Management Pension Plan, as presently constituted or as the same may be hereafter amended.
(a)	Each Employer shall make Pension contributions of $.79 per hour after an Employee has been employed for (3) years. Effective October 1, 2004, each Employer shall make Pension Contributions of $.89 per hour after an Employee has been employed for (3) years.
(b)	For the purpose of the waiting period prior to the obligation to contribute under paragraph 2 (a) above, the full waiting period shall be applicable to any Employee who has not worked in covered employment for another Employer subject to a collective bargaining agreement with Local 272 during the prior twelve (12) months. In the case of an Employee who had been so employed, the waiting period for the new Employee shall be reduced by the period of time the Employee has been employed by the predecessor Employer(s).
(c)	The Union and the Association agree to recommend to the Trustees of the Pension Plan that the monthly benefit per pension credit be increased to $37.50 and that the maximum regular monthly pension be increased to $750 for employees retiring on or after Marcy 6, 2004. Contingent upon certification by the Pension Fund’s actuary that pension benefits can be increased without incurring a negative margin (deficit), the maximum benefit shall be increased to $775 and the monthly benefit per pension credit shall be increased to $38.75 for employees retiring on or after March 6, 2006 or as soon thereafter as possible.
ARAXStE^EiMMLxQXEiE£^LjDjCJA.L^2X2^
3
5
6
Contributions to the Pension Plan (herein "Pension Contributions”) shall be made for all hours for which an Employee is required to be paid by the terms hereof, including vacation and benefit days, provided that such contribution shall not be required for more than forty (40) hours per week, and not in excess of fifty two (52) weeks in any year for an Employee. A multiple Employer or chain operator shall be deemed to be one (1) Employer for the purpose of the preceding limitation.
(a)	All required Pension Contributions shall be made monthly and each Employer shall furnish the Trustees of the Pension Plan with a written report which shall include an enrollment card for all new Employees and a list of all Employees whose employment terminated during the preceding month.
(b)	In no event shall the benefits of the present Pension Plan, or their equivalent, be denied to covered Employees during the term of this Agreement.
The Employer shall provide such reports with the required contributions within twenty (20) days after the first (1st) day of each month and shall be considered in default on the twenty-first (21st) day of said month.
Each Employer shall make available to the Trustees of the Pension Plan, or their duly authorized agents, such payroll and other records of such Employer as may be pertinent or helpful to the carrying on by the Trustees of their duties. In the event an audit of such payroll or other records of any Employer reveals a deficiency or default in payment, such Employer may be assessed the cost of such audit in such reasonable amount as the Trustees or Arbitrators may determine.
In the event of the institution, against an Employer in default, of a lawsuit or arbitration or other proceeding to recover an amount due for Pension Contributions under the terms hereof, wherein it is determined by settlement, decision, judgment or otherwise that such an amount was due and unpaid, in addition to such amount so determined, the Employer may be assessed and shall pay an additional sum equal to the reasonable value of the services employed for instituting, maintaining and/or concluding such proceeding, not to
gallectiv.ebargainikgagreement
exceed in any case twenty (20%) percent of the amount so determined to be due by the Board of Trustees.
If an Employer fails to pay Pension contributions when due, a late penalty of interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1)4%) per month shall be imposed from the first (1st) day of the month following the month for which such contributions should have been made until payment is made.
ARTICLE XXIIl
Management Rights
Subject to and limited by the provisions of this Agreement, the Employer shall have the exclusive right to direct and control its Employees in connection with their employment duties including, but not limited to, the right to hire, train, promote, transfer, demote, discipline, lay off, assign work, combine jobs, schedule days and hours and working shifts to introduce new or improved methods or facilities, to transfer, merge or combine all or any part of the Employer’s operations and to, in all respects, carry out the ordinary and customary functions of management.
The Employer may implement, continue and change such reasonable and necessary rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement as it deems necessary and proper for the conduct of its business. The content (but not the application) of such rules and regulations shall not be subject to challenge under Article XX (Arbitrations) of this Agreement, except as manifestly unreasonable or clearly unnecessary.
The list of rights set forth herein and the provisions of this Article are not intended to be nor shall be construed as a restriction or waiver of any rights or entitlements of any party to this Agreement, whether or not previously exercised.
LG?AjBAlGlEtfBMlElS0MBEiSABOlC/A.law2t7t2i
ARTICLE XXIV
General Provisions
Title of Articles are inserted for general reference purposes. All provisions of this Agreement are binding upon the parties hereto whether the same are under properly descriptive titles or not, and in the event of discrepancies between the title of any Article and the provisions of any Article, the terms of the provision shall control.
To the best knowledge and belief of the parties, this Agreement contains no provisions contrary to Federal, State or local law, rule or regulation. However, should any provision of this Agreement now or hereafter be held to be in conflict with any Federal, State or local law, rule or regulation, such provision shall continue in effect only to the extent permitted and the remaining provisions of the Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect.
In the event that any provision in this Agreement be, or is held to be, invalid under the laws of any state wherein the same is required to be carried out, the provision shall be deemed to be modified to comply with the requirements of such state law. It shall also be renegotiated for the purpose of adequate replacement. If such negotiations shall not result in a mutually satisfactory agreement, the Union shall be permitted all legal or economic recourse.
ARTICLE XXV
Non-Discrimination Clause
The Employer and the Union agree not to discriminate against any individual with respect to hiring, compensation, terms or conditions of employment in any manner prohibited by any Federal, State or local law including, but not limited to, discrimination resulting in deprivation of employment opportunity because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, sexual orientation or affectional preference.
The Employer and the Union agree that there will be no discrimination by the Employer or the Union against any Employee because of
LCALLECXI.V.E^BARGAl.NING^A.G.REEME,N.Tt
his/her membership in the Union or because of any Employee’s lawful activity and/or support of the Union.
ARTICLE XXVI
1
2
3
Duration
Except as otherwise specifically indicated, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from 12:00 A.M. on March 6, 2004 through 11:59 P.M. on March 5, 2009.
In the event that either party should desire to terminate or modify this Agreement at this expiration date, it shall give notice to the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date thereof and negotiations for a new agreement shall commence as soon thereafter as is practicable.
No sale, lease, transfer, or disposal by claim or assignment of any units of the Employer, in whole or in part, at the expiration or during the negotiation or renewal of this Agreement, shall alter or change the job classification or number of Employees within the unit so sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of.
All changes agreed upon in any new agreement shall be retroactive and effective as of the expiration date of this Agreement or any renewal thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their respective hands and seals and caused this Agreement to be duly executed.
METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION, INC.
GARAGE EMPLOYEES UNION NO. 272, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS, AFL-CI
Eddie Allers, Secretary/Treasurer

Fred Alston, President
ARAGE EMPLOYEES UNION LOCAL NO. 272
220 East 23rd Street, 8th Floor New York, New York
(212) 726-9726
PENSION & WELFARE OFFICE
220 East 23rd Street, 8th Floor
New York, New York
(212) 726-9726
METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION, INC.
299 Broadway, Room 403
New York, New York 10007
(212) 406-3590

	
[NkOjaTiEiSj
NJDTAS.
LQS^EMP,LEAaO5.DEjGARAJEDEL„LO,CAL^2Z2^
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes actuantes firman y sellan el presente con-trato, procediendo a su ejecucion en la forma debida.
METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION, INC.
GARAGE EMPLOYEES UNION 272
I
GARAGE EMPLOYEES UNION LOCAL 272
220 East 23rd. Street, 8th Floor, Room 801
New York, New York
(212) 726-9726
Fax: (212) 726-9716
PENSION & WELFARE OFFICE
220 East 23rd. Street, 8th Floor, Room 805
New York, New York
(212) 726-9730
Fax: (212) 726-9737
METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION, INC.
299 Broadway, Room 403
New York, New York 10007
(212) 406-3590
Fax: (212) 732-4981
JCANXR ATJOL JCLOX E jCXXVdOL
1
ARTICULO XXVI
Duracion
Excepto si se indica lo contrario en forma especifica, este Contrato tendra validez y vigencia plena a partir del 6 de marzo de 2004 a las 12:00 medianoche, hasta las 11:59 por la noche del 5 de marzo de 2009.
En el caso de que aiguna de las partes desee finalizar o modificar el presente Contrato en su fecha de expiracion, notificara por escrito a la otra parte en un plazo minimo de 60 dias antes de la fecha de expiracion del misino. y se iniciaran las negociaciones para un nuevo acuerdo en la primera fecha posterior posible.
Ninguna venta, arrendamiento o transferencia o entrega por recla-macion o cesion de unidades del Empleador, en forma total o parciai, al momenta de expiracion o durante la negociacion o renovacion del presents Contrato, alterara o cambiara la clasificacion de empleo o la cantidad de Empleados dentro de la unidad vendida, arrendada, trans-ferida o entregada de cualquier otra manera.
Todos los cambios que se acuerden en un nuevo contrato seran retroactivos y tendran vigencia a partir de la fecha de expiracion del presente Contrato o cualquier renovacion del mismo.
,LQS^EMRLEADASJiD.E^GARAJEiiaELli>LO<CAU2i7i2
con alguna ley, reglamentacion o disposicidn federal, estatal o local, dicha disposition continuara vigente solamente en la medida permi-tida, y las restantes dispositions del Contrato seguiran teniendo plena vigencia y efecto.
En caso de que alguna disposicidn del presente Contrato sea o se considere no valida segun las leyes de cualquier estado en el cual se requiera la aplicacidn del mismo, la disposition se considerara modi-ficada a los efectos de cumplir con los requisites de la ley estatal pertinents. Tambien se renegociara la sustitucidn adecuada. Si tales negotiations no tuvieran como resultado un acuerdo mutuamente satisfactorio, se permitiM al Sindicato ejercer todos los recursos legales o economicos.
ARTICULO XXV
Clausula de No Discrimination
1	El Empleador y el Sindicato acuerdan no ejercer discrimination contra ninguna persona en relation a la contratacidn, compensation, ter-minos o condiciones de empleo, de ninguna forma prohibida por leyes federates, estatales o locates, incluso pero sin limitation a, discrimination que tenga como resultado la privation de oportunidades de empleo debido a la raza, color, religion, sexo, nacionalidad, orientation sexual o preferencias afectivas.
2	El Empleador y el Sindicato acuerdan que no se ejercera discrimination por parte del Empleador ni del Sindicato contra ningun empleado debido a su pertenencia al Sindicato o debido a cualquier actividad de un Empleado que sea legal y/o en apoyo al Sindicato.
jC^NXRArO^aQLEkCjr.LKQ
Empleados en relacion a las obligaciones de su puesto de trabajo, incluso, pero sin limitacion a, el derecho de contratar, capacitar, promover, transferir, bajar de grade, disciplinar, despedir, asignar tareas, combinar tareas, programar dias, horas y turnos de trabajo; a introduce infraestructura o metodos nuevos o mejorados, transferir, fusionar o combinar todas o algunas de las operaciones del Empleador, y en todos los aspectos, a realizar las funciones de administration comunes y habituates.
El Empleador podra instrumentar, continuar y cambiar las reglas y reglamentationes necesarias que esten en contradiction con las dis-posiciones del presente Contrato, segun lo considere necesario y propio para la conduction de su actividad. El contenido (pero no la apli-cacion) de dichas reglas y reglamentationes no estara sujeta a recusation segun el Aitlculo XX (Arbitrages) de este Contrato, excep-to cuando resulte manifiestamente irrazonable o claramente innece-sario.
La lista de derechos que se establece en el presente Contrato y las disposiciones de este Articulo no pretenden ser, ni deben ser interpre-tadas como una restriction o renuncia a ningun derecho o atribucion de ninguna de las partes de este Contrato, haya sido los mismos ejercitados previamente o no.
ARTICULO XXIV
Disposiciones Generales
Los titulos de los Articulos fueron colocados como referencia general. Todas las disposiciones del presente Contrato son obligatorias para las partes, esten agrupadas bajo titulos adecuadamente descrip-tivos o no, y en caso de existir contradiction entre el titulo de articulo y las disposiciones contenidas en el mismo, prevaleceran los termi-nos de la disposition.
Segun el leal saber y entender de las partes, este Contrato no con-tiene disposiciones contrarias a ninguna ley, reglamentacion o disposition federal, estatal o local. No obstante, si alguna disposition de este Contrato actualmente o en el futuro estuviera en contradiction
□
L0lSaEMRLEADAS^D.EJGARAJE.DEUL0>CAU2Z2
5
6
E! Empleador suministrara los informes mencionados junto con las contribuciones exigidas en un plazo de veinte (20) dias despues del primer (ler) dia de cada mes y sera considered© en falta el dia vein-tiuno (21er.) de dicho mes.
Cada Empleador pondra a disposicion de los Fideicomisarios del Plan, o sus agentes debidamente autorizados, la nomina y otros reg-istros de dicho Empleador que puedan resultar pertinentes o de ayuda para que los Fideicomisarios lleven a cabo sus funciones, En el caso de que una auditoria de dicha nomina u otros registros de un Empleador revelen irregularidades o errores en los pages, el Empleador en cuestion debera pagar por dicha auditoria una suma razonable a determinar los Fideicomisarios o Arbitros.
En el caso de que un Empleador en falta sea sometido a juicio o arbi-traje u otro procedimiento para recuperar una suma adeudada por Contribuciones de pension segun los terminos del presente contrato, en que se determine por convenio, decision, sentencia o de otra forma que tai suma estaba pendiente e impago, ademas de la suma asi determinado, el Empleador puede ser evaluado y debera pagar una suma adicionai igual al valor razonable de los servicios emplead-os para instituir, mantener y/o concluir dicho procedimiento, que en ningun caso excedera el veinte por ciento (20%) de la suma que se determine como adeudado por la Junta de Fideicomisarios.
Si un Empleador no paga las Contribuciones de pension en la fecha de su vencimiento, se impondra una multa por mora a una tasa de interes de uno y medio por ciento (1,5%) por mes, a partir del primer (ler) dia del mes siguiente al mes por el cual se debieron pagar tales contribuciones, hasta que se realice el pago correspondiente.
ARTtCULO XXIII
Derechos de la Administration
1 Sujeto a, y limitado por, las disposiciones del presente Contrato, el Empleador tendra el derecho exclusive a dirigir y controlar a sus
38
k

tribuir que se establece en el parrafo 2(a) anterior, el periodo de espera complete sera aplicable a todo Empleado que no haya tra-bajado en empleo con cobertura para otro Empleador signatario del contrato colectivo con el Sindicato local 272 durante los doce (12) meses previos. En el caso de un Empleado que haya estado contratado de esa manera, el periodo que el Empleado nuevo haya estado empleado por el o los Empleadores anteriores se reducira del periodo de espera.
(c) El Sindicato y la Asociacion acuerdan recomendar a los Fideicomisarios del Plan de Pensiones que se aumentara a $37.50 el beneficio mensual por credito de pension, y que se incrementara la pension mensual regular a un maximo de $750 para los Empleados que se jubilan a partir del 6 de marzo de 2004. Sujeto a la certification del actuario del Fondo de Pensiones que los beneficios de pensiones pueden incrementarse sin incurrir un deficit, el beneficio maximo debera incrementarse a $775 y el beneficio mensual por credito de pension debera incrementarse a $38.75 para los Empleados que se jubilan a partir del 6 de marzo de 2006 o tan pronto como sea posible.
Se realizaran contribuciones al Plan de Pensiones (en adelante men-cionadas como "Contribuciones de pension") por todas las horas que se requiera pagar a un Empleado segun los terminos del presente Contrato, incluso vacaciones y dias francos, teniendo en cuenta que no se exigira dicha contribucion por mas de cuarenta (40) horas sem-anales, ni por mas de cincuenta y dos semanas (52) al ano para cada Empleado. Un Empleador multiple o un operador en cadena sera considerado como un (1) Empleador a los efectos de la limitation precedente.
(a)	Todas las Contribuciones de pension se realizaran en forma mensual y cada Empleador presentara a los Fideicomisarios del Plan de Pensiones un informe escrito que incluira una tarjeta de reg-istro para cada Empleado nuevo y una lista de Empleados cuyo empleo finalize el mes anterior.
(b)	En ningun caso se negaran a los empleados cubiertos los beneficios del presente Plan de pensiones o su equivalente, durante el periodo de validez del presente Contrato.
LOSEMPLEADOSDEGARAJEDELLOCAL272
traje u otro procedimiento para recuperar una suma adeudado por Contribuciones sociales segun los terminos del presente contrato, en que se determine por convenio, decision, sentencia o de otra forma que tai suma estaba pendiente e impago, ademas de la suma asi determinado, el Empleador puede ser evaluado y debera pagar una suma adicional igual al valor razonable de los servicios empleados para instituir, mantener y/o concluir dicho procedimiento, que en ningun caso excedera el veinte por ciento (20%) de la suma que se determine como adeudado por la Junta de Fideicomisarios.
Si un Empleador no paga las Contribuciones sociales en la fecha de su vencimiento, se impondra una multa por mora a una tasa de interes de uno y medio por ciento (1.5%) por mes, a partir del primer (ler) dia del mes siguiente al mes por el cual se debieron pagar tales contribuciones, hasta que se realice el pago correspondiente.
ARTICULO XXII
Plan de Jubilaciones y Pensiones
Las partes mantendran y continuaran el Plan de Pensiones de gestion de trabajo (en adelante mencionado como el "Plan de Pensiones") en beneficio de los empleados, y dicho Plan de Pensiones sera maneja-do y supervisado por una Junta de Fideicomisarios compuesta por un numero igual de representantes de la Asociacion y del Sindicato en total acuerdo con el Plan de Pensiones de gestion de trabajo del Sindicato local 272, segun su constitution actual o de acuerdo a las modificaciones posteriores que se realicen.
(a)	Cada Empleador aportara Contribuciones de Pension de $ 0.79 por hora, una vez que el Empleado ha estado empleado durante tres (3) anos. A partir del 1 de octubre de 2004, cada Empleador aportara Contribuciones de Pension de $.89 por hora despues de que un Empleado ha estado empleado durante tres (3) arios.
(b)	En relacion al periodo de espera previo a la obligation de con-
36
del contrato colectivo con el Sindicato local 272 durante los doce (12) meses previos. En el caso de un Empleado que haya estado contratado de esa manera, el periodo que el Empleado nuevo haya estado empleado por el o los Empleadores anteriores se reducira del periodo de espera.
Se realizaran contribuciones al Plan de seguridad social (en adelante mencionadas como "Contribuciones sociales") por todas las horas que se requiera pagar a un Empleado segun los terminos del presente Contrato, incluso vacaciones y dias, teniendo en cuenta que no se exigirci dicha contribution por mas de cuarenta (40) horas semanales, ni por mas de cincuenta y dos semanas (52) al ario para cada Empleado. Un Empleador multiple o un operador en cadena sera considerado como un (1) Empleador a los efectos de la limitacion precedente.
(a)	Todas las Contribuciones sociales se realizaran en forma mensu-al y cada Empleador presentara a los Fideicomisarios del Plan de seguridad social un informe escrito que incluira una tarjeta de reg-istro para cada Empleado nuevo y una lista de Empleados cuyo empleo finalize el mes anterior.
(b)	En ningun caso se negaran a los empleados cubiertos los benefi-cios del presente Plan de seguridad social o su equivalente, durante el periodo de validez del presente Contrato,
El Empleador suministrara los informes mencionados junto con las contribuciones exigidas en un plazo de veinte (20) dias despues del primer (ler) dia de cada mes y sera considerado en falta el dia vein-tiuno (21-) de dicho mes.
Cada Empleador pondra a disposition de los Fideicomisarios del Plan, o sus agentes debidamente autorizados, la nomina y otros reg-istros de dicho Empleador que puedan resultar pertinentes o de ayuda para que los Fideicomisarios lleven a cabo sus funciones. En el caso de que una auditoria de dicha nomina u otros registros de un Empleador revelen irregularidades o errores en los pages, el Empleador en cuestion puede ser evaluado y debera pagar por dicha auditoria una suma razonable a determinar los Fideicomisarios o Arbitros.
En el caso de que un Empleador en falta sea sometido a juicio o arbi-
LQS^EMRLEAaQS.DE^GARAJE^DELLOCAL272
_____ ____________—_______________________________J
ARTICULO XXI
Beneficios de Salud
Las partes mantendran y continuaran el Plan de Seguras y Seguridad Social (en adelante mencionado como el "Welfare Plan") en beneficio de los empleados, y dicho plan sera manejado y supervisado por una Junta de Fideicomisarios compuesta por un numero igual de repre-sentantes de la Asociacion y del Sindicato en total acuerdo con el Contrato modificado y la Declaration de Fideicomiso para el Fondo de seguridad social del sindicato local 272 de fecha 22 de octubre de 1964, segun su constitution actual o de acuerdo a las modificacione-sposteriores que se realicen.
(a)	Cada Empleador aportara Contribuciones sociales de $ 1.28 por hora, una vez que el Empleado haya estado empleado por seis (6) meses.
(b)	En caso de que los actuaries del Fondo determinen, al inicio de cualquier ano fiscal del Fondo, que durante ese ano fiscal el superavit del Fondo sera un monto menor que el equivalente a tres (3) meses de pago de beneficios, los Fideicomisarios estaran autorizados a aumentar la tasa de contribution al Fondo requeri-da, siempre que (1) dicha autoridad este limitada a un aumento total de la tasa de contribution de diez centavos ($ 0.10) por hora durante el plazo de este Contrato; y (2) en caso que se requieran mas de diez centavos ($ 0.10) por hora, los Fideicomisarios podran requerir contribuciones mayores segun resulte necesario para mantener los beneficios existentes y un superavit igual a tres (3) meses de pagos de beneficios a menos que la Asociaci6n, en un plazo de treinta (30) dias despues de una notification por escrito de los Fideicomisarios a la Asociacion sobre la necesidad de aumentar nuevamente la tasa de contribution, reabra el contrato con el propdsito limitado de realizar negociaciones sobre aumentos adicionales de la tasa de contribution.
(c)-En relation al periodo de espera previo a la obligation de con-tribuir que se establece en el parrafo 2(a) anterior, el periodo de espera complete sera aplicable a todo Empleado que no haya tra-bajado en empleo con cobertura para otro Empleador signatario 	------—-----------------------------
oficinas de! Sindicato en un plazo de quince (15) dias calendario a partir de la fecha en que se presento la queja. En caso que el Empleador falte sin aviso previo a una reunion programada, esa accion sera considerada como una renuncia y la queja podra ser presentada directamente a arbitraje.
(a)	Si el Sindicato y el Empleador no se reunen dentro de un plazo razonable y formas correspondientes, o si reunen y no pueden resolver la queja en un plazo de veinte (20) dias calendarios a partir de la fecha en que se presento la queja, cualquiera de las partes podra someter la queja a arbitraje en un plazo que no supere los 45 dias calendarios a partir de la fecha en que la queja fue presentada.
(b)	El arbitro sera seleccionado
(i)	de comun acuerdo entre las partes, o
(ii)	de acuerdo con las reglas y reglamentaciones de la Asociacion de Arbitraje Americana. Una vez que la queja fue sometida a arbitraje, el arbitro dara a las partes la oportu-nidad de dar testimonies y presentar evidencia en relacion a la controversia en cuestion. Luego de esa audiencia, el arbitro tomara una decision sobre la queja en cuestion en el plazo mas breve posible. Esa decision sera definitiva y oblig-atoria para ambas partes participantes del arbitraje, que acuerdan cumplir con dicha decision. Los honorarios del arbitro dem&s honorarios de la AAA seran pagados por el Sindicato y el Empleador por partes iguales, y todos los demas gastos que se originen correran exclusivamente por cuenta de las partes que incurrieron en dicho gastos o cargos.
Si la parte que presenta la queja no cumple con los pasos del presente procedimiento de queja, en los plazos ya especificados, se con-siderara, salvo que la otra parte lo permita por escrito, como aban-dono de la queja. El proposito de esta disposicidn es que toda queja sea considerada y solucionada de inmediato y que, en caso de no ser considerada y procesada de inmediato, sea abandonada por la parte que la presento, En ningun caso el arbitro tendra autoridad para emi-tir un fallo, sentencia o decision que contradiga las disposiciones de este Articulo.
■LOS»EMRLEAD.OS»DE-GARAJE»DEL-LOCAL.27.2.
(b) Ningun Empleado podra ser despedido por los motives estableci-dos en el Parrafo 1, Subdivisiones A, B, D, G y H a menos que el Empleador haya notificado al Sindicato un minimo de una (1) advertencia previa, haciendo constar su queja especifica contra el Empleado, salvo en el caso de negligencia grave o habitual, segun la section D mas adelante. Se guardara copia de las notas de advertencia en el archivo del Empleado durante un (1) aho a partir de la fecha de la infraction, con la exception de las adver-tencias relacionadas a llegadas tardes y ausentismo, que se con-servaran en el archivo del Empleado durante dos (2) ahos a partir de la fecha de la advertencia. Una vez cumplido el plazo de uno (1) o dos (2) ahos respectivamente, se retiraran la(s) nota(s) de advertencia del archivo del Empleado.
El Empleador no podra exigir, ni solicitar, ni sugerir que un Empleado o un aspirante a un puesto de trabaj'o se someta a una prueba poli-grafica o cualquier otra prueba de detection de mentiras.
ARTICULO XX
Procedimientos de Quejas y Arbitraje
Si surge alguna controversia, reclamation, queja o diferencia entre el Sindicato y el Empleador sobre la interpretation o aplicacion de una clausula en particular del presente Contrato o sobre una supuesta violation de una disposition especifica de este Contrato (tales controver-sias, reclamaciones, quejas o diferencias seran mencionadas en adelante como (“quejas"), dicha queja se resolvera de la siguiente manera:
(a)	La parte que presenta la queja debera remitir la queja por escrito a la otra parte en un plazo de diez (10) dias calendarios (i) despues de la ocurrencia del incidente o evento que origino la queja; o (ii) despues de la fecha en que el Empleador, mediante diligencia razonable, debio haber tornado conocimiento de la queja.
(b)	El Sindicato y el Empleador y/o la Asociacion se reuniran en las
ARTICULO XIX
Disciplina
Despues de los primeros sesenta (60) dias de trabajo, ningun Empleado podra ser sancionado excepto por una causa justa. Los siguientes motives podran constituir causa justa:
A.	Llegadas tardes habituales.
B.	Ausentismo habitual
C.	Consume o posesion de alcohol o sustancias controladas durante el trabajo o estar bajo el efecto de las mismas cuando trabajando.
D.	Dario negiigente de vehicuios, de cuaiquier propiedad o equipos del Empleador.
E.	Denegar a obedecer ordenes de sus superiores o desobediencia de las normas de trabajo del Empleador.
F.	Abuse o descortesia con los clientes.
G.	Incompetencia en la ejecucion de tareas.
H.	nconveniencias que obstaculicen el desempeno segun este Contrato del funcionamiento eficiente del Servicio de Estacionamiento en el que trabaja el Empleado.
I.	Robo o conducta que ponga en riesgo la seguridad de algun Empleado o de otras personas.
J.	Declaration falsa de hechos al solicitar empleo. Todo Empleado despedido tendra derecho a recibir todos los salaries completes que le adeude el Empleador, incluso las vacationes y los dias francos generados, si los hubiera, dentro del periodo de pago normal del Empleador.
(a) En cuaiquier caso que trata con el despido o suspension de cuaiquier Empleado, el Empleador deberci notificar por escrito de inmediato al Sindicato y al Empleado el despido o suspension y los motives correspondientes. Toda sancion disciplinaria podra derivarse a los mecanismos de quejas previstos en el Articulo XX del presente contrato.
1
L
LOS^EMRLEADAS^DE^GARAJEm.DELAOiCAL»2Z2
ARTICULO XVIII
Protection de los Derechos y Huelgas y Prohibiciones
No se realizaran huelgas, pares, trabajo a desgano, piquetes, sen-tadas, boicots o cuaiquier otra interruption o interferencia concerta-da de las operaciones del Empleador, ni huelga patronal contra los Empleados por el Empleador, por ninguna razon, durante la duration de este Contrato, puesto que la intention y el objetivo de las partes del mismo que toda disputa o controversia que surja entre el Sindicato o cuaiquier Empleado y un Empleador o la Asociaci6n, con exception de cuaiquier disposition en contrario prevista en el presente contrato, sea sometida a arbitraje segun lo previsto mas ade-lante en el presente Contrato.
El Sindicato, sus funcionarios, agentes, representantes y miembros, no autorizaran, asistiran, fomentaran, participaran en ni apoyaran, directamente o indirectamente, ninguna huelga, paro, trabajo a desgano, sentada, boicot o cuaiquier otra medida que interrumpa o interfiera con las operaciones del Empleador, ni ratificaran, con-donaran o prestaran poyo a ninguna conducta o action, incluso la solidaridad o el reconocimiento de cuaiquier tipo de huelga o piquete realizados en un sitio de un Empleador integrante de este Contrato realizados por un Sindicato que no sea parte del mismo, excepto en la medida en que asi fuera establecido o aprobado por la Fraternidad Internacional de los Teamsters.
No constituira una violation de este Contrato, ni sera causa de des-pedido o sancion disciplinaria, que algun Empleado ejerza cualquiera de los derechos que le concede la ley, este Contrato o este Articulo en particular.
J
30
C.aN.T.RAilkO^CxaLEg.T.liVA
ARTICULO XVI
Clasificacion de Empleo y Obligaciones
Las tareas de los Empleados seran las siguientes:
(a) La tarea de los Lavadores sera realizar todos y cada uno de los trabajos que les requiera el Empleador durante su horario de tra-bajo, para el funcionamiento y conduction del Servicio de Estacionamiento del Empleador, entre los que se incluyen el lava-do y limpieza de vehiculos automotores.
C X 4^ ID:.—
\Uf Ueta	ue hj? ucmao L-nipicuuub	we i jou y
Transportistas) realizar las mismas tareas exigidas a los Lavadores, except© que a estos trabajadores no se les exigira que laven o engrasen vehiculos automotores.
(c)	Sera tarea de los Capataces y Administradores realizar todos y cada uno de los servitios que se les requieran para asegurar el funcionamiento eficiente de las unidades particulars en las que estan empleados, inclusive las tareas requeridas a un Encargado de Piso. (En ningun caso se podra exigir a Capataces, Administradores o Transportistas que laven o engrasen automotores).
(d)	Las tareas de los Cajeros incluiran la cobranza y salvaguarda de dinero recibido por y a cuenta del Empleador en el funcionamiento de su negocio y el mantenimiento de los registros respectivos.
LO5EIVIRLEADOSDEGARAJE^PELXOCAL272
(vi)	El Empleador se reserva el derecho de cambiar las fechas de las vacaciones si tales cambios son necesarios para el fun-cionamiento basico de su actividad comercial. Al ejercer este derecho, el Empleador debera realizar esos cambios en orden inverse a la antigiiedad en el trabajo y debera notificar-lo con una antelacidn no menor de treinta (30) dias, a menos que esto resulte imposible.
(vii)	Los Empleados con derecho a tres (3) o cuatro (4) semanas de vacaciones no podran fijar por anticipado mas de dos (2) semanas consecutivas sin el consentimiento del Empleador.
Todos los Empleados estaran a disposicion en caso de que la jornada laboral programada caiga en un dia feriado. En caso de que el Empleador autorice o solicite a uri Empleado a que tome libre cualquier dia feriado, dicho Empleado tendra derecho, si lo solicita, a recibir remuneration por un (1) dia acumulado de vacaciones o dia por ese feriado programado pero no trabajado. Si el Empleado tra-baja el feriado, tendra derecho, a su election, a que se le pague por un (1) dia de vacaciones o dia franco acumulado, ademas de la remuneration por las horas trabajadas ese dia.
Cuando un Empleado esta ausente por causa de enfermedad, y si lo solicita, tendra derecho a recibir remuneration por un (1) dia de vaca-ciones acumulado o dia franco por cada dia de ausencia a trabajo.
Un Empleado que ha sido autorizado por el Empleador a tomar un dia libre en una jornada laboral normal programada, tendra derecho, si lo solicita, a que se le pague por un (1) dia acumulado de vacaciones o dia de beneficio por dicho dia de ausencia.
Se concedera tres (3) dias de beneficio pagados a todo Empleado per-manente en el evento del fallecimiento de su esposa/o, hijo/a, hijas-tro/a, padre o madre, abuelo/a, hermano/a, cuhado/a o suegro/a. El Empleado recibira su salario base al presentar el certificado de defuncion debidamente certificado o autenticado y una declaration jurada estableciendo su relation familiar con la persona fallecida, si la misma no este establecida en el certificado de defuncion.
J
28
.C.O.NXRAXO^C.QLEkCXiy.Q
primer (l2) ario aniversario en el puesto de trabajo, el Empleado no tendra derecho a recibir page por vacaciones o dias de beneficio durante los primeros seis (6) meses completes de dicho primer (l2) ario aniversario en el puesto de trabajo. Una vez final-izados los primeros seis (6) meses de trabajo, el Empleado tendra derecho a hacer uso de las vacaciones o dias de beneficios acu-mulados de la forma prevista en el Parrafo 5(a) anterior.
(c)	(i) Ningun Empleador exigira a ningun Empleado que trabaje durante sus vacaciones.
(ii)	Sin el consentimiento de su Empleador, no se permitir--a a ningun Empleado a trabajar durante dichas vacaciones.
(iii)	Dichas vacaciones deberan tomarse durante el ario aniversario inmediatamente posterior al cual fueron generadas.
(d)	Se podra fijar las vacaciones durante el periodo que comienza el 1 de mayo y finaliza el 31 de octubre y en cualquier otro memento que el Empleador considere conveniente.
(i)	Durante el periodo desde el 1 de enero hasta el 31 de marzo de cada ario calendario, los Empleadores consultaran a sus Empleados para que elijan sus periodos vacacionales durante dicho ario calendario.
(ii)' Los Empleados notificaran a sus Empleadores su fecha de vacaciones elegida no mcis tarde del 30 de abril de cada ario calendario.
(iii)	El Empleador fijara el horario de vacaciones de acuerdo a la antigtiedad de los Empleados en la compariia. En caso de surgir diferencias entre los Empleados en relation a los periodos de vacaciones, los Empleados mas antiguos tendran pref-erencia en la election de los periodos de vacaciones.
(iv)	El numero de Empleados a los que se otorga vacaciones al mismo tiempo sera determinado exclusivamente por el Empleador.
(v)	Un Empleado que no haya elegido la fecha de su periodo de vacaciones podra ser asignado por el Empleador en las fechas disponibles no comprometidas.
LOS^EMPLEADOS PE GARAJE DEL L0CAL 272
(ii)	Diez (10) dias por ano desde el tercer (3s) ano hasta el quin to (5°) ano del empleo;
(iii)	Quince (15) dias por ano desde el sexto (6s) ano hasta el decimo (10s) aho del empleo; y
(iv)	Veinte (20) dias por aho durante el onceavo (11-) aho y cada aho subsiguiente del empleo.
(b) Sujeto al Parrafo 5 del presente contrato, los Empleados a jorna-da completa tendran derecho a dias de beneficio segun lo sigu-iente:
(i)	Seis (6) dias por aho durante los primeros cinco (5) anos del empleo; y
(ii)	Doce (12) dias por aho durante el sexto (6s) aho y cada aho subsiguiente del empleo;
Los Empleados a media jornada tendran derecho a una parte pror-rateada de las vacaciones y dias de beneficios establecidos para los Empleados a jornada completa. Aquellos Empleados que estan pre-vistos que trabajen regularmente y que trabajen efectivamente dieciseis (16) horas o menos por semana no tendran derecho a vacaciones ni dias de beneficios.
Un dia de vacaciones o un dia de beneficio equivaldrci a la suma cor-respondiente a ocho (8) horas de pago al valor del salario base actual del Empleado.
Cada Empleado tendra derecho a recibir remuneration por sus vacaciones y dias no utilizados en la fecha aniversario de su ingreso al empleo, a menos que el Empleado elija diferir el pago a otra fecha que no podra exceder el momento en que el Empleado tome sus vacaciones.
(a)	El Empleado tendra derecho a vacaciones y dias de beneficio en base a prorrateo durante el transcurso del aho aniversario en el empleo. Tales vacaciones o dias de beneficios se calcularan sola-mente en base a los dias completes acumulados. No se podran tomar vacaciones o dias de beneficio parciales ni se admitira pagos parciales por dicho concepto.
(b)	No obstante las disposiciones del presente Parrafo 5, durante el
de antigiledad. Si ningun Empleado los solicita, el Empleador podra asignarlos a cualquier Empleado elegible por orden inverse a la antigiledad.
(c)	Except© en el caso de los Empleados de relevo permanente y aquellos que normalmente son asignados a mas de dos (2) sitios, se podra asignar a cualquier Empleado a mas de dos (2) sitios alternados en una semana laboral, respecto a la antigiledad, si las tareas de un Empleado en particular asi lo requieran. El tiempo de viaje entre asignaciones en sitios separados durante el mismo turno sera compensado como horas trabajadas.
Siempre que un Empleado trabaje mas de cuarenta (40) horas en una semana laboral, esas horas se computarcin como horas extra y se pagaran como hora y media (1-1/2 vez) en reiacion a la tasa normal por hora del Empleado. Se exigira a los Empleados que trabajen un numero razonable de las horas extra previstas por horario, y, en situation de emergencia, de horas extra no previstas. Ningun Empleado que trabaje en una jornada mas horas que las previstas en el horario vera reducido contra su voluntad su horario previsto para otra jornada de la misma semana.
Los pagos por horas extra y vacaciones y dias di benefitios se efec-tuaran en efectivo o con cheque y en ningun caso seran compensa-dos con tiempo libre.
ARTICULO XV
Vacaciones y Dias de Beneficios
(a) Sujeto al Parrafo 5 del presente contrato, los Empleados a jornada completa tendran derecho a dias de vacaciones segun lo sigu-iente:
(i)	Cinco (5) dias por aho durante los primeros dos (2) ahos del empleo;
ikOJSjEMRLEADAS>DEiLGABAaEMD.EUkOjCALw2f7r2i
ARTICULO XV
Horario de Trabajo y Horas Extras
(a)	La semana laboral consistira en cinco (5) dias y/o noches que suman cuarenta (40) horas, o cuatro (4) dias y/o noches que suman cuarenta (40) horas, que se compondran de turnos de trabajo de ocho (8) y diez (10) horas consecutivas respectivamente, con exclusion de cuaiquier hora de comida no pagada.
(b)	La semana laboral, los turnos y los dias libres de un Empleado no se podran cambiar sin notificacion previa enviada con una .semana de antelacion, salvo en situation de emergencia. Excepto en el caso de los Administradores y Capataces, los cambios de horario se anunciaran y los Empleados tendran cuarenta y ocho (48) horas para expresar por escrito su election de turno por antigiiedad. Las modificaciones razonables de las horas de comienzo y finalization de la jornada no constituiran cambios de horarios a los efectos de la election.
(c)	Con exception de los Empleados a media jornada y los Empleados de relevo permanente, el interval© entre el final de un turno de trabajo normal previsto y el comienzo del siguiente turno de trabajo normal previsto no sera menor que el numero de horas en el turno de trabajo programado antes del interval©.
(a)	Se permitira un horario de trabajo que estipule dos (2) dias libres no consecutivos durante la semana laboral cuando la naturaleza de las tareas de un Empleado en particular no permita otorgar dias libres consecutivos.
(b)	Cuando la naturaleza de las tareas de un Empleado en particular asi lo requiera, sera posible establecer turnos alternados para Empleados contratados despues del 6 de marzo de 1995 o para Empleados que estuvieran trabajando en turnos alternados a par-tir del 6 de marzo de 1995. Se garantizaran jornadas laborales o remuneration correspondiente a ocho (8) horas de labor a los Empleados que trabajan en turnos alternados. Los turnos alternados se anunciaran en cartelera y podran ser elegidos por orden
JGt R ‘A il^O'g^|CxOj Lt	I
5
6
7
8
tivo y las contribuciones al Fondo de seguridad social, se considerara que todas las horas trabajadas por un Empleado durante una semana laboral fueron realizadas para un (1) Empleador, en los casos en que dicho Empleador sea parte de una unidad multiple o una cadena de operaciones controlada o administrada por la misma persona, grupo o grupo de accionistas.
No se reducira el sueldo de ningun Empleado de Nivel “A” que este ganando actualmente o que haya ganado anteriormente un sueldo que exceda lo establecido en el Anexo A, Si algun Empleado ha sido recibiendo o esta recibiendo dicho sueldo mayor al establecido, se considerara que este Contrato fue modificado por las partes en relacion a ese Empleado, para estipular que el salario de dicho Empleado debe ser el mismo que recibe actualmente o que recibio anteriormente.
Cada dia de pago se pagara a cada Empleado el total de su salario correspondiente a su horario normal y a las horas extras trabajadas. Todos los Empleados recibiran su remuneracidn en el local del Empleador y en el horario que este disponga. Los Empleados a media jornada recibir6n su pago completo en un plazo que no excedera el dia de pago correspondiente al siguiente periodo de pago del Empleador.
Los Empleados que realizan funciones correspondientes a una cate-goria de trabajo con salaries mas altos que su propia categoria, segun lo establecido en el Anexo A y en la medida que corresponda, recibiran los salaries correspondientes a tales funciones.
Si el gobierno federal instituye cualquier forma de control salarial y una parte del contrato es aplazado o recortado, las partes se reuniran de inmediato para intentar asignar el equivalente monetario de los salaries o beneficios no aprobados, de forma que obtenga la aprobacion del gobierno. Si el equivalente monetario de la parte aplazada o recortada no pueda ser reasignado, el Empleador pagara al Empleado afectado la suma directamente atribuible al aplazamien-to o recorte, si resulta legalmente admisible.
^LQS^EMRLEADAS^DE^GARAJE^DEULO.CAU2.7.2
L
cuento autorizado realizado por el Empleador, segun lo estipulado por escrito en este Contrato, y lo liberara de cualquier responsabili-dad en reiacion a dichos procedimientos. Una vez que las Cuotas Sindicales descontadas fueron enviadas al Sindicato, la disposition de las mismas de ahi en mas sera de exclusiva prerrogativa y respons-abilidad del Sindicato.
ARTICULO XIV
Sueldos
(a)	Se entendera por Empleados de Nivel "A", todos los empleados por los cuales se realizaron aportes al Plan de pensiones (segun se describe en el Articulo XXII del presente) en cualquier memento durante los treinta y seis (36) meses previos al 6 de febrero de 1989.
(b)	La escala de salario minimo para todos los Empleados de Nivel "A" se establece en el Anexo A del presente contrato.
(a)	Todos los Empleados que han sido contratados antes del 6 de marzo de 2004 y han estado empleados durante un minimo de seis (6) meses recibiran un pago unico de $550.00 antes del 15 de abril de 2004. Todos los Empleados que han sido contratados antes del 6 de marzo de 2004 que han estado empleados menos de seis (6) meses recibiran un pago unico de $550.00 cuando celebran seis (6) meses de estar empleados.
(b)	Todos los Empleados recibiran los siguientes aumentos de salario:
7 de marzo,	2005	-	$.25	por	hora
6 de marzo,	2006	-	$.25	por	hora
5 de marzo,	2007	-	$.25	por	hora
3 de marzo,	2008	-	$.25	por	hora
La tasa de contratacion para los Empleados contratados a partir del 6 de marzo de 2004 sera de $ 6.00 por hora.
Para los propositos de computar las horas extras, pagos por incen-
0
0
0
0
2
3
to, una autorizacion por escrito en un formulario preparado por el Sindicato, que sera irrevocable durante un plazo de mas de un (1) ano o hasta la fecha de termination de este Contrato, segun cual sea el evento que suceda primero. La frase "Cuota Sindical" incluira los gas-tos de ingreso y la cuota regular prevista por reglamento, estatuto o acta constitutiva del Sindicato. La realization de dichos descuentos y pagos a nombre de cualquier Empleado que al momento de las mis-mas no sea empleado del Empleador constituira una violation de este Contrato
Si un Empleado estuviera gozando de vacaciones pagas durante el periodo de descuento de la Cuota Sindical, el Empleador deducira las cuotas mensuales de estos Empleados inmediatamente antes o despues de dicho periodo y las enviara a la ofitina del Sindicato.
Si un Empleador no cumple con el pago de Cuotas Sindicales durante un plazo de diez (10) dias a partir de la fecha de deduccidn de las mis-mas, se le impondra una multa por mora de 1-1/2 % de interes men-sual hasta que se efectue el pago.
El Empleador acuerda descontar del cheque de sueldo de todos los Empleados incluidos en este Contrato las contribuciones voluntarias a DRIVE. DRIVE notificara al Empleador las sumas designadas por todo Empleado contribuyente que deben deducirse de su cheque de sueldo en forma semanal por cada semana trabajada. La frase “sem-anas trabajadas” no incluye ninguna semana en lacual el Empleado no haya percibido remuneration. El Empleador transmitira a las Oficinas nacionales de DRIVE, en forma mensual, un cheque por la suma total descontada junto con el nombre de cada Empleado a cuyo nombre se realizo el descuento, el numero de seguro social del Empleado y la suma deducida del cheque de sueldo del Empleado. La Fraternidad Internacional de los Teamsters reembolsara al Empleador en forma anual por los gastos efectivos en que incurra al administrar el plan de deduction de la nomina semanal.
En particular se acuerda que el Empleador no asume ninguna obligation financiera ni de ninguna otra indole, salvo las establecidas en este Articulo y que surgen de las disposiciones del mismo, y que por el presente el Sindicato acuerda indemnizar al Empleador por cualquier reclamo, action o procedimiento iniciado por cualquier Empleado o agencia gubernamental en relation con cualquier des-
LO.S^EMRLEADX)SU>EjGARAJEJ>ELAO.CAU2Z2„
El Empleador realizara esfuerzos razonables para resolver la situation de aquellos Empleados cuyas tareas normales les impida observar el dia santo semanal (sea el sabado o el domingo) u otras leyes reli-giosas.
Un Empleado que no concurra a trabajar, de acuerdo con lo previsto en el presente, tendra derecho a reincorporarse al puesto de trabajo, con la antigtiedad que le correspondia al momenta de comenzar su ausencia, siempre que dicho Empleado retorne a trabajar dentro de plazos que no podran exceder los siguientes:
a)	En caso de ausencia por incapacidad o enfermedad: noventa (90 dias);
b)	En caso de que dicha ausencia sea consecuencia de una licencia, o ausencia solicitada por el Empleado y otorgada por el Empleador: el dia siguiente a la expiration de la licencia o ausencia aprobada;
c)	En caso de que dicha ausencia sea consecuencia de un accidente laboral por el cual el Empleado se haya acogido a los Beneficios del Seguro por indemnizacion laboral: ciento ochenta (180) dias.
ARTICULO XIII
Descuentos de Cuotas Sindicales y DRIVE de los Teamsters
El primer (l9) dia de cada mes o aproximadamente en esa fecha, cada Empleador debera descontar de la remuneration de cada Empleado incluido en este Contrato, una suma para pagar la cuota sindical men-sual y debera enviar dicha suma por correo a la oficina del Sindicato, identificando los nombres y numeros de planilla de los Empleados a los que corresponden dichos descuentos, siempre que el Empleador haya recibido de cada Empleado a cuya cuenta se realice el descuen-

parte del arbitro y del Sindicato. La decision se emitira en un plazo de cinco (5) dias habiles a partir de la fecha de la audiencia, e incluira una disposicidn que prevea el pago por parte del Empleador de los cost os y honorarios a favor del Sindicato, en caso de que la position del Empleador sea rechazada por el arbitro.
4
5
6
7
Se podra iniciar una huelga o paro si el Empleador no cumple con la decision favorable al Sindicato en un plazo de cinco (5) dias a partir de otorgada la misma. Dicho paro o huelga podra continuar hasta que se repare la infraction. Los Empleados continuaran percibiendo su remuneration hasta que se repare la infraction, pero tai paro o huelga no se considerara como incumplimiento, violation ni desviacion de Jas disposiciones del Contrato y, salvo lo establecido en este parrafo, no estara sujeto a los procedimientos de arbitraje establecidos en el presente contrato.
Los Empleados tendran preferencia para elegir el turno de trabajo de acuerdo a su antigtiedad y su clasificacion de empleo; con tai de que, a juicio del Empleador, los empleados llenen los requisites y exista una vacante.
Los Empleados no seran responsables por vehiculos que no esten debidamente equipados segun las disposiciones de las Leyes sobre Vehiculos Automotores del Estado de Nueva York, y recibiran compensation por multas o perdidas de tiempo producidas por las cita-ciones a juicio, etc., originadas por dicha causa.
Cualquier Empleado cuya comparecencia a juicio sea requerida por el Empleador, o mediante citation de la Direction National de Relaciones Laborales, como resultado de alguna action realizada en nombre del Empleador, tendra derecho a que el Empleador lo remu-nere por el tiempo que le insuma dicha comparecencia. Ningun pago sera menor al pago de un dia complete, pero el Empleado estara disponible para trabajar en caso de que el procedimiento en cuestion no dure un dia completo.
Este Contrato no alterara, cambiara, modificara o eliminara ninguna de las condiciones que actualmente disfrutan o en las cuales trabajan los Empleados, si las mismas fueran mejores que las especificadas en el presente Contrato, y dichos Empleados continuaran disfrutando de dichas condiciones mejores durante la vigencia de este Contrato.
©
LLQ^EMRLEADJOJSJ^GARAJ.E PEL LOCAL 272
I____________________
Empleador (el “Empleador Antiguo”) a otro Empleador que seria obligado a retener a los Empleados en el Sitio Transferido segun las disposiciones del contrato colectivo con el Sindicato (el “Empleador Nuevo”), entonces;
(a)	cualquier Empleado que fue transferido al Sitio Transferido den-tro de ciento cincuenta (150) dias de la fecha de entrada en vigor del cambio de propiedad, administration u operation del Sitio Transferido (la “Fecha de Transferencia de Sitio”) debera ser transferido de vuelta al sitio original sin perder la antigiledad;
(b)	cualquier Empleado que fue transferido fuera del Sitio Transferido dentro de ciento cincuenta (150) dias de la Fecha de Transferencia de Sitio y que permanece un empleado del Empleador Antiguo en la Fecha de Transferencia de Sitio puede ser transferido de vuelta al Sitio Transferido sin perder la antigiledad a discrecion del Empleador Antiguo;
(c)	cualquier transferencia exigida por la antedicha clausula (a) debera realizarse dentro de cinco (5) dias laborales de la Fecha de. Transferencia de Sitio. El Empleador Antiguo debera ser respon-sable de y obligado a pagar cualquier sueldo o beneficios que un empleado transferido pierda como resultado de algun retraso efec-tuando las transferencias estipuladas en la antedicha clausula (a).
En el caso de que el Empleador no pague los salaries en fecha o no cumpla durante diez (10) dias con las obligaciones establecidas en el Articulo XIII (Descuentos de cuotas sindicales), el Articulo XXI (Beneficios de Bienestar) o el Articulo XXII (Pensiones), el Sindicato tendra derecho a implementar un paro o una huelga en cualquiera o todos los Servicios de Estacionamiento del Empleador que emplee a miembros del Sindicato. El Empleador debera ser notificado de dicho paro o huelga con una antelacion de un minimo de cuarenta y ocho (48) horas.
No se declarara paro o huelga si, durante el plazo de notification, el Empleador somete a arbitraje un asunto arbitrable para que el mismo sea resuelto en forma expedita por uno de los arbitros de- signados en el contrato, si existen, o si no, por la Asociacion de Arbitraje de los Estados Unidos, de acuerdo a las normas de arbitraje laboral expedites. La audiencia se llevara a cabo en un plazo que no excederh los diez (10) dias a partir de la reception de la demanda de arbitraje por
^CxO.NMTMRAiTLO^CiQLE.CxTil^Q
Empleados nuevos por causa de ese cambio en la propiedad y administration, y dichos Empleados continuaran recibiendo vacaciones, dias francos y otros derechos que les correspondan de acuerdo a su antiguedad en ese Estacionamiento en particular. El Empleador suce-sor estara obligado solo a la cuota prorrateada que le corresponda por cada dia franco al que tenga derecho el Empleado.
Si un empleado finalize el periodo de prueba de sesenta (60) dias, tendra derecho a permanecer en la misma unidad y sitio en que fue contratado. Dentro de las limitaciones estipuladas por este Articulo. se podra transferir a un Empleado por cualquier razon comercial legi-tima. El Empleador estara obligado a solicitud del Sindicato a explicar al mismo los motives que justifican la transferencia. La legitimidad de una transferencia estara sujeta a los procedimientos de quejas estable-cidos en el Articulo XX. La obligaci6n de establecer que el Empleador no tiene una razon comercial legitima para la transferencia correra por cuenta del Sindicato.
En caso de realizarse una transferencia, excepto en caso de emergen-cia, el Empleador debera notificar al Empleado y al Sindicato con una semana de anticipacion. Si el Empleado es transferido debido a una situation de emergencia, el Empleador debera notificar al Sindicato tan pronto como sea practicamente posible. Los Empleados trans-feridos continuaran recibiendo vacaciones, dias francos y todo otro derecho que se les otorga por medio del presente contrato, en razon de su antiguedad en el primer lugar de empleo dentro de dicha unidad multiple o cadena de operaciones, y la antiguedad que tengan en la compania prevalecera en el nuevo sitio a los efectos de circunstancias como despido, selection de turnos, vacaciones y dias francos.
En caso de que el Empleado trasferido a un sitio nuevo pierda su empleo en dicho sitio en un plazo de ciento cincuenta (150), dias a partir de la fecha de transferencia, debido al cierre de ese sitio o a que otro Empleador, que no esta obligado a retener al Empleado, se ha hecho cargo del mismo, el empleado en cuestioh tendra derecho, durante un plazo de cinco (5) dias habiles a partir de la perdida de su empleo, a regresar al sitio del cual fue transferido sin perder ninguno de sus derechos laborales ni su antiguedad.
En el caso de que haya ocurrido un cambio de propiedad, administration u operation de un sitio (el “Sitio Transferido”) de un

LQSmEMRLEADASmRE^GARAJE^EL^LQCAL^ZZ^I
ARTiCULO XI
Representantes Sindicales y Acciones No Autorizadas
Solamente un funcionario, oficial o representante del Sindicato debidamente autorizado podra instruir a los Empleados sobre los metodos adecuados para el cumplimiento de los terminos de este Contrato o su interpretation.
Los Empleados del Empleador no estan autorizados a resolver quejas, declarar una huelga o realizar ninguna otra action que interrumpa la actividad del Empleador, excepto mediante autorizacion oficial del Sindicato.
Cada Empleador reconoce estas limitaciones y no responsabilizara al Sindicato por acciones no autorizadas. Al reconocer estas limitaciones, el Empleador tendra derecho a imponer las medidas discipli-narias pertinentes, inclusive el despido, en caso de que cuaiquier Empleado realice sin autorizacion una huelga, trabajo a desgano, o detenga o interrumpa la actividad comercial del Empleador, violando este Contrato, y en tales circunstancias se considerara que la causa del despido es justa.
Se permitira el acceso a las instalaciones del Empleador de un fun-cionario o representante del Sindicato debidamente autorizado y de su automovil, durante todo el horario de trabajo, a los efectos de ajus-tar quejas y determinar si se estan cumpliendo las normas de seguridad, y los terminos y condiciones de este Contrato.
ARTICULO XII
Seguridad de los Empleados
En caso de que el Empleador se haga cargo de la operation de un Servicio de Estacionamiento amparado por un contrato con el Sindicato, los Empleados del mismo no seran considerados

durante dicho periodo y tendra todos los derechos al reempleo, preservacion de la antigiiedad y demas beneficios estipulados en el Acto del Servicio Selective de 1948, como fue enmendado.
ARTiCULO X
Obligation de Comparecer Como Jurado
Ningun empleado sera despedido, ni sera privado de sus complemen-tos q paga por concepto de vacaciones o dias francos, ni tampoco vera menoscabado ninguno de sus derechos en caso de faltar por cumplir con su obligacion de comparecer como jurado.
La obligacion de comparecer como jurado se pagara solamente una vez cada dos (2) arios en el caso de Empleados a jornada completa que scan citados para cumplir con dicha obligacion. Se pagara la diferencia entre su remuneracion diaria como jurado y su salario habitual, excluyendo el reembolso por gastos de locomocion, cuando tai obligacion ocurra en un dia laborable, siempre que dicho pago se realice por un periodo que no exceda las cuatro (4) semanas (o por periodo menor durante el cual el Empleado se desempehe como jurado). Para recibir remuneracion por la obligacion de comparecer como jurado, el Empleado debera notificar de inmediato al Empleador al recibir la citacion del juzgado,. presentar copia de la citacion al Empleador, y entregar al mismo un documento probatorio de su comparecencia a juicio, y copia del recibo del pago recibido por dicha comparecencia.
LQS^EMRLEADXLS^DE^GARAJE.DELXO,CAU2Z2
ARTiCULO VIII
Antigiledad
El Empleador reconoce el principle general de que los Empleados con mas antigiledad tendran preferencia para trabajar en los puestos de remuneration mas alta, con tai de que el Empleado este calificado para dicho puesto.
La antigiledad de un Empleado estara determinada por la duration de su trabajo continuado al servicio del Empleador.
Los Empleados nuevos tendran un periodo de prueba de sesenta (60) dias y dentro de ese plazo podran ser despedidos por cualquier razon, a juicio exclusive del Empleador. Despues que un Empleado nuevo haya completado su periodo de prueba, su antigiledad tendra priori-dad en caso de un despedido. En caso de reduction de personal, los Empleados con menos antigiledad seran despedidos primero. En caso de volver a contratar personal, a los Empleados despedidos de esa manera (o trasladados a otro sitio en vez de ser despedidos) se les ofrecera empleados de nuevo por orden de antigiledad.
En caso de que se determine que un despedido no ha sido justifica-do, el Empleado afectado, si es reintegrado por un procedimiento de desacuerdo, no perdera su antigiledad, y, sujeto a la determination del arbitrador, tendra derecho a todos los beneficios del presente contrato y al puesto que le hubiera correspondido si no hubiera sido despedido.
Un Empleado perdera la antigiledad si abandona o renuncia el cargo, o es despedido por causa justificada.
ARTICULO IX
Servicio Militar
En caso de que un Empleado amparado por el presente contrato sea llamado a cumplir el servicio militar en las Fuerzas Armadas de los Estados Unidos, se considerara que tiene permiso para ausentarse
iCXXiNalg	A&0jb
Una persona que busca empleo debera presentarse en la Sala de Contratacion y firmar el Registro de Solicitudes con su nombre, la fecha y la afiliacion al Sindicato, si la tiene, junto con el sueldo por hora que ganaba en su ultimo empleo.
Todas las contrataciones se haran por medio de la Sala de Contratacion, sujetas a lo siguiente:
(a)	Excepto los Empleados que hayan sido despedidos por robo, alcoholismo, uso de drogas o falsification esencial de una solici-tud de empleo, todos los Empleados contratados a traves de la Sala de Contratacion recibiran sueldos equivalentes a los que recibian en el puesto que ocupaban en su ultimo empleo en la industria.
(b)	Un Empleador debera notificar las vacantes a la Sala de Contratacion. El Empleador puede aceptar o rechazar por cuaiquier razon a un aspirante que le envie la Sala de Contratacion. El Empleador, despues de transcurridas 24 horas de notificada por primera vez la vacante a la Sala de Contratacion, salvo en caso de un fin de semana o dia festivo, puede contratar a un Empleado procedente de cuaiquier otra fuente de referencias aunque la Sala de Contratacion haya pre-sentado a mas aspirantes despues de esas 24 horas.
(c)	Se le exigirci al Empleador que notifique al Sindicato todas las nuevas contrataciones dentro de los treinta (30) dias posteriores al comienzo del desempeno de funciones del nuevo Empleado. Si un Empleador no cumple con este requisite, se le exigira que pague al Fondo de Bienestar del Local 272, como indem-nizacion, la suma de $500.00 por cada Empleado nuevo y por cada mes complete que el Empleador no notifique al Sindicato, retroactive a la fecha de contratacion.
LQS_EMPLEAD-OSD.EGARAJEDELLOCAL27.2
< El Empleador indemnizara a cada Empleado y lo defendera en todos los pleitos y lo resarcira de cualquier perdida financiera, incluyendo el costo razonable de servicios legales incurrido debido a reclama-clones o pleitos entablados contra el/ella que resultan de cualquier acto u omision cometido durante su empleo en relation con el cuida-do, mantenimiento, manejo o protection de la propiedad del Empleador o de cualquier propiedad confiada al Empleador o en pos-esion o bajo control del Empleador. La antedicha indemnizacion contra perdidas financieras, incluyendo el costo de servicios legales, no se aplicara si el Empleado sea declarado culpable de negligencia intencionada.
8 El Empleador reembolsara al Empleado las perdidas establecidas que haya sufrido que no excedan del equivalente al sueldo de una (1) semana cuando quede satisfactoriamente probado que dichas perdidas fueron ocasionadas por un robo con fractura, un robo u otro acto delictivo durante el empleo sin que la negligencia del Empleado haya contribuido al mismo.
8 El Empleador, con fines de determinar la aptitud para un empleo initial en la industria, puede exigir a los aspirantes que se sometan a los examenes fisicos (incluyendo, pero no limitado a, excimenes de dro-gas y alcohol), que a su juicio sean necesarios.
10 Un Empleado que toma, bajo la direction de un medico, medicamen-tos que pueden provocar somnolentia o disminuir las facultades motrices debe notificarlo al Empleador antes de presentarse para tra-bajar.
ARTiCULO VII
Sala de Contratacion
Cualquier persona, sea miembro del Sindicato o no, puede solicitar empleo en la Sala de Contratacion y debe ser asignado a uno en el orden cronologico de la solicitud. El Sindicato llevara un “Registro de Solicitudes”.

ARTiCULO VI
Protection y Seguridad
El Empleador proveera y mantendra todos los equipos necesarios para operar su negocio o para que los Empleados puedan desem-penar sus funciones.
Todos los Empleados que, como parte de su clasificacion de empleo regular, tengan que manejar vehiculos a motor, como condicion de la continuacion de su empleo, deberan tener una licencia de conducir valida expedida por el estado de Nueva York o su estado de residen-cia, si es otro que Nueva York. El Empleado debera mantener la licencia en buena condicidn, y debera conservarla y tenerla a disposition en todo momenta cuando este de servicio y presentaria al Empleador para su inspection, a solicitud del Empleador. Que un Empleado no cumpla con todo lo antedicho le sometera a medidas disciplinarias inmediatas, incluyendo el despedido, en casos apropia-dos.
Todos los vehiculos a motor suministrados por el Empleador a los Empleados para el desempeno de sus funciones en la via publica deberan estar asegurados como lo exige las leyes aplicables del estado de Nueva York o las reglas de la Agenda de Vehiculos a Motor del Estado de Nueva York.
No se exigira a ningun Empleado trabajar bajo condiciones ni manejar un vehiculo a motor o utilizar otros equipos que puedan ser peli-grosos o daninos para la salud.
Cuando el Empleador requiere que los Empleados se pongan uniformes, debera suministrarselos. Los Empleados seran responsables de mantener limpios sus uniformes. Los Empleados devolveran los uniformes al Empleador en caso de terminarse el empleo por cualquier razon.
Se establecera y mantendra un Comite Mixto de Administration Laboral (el “Comite de Protection y Seguridad”) compuesto por dos (2) miembros, designados por el Sindicato y la Asociacion respectiva-mente, que se reuniran cuando sea necesario para tratar con los asuntos de protection y seguridad de la industria en general.
LQS.EMRLEADJOJS DE GARAJE DEL LOCAL 272
del Local 272, el contrato permanece en vigor y el Empleador continuara a emplear a todos los miembros del Local 272. En caso de que un Empleado que desempena una funcion incluida en ese estacionamiento no sea miembro del Local 272, debera inscribirse en el Local 272 en conformidad con las disposiciones del presente contrato.
6 El presente contrato sera obligatorio para los compradores o el cesionario de la propiedad del Empleador, ya sea que afecte a un solo servicio de una sociedad o a una empresa.
7 Sujeto a las disposiciones del presente contrato, el Empleador tendra derecho a efectuar cambios en su metodo de direccion con fines comerciales validos. En caso de que desee efectuar cambios, el Empleador primero debera notificar al Sindicato con anticipation y discutir los cambios deseados antes de llevarlos a cabo. Si no es posi-ble notificar a o discutir con el Sindicato con anticipation, las discu-siones acerca del impacto de los cambios deseados en los Empleados deberan ocurrir dentro de tres (3) dias laborales despues de la implementation de tales cambios. Que no se discutan los cambios con el Sindicato puede ser motive para dejarlo sin efecto. Despues de las discusiones que celebren las partes, y en situaciones de emergencia, el Empleador puede llevar a cabo los cambios deseados. Ningun element© del presente parrafo. ni siquiera la discusion del Sindicato con el Empleador acerca del cambio, obrara como renuncia a ninguno de los derechos que le asisten, incluyendo la antigiledad, en conformidad con el presente contrato.
8	El Empleador pondra, y acuerda dejar puesto, una copia del presente contrato en el lugar mas apropiado para permitir que todos los Empleados puedan examinarlo y leerlo.
9	En caso de que el Empleador tenga una controversia con otro sindicato, el Sindicato Kara los mayores esfuerzos para ayudar a resolver-lo en un arreglo justo.
10	En caso de que se produzca algun cambio en el derecho aplicable durante el periodo de validez del presente contrato, este sera modifi-cado para incorporarlo y el Sindicato, por ese cambio, recibira el maximo de seguridad sindical que permita la ley y tendra derecho a ello.

buena condicion al Sindicato. A los efectos del presente contrato, “buena condicion” significara el pago u oferta de las cuotas periodi-cas y los costos de afiliacion uniformemente exigidos por el Sindicato.
4	Que una persona no se inscriba como miembro del Sindicato en la fecha requerida obligara al Empleador, al recibir una notificacion escrita del Sindicato a estos efectos y ademas que la admision al Sindicato estaba disponible a esa persona bajo los mismos terminos y condiciones generalmente disponibles a otros miembros, a despedir a esa persona. Ademas que cuaiquier persona no se mantenga como miembro de buena condicion como se exige en el presente contrato obligara al Empleador, al recibir una notificacion escrita del Sindicato a ese efecto, a despedir a esa persona.
Se acuerda especificamente que el Empleador no asume ninguna obligacion, financiera o de otro tipo, excepto las estipuladas en el presente parrafo que surgen de las disposiciones del presente parrafo y el Sindicato por el presente contrato acuerda indemnizar al Empleador por las reclamaciones, acciones o procesos de cuaiquier Empleador o cuaiquier agencia gubernamental que surgen de las acciones del Empleador al recibir notificacion del Sindicato segun lo siguiente.
5	(a) En caso de que el Empleador empiece a poseer, operar o dirigir
un garaje de estacionamiento en los municipios de Manhattan o el Bronx que no esta amparado por un contrato del Sindicato, entonces se pondran en vigor inmediatamente las disposiciones del presente contrato.
(	b) En caso de que el Empleador empiece a poseer, operar o dirigir un garaje de estacionamiento en los municipios de Brooklyn, Queens o Staten Island y en los condados de Nassau, Suffolk o Westchester que no este amparado por un contrato del Sindicato, el Empleador estara obligado a y debera reconocer al Sindicato como el unico representante de los Empleados en el contrato colectivo y las partes negociaran los terminos y las condiciones aplicables a ese garaje teniendo debidamente en cuenta las difer-encias de las condiciones economicas y comerciales de la ubi-cacion geografica del garaje.
(c)	En caso de que el Empleador empiece a poseer, operar o dirigir la operation de un estacionamiento amparado por un contrato
LQSmE M RLE ADAS^DElG AR A JEmRE UL0>CAU2Z2
puede, a election del Empleador, quedar exento de los terminos del presente contrato.
Dentro de catorce (14) dias de una solicitud escrita, el Empleador debera entregar al Sindicato una lista de todos sus servicios de estacionamiento, nombres, direcciones, numeros de seguro social, clasi-ficaciones de empleo y niveles de sueldo de sus Empleados y cualquier otra information que pueda ser razonablemente necesaria para hacer cumplir el contrato y resolver desacuerdos.
ARTICULO V
La Seguridad Sindical
El Empleador concede al Sindicato el maximo de seguridad sindical (pero no menos que el “taller gremial”) permisible bajo las leyes aplic-ables. Esto estara sujeto a la certification que pueda exigirse en con-formidad con las leyes aplicables.
En el caso de que el Empleador asuma la direction de otro garaje o estacionamiento que en ese moment© tenga vigente un contrato con el Sindicato que estipule niveles de sueldo mas altos o mejores condi-ciones de cualquier clase para los Empleados amparados por ese contrato, tanto de ese contrato se debera incorporado al presente contrato para ese otro garaje o estacionamiento por la duration de aquel contrato o este, segun cual sea mas largo.
Todos los Empleados actuales amparados por el presente contrato que son miembros del Sindicato, como condition de la continuation del empleo, deberan mantenerse en buena condition como miembro del Sindicato. A todos los Empleados actuales que no son miembros del Sindicato se les exigira, como condition de la continuation del empleo, que se inscriban y se mantengan inscritos en buena condition al Sindicato a partir del trigesimo (30-) dia de celebrar el presente contrato o de la fecha de entrada en vigor o de la fecha en que comiencen a ser empleados, segun cual sea la ultima. A todos los Empleados contratados despues se les exigira, como condition de la continuation del empleo, que se inscriban al Sindicato a partir del trigesimo dia de su contratacion y que se mantengan inscritos en
to tenga el negocio.
Si el Empleador actua como administrador de un propietario o arren-datario de un Servicio de Estacionamiento, el Empleador tendra la responsabilidad de un director en lo que respecta a todps los sueldos, vacaciones, dias libres y contribuciones a los Fondos de Pension y de Bienestar que se deban pagar a los Empleados o por ellos durante el periodo en que el Empleador actuo como administrador, y tambien se aplicaran todos los terminos y condiciones del presente contrato.
El Empleador no celebrara contratos individuals con ninguno de los Empleados que estan sujetos a la jurisdiction del Sindicato.
ARTlCULO IV
Reconocimiento del Sindicato
I Cada Empleador reconoce al Sindicato como el representante iinico y exclusive de todos los Empleados del Empleador en el contrato colectivo.
B Los Empleados de los cuales se reconoce el Sindicato como representante exclusive en el contrato colectivo son los gerentes y supervise res, los lavadores, los encargados de piso, los transportistas, los cajeros y todas las demas personas que lleven a cabo ahora o en el future una de las funciones de las clasificaciones de empleo que se definen mas adelante en el presente contrato.
I Las personas que desempenan funciones excluidas, cuando trasladen a o desempenen una (1) o mas de las funciones incluidas en las clasificaciones de empleo, sea a media jornada o jornada completa, deberan considerarse Empleados, excepto cuando dicho traslado se realice como resultado de una emergencia.
I Cada persona que de ahora en adelante desempehe una funcion incluida en las clasificaciones de empleo en cada sitio, incluyendo los directores o socios de la corporation, sera un Empleado amparado por las disposiciones del presente contrato, excepto que cada Empleador, sea un individuo, una sociedad o una corporation, tendra derecho a un (1) director o socio gerente del dicho Empleador que
-.LOS-EMRLEADOS.DE..GARAJE..DEL.LOCAI-27.2.
1
ARTiCULO III
Las Partes
El presente contrato se aplicara y obligara a la Asociacion, los Empleadores, el Sindicato, los Empleados y sus respectivos suce-sores, representantes legales y cesionarios. Ninguna disposition u obligation sera afectada, modificada, alterada, dificultada o cambiada de ninguna manera por cambio alguno en el estado legal, la propiedad o la administration del Empleador o su empresa, ni por cambio alguno, sea geografico o de otro tipo, que se realice en los sitios donde los Empleadores llevan a cabo sus intereses comerciales.
El presente contrato se aplicara y obligara al Empleador con respec-to a todos los Empleados de (a) todos los garajes de estacionamiento que el Empleador posee, administra y/u opera, ahora o en el future, en los municipios de Maniatan y el Bronx, con exception de los garajes que estan sujetos a un contrato colectivo con otra organization sindical que el Local 272; (b) todos los garajes de estacionamiento que el Empleador posee, administra y/u opera a partir de la fecha de entrada en vigor del presente contrato en los municipios de Brooklyn, Queens y Staten Island, y los condados de Nassau, Suffolk y Westchester, con exception de los garajes que estan sujetos a un contrato colectivo con otra organization sindical que el Local 272; y (c) cualquier sitio de estacionamiento combinado (en que coexisten un garaje y un estacionamiento al aire libre) en los municipios de Maniatan y el Bronx donde el Local 272 puede convertirse en el rep-resentante exclusive en los contratos colectivos. A todo lo anterior-mente mencionado se referira en el presente contrato como “Servicios de Estacionamiento”.
Si el Empleador vendiera, traspasara o se deshiciera de algun otro modo de su negocio o hiciera que se uniera a o se fusionara con otra persona, firma o empresa, el contrato por el cual se efectuare dicho venta, traspaso, enajenacion, fusion o consolidation debera estipular que la persona, firma o empresa que administre el negocio despues debera asumir, a partir de la fecha en que entre en vigencia el cierre en conformidad con dicho contrato, todos los terminos y condiciones del presente contrato que habran de cumplir en adelante y debera mantener en sus puestos a todos los Empleados que en ese momen-
LCiOjN.TiR'AlTLOACiOjfaELeiTihViOj
presents contrato (las “Clasificaciones de Empleo Excluidas”) (a menos que dichas clasificaciones de empleo excluidas ya esten abarcado en un contrato que el Empleador haya cele-brado con otro sindicato), las partes deberan reunirse dentro de cuarenta y ocho (48) horas despues de la entrega en manos propias de una notificacion escrita de la Asociacion al Sindicato en la que se comunique su intention de invocar las disposiciones del presente contrato. Si dentro de las cuarenta y ocho (48) horas las partes no pueden acordar modificaciones al presente contrato, cuaiquier Empleador puede (i) poner en vigor cualesquier Condiciones Mas Favorables y/o (ii) quedara liberado de la obligacion de aplicar el presente contrato a las Condiciones de Empleo Excluidas.
(b)	El termino “Otro Empleador” no incluira ninguna instalacion o sitio establecido despues del 6 de marzo de 1995 en los municipios de Brooklyn, Queens o Staten Island.
(c)	En el caso de que la Asociacion no haga valer los derechos estip-ulados en este parrafo, si intencionadamente o por descuido, no constituira una renuncia al derecho de la Asociacion a exigir la aplicacion del mismo en otras ocasiones.
(d)	Las disposiciones del presente parrafo estan expresamente suje-tas a las disposiciones de arbitraje que se estipulan en el Articulo XX del presente contrato, excepto que no se aplicaran las restricciones de procedimiento o de tiempo estipuladas en el Articulo XX.
(e)	El Sindicato consiente en archivar con la Asociacion una copia de cada contrato colectivo que celebre con Otro Empleador dentro de treinta (30) dias despues de firmar el mismo. Ninguna disposition del presente contrato impedira que la Asociacion exija al Sindicato que le entregue una copia autenti-ca del dicho contrato.
IL.O.S^.EMRLEAD.O.S^RE^GARAJE,DEULO.CAL.2.Z2
bro de un Empleador que antes no lo fuera, en cuyo caso el nuevo miembro tendra los derechos y privilegios y estara sujeto a los termi-nos y condiciones del presente contrato. Esto no servira para reducir los sueldos o las condiciones de trabajo de sus Empleados si en ese momento disfrutan de un nivel de sueldo mas alto o condiciones de trabajo mejores. El Empleador notificara al Sindicato dentro de trein-ta (30) dias (o tan pronto como se entere) antes a la fecha en que se produzca un cambio en la propiedad, direction o operation de un estacionamiento que dicho Empleador poseia, dirigia o operaba.
En el caso de que un Empleador deje de ser miembro de la Asociacion por renuncia, expulsion o cualquier otra causa, su respon-sabilidad en conformidad con el presente contrato continuara, no obstante, hasta la expiration del mismo. Ademas, la Asociacion notificara al Sindicato por escrito dentro de veinticuatro (24) horas de la renuncia, suspension o expulsion del Empleador miembro.
Cada unidad o empresa que posee, administra o opera un estacionamiento como parte de un servicio compuesto de multiples partes controlado o dirigido por la misma persona o grupo de accionistas del que un miembro de la Asociacion es integrante o sera en el futuro estara sujeto a los terminos del presente contrato.
(a) A partir de la fecha de entrada en vigencia del presente contrato, si, desde el punto de vista de la Asociacion y/o cualquier Empleador, el Sindicato, ya sea directamente o indirectamente, oralmente o por escrito, celebra un contrato o acuerdo con cualquier otro Empleador que administra (o asociacion de empleadores cuyos miembros administran) estacionamientos en (x) el municipio de Manhattan y/o (y) con respecto a los otros cuatro (4) municipios de la Ciudad de Nueva York, dentro de un radio de seis (6) cuadras del Empleador (ese otro empleador o asociacion de empleadores se llamara Otro Empleador) que:
(i)	concede al Otro Empleador un nivel de sueldos, contribuciones, beneficios, horas, condiciones de trabajo u otros terminos o condiciones de empleo mas favorables que los estip-ulados en el presente contrato (a todo lo que antecede se Inara referencia mas adelante a veces como “Condiciones Mas Favorables ’); y/o
(ii)	no incluye todas las clasificaciones de empleo que abarca el
kCJOiNtT^RAilkOMGiO^ELCjliijMiQi
ARTICULO I
Autorizacion
La Asociacion garantiza y representa que esta debidamente autoriza-da a celebrar el presente Contrato en nombre propio y en el de todos sus miembros que han autorizado a la Asociacion a representarlos en el contrato colectivo con el Sindicato con respecto al estacionamiento, cuya representation abarcara otros estacionamientos (como definido en el Articulo III, Section 2) poseido, operado o administra-do como parte de un servicio compuesto de multiples partes de las que el miembro es integrante (a los que en el presente contrato se Haman colectivamente o individualmente como el “Empleador” o los “Empleadores”) y el Sindicato garantiza y representa que esta debidamente autorizado a ceiebrar el piesente Contrato en nombre propio y en el de todos los empleados por los cuales es el agente exclusive reconocido en el contrato colectivo (aqui llamados el “Empleado” o los “Empleados”), que el Empleador contrate ahora tanto como en el future.
ARTICULO II
La Representation del Empleador
En el presente Contrato se reconoce a la Asociacion signataria como el unico representante de los Empleadores en el contrato colectivo.
Simultaneamente al ejecutar el presente contrato, la Asociacion entregara al Sindicato una lista de los Empleadores y la mantendra al memento.
La Asociacion notificara por escrito al Sindicato y a los Fondos de Pension y Bienestar del Sindicato Local 272 tan pronto como se entere de un cambio de propiedad, direction o operation de un estacionamiento que anteriormente poseyera, administrara o operara un Empleador del que tenga conocimiento de la admision como miem-
LLQS^EMgLEADAS^DE^GARAJE^.DELLOCAL272
EL PRESENTE CONTRATO esta celebrado a partir de las 12:00 por la manana el 6 de marzo de 2004, entre el METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION, INC., indicado en lo sucesivo como “la Asociaci6n”, una parte en esto en nombre suyo tanto como en nombre de sus miembros, y el GARAGE EMPLOYEES UNION LOCAL NO. 272, afiliado a la FRATERNIDAD INTERNACIONAL DE LOS TEAMSTERS, AFL-CIO, indicado en lo sucesivo como “el Sindicato.”
TESTIMONIO:
CONSIDERANDO QUE la antedicha Asociacion consta de varias personas, empresas y corporaciones que tienen, poseen u operan estacionamientos como definido aqui; y
CONSIDERANDO QUE el Sindicato es el agente de contrato colectivo por los empleados de tales estacionamientos;
POR LO TANTO, en consideracion a los terminos, condiciones y disposiciones mutuos estipulados aqui, las partes del mismo consienten por la presente en lo siguiente;
R AilAjOtifeCtJDL l^EiCt&Ij I jMiOjte
z
Indice
ARTICULO I	Autorizacion ....................................... 3
ARTICULO II	La Representation del Empleador......................3
ARTICULO ill	Las Partes...........................................6
ARTICULO IV	Reconocimiento del Sindicato........................ 7
ARTICULO V	La Seguridad Sindical............................... 7
ARTICULO VI	Protection y Seguridad ............................ 11
ARTICULO Vil	Sala de Contratacidn .............................. 12
ARTICULO VIII	Antigiledad ....................................... 14
ARTICULO IX	Servicio Militar................................... 14
ARTiCULO X	Obligation de Comparecer Como Jurado .............. 15
ARTICULO XI	Representantes Sindicales y Acciones No Autorizados.. 16
ARTICULO XII	Seguridad de los Empleados..........................16
ARTICULO XIII	Descuentos de Cuotas Sindicales y DRIVE de los
Teamsters ........................................20
ARTICULO XIV	Sueldos ............................................22
ARTICULO XV	Horario de Trabjo y Horas Extras ...................24
ARTICULO XVI	Vacaciones y Dias de Beneficios ................... 25
ARTICULO XVII	Gasification de Empleo y Obligaciones..............29
ARTICULO XVIII	Protection de los Derechos y Huelgas y Prohibiciones 30
ARTICULO XIX	Disciplina ........................................ 31
ARTICULO XX	Procedimientos de Quejas y Arbitraje................32
ARTICULO XXI	Beneficios de Salud ................................34
ARTICULO XXII	Plan de Jubilationes y Pensiones ..................36
ARTICULO XXIII	Derechos de la Administration .....................38
ARTICULO XXIV	Disposiciones Generales............................39
ARTICULO XXV	Clausula de No Discrimination .....................40
articulo XXVI	Duration...........................................41
APENDICE A.....................................................   43
SINDICATO DE
EMPLEADOS
DE SERVICIOS DE
ESTACIONAMIENTO
LOCAL
Y ASOCIACION
METROPOLITAN A