CONTRACT BETWEEN
CWA
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO
and THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY
July 1 , 2003—June 30, 2007
Professional Unit
PROFESSIONAL UNIT AGREEMENT TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE	PAGENOh
Preamble........................................... J
Recogn it ion o f R ights and De finit ions ....... I
A. Recognition of Union and Unit .................. I
EL Management Rights .............................. 2
C.	Definitions ..................,................ 2
D.	Special Circumstances................,......... 4
E.	Use nf Intermiftents........................... 4
Policy Agreements ................................. 4
A. Non-Discrimination ............................. 4
B Dues Deduction and Membership Information ....... 4
C.	Policy Agreements, Strikes and Lockouts ....... 7
D.	Administration of Agreement ................... 3
Department of Personnel Rules ..................... 8
Grievance Procedure ...............................	8
Discipline ........................................ 15
Compensation Plan and Program ..................... 20
A. Special Salary Program July I, 2003 to June 30,2007..	20
B,	Clothing Maintenance Allowance................. 21
C,	Deferred Compensation Plan .................... 22
D.	Special Training ............................ 22
E.	Salary' Program Administration ................ 22
F.	Bonus Payment for Second and Third Shift ........	23
G.	Salary Adjustment for Nurses and Teachers/lnstmctors. 24 l-l. Cooperative Effort ........................... 24
Position Reclassification and Reevaluation Reviews ....	24
Flours and Overtime ............................... 25
A.	Hours of Work ................................. 25
B.	Rest and Lunch Period ......................... 25
C.	Overtime ...................................... •.	25
D.	Policy on Lateness ............................ 2"
E.	Other Benefits ................................... 28.
F.	Policy on Unexcused Absence ;.................. 28
G,	Teachers (10 mo. and 12	mo) ................... 28
Compensatory Time Balances ........................ 28
Anniversary Dates ................................. 29
Out-of-Title Work ...................... .......... 29
Promotion ......................................... 2^
PREAMBLE
This Agreement made between the State ofNew Jersey, hereinafter referred to as the "State" and the Communications Workers of America hereinafter referred to as the "Union" covering employees in the Professional Unit, has as its purpose the improvement and promotion of harmonious employee relations between the State and its employees represented by the Union, the establishment of equitable and peaceful procedures for the amicable resolution of all disputes and grievances, and the determination of the wages, hours of work and other terms and conditions of employment.
Now, therefore, in consideration of the mutual promises of this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION OF RIGHTS AND DEFINITIONS
A, Recognition of Union and Unit
1.	The State by the Office ot Emp loyee Rc latlons in the G oven luj S O fficc hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for collective negotiations for wages, hours of work and other terms and conditions of employment for all its employees in the statewide Professional Unit. The State will not negotiate with nor grant rights afforded under terms or provisions of this Agreement to any other employee organization in connection with the employees in this unit.
2,	a. Included are all full-time permanent, career service, unclassified and provisional employees and all permanent full-time tun (10) month employees (career service, unclassified and provisionals) and permanent part-time employees (career service, unclassified and provisionals) who are employed a min imum of twenty (20) hours per week lot forty (40) hour fixed workweek tides and seventeen and one-half (.17-1/2) hours per week for thirty-five (25) hour fixed workweek titles, and who are included in the classifications listed in Appendix 1 and Intermittent employees whose titles are listed in Appendix - and who meet the hourly requirements as put forward in Appendix 2.
b. Whenever new classifications of employees are created, the State shall assign to such classification a unit designation, if appropriate. The State will notify the Union in writing of such designation to or elimination of title from this negotiations tin it thirty (3 0) days prior to the effective date of amend I tig s uch listing. If requested in writing, the State will discuss any such designation with the Union. In the event the parties cannot reach agreement following such discussions, the dispute may only be submitted to the Public Employment Relations Commission for resolution consistent with its rules and regulations.
c> If the State determines that an employee in u position currently represented by the Union is performing confidential duties as defined by Section 3 of the New Jersey Employer-Employee Relations Act (EERA), the Stale will notify the Union and provide the Union with the basis upon which it maintains that the employee is confidential
[f the Union objects to the designation of an employee as confidential
prior to the removal of the employee from the unit, OER and the Union will meet to review the basis for the confidential designation. If after such review the Union continues to object, the. employee may be removed from the unit as a confidential. The Union may pursue its objection in an appropriate forum.
3.	Excluded are:
a.	Managerial Executives
b,	Supervisors
c.	Confidential employees
d.	Policemen
e.	Craft employees
L Non-profess ional employees
g Classifications designated within other recognized and appropriate units
h.	Classifications within the State Colleges and Universities except those in the State Col Ie ge/Uni versify System, which are included.
i.	All other employees of the State of New Jersey.
j.	AH Intermittent employees not performing professional work, and Intermittent employees performing professional work who do not meet the hourly requirements set forth in Appendix 2.
B. Management Rights
I.	The State, its several Departments and subordinate functions retain and may exercise al I rights, powers, duties, authority and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in them by the laws and constitutions ofthe State ofNew Jersey and of the United States of America.
2.	Except as specifically abridged, limited or modified by the terms of th is Agreement between the State and the Union, al! such rights, powers, authority, prerogatives of management and responsibility to promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the conduct and the activities of employees are retained by the State.
C, Definitions
1.	All references to employees in this Agreement designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is used, it shall be construed to include male and female employees.
2.	The term "holiday" means any day so designated under Article 17 or a day specifically designated as such by the Governor.
3.	The term "work unit1' refers to a group of employees whose activities are closely related and whose conditions of work are governed by a single element of managerial activity. Employees may simultaneously be assigned to more than one (1) work unit in order to accommodate a variety of Working conditions.
4.	"Organization Unit" is an institution or a functional activity of one of the departments of State government as from time to time may be designated by the State. Each employee will br informed by his appropriate departmental authorities of the work unit and organizational unit in which he is employed.
5.	An unfair practice is any action of either party so defined in Amendments to Chapter 303, Laws of 1968.
2
6.	Career service employee - an employee serving in the classified service which is all offices and positions which are operating under the provisions of Title 11 A, Department ofPersonncl, ofthe Revised Statutes except those offices and positions which are included in the unclassified service by law or Merit System Board determination.
7.	Unclassified employee - any employee serving In the unclassified service which is any function of government not subject to the provisions of Department of Personnel Law and the regulations promulgated there under,
8.	Provisional employee - one who has been appointed to a permanent position pending the regular appointment of an eligible person from a special reemployment, regular reemployment or employment list
9.	lob specification ■ a document which defines and describes representative duties and responsibilities and sets forth rhe minimum qualifications essential to the performance ofthe work ofthe class titles and such other information as may be necessary,
10.	Position description ■ a document containing the duties and responsibilities assigned to a position within a class title,
11.	Reevaluation - the study of an existing job title to determine if there have been changes in duties and responsibilities sufficient to justify an increase or decrease in salary range. While the salary range may he increased or decreased as a result ofthe study, the job title normally remains the same.
12.	Reclassification ■ reclassification means the change of an individual position from one class title to a different class title in the same division of the career service.
13.	Desk audit - the study ofthe duties and responsibilities of a position within a class title through an interview with the incumbent and/or a supervisor ofthe incumbent.
14.	lhNL" (no limit) employee - an employee who is not in a fixed workweek job classification as prescribed in the State Compensation Plan,
15.	Permanent part-time employee ■ means an emplnycc whose regular hours of duty are less than the regular and normal workweek as indicated in the Compensation Plan for that class title or agency but are at least twenty (20) bows per week in a 40 hour fixed workweek title or seventeen and one-half (17_l) hours per week in a 35 hour fixed workweek title, and whose services are required without interruption for a period of more than six (6) months or for recurring periods aggregating more than six (6) months in any twelve (12) month period. Employees in this category may be career service, permanent or provisional, or unclassified, depending upon title and status of appointment.
16.	NE (non-exempt, no limit) employee - Employees who work at least a 35-hour workweek with occasional requirements for a longer workweek to complete projects or assignments. These employees are covered by the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, which mandates time and one hall' (pay or compensatory time ofi) for hours in a week worked over -10 hours.
17.	The designation 1‘Intermittent1' shall be used for those career service titles where work responsibilities are characterized by unpredictable work
3
schedules and which do not meet the normal criteria for regular, year-round, fulltime or part-time assignments/
O< Special Circumstances
]. Employees who are within the classifications included in this unit but appointed under the CE.TA Program or other comparably funded employment programs, are considered to be subject to all provisions of this Agreement as provisional employees except that the Federal legislation and regulations concerning this program and any agreement between the State and any local government prime sponsor which is involved shall be in effect and modify the provisions ofthis Agreement which would otherwise be operable,
2,	Any grievance as to whether or not the provisions of the Agreement conflict with Federal legislation or regulations or any agreement with a local government prime sponsor shall be considered to be governed under B.l ,b. of the Grievance Procedure or if relating to any matter within Paragraph E, Section 6., of the Grievance Procedure, (hen directly to the Department of Personnel.
E. The Use trf Intermittent^, Hourly, Special Services, Per Diem and TES employees
During the first two (2) years of the contract, the State agrees to work jointly with CW A to convert part-time, intermittent, hourly; special services, per diem and TES employees under positions to permanent full-time positions where there is a demonstrated need for full-time positions. Conversions will occur on an on-going basis as the parties identify appropriate positions for conversions.
ARTICLE 2
POLICY AGREEMENTS
A- Non-Discrimination
The Stale and the Union agree there shall not be any discrimination as to race, creed, color, national origin, nationality, ancestry, age, sex, familial status, marital status, affcctional or sexual orientation, atypical hereditary cellular or blood trait, genetic information, liability for military' Irvine, and mental or physical disability, including perceived disability and AIDS and HIV status, political affiliation or union membership, or legal union activity permitted herein B, Due* Deduction and Membership Information
1.	Dues Deduction
a.	The Stale agrees io deduct from the regular paycheck of any employee dikes of the Union provided the employee submits an authorization for dues deductions in writing and in proper form to the responsible payroll clerk. On receipt of the form, (he payroll clerk shall forward it within two (2) working days to the centralized payroll section, Department of the Treasury. Dues deduction will be reflected in the paycheck for the current pay period, provided the form is received in centralized payroll at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the end of the pay period otherwise to be reflected in the next pay period. If violations of these time frames are brought to the attention of the State, the State will review the matter and make best efforts to solve the problem within two (2) pay periods,
b.	Dues deductions for any employee in this negotiating unit shall be
4
limited to the Union. Employees shall be eligible to withdraw such authorisation only as of July 1 of each year provided the notice of withdrawal is filed after May-15 timely with the responsible payroll cleric Unless an employee withdraws authorization for the deduction of Union dues, the Stale will continue to deduct dues. The movement of an employee from one title to another title and/or from one unit io another unit will not affect dues deduction, unless the new title or unit is not represented by the Union.
c.	Dues so deducted by ihe State shall be transmitted to the Secretary /Treasurer of ihe Union together with a listing of the employers included.
d.	The Union shall certify- to the State the amount of Union dues and shall notify the Stale of any change in dues structure thirty (Id) days in advance ofthe requested date of such change. The change shall be reflected in payroll deduction at the earliest time after receipt of the request.
e.	Whenever an employee's dues deduction is discontinued. the Union shall be provided with ihe State's reason fbr ihe discontinuation on a quarterly basis.
2.	Representation Fee (Agency Shop)
a.	Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraphs below, all eligible nonmember employees in this unit will be required lo pay a majority representative a representation fee in lieu of dues for services rendered by the majority representative. Nothing herein shall be deemed tn require any employee to become a member of ihe majority representative.
It is understood that the implementation and/or continuation ofthe agency fee program is predicated on the demonstration by ihe Union that more than 50% ofthe eligible employees m the negotiating unit arc dues paying members ofthe Union.
On January 1 of each year, an assessment shall be made to determine iflhc minimum percentage has been exceeded, I fit has. the agency fee shall continue until the following annual assessment. If it has not, the agency fee will be discontinued and eligibility for reinstatement shall be an a quarterly basis as provided below.
If the agency fee is discontinued, an assessment shall be made on each quarterly date; i.e., January I, April 1, July I or October I. to determine if the minimum percentage is exceeded, if the tninimam percentage is exceeded the agency fee plan shall be reinstated, with proper notice to affected employees.
b.	Amount of Fee
Prior to the beginning of each contract year, ihe Union will notify' (he State in writing ofthe amount of regular membership dues, initiation fees and assessments charged by the Union to its own members for that contract year, and the amount of the representation ter for that contract year. Any changes in the representation fee structure during ihe contract year shah be in accordance with B.l.d. above.
The representation foe in lieu of dues shall be in an amount equivalent to the regular membership dues, initiation fees and assessments charged by the
5
majority representative to its own members less the cost of benefits financed through the duesT fees and assessments and available to or benefiting only its members, but in no event shall such fee exceed 85% of the regular membership dues, fees and assessments.
c.	Deduction and Transmission of Fee
After verification by the State that an employee must pay the representation fee, the State will deduct the fee for al! eligible employees in accordance with this Article.
The mechanics of the deduction of representation fees and the transmission of such fees to the Union will, as nearly as possible, be the same as those used for the deduction and transmission of regular membership dues to the Union.
The State shall deduct the representation fee as soon as possible after the tenth day following reentry into this unit for employees who previously served in a position identified as excluded or confidential, for individuals reemployed in this unit from a reemployment fist, for employees rewrnjng from leave without pay. and for previous employee members who become eligible for the representation fee because ofnon-member status.
The State shall deduct the representation fee from a new employee as soon as possible after thirty (30) days from the beginning date of employment in a position in this unit.
d.	Demand and Return System
The representation fee in lieu of dues only shall be available to the Union if the procedures hereafter are maintained by the Union.
The burden of proof under tins system is on the Union.
The Union shall return any part of the representation fee paid by the employee which represents the employee's additional pro rata share of expenditures by the Union that is either in aid of activities or causes of a partisan political or ideological nature only incidentally related to the terms and conditions of employment or applied toward the cost of other benefits available only to members of the majority representative.
The employee shall be entitled to a review of the amount of the representation fee by requesting the Union to substantiate the amount charged for the representation fee. This review shall be in conformance with the internal steps and procedures established by the Union.
The Union shall submit a copy of the Union review system to the Office of Employee Relations. The deduction of the representation foe shall be available only if the Union establishes and maintains this review system.
If the employee is dissatisfied with the Union’s decision, he may appeal to a three-member board established by the Governor.
e.	State Held Harmless
The Union hereby agrees that it will indemnify and hold the State harmless from any claims, actions or proceedings brought by any employee in the negotiations unit which arises from an agreement to deduct made by the State in accordance with this provision. 'Neither the State nor the employee shall be
6
responsible for any back payment ofthe representation fee for any cause upon the entry or reentry ofthe employee into the Union from an excluded position or another unit. The term excluded position shall include but not be limited to confidential managerial and exempted positions.
If violations of any time frame 'occur regarding representation fee deduction, and they are brought to the attention of the Slate, the State shall review the matter and solve the problem on a prospective basis.
f.	Legal Requirements
Provisions in this clause are further conditioned upon ah other requirements set by statute.
3.	Membership Information
a.	The State agrees to provide to the designated representative of the Union on a semi-annual basis a complete up-to-date listing of all employees covered by this Agreement together with their addresses and job titles as they appear on the records ofthe State. Such list shall also include the ceded payroll location and dues deduction status of each employee. The Union shall disclose such information only to its officials and representatives whose duties require access to such information.
b.	The State will provide the Union with the following information on computer tape or disk provided by the Union: (1) employee's name, (2) address, (3 j social security number, (4) check distribution number, (5) payroll number, (6) dues or agency shop fee amount, (7) negotiations unit, (8) sex, (9) title, (10) anniversary dale, (11) range, salary step and pay period, and (12) Location code and current key,
4,	Effective October 2003, employee paychecks will separately identify' Union dues and representation foes.
C.	Policy Agreements, Strikes and Lockouts
1.	During the term of this Agreement, the Union agrees not to engage in or support any strike, work stoppage, slowdown, or other similar action by employees covered by this Agreement.
2.	No lockout of employees shall be instituted or supported by the State during the term of this Agreement.
3.	The Union recognizes its responsibility as exclusive collective negotiations agent and agrees to represent all employees in the unit without discrimination.
4.	These agreements are not intended to limit the freedom of speech or demonstration of the Union or its members.
5.	It is agreed that the State and the Union shall refrain from the commitment of any unfair practice and it is further agreed that the requirements of negotiability as set forth in Chapter 303, Laws of 1968 and as amended, shall guide the conduct of the parties during the terms of this Agreement.
6.	The State and the Union agree that the working environment shall be characterized by mutual respect for the common dignity to which all individuals are entiti ed. It is agreed that verbal and/or physical harassment of an employee is inappropriate.
D.	Administration of Agreement
I.	A committee consisting of State and Union representatives may meet for the purpose of reviewing the administration ofthe Agreement and to discuss problems, which may arise there from,
2.	Said committee meetings shall be scheduled some time during the second week of March, June, September and December. For the purpose of this Agreement, these meetings are not intended to bypass the grievance procedure nor to be considered collective negotiation meetings but rather are intended as a means of fostering good and sound employment relations through communications between the parties.
3.	Eitherparty may request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of | topics to be discussed seven (7) days prior to such meeting,
4.	A maximum of five (5) employee representatives ofthe Union, exclusive of Union staff or Attorney representative, may attend such quarterly meeting and, i if held during regular work hours, they shall be granted time to attend without loss of pay.
5.	Status of Pending Department of Personnel Matters
During the meeting the Union may in addition present up to four (4) j specific matters of particular importance pending before the Department of Personnel which the State will investigate and respond to the Union with regard to the current status o f such pen ding matters. S ueb response wi 11 he made with in a reasonable period of time,
ARTICLES
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL RULES
The administrative and procedural provisions and controls o f Merit System Law and the Rules and R.egu lations promulgated there under, are to be observed in die administration of this Agreement, except and to the extent that this Agreement pertains to subjects not there In contained or where this Agreement is contrary to, or in conflict with such provisions and controls. Where the terms of ,• this Agreement specifically indicate an understanding contrary to, or in conflict • with any such prov isions and c o ntrols, the parti cs agree, i f necessary under law, to jointly seek modification or amendment of the particular rule or statute to be then consistent with the terms of the Agreement by appeal to the Merit System Board or the Legislature Nothing herein shall be construed to deny any • individual employee his rights under Merit System Law or Regulations
ARTICLE 4
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A, Purpose
The purpose of thi s procedure is to resolve grievances and to assure prompt : and equitable solutions of problems arising from rhe administration of the Agreement, or other conditions of employment by providing the exclusive vehicle set forth in this article for the settlement of grievances. An employee Is entitled to use this grievance procedure and to be represented by the Union upon
• 8
his or her request in ac cordance with the prov i si u ns o f ch is Article, An emp ioyee shall not be coerced, intimidated or suffer any reprisal as a direct or indirect, result of such use.
B, Definitions
1.	A “Grievance” is:
a.	A claimed breach, misinterpretation or improper application ofthe terms of this Agreement; or
b.	A chimed violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of rules or regulations, existing policies, orders, letters of memoranda or agreement, administrative decisions, or laws, applicable to the agency or department which employs the grievant which establish terms and conditions of employment and which are not included in (a) above; or
2.	Union Stewards and Representatives;
a.	A ‘‘steward" is an employee ofthe State serving as the designated union representative in the grievance district pursuant to Article 25 Section D.l,
b.	An “executive board member” is an employee of die SLate, who sits on the executive board of a local Union. An executive board member will have all the privileges of a steward and may represent any employee, regardless ofthe employee's negotiations unit. Time off for an executive board member is governed by Section D.l of this article. The Union and the State will mutually designate the grievance district(s) within the jurisdiction of an executive board member.
c.	A “union staff represents!] ve” is a person i n the active emp ley o f the Union and not the Stare.
d.	The term “designated union representative/ as used in this Article and throughout the Agreement, refers to a steward, executive board member or a union staff representative.
3.	Resource Person:
A resource person is an individual who is not a witness and who has particular expertise as to the subject matter ofthe grievance and shall be treated in accordance with the time off procedure below;
C. Grievance Steps and Time Frames
L General
a.	A grievance must be filed initially within thirty (30) days from any date on which die act which is the subject of the grievance occurred or thirty (30) days from the date on which the grievant should reasonably have known of its occurrence Ail references to days in this Article are calendar days.
b.	Time limits under this Article may be modified by mutual agreement and consent to extend time limits will not be unreasonably withheld.
c.	Any employee may orally present and discuss a complaint with his or her immediate supervisor on an informal basis.
d.	Contractual grievances shall only be processed through representatives designated by the Union.
e.	During the Step One and Step Two process the grievant may be represented by a steward or other representative designated by the Union Ont
person shall act as a spokesperson for the grievant and one person shall act as the spokesperson for management.
C. Should the grievant elect to process a non-contractual grievance without Union representation, he or she shall so indicate on the grievance. The Union shall he sent a copy of the grievance upon receipt of the grievance by rhe personnel office of the appointing authority, A steward or other representative designated by the Union will be notified of and permitted to attend ail noncontractual grievance meetings or hearings.
g. The Union shall be given a copy of the final disposition of all grievances. A copy of the decision of the State at each step shall be provided to the grievant and die Union representative involved.
2.	Step One
a.	In die event the matter is not resolved informally, the grievant or the Union may submit the grievance in writing to the office or individual designated by the department.
b.	A grievance meeting shall be scheduled within ten (10) days of the filing of the grievance unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
c.	A written decision will be rendered by management within ten (10) days of the grievance meeting.
3.	Step Two
a.	If the grievant or the Union is not satisfied with the Step One disposition, the grievance may be appealed to the Department Head or designee. The appeal shall be accompanied by the decision at the preceding levels and any written record from the earlier proceeding. The appeal must be filed within ten (10) days from receipt of the step one decision or sixty (60) days after the step one decision was due.
h.	The Union will specify whether the step two proceeding will be a meeting or a hearing. If the Union requests a hearing, a hearing officer appointed by management will preside. Both parties will be permitted to introduce testimony and exhibits. Either party may make a verbatim record of the hearing. The party making the record will bear the expense. However, if both parties want a copy of the transcript, the cost of the transcript and the reporter shall be shared equally between the parlies.
c.	The Step Two meeting or hearing will be scheduled within ten (10) days of the receipt of the appeal of the Step One decision. A written decision will be rendered by management within twenty (20) days of the grievance meeting or hearing.
4.	Step Three - Arbitration
a.	in the event that the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved at Step Two, and the grievance involves an alleged violation of the Agreement as described in the definition of a grievance in B. 1 .a above, then arbitration may be brought only by the Union, through its designee within thirty (3(1) calendar days from the day (he Union received the Step Two decision or from the date on which the Step Two decision was due, by mailing a written request for arbitration to the Public Employment Relations Commission and sending a copy to the Office of
10
Employee Relations. In the event the Union deems it necessary Lc use an additional period beyond the thirty (30) days provided herein the time to appeal may be extended by the Union to not more than twenty (20) additional calendar days. Should the U nion u sc any of these addi Lienal days, it is understoo d that the time used in computing the extent of the State's liability shall not exceed twenty (20) days from the day the Union received the Step Two decision or from the date on which the Step Two decision was due. If mutually agreed, a prearbitration conference may be scheduled to frame the issue or issues. All communications concerning appeals and decisions at this Step shall be made in writing. The request for arbitration shall contain the names ofthe departmentor agency and employee involved, a copy ofthe grievance form and the Step Two decision, if available.
b.	Within thirty (30) days of the execution of this Agreement, the parties shall mutually agree upon a panel of not less than five (5) arbitrators. Each member of the panel shall serve in turn as the sole arbitrator for a given case. Where a member of the panel is unable to serve, the next member in sequence shall then serve. In the event the parties are unable tn agree upon a panel of arbitrators within thirty (30) days, arbitrators shal I be selected on a case-by-case basis under the selection procedure ofthe Public Employment Relations Commission until such time as the parties agree upon a panel.
c.	The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing to determine the facts and render a decision in writing to the parties. The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify the provisions of this Agreement or laws of the Statu, or any written policy of the Stare or subdivision thereof not inconsistent with this Agreement, or to determine any dispute involving the exeicisc of a management function which is within the authority of the State as set forth in Article I.C., Management Rights, and shall confine bis decision solely to the interpretation and application of this Agreement. He shall confine himself fo the precise i.ssue submitted for arbitration and shah have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted to him, nor shall he submit observations or declaration of opinions which are not essential In reaching the determination. The decision or award ofthe arbitrator shall be final and binding consistent with applicable law and this Agreement. In no event shall the same question or issue be the subject of arbitration more than once. The arbitrator may prescribe an appropriate back pay remedy when he finds a violation of this Agreement, provided such remedy is permitted by [aw and is consistent with the terms of this Agreement. Any remedy ordered by ait arbitrator will not have retroactive affect beyond thirty (30) days from the date the grievance was filed, except that payroll errors and related matters shall be corrected to the date of error. The feus and expenses of the arbitrator shal I be d ivi ded equal iy between the parties. Any other cost of this proceeding including the cost of recording shall be borne by the parly incurring rhe cost,
d.	The arbitrator shall hold the hearing at a time and place convenient to the parties within thirty (30) calendar days of his acceptance to act as arbitrator and shall issue his decision witinn thirty (30) days after the close of
the hearing. In the event a d isagreement exists’ regard ing the arb itrab i lity of an issue, the arbitrator shall make a preliminary determination as to whether the issue is arbitrable under the express terms of this Agreement. Once a determination is made that such a dispute is arbitrable, the arbitrator shall then proceed to determine the merits of the dispute,
e.	Whenever a grievance which is to be resolved at Step Three, Arbitration, is based on a provision of (his Agreement in which the power or authority of the arbitrator is specifically limited to an advisory award, that limit shall be observed and all the provisions of paragraphs b, c and d above shall be operable except that the award and opinion shall be advisory and not binding on the parties. However, absent a particular exception the provisions of the grievance procedure above shall be operable.
f.	Representatives of the Governor's Office of Employee Relations and the Union will meet bi-monthly to resolve grievances that are appealed to arbiuaUun Lwal union representatives and department representatives may participate in the meetings.
D. Union Rights
1* Time Off
This section does not apply to disciplinary arbitrations.
a.	When a grievance has been formally submitted in writing and the Union represents the grievant, and where the Union Steward requires time to investigate such grievance to achieve an understanding of the specific work, problem during working hours, (he Steward will be granted permission and reasonable time, to a I imit of two (2) hours, to investigate w hhout loss o f pay. It is understood that the supervisor shall schedule such time release, providing the work responsibilities of the Steward and of any involved employee are adequately covered, and providing further there is no disruption of work. Such time release shall not be unreasonably withheld. Where a Union Steward serves a mutually agreed upon grievance district encompassing two (2) or more geographically separate work locations, and where (he circumstances require it, a supervisor may authorize a maximum of four (4) hours for any appropriate investigation of grievances. Such time release shall not be construed to Include preparation of paperwork record keeping conferences among Union Officials nor preparation for presentation at a grievance hearing or meeting.
b.	An employee and higher designated representative will be granted time off without loss of pay to attend step one meetings, step two meetings or hearings and arbitration hearings and tn travel to and from such meetings and hearings.
c.	If a meeting or hearing extends beyond the employee's normal working hours, compensatory time equal to the additional time spent at the meeting or hearing will be granted, but will not be considered time worked for the computation of overtime.
d.	A reasonable number of witnesses and resource persons employed by the State will be granted time off without Joss of pay to attend step one meetings, step two meetings or hearings and arbitration hearings and to travel to
12
and from such meetings and hearings.
Information
a.	The State will upon request, make available to the Union information in its possession to which the Union is entitled, to proper lyrepresent die grievant Management shall provide the requested information within seven (7) days from receipt of the request, but no later than 72 hours prior io the meeting or hearing.
b.	The Union, upon request, wit] make available to the State requested information and documents In Its possession necessary for management to respond to the grievance.
c.	The parties shall make a good faith effort to informally resolve disputes, which arise as to information requests. However, If the parties arc unable to agree upon the nature of the information to be provided, a dispute may be subm itted to the (J ER for teso lution. If after sub mission to 0 ER. the disp ate is not resolved, the parties may seek resolution ofthe dispute in an administrative or judicial forum or through arbitration,
3,	Group Grievances
a.	Where a grievance affects more than one employee, rhe Union may file a group grievance at the first level of supervision common io the affected employees.
b.	Where a group grievance affects employees in two or more departments, the Union may submit the grievance directly to the Governor’s Office of Employee Relations. The grievance will be processed as a step two grievance.
c.	Where individual grievances concerning the same matter are tiled by several grievant®, it sliall be the option of the State to consolidate such grievances for hearing as a group grievance provided the lime limitations expressed elsewhere herein are understood to remain unaffected and the union shall be notified of this action.
4.	By-passing Steps
A grievance may be Initiated at or moved to any step of the procedure without hearing at a lower step by mutual agreement of the parties. Consent to skip steps ofthe grievance procedure will not be withheld unreasonably.
5.	The Right to Amend
The Union may undertake to amend the grievance during the initial step at which such grievance is filed. By mutual agreement the Union may amend the grievance up to Step 2. It is understood that such amendment is only for the purpose of clarification and shall not be utilized to change the nature of the grievance otto include additional issues.
E. General Procedures
I.	The lack of response by management within the prescribed time periods, unless time limits have been extended by mutual agreement, should he construed as a negative response.
2.	If, at any step in the grievance procedure, the State’s decision is not appealed within the appropriate prescribed time, such grievance will be considered closed and there shall be no further appeal or review.
1 "3
3,	A reasonable number of resource people ihall be allowed to attend a grievance meeting or hearing. The parties will schedule resource people to minimize the impact on operations. At the meeting or hearing the Union will present its side of the grievance through the grievant, witnesses and resource people. Management will then proceed to present its responses to the Union’s presentation
4,	The Union shall be given a copy of the final disposition of all grievances. A copy of the decision of the State at each step shall be provided to rhe grievant and to the Union representative involved.
5,	Grievance resolutions or decisions at Steps One and Two shall not constitute a precedent in any arbitration or other proceeding unless a specific agreement to that effect is made in writing by the Office of Employee Relations and the authorized representative of the Union,
6.	U nless spec ifical ly provided for elsewhere in th is Agreement where the grievance involves an alleged violation of individual rights specified in the Merit System’s law and rules for which a specific appeal to the Department of Personnel is available, the individual must present his complaint to the Department of Personnel directly, provided however, where allegations of violations of other employee rights which derive from this Agreement occur, it is intended that the provisions of this grievance procedure are to be utilized.
7.	A cl aim of impro per and unjust di scipl ine against an emp loyec shall be processed in accordance with Article 5 of this Agreement.
8.	The inclusion of or reference by name or title or otherwise in this Agreement to laws, rules, regulations formal policies or orders of the State, shali not be construed as bringing any allegation concerning the interpretation or application of such matters within the scope of arbitrability as set forth in this Agreement,
9.	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as compelling the Union co submit a grievance to arbitration or to represent an employee before the Merit System Board. The Union’s decision to request the movement of any contractual grievance al any step or to terminate the grievance at any step shall be final as to the interests of the grievant and the Union.
10.	A “B.l.b,” grievance may be processed through step two of the grievance procedure, but may not be submitted to arbitration.
II.	When an employee formally elects to undertake the resolution of a contractual grievance through any available procedure established by an agency of proper authority outside of those provided herein, such election shall constitute an absolute waiver of the option to appeal the grievance to arbitration unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
12.	If a gr ievance is appealed to the second step and the Department Head or designee determines that a resolution of the grievance is not within the authority of the department, rhe grievance will be forwarded to the Governor's Office of Employee Relations for disposition in accordance with Step Two of this procedure. If the grievance involved a non-contractual matter as defined in B.l.b. the decision of OER shah be final.
13.	All grievances must be submitted on the atLached grlevance form. The form must be completely filled out by the grievant and/or Union, In the event that a grievance form is unavailable the grievance will be in writing and set forth the following information; (a) the names, titles and department of affected employees: (h) the date of occurrence; (c) a brief description of what gave rise to the grievance; and (d) the remedy sought. Grievance forms will tie made available at all work sites covered by this Agreement.
14.	The State and the union agree that appeals to arbitration that are not scheduled for hearing within eighteen (18) months after a Step Two decision is rendered will be considered withdrawn unless the parties mutually agree to extend the matter.
ARTICLE 5
DISCIPLINE
(The parties will conduct quarterly meetings ro review and adjust any problems that arise under this Article. The parties agree that rhe continuation «r this article will be reevaluated upon the expiration of this agreement June 30. 2007. This proposal is contingent on The enactment nf appropriate legislation and/or regulations necessary'to implement this proposal), A. All terms of this Article apply to permanent career service employees. Intermittent employees will be covered by die terms of this Article when they enter the permanent career service. All Terms of this Article also apply to unclassified employees with a minimum of four (4) years of State service. Provisional employees, and unclassified employees with less than four (4) years of State service, will be covered hy Section J.
B.	Discipline of an employee shall be imposed only Ibr just cause. Discipline under this Article means official written reprimand, fine, suspension without pay, reduction in grade ordismissal fromservice. Dismissal from service or redaction in grade based upon a layoff or other operational judgment of the State shall not be construed to be discipline.
C.	Disciplinary action may he initiated for any of the reasons sped lied in the Merit System Board Rules or for any circumstance amounting to suflicient cause. D. The burden of proof in disciplinary procedures shall be upon the Stale, except as otherwise provided in Section J for provisional and unclassified employees with less than lour (4) years of Stale service.
E.	This Article is the exclusive procedure for the processing ol' disciplinary actions for employees covered by this agreement.. All references to "days1' in this Article arc to calendar days.
F- General Procedures
I.	All references to ''days’' in this Article art to calendar days.’
2.	Where an appointing authority or his designee imposes or intends to impose discipline, a preliminary notice of discipline shall be given to the employee. This preliminary notice of discipline shall contain (a) charges; (b) specification(.s) alleging the general description ofthe alleged acts and/or conduct upon which the charge is based; and (cl the penalty to be impmed.
14
3.	A copy of the preliminary notice of discipline shall be mailed to or served upon the local Union office at the same time that it is mailed to nr served upon the employee.
4.	The employee or die employee’s designated union representative may request a departmental review within fourteen (14} days of receipt by the employee of a preliminary notice of discipline.
5.	At the request of either the appointing authority or the Union the departmental review shall be conducted as a hearing. If a hearing is not requested, the review will be conducted as a meeting. The employer representative will contact the Union within seven (7) day's of Che request for departmental review to mutually schedule a date and time for the review to be conducted within twenty (20) days after the request fbr review. If the parties are unable to agree upon a mutually convenient date within the twenty (20) day period, the Department shall go forward and schedule the review, unless the parries agree to extend the twenty (20) day period.
6,	If a hearing is held, the department or agency will appoint a hearing officer who will render his/her decision within twenty (20) days of the hearing.
7,	The employee may be represented by a steward, executive board member or other designated Union representative at the meeting/hearing. However, only one (I) person shall serve as lite spokesperson for the employee and one (1) person shall serve as spokesperson for the State.
3	Management and the Union are encouraged to resolve disputes overtiic proposed'disciplinary action at the meirting/hearing.
9	. Management will simultaneously serve the local Union and the employee with the final notice of discipline within twenty (20) days of the meeting or the issuance of the hearing officer1 s d ecision. The fina I notice w ill set forth the charges, and the penalty to be imposed.
G. Procedures fur Minor Discipline
1.	Ail permanent career service employees and unclassified and provisional employees and intermittent employees may elect to utilize this provision.
2.	Official written reprimands shall not be appealable beyond the departmental hearing.
3.	There is hereby established, a Joint Union/Managemetrt Panel consisting of two (2) individuals selected by the State and two (2) individuals selected by the Uniun and a third party neutral mutually selected by the parties. The purpose of this panel is to review appeals from Departmental determinations of disciplinary suspensions of one (!) through five (5) days, and fines of up to five (5) days pay.
4.	When a Department or Agency Head or designee issues a decision upholding the disciplinary action of die Department, the employee then has twenty (20) calendar days after the receipt of such decision to elect to appeal the decision to the Joint UnioiVManagement Panel. If the employee elects to appeal, then the employee, through the Union, shall mail the notice of appeal io the Office of Employee Relations with a copy to the Department or Agency Head or designee Involved. Included with the notice of appeal shall be two (2) copies of
16
the decision and I wo (2) copies of any other documents, which have been made part of the record.
5.	The panel shali meet once each month provided there are at least eight (8) cases to be considered. If, in any month there is no meeting because there are fewer than eight (8) cases on the agenda, there will be a meeting the following month if there are any cases to be heard. The parties may mutually agree to schedule additional meetings if necessary. The agenda of each monthly meeting shall consist ofallcasesas to which the Union has requested panel consideration provided that the notification Is received at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the scheduled date of the panel meeting.
6.	The pane! considerations shall be based upon the De partmem nr Agency Head or designee's decision and any documents that have been made a parr of the record. The State and Union panel members shall discuss each case on the . agenda and with the assistance of the neutral panel member, attempt to jointly resolve the appeal. Where the State and Union panel members agree, the appeal shall be dismissed or upheld, nr the involved penalty may be modified. Where the State and Union panel members do not agree as to the disposition of die appeal, the neutral panel member will determine whether the case raises issues, which may warrant submission to arbitration. In tlie event the neutral determines that the case does nnl raise issues, which may warrant submission to arbitration, such determination shall be final and the case closed.
7.	The neutral sha! I maintain a written rec urd of the d imposition o f each case. which shall be signed by each panel member, Unless mutually agreed to the contrary, the written disposition of each case shah be made at the panel meeting al which it is considered, and a copy shall be provided to tach panel member.
8.	in the event the neutral determines that a case raises issues which may warrant submission to arbitration, the Union may elect to appeal to disciplinary arbitration as provided herein. Tbc neutral panel member may not serve as the arbitrator for any matter which has been submitted io the panel.
9.	The fees of the neutral panel member shall be shared equally by the parties.
10.	Only minor disciplinary cases determined by the neutral panel member to warrant submission to arbitration, may be appealed 1o arbitration.
FL Arbitration
1.	’Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the final notice of discipline or the JUMP determination as set forth in G. 10, the Unkin may appeal the discipl In ary matter to arb i Lrati on by subm String a wr Itten req uc st. fo r arb t (ration to the G overnor1 s Office o f Emp loyee R.e lations.
2.	Arbitration hearings will be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth iti Article 4, except as otherwise provided in lb Is Article.
3.	The arbitrator shal I d etermi nc whether d ist ip I ine was im posed tbr j ust cause, and if so whether the penalty is appropriate. If the arbitrator determines thaidiscipline was imposed without; ust cause, the arbitrator shall have the power to (a) reinstate the employee to his or her position, (b) award back pay and (c) restore all seniority the employee would have earned had the employee not been
1'?
improperly disciplined	|
4.	The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding.	.t
5.	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between | the parties. Either part)' may make a verbatim record through a certified i transcriber. Such record is to he made at the requesting party's expense, f However, if bath parties want a copy of the transcript, the cost of the transcript .E and the reporter shall be shared equally between the parties. Any other cost of j. this proceeding shall be borne by the party incurring the cost.	f
6.	Within thirty (30) days of the execution of this Agreement, the parties | shall mutually agree upon a panel of not less than five (5) disciplinary arbitrators. I Each member of the panel shall serve in turn as the sole arbitrator for a given J case. Where a member of the panel is unable to serve, the next member in | sequence shall then serve. Ln the event the parties are unable to agree upon a I panel of arbitrators within thirty (30) days, arbitrators shall be selected, on a case- I by-case basis under the selection procedure of the Public Employment Relations V Commission until such time as the parties agree upon a panel. The disciplinary | arbitrator shall hold a hearing at a place convenient to the parties as soon as t possible after the request for arbitration but not later than sixty (60) days after the f arbitrator accepts the case.	*
I.	information	|
1,	The Slate will upon request, make available to the Union information in | its possession to which the Union is entitled, to properly represent the employee, f Management shall provide the requested information within seven (7) days from f. receipt of the request, but no later than 72 hours prior to the meeting or hearing. j
2,	TTie parties shall make a good faith effort lo informally resolve disputes, ; which arise as to information requests. However, if the parties are unable to
agree upon die nature of the information to be provided, a dispute may be submitted to the OE.R. for resolution, if after submission to OER the dispute is not resolved, the parties may seek resolution of the dispute in an administrative or judicial forum or through arbitration.
J,	Discipline Procedures for Provisional Employees and Unclassified Employees with Less Than Four Years of Service
I.	The following is the disciplinary appeal procedure for unclassified


employees not covered by a statutory discipline procedure who have more than j six (6) months but less than four (4) years of consecutive State service and I
provisional employees who have been employed in such capacity for a tnitiimum r of six (6) months.	I
a.	At her or his request, the employee may be represented by a
Steward, or a non-State employee representative of the Union.	|
b.	Employees who are subject to discipline, other than dismissal ftom f service, as' detailed below, are entitled to utilize the provisions of this Article j through the departmental/agency review level, the decision at which shall be •' final. The burden of proof in such procedures shall be an the employee. t
c.	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as limiting the State from I exercising its inherent discretion to dismiss employees covered by this section i
who serve at the pleasure of the department or agency head, without stating rhe reasons for the dismissal.
i.	In tire event an employee is dismissed without receiving specific written reasons the State will provide the employee with ten (10) calendar days1 advance notice. Employees dismissed for reasons other than misconduct are not entitled to use the provisions of this Article through the departmental review level.
ii.	In the event an employee is dismissed due to misconduct,
the State will servo the employee with the specific written reasons relating to the misconduct. The employee may request and will he granted a review by the department/agency head or her or his designee, whose decision shall be final Time limits in F.4 shall apply. Nothing in Section c Ji shall be construed as limiting the State from immediately dismissing an employee. In cases of immediate dismissal the employee will be given <he written reasons and right to departmental review noted above.
d.	The following types of dismissal are not covered by this Section:
i.	Dismissal due to job performance.
ii.	Dismissal due to the certification of a Department of Personnel eligible list; and
in. Dismissal due to fiscal problems or programmatic changes pursuant to Article 29.
2.	Grievances concerning the interpretation of this Section shall be processed in accordance with Article 4 as noncontractual (B. I .b) grievances. K. Disciplinary Investigations
if an employee reasonably believes he or she may be disciplined, he-she may request Union representation. The employee has the right to be accompanied by his/her Union representative during an investigatory interview. The Union representative has the right to provide advice and counsel to rhe employee.
L. Time Off
1.	An employee and his/her designated union representative will be granted time off without loss of pay to attend departmental review meeting or hearing and arbitration hearing and to travel to and from such meetings and hearings.
2.	If a meeting or hearing extends beyond the employee's normal working hours, compensatory time equal to the additional time spent at rhe meeting nr hearing will be granted, but will nut be considered time worked for the computation of overtime.
3.	A reasonable number of witnesses employed by the State will be granted time with pay to attend departmental review meetings and hearings, arbitration hearings and to travel to and from such meetings and hearings, M. General Provisions
1.	a. An employee may be suspended immediately and prior to a hearing where it is determined that the employee is unfit for duty or is a hazard to any person if permitted to remain on the job, or that an immediate suspension is necessary to maintain the health, safety, order or effective direction of public
19
18
■
services.
b.	An employee may be suspended immediately when the employee is formally charged with a crime of the first, second or third degree or a crime of the fourth degree on the job or directly related to the job.	f
c.	Where a suspension is immediate under (a) or (b) above, and is » without pay, the employee must first be apprised either orally or in writing, of i. why an immediate suspension is sought, the charges and general evidence in support of the charges and provided with sufficient opportunity to review the >' charges and the evidence in order to respond to the charges before a	)
representative ofthe appointing authority. The employee may be represented by	'
an authorized union representative.	I
2.	Where criminal charges are initiated, the right of the employee to ; representation by his attorney shall not be denied.
3.	An employee shall not be served with a disciplinary notice more r than one (1) year after the date on which the person filing the disciplinary L notice obtained sufficient information to file the matter upon which the nutic® , is based, except for those acts which would constitute a crime.	>
4,	Nothing in this Article or Agreement shall be construed to limit the | right ofthe State to implement any disciplinary action notwithstanding the | pendency of any grievance.	I
5,	When a final determination of innocence is rendered through a I decision arising out of a Departmental hearing, or discipline arbitration hearing, | the employee initially disciplined shall not be recharged with discipline, on £ matters arising out ofthe same facts that the initial discipline was based upon, f
6,	At Departmental hearings either party may make a verbatim record |' through a certified shorthand reporter. Such record is to be made at the expense ofthe party who requests the reporter. However, if both patties want a copy of • (he transcript, the cost ofthe transcript and the reporter shall be shared equally.
i
ARTICLE 6	>
COM PENSATION PLAN AND PROGRAM
A* Special Salary Program July 1,2003 to June 30,2007	; •
ItisagrcedthatdunngthetermofthisAgreementfortheperiDdDfJuly), 2003 - June 30,2007, the following salary and fringe benefit improvements shall be provided to eligible employees in the unit within the applicable policies and : practices ofthe State and in keeping with the conditions set forth herein. J
Subject to the State Legislature enacting appropriations of funds for these I specific purposes, the State agrees to provide the following benefits effective at | foe time stated here or, if later, within a reasonable time after enactment of the f appropriation.	|
I.	a. July I, 2004, each employee covered by this agreement shall be t entitled to a two and nine tenths (2.9%) percent across-the-board increase applied * to the employee’s current base salary.	|
b July I, 2005, each employee covered by this agreement shall be | entitled lo a two (2%) percent across-the-board increase applied to the |
20	i
I
employee's current base salary.
c.	January 1,2006, each employee covered by this agreement shall be entitled to a two (2%) percent across-the-board increase applied to the employee’s current base salary.
d.	July 1, 2006, each employee covered by this agreement shall be entitled to a two and twenty-five hundredths (2.25%) percent across-the-board increase applied to the employee1 s current base salary.
e.	January 1,2007, each employee covered by this agreement shall be entitled to a two and thirty-five hundredths (2.35%) percent across-the-board increase applied to rhe employee's current base salary
2.	a. For ten (10) month employees, the foregoing increases that are effective July I of 2004,2005, and 2006 for twelve (12) month employees shall • be applied to foe base salary of ten (10) month emp loyees e ffectivc September 1. 2004, September 1,2005, and September 1,2006. -
b. For ten (10) month employees, the foregoing increases foal are effective on or about January 1,2006, and January 1,2007 for twelve (12) month employees shall be applied io the base salary of ten. (10) month employees on or about February I, 2006, and February 1,2007
3.	The State Compensation Flan salary schedule shall be adjusted in •accordance with established procedures to incorporate the increases set forth in 1. and 2. above for each step of each salary range. Each employee shall receive ihe increase by remaining at the step in the range occupied prior to the adjustments.
4.	Normal increments shall be paid to all employees eligible for such increments within the policies ofthe State Compensation Plan during Ihe term of this Contract.
5.	Employees who have been at the eighth step of the same range for 1 Si months or longer shall be e I Igib Ie for movement to foe ninth step prov Id i ng thei r performance warrants this salary adjustment.
s 6. Effective July 1,2006, employees who have been at the ninth step offoe same range for 24 months or longer shall be eligible for movement to foe tenth step providing their performance warrants this salary adjustment.
6, Clothing Maintenance Allowance
t.	The clothing maintenance allowance shall be paid to all those full-time employees serving in titles in which the employees are required to wear special clothing or a uniform and which title received a cash clothing allowance in fiscal year 2002-2003 and ta all titles listed in Side Letter #3.
2.	a. Each full-time employee who while serving in a covered title under the conditions described in B. 1. above, and who Will have completed one (I) full year of service on or before July I, 2003, or on or before July 1 of any subsequent year, shall receive an annual cash clothing maintenance allowance of S550 in FY04, S6Q0 in FY 05, 5625 in FY’06, and $650 in FY'07.
b. Each eligible full-time employee who will have completed six (6) months of service on or before July 1, 2003 or on or before July 1 of any subsequent year shall receive an annual cash clothing maintenance allowance of .$275 in FY04, $300 in FY’05, $312.50 In FY'06 and $325 in FY’07.
3.	Permanent part-time employees in a 40 hour workweek title who are J regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) or more hours per week, and permanent ; f. part-time employees in a 35 hour workweek title who are regularly scheduled to *. work seventeen and one-half (17.5) or more hours per week, who are included in	r
the classifications listed in Appendix II and who meet the service and eligibility requirements set forth above will receive one-half (1/2) of the normal clothing allowance. One foil year of service for employees in ten (10) month titles means ten (10) months of service between July 1 and July 30.	?
4.	Leaves of absence without pay or suspension up to thirty (30) days . : duration shall not affect the cl igibi lity requirements as to one (I) year of service. In order to be eligible w receive this payment, the employee must be oh the payroll as of the date of payment
5.	It is understood between the parties that the dollar amount of the £ clothing maintenance allowance applicable to eligible unit employees shall be a I subject for re-negotiation for the contract that succeed* this Agreement 1. terminating June 30, 2007.	1-
C.	Deferred Curapensaiion Plats	I
It is understood that the State shall continue the program which will I-permit eligible employees in this negotiating unit to voluntarily authorize 1 deferment of a portion of their earned base salary so that the funds deferred can ? be placed in an Internal Revenue Service approved Federal Income Tax exempt 1 investment plan. The deferred income so invested and the interest or other income return on the investment arc intended to be exempt from current Federal j Income Taxation until the individual employee withdraws or otherwise receives ' such funds as provided in the plan document.	•
Ji is understood that the State shall be solely responsible for the administration of-thc plan and the determination of policies, conditions and . regulations governing its implementation and use.	• ;
The State shall provide literature describing the plan as well as a required >• enrollment or other forms to all employees when the plan has been established.
Il is further understood that the maximum amount of deferrable income / under this plan shall be up to the amount allowable by law.
D.	Special Training
The State will join with the Union to provide a special training program, I which will be available to employees in the Administrative and Clerical Services J Unit. The formulation and content of the special training program shall be * decided by mutual agreement between the Offi ce of E mployee Re lations and the j Union.	|
E.	Salary Program Administration	1
The parties acknowledge the ex istence and continuation during the term of | th is Agreement of the Stale Compensation P Ian, which incorporates in particular, f but without specific limit, the following basic concepts;	j
I,	A system of position classifications with appropriate position | descriptions. Copies of current position descriptions will be made available to the | Union,	|
22	1
r
2-	A salary range with specific minimum and maximum rates and intermediate merit incremental steps therein for each position.
3	Regulations governing the administration of the plan including the Performance Assessment Review System.
4.	The parties agree to comply with the pro visions of N J.S.A 11A: 3-7.
5.	No employee covered by this Agreement shall sutler a reduction in rate of pay as a result of a reduction of salary range for the job in which he is employed and any such change in salary range shall be negotiated with the Union prior to implementation. This is not intended to reduce the right of appeal of any individual.
F.	Bonus Payment for Second and Third Shift
I,	There shall be a bonus payment of $24(1 in December of fiscal years 2Q04 and 2005 to al! full-time employees who worked at least one hundred arid ninety-five (195) shifts on either the second (2nd) and/or the third (3rd) shift, (which are commonly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shift), for the eligibility period ot’twelve (12) months preceding die December payment, (November J through October 31), There shall be a bonus paymentof $160 In December of fiscal year 2006 to all full time employees who worked at least one hundred and thirty (130) shifts on either the second (2nd) and/or third (3rd) shift, (which are commonly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shl ft), for the eligibi I ity period o f eight (&) month s preceding the December payment, (November-1, 2004 through June 30,2005),
2.	Full-time employees who are in positions that require rotation of ■shifts and who work rotating shifts during the eligibility period (November 1 through October 31), one hundred seventy (170) of which are on the second (2rtd) and third (3rd) shifts, (which are commonly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shift), shall also be eligible to receive December bonus payment of $240 in December of fiscal year 2004-2005, Fulltime employees who are in positions that require rotation of shifts and who work rotating shifts during the eligibility-period of (November 1.2004 through June 30; 2005), one hundred thirteen (113) shifts of which are on (he second (2nd) and third .(3rd) shifts, (which are commonly known as the afternoon or evening shill and the night or midnight shift), shall also be eligible to receive a bonus payment of $160 In December of fiscal year 2006, This is an exception w paragraph a. above.
3.	Paid leave time is considered to be lime worked for eligibility far this payment.
4.	Employees must be in pay status on the date of payment in order to receive this payment. When an employee returns to pay status, he or she shall receive payment.
5.	Permanent part-time employees who wrork at.least halftime and who meet the eligibility requirements set forth above and work a 5 day week and work at feast 195 shifts during rhe above period will receive a pro rata share for fiscal years 2004 and 2005. Permanent. part-timE employees who work at least half time and who meet the eligibility requirements set forth above during the period
23
of N ovember 1 s 2004 through June 3 0,2005, and work a 5 day week and work at | least 13 0 sh ifts wi 11 rece ive a pro rata share Tor fiscal year 2006.	1
6,	Effective July 1/2005, the shift bonus forthe second (2nd) and third <• (3rd) shifts which are commonly known as the afternoon or evening shift and the night or midnight shift will be $,25 per hour in Heu of the present shift bonus, set forth in 1-5.
G, Salary Adjustme nt for N u rses a nd Teaehe rs/! nstructors
The two-range increase negotiated in the 1989/92 contract for Nurses and Classroom Teachetsdnstructors and the two-range increase negotiated in the 1992/1995 contract for teachers who supervise other teachers shall continue In effect under this contract.	1
H. Ciwperative Effort
The parties to the Agreement understand that the public services provided to the citizenry of the State of New Jersey require a continuing cooperative effort ; f particularly during this period of severe fiscal constraints. They hereby pledge £ themselves to achieve the highest level of service by jointly endorsing a concept of intensive	productivity improvement,	which may assist in realizing that <
objective.	;
ARTICLE	7	:•
POSITION RECLASSIFICATION AND REEVALUATION REVIEWS
A.	Reclassification	1
Employees in the negotiation unit may initiate requests for position i reclassification in accordance with the applicable Merit System Rules and 1 Regulations and in keeping with the conditions and procedures established by the ; Department of Personnel. A request for reclassification shall be acted upon and a = determination rendered within one (I) year of the submission of such requests, unless the time period may be extended by mutual agreement.	; •
B.	Reevaluatiun	J.
The Union may request the reevaluation of a job classification in accordance with applicable Merit System Rules and Regulations, on the basis of job content change only. The State wi 11 review such a request and will reevaluate the job classification, provide an opportunity for the Union to present its views, and present its position to the Union as provided in the Merit System Rules and Regulations, in writing if requested.
C.	Implementation
Implementation of any changes resulting from reclassification or •. reevaluailon shall be made consistent with norma! procedures and the avallab ility
of funds.	■
ARTICLE S
HOURS AND OVERTIM E
A.	Hours of Work
L The number of hours in the workweek for each Job classification within the unit shall be consistent with its present designation in the State Compensation .
Plan.
2,	Hours of work for "NT'1 employees maybe adjusted by the re sponsible agency official in keeping with existing regulations and procedures.
3.	Where practicable the normal workweek shall consist of five (5) consecutive workdays.
4.	For fixed workweek employees, when schedule changes are made the maximum possible notice, which shall nut be less than seven (7) working days except-for unforeseen circumstances, shall be given to the affected employee.
5.	For fixed workweek employees, when such employees'shift is changed, adequate advance notice which normally will be at least seven (7) working days acid which shall not be less than seventy-two (72) hours, except in the case ofaji emergency, will he given tu the affected employee.
B.	Rest and Lunch Period
I.	The work schedule shall provide for a fifteen (15) minute rest period during each one-half (1.2) shift.
'	2. For the purpose of this provision a shift shall constitute the employee's
normally scheduled workday. For example, an employee working from 9 a m. to 5 p.m. will be entitled to a rest period in the forenoon and in the afternoon as determined by the appointing authority.
.3. The normal schedule shall include a provision for an unpaid lunch period during the mid-portion ofthe workday. There shall be a minimum of one-half (1/2) hour provided for the lunch period. This is not intended to suggest that existing lunch periods of longer than one-half (1/2) hour must be changed.
G, Overtime
1, The State will not change hours of work to avoid paying overtime.
2.	Employees covered by this Agreement will be compensated at the rate erf time and. one-half (1/2) forth? overtime hours accrued in excess ofthe normal hours of the established workweek. These compensation credits shall be taken In ■Compensatory time or in cash at the discretion of management. Employees may request compensation credits in compensatory time or in cash.
3.	When a work shift extends from one (I) day to the next it is considered f& be cm the day in which the larger portion of the hours are scheduled and all •hours ofthe scheduled shift are considered to be an that day.
4.	A!I holiday hours and hours of leave not worked for which an employee is-compensated shall be regarded as hours worked for the computation ’ of overtime in the workweek.
5.	Hours worked on a holiday are not considered hours worked for the .computation of regular overtime in the workweek but shall be compensated at time and one-half (1/2) in addition to the holiday credit.
6.	"Scheduled overtime" means overtime assigned prior to the day on which it is to be worked. Ordinarily scheduled overtime is planned and assigned in advance.
7.	''Mon-scheduled overtime" means assigned overtime made on the day on which h is io be worked.
B.	"Incidental overtime11 is a period of assigned non-scheduled overtime
.
■
24
25
work of less, than fifteen (15) minutes.
9	Overtime shall be scheduled and distributedby seniority on a rotational basis by occupational classifications within each functional work unit without discrimination provided it does not impair operations. Employees within their functional work unit who are qualified and capable of performing the work without additional training shall be called upon to perform such overtime work. To the extent that it is practical and reasonable to foresee, the State shall give the employee as much advance notice as possible relative to the scheduling of overtime work. The State shall not ordinarily assign more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours of work.
10.	It is agreed that overtime work shall be shared by all employees in an occupational classification within any work unit without discrimination. The opportunity to work overtime shall be extended to each employee on a rotational basis provided the employee is capable of performing the work.
11.	Each employee is expected to br available for a reasonable amount of overtime work. An employee who refuses an overtime or on-call assignment with a reasonable excuse will not be subjected to disciplinary action. The assignment of "on-cal!1' or "stand-by" time shall be equitably distributed among the employees concerned.
12.	a. On a semi-annual basis commencing with the implementation ofthis provision, the distribution of overtime shall be evaluated and assignments of overtime made thereafter shall reflect the approximate equalization of overtime for each employee in the work unit by job classification.
b For the purpose of determining approximate equalization of overtime, any overtime assignment offered, whether worked or not worked will be considered as if it were worked.
c. To the extent that a disproportionate distribution of overtime exists because of special ability or inability to perform the work assignments, those hours will not be considered in the semi-annual equalization. This provision will not be abused.
13	. A list showing the rotational order and the overtime call status of each employee and a record of the total overtime worked and refused by each employee shall be maintained in the work unit Such records shall be made available for inspection on request to Union officers, stewards and employees concerned.
14.	The State will give advance notice of all scheduled overtime to each employee concerned Such scheduled overtime will be assigned minimally in units of one (1) hour and in hourly or half hourly increments thereafter when such overtime is to be performed contiguous to the employee's scheduled work shift. When overtime is scheduled not contiguous to the employee's work shift, it will be assigned minimally in units of two (2) hours and in hourly or half hourly increments thereafter.
15.	An employee who is assigned non-scheduled overtime in excess of fifteen (15) minutes will be guaranteed a minimum of one (1) hour's work and will be assigned overtime thereafter in one-half (1/2) hour increments. An
26
employee who is called in for tt on-scheduled overtime shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours of compensation whether or not the two (2) hours are 1. worked except when the end ofthe call-in period coincides with the beginning of his regularly scheduled shift.
?	16, Where incidental overtime assignments are made, records of such time
: worked shall be kept and accumulated at straight time in exception of the > provisions of C l. Such accumulations may be scheduled on an hourrfor-hour basis as compensatory time.
17. Cashpaldovertimewillbereflectedinregularbiweeklypayrollehecks. . :\ . The State will make a good faith effort to try to issue cash paid overtime ... payments in biweekly checks which reflect cash paid overtime earned during rhe preceding overtime reporting period.
H Policy on Lateness
1. a. Whenever an employee is delayed in reporting for a scheduled work assignment, he shall endeavor to contact his supervisor in advance, if possible. An employee who has a reasonable excuse and is less than fifteen (15) minutes fate, is not to be reduced in salary1 or denied pit- opportunity to work the balance . v ofjhis scheduled shift and he shall not be disciplined except where there is ' /evidence of repetition or neglect. A record of such lateness shall be maintained * and may be charged against any compensatory time accrual or vacation balances. ? An employee may choose to use either of these balances or alternatively to be . reduced in salary.
b. Lateness beyond the fifteen (15) minute period above shall be treated ■ on a discretionary basis. However, (his provision is not intended to mean that all lateness or each incidence of lateness beyond fifteen. (15) minutes shall incur .disciplinary action or loss of opportunity to completes work shifter reduction of salary.
*	2. Lateness or absence due to weather conditions
\... a. When an employee is unable to get to his assigned work because of weather conditions, his absence may be compensated if he has a sufficient t, compensatory time balance or if none is available a charge may be made against • « : vacation balance or administrative leave balance if requested by the employee.
; Such absence will alternatively be without pay.
'.	b. Employees late for duty due to delays caused by weather conditions
‘Ahd who made a reasonable effort to report on time may be given credit for such > fate time at the discretion of the appointing authority.
k' 3. When an employee is late for work due to dependent care problems, ihe v employee and (he SupervisotZManager at the employee's work site will meet to S.by to resolve the lateness problem. The employee will have the right to Union i representation during this meeting. This meeting will be held prior to any disciplinary action being taken against the employee as a result of the lateness. However, once such a meeting is held, the State reserves its right to initiate ; disciplinary action if the employee continues to come in late for work.
| Other Benefits
|. Employees who are required to work beyond their regular quirting time to
the next shift, shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period when the period o
hisiigm4uiui3u»hswti.u'ii»vwi\«-'/"«''“"*wj—— •’—— -1— - f' cons^tute his ano iversary date un less the emp loyee's actual date of h ire co inc ides scheduled work beyond their regular shift exceeds two (2) hours. Suet with the first day of the pay period in which case that pay period shall serve as employees shall also be entitled to meal allowances as provided by th« r ^employees anniversary dale. In the event a personnel action occurs which,
regulations of the State.	-. • pursuant to Merit System Rules and Regulations, would result in a change of the
F. Policy on Vnexcused Absence	: employees anniversary date, the Department of Personnel shall establish the next
Absence without notice and approval for five (5) days or failure to returt f appropriate pay period as the new anniversary date.
from any leave of absence shall be considered a resignation,	: .
G. Teachers (10 and 12 Months)
Where there is a determination to adjust teachers or instructors from a tei £ 0UT-OF-TITLE WORK
(10) month to a twelve (12) month schedule and where there are a number o y A. —	' \	. ______r ._
employees who are fully qualified to perform the work to be assigned, a hardshi] appropriate to and within their job classification.
on the part of any such employee which results from such a schedule change wil ■. g. The practice of regularly assigning out-of-thle work to employees shall be be given consideration. Teachers or instructors who request or volunteer tr- * accept a twelve (12) month schedule shall be given preferential consideration.
ARTICLE 11
The State and the Union agree that employees should be assigned work
£ discontinued. Instances of out-ofi-title work identified by the Union and formally .• brought to the attention of the State shall be corrected immediately or bv phasing qut such assignments at the earliest time which shall in any case be no later than ARTICLES	w-;^tjiree'(3) months from the time of notification by the Union subsequent to
COMPENSATORY TIME BALANCES	® jiliti^itigthe appropriate managerial official. Any dispute as to whether the work
A. When employees accumulate compensatory time balances, the appointir®..^within the job classification of the empioyee(s) involved shall be resolved by authority will provide administrative procedures to assure the employee thatsw^E, Union or employee appeal to the Department of Personnel where the matter will compensatory balances will not be taken away but will be scheduled as time -heard within twenty-one (21) days and a decision rendered within ten (10) or alternatively paid in cash.	B. days of that hearing. Any dispute concerning the phasing out period will be
R. Employee requests for use of compensatory time balances shall be honorc® . resolved through the grievance procedure.
Priorities in honoring requests for use of compensatory time balances will b c». Where out-ofi-title work assignments are made for longer than thirty (3ft)
. ’'resolved through the grievance procedure.
given to employees;	■ * daySi permanent (career service) employees in the work unit from the next lower
I Where an emergency exists;	: promotional title in the series, deemed capable of performing the work, and
2	Where scheduled one(l) month in advance;	t.^ere available, shall be given the opportunity to assume such higher out-uf-title
3	. Where shorter notice of request is made.	wodt in the work unit and shall have the right to refuse such assignments based
Requests for use of such time under 2 and 3 will be honored except wher emergency conditions exist or where the dates requested conflict with holiday <
i j# classification seniority. Where such assignments are readily identifiable
vacation schedules.	.
C, Ordinarily, a maximum of sixty (60) hours of compensatory time may t carried by an employee. Where the balance exceeds sixty (60) hours, til employee and the supervisor will meet to amicably schedule such compensate!
s State, the eligible employees concerned shall be notified and a copy of the i notification shall be given to the Union.
ARTICLE 12
PROMOTION
D.
Promotion qualifications and procedures for permanent career service
tUDe off.	■ ““ “ T ““ "| “ “*•	—....	ww . w. v■ .■ .I..XWI Vtf, VV*. J.-VJ < JW
1 An employee may be required to take compensatory time off io keep ir ^^ptoyees are governed by the Department o f Personnel pursuant to Statute and with the needs within the unit.	. r Rolfe and Regulations promulgated there under.
within the work unit.
2.	An employee may request the use of this compensatory time off whu Promotion means the advancement of an employee to a job classification shall be scheduled with the immediate supervisor in keeping with the neei yfltfthin the unit al a higher salary range.
within the work unit.	'.B, Upon promotion of a permanent employee, all sick leave, administrative
3.	Whenever compensatory time ofl’isto be scheduled, reasonable ad van ^ve and vacation leave balances shall be retained by the employee.
notice for the request or requirement will be given.	Upon promotion, an employee shall be informed of his or her new rate of
notice for the request or requirement will be given.
ARTICLE 1D
ANNI VE RS ARY D ATES
The first full pay period following an employee's original date of hire si
28
£ .-compensation at least one (1) week in advance of the effective date.
i: B, Provisional promotional appointments shall be made only in cases of ;■ emergency or when no complete employment list exists. Where such appointments are made, the Department of Personnel will take the necessary
29
steps to promulgate a list appropriate to the position in keeping with its rules and regulations as soon as possible.
If requested by the Union but not more frequently than quarterly, the Stat« agrees to provide a list of then current provisional appointments.
E. When an employee is given an opportunity on a trial or provisional basis to qualify for promotion by serving in a new classification, his or her permanency it his or her regular permanent j ob classi ficafi on sha! I be continued during such trial or provisional period and he shall have the opportunity to return to such permanent classification in the event the promotional opportunity shall ndl become permanent provided there is no discharge action for cause.	|
ARTICLE B	|
JOB POSTING AND ANNOUNCEMENTS -	CAREER SERVICE	]
A.	Jab Posting	J
1.	To provide promotional opportun ities for employees w ithin a department or organizational unit, existing or planned job vacancies shall be prominently posted within the promotional examination scope established by the Departmenj of Personnel for fourteen (14) days Broader posting may be undertaken by tM department at its option. When provisional promotions are to be made within i work unit employees who meet the minimum qualifications and are capable q performing the work as determined by management, and file pursuant to thrt article shall be given consideration for such appointment. The posting shall include a description of the job, any required qualifications, the location ofthj vacancies, the salary range, the hours of work and the procedures to be followed by employees interested in making application.	J
2,	Copies of each notice posted will be forwarded to the appropriate loca Union office.	r 1
3.	Postings of promotional opportunities for existing or planned jofl vacancies shall be undertaken prior to any notices of such vacancies beid published in newspapers or otherwise advertised outside the negotiations unit.1
4.	Where a provisional or permanent promotion or a reassignment j consummated as a result of the job posting procedure, the appointing authoriq wj 11 post the name o f the individual appo inted on the bulletin board. In the even a provisional promotion is made, the appointing authority will notify tH Department of Personnel of such action so that the Department of Personnel cd activate its process leading to permanent appointment.	J
5.	The Union may inquire as to the status (provisional or permanent) oil position incumbent and such inquiry will be answered by the appointing authorifl involved.	,	]
6,	When there are vacancies available on the day shift, which could be filld through lateral transfers from workers on the evening or night shift, sue! vacancies will be posted so that evening and night shift workers can apply fd such lateral transfers.	’1
B.	Announcements	■
Unless a good reason to the contrary exists, announcements which descriti
30	i
• available educational programs or State scho larshi ps, shall be posted prominently ?: at approximately the same time in order that interested employees may have an ;. equivalent opportunity to be informed and apply for such educational programs and State scholarships. Copies of these items will be sent to the Union.
ARTICLE H
; JOB VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED [ EMPLOYEES
g A, in situations where a vacancy in a specific job classification series arises, r job vacancy announcements should be posted in order to inform unit employees ft serving in appropriate titles of a promotional possibility. Such job vacancy L announcement shall be prominently posted within an organizational scope as h determined by management for five (5) days. The announcement shall include a L description of the job, any required qualifications, the location of the vacancy, the £■ salary range, the hours of work and the procedure to be followed by employees L interested in making an application.
t .BT Copies of each notice posted will be forwarded to the appropriate local [Union office.
f C: It is understood that the job vacancy announcement process described k. above shall not hinder the appointing authority in filling the vacancy at the earliest time and is for informational purposes only.
ARTICLE 15
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL EXAMINATIONS
Employees who are scheduled to lake open competitive examinations for ^ . Ihe position in which the employee is provisional or promotional examinations I? administered by the Department of Personnel of the State of New Jersey for £>. positions in the State service shall be granted time off with pay including k Necessary travel lime to take such examinations if they are scheduled during the L work shift of the employee. Such privileges may not be abused.
t	ARTICLE 16
LPERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM
Effective October 1,2003, the parties agree to imp lenient the fo Rowing prevised system. The parties need to discuss the implementation date of the new ft system and the mechanics of the changeover. In addition, the parties will jointly L petition the Department of Personnel for the appropriate regulations to implement fc^hfcprocedure.
I'.ik A General Provisions
k...	1. The Performance Evaluation System (P£S) will apply to all
B? employees covered by this agreement except those set forth in Section II.
jf 2. At least a mid-year and an annual performance evaluation system ^.meeting will be conducted.
L When there is a change either in job assignment or supervisor during ».the evaluation period, (he old performance plan shall be closed out. The
'	31
employee's performance during the portion ofthe rating period under the okQ performance plan shall be rated and a new performance plan shall be prepared.! The final rating shall be a proration of all ratings received during the review ■ period.
4.	When there is a change in job title during the evaluation period, the former supervisor shall assign a final rating for the former performance plan and title. A performance plan for the new title shall be developed.
5.	The PES will consist of a two (2) tier rating system: satisfactory ofo unsatisfactory. PES ratings will be used as a factor in layoffs in accordance witli ■ Titlel.l A:bl etseq. PES ratings will be factors in promotions. Forpurposes oj promotion a satisfactory rating will be accorded one point and an unsatisfactory ■ will be accorded zero points. Employees whose performance is rated unsatisfactory will not be granted a normal merit increment. Employees who are eligible and whose performance is "satisfactory’' shall be granted a normal merii increment The PES will j iot be used tn lieu of d iscip line. The emp loyee, U n ini)
or State can use the PES in a disciplinary proceeding, as evidence.

6.	It is understood that workload should be a relevant consideration it t determining an employee’s overall performance evaluation.
B. The PES Form
1.	The PES form will contain sections for the employee’s goals an< ’ comments. The form will also contain sections for standards for satisfactory performance.
2.	The PES form may be modified by the Stale upon sixty (60) days
notice to the Union, provided that the modifications do not conflict with th|
provisions of this Article. The Union may submit comments concerning th thereon by the employee, modifications within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the propose^ ;
modifications. Prior to issuing the modified form, the State will conside :
comments timely submitted by the Union.
C. Performance Evaluation System Meeting
1 At least twice a year, with a six (6) month interval between meetings employee’s immediate supervisor.
an immediate supervisor will hold a PES meeting with an employee.	2. A meeting will be held at which the employee may make known
2.	The supervisor will provide the PES form to the employee ten (10 ■ his/her concerns.
days prior to the meeting.	3. An employee or rhe employee’s designated Union representative may
3.	At the mid-year PES meeting, the supervisor and the employee wi >• appeal an unsatisfactory rating to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of discuss the employee’s performance based upon the standards for satisfactoi Article 4.
performance contained on foe PES form prepared the previous mcEtin;	’
Performance expectations may be modified during the mid-year meeting. Th
form will be signed by the supervisor and the employee, and a copy of foe fort ; rime after appointment. The supervisor shall prepare a performance plan when will be immediately provided to the employee. A copy of foe form will be place : *rtew employee is hired that shall identify the iob assignment include the cssenti; in the employee’s personnel file and provided to the employee's supervisor
4.	At foe final PES meeting, foe supervisor and the employee will discus
whether the employee met the previous year’s standards for satisfactoi ? £>OP regulations, and will mutually formulate standards for satisfactory performanc 1. Sections
performance and will mutually formulate standards for satisfactory performani
for the upcoming year.
5.	Following the PES meeting, the supervisor and the employee wt
complete and sign the appropriate section of the PES form and the form will be Immediately provided to the employee. The form will be placed in the employee's personnel file and provided to the employee’s supervisor.
Unsatisfactory Rating
D.
l	.a. Where the performance of an employee is unsatisfactory, the designated supervisor will confer with such employee at least once every three ' (3) months and shall set forth the deficiencies and improvement goals required to achieve a satisfactory level of performance.
b. A record of such conferences shall be made and a copy given to the employee within two (2) weeks ofthe conference.
2.	Where a normal merit increment has not been earned due to an unsatisfactory rating and the performance ofthe employee improves to the point that warrants granting of the normal merit ineremcnL such increment may be granted effective on any payroll period following ninety (90) days from the anniversary dale.
3.	The normal anniversary date of such employee shall not be affected by this action.
4.	Where a norma! merit increment has been denied, the performance ratings concerned with the issue of restoration, as provided in D.2. shall not be grievable.
E. Employee Signature
The required signature of the employee on the annual evaluation form,
er on any other related form, shall be acknowledgment of receipt but shall not be construed to mean agreement with the content unless such agreement is stated
PES Appeal Procedures
F,
1.	An employee who believes that the contents of a PES form does not
I properly assess the employee’s work or contain appropriate performance
expectations, may request a meeting at the level of management above the
2,	A meeting will be held at which the employee may make known
3.	An employee or rhe employee’s designated Union representative may
G.
New Employees
New employees shall receive a performance plan within a reasonable
a
employee is hired that shall identify the job assignment, include the essential
criteria for successful job performance and emphasize training and development.
The standards and procedures for working test periods are governed by
Sections A through B below shall apply only to employees in the . unclassified service in the State Colleges/Universities covered by this I Agreement.
32
I
A* The performance evaluation systems for unclassified employees in the Stale Collegcs/Utiiversities covered by this Agreement that arc operative on the . effective date of this Agreement shah remain operative for the duration ofthe Agreement provided that if a coJlcge/university changes its system, the employees affected will be given reasonable notice to prevent any hardship and > foe col lege/university will c ither adopt the system described in this Artic le under j Section 1 A, through G, above, or if another system is to be adopted, the change [ shall be subject to negotiations if requested by the Union.	•
IL Where grievances pertaining to performance evaluation and/or denial of j normal merit increment based upon foe above-mentioned college/university r policies are pursued to Step Three, Arbitration, foe award of the arbitrator shall 5 be advisory and non-binding.	|
ARTICLE 17
RO LID AY S AND PERSONAL PREFERENCE DAYS
1
A* Holidays	J
I. The official paid holidays, which are recognized holidays for thefc
purposes of this Agreement are as follows:
New Year's Day
Martin Lwfoer King's Birthday
(3rd Monday in January)
Lincoln's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
(3rd Monday in February)
Good Friday
Memorial Day
Independence Day	i
Labor Day	‘
Columbus Day	i
(2nd Monday in October)	i
Election Day	j
Veteran's Day	'
(November J I)	I
Thanksgiving Day
(Last Monday in May)	Christmas Day	!
In the event any ofthe above statutory holidays fall on a Sunday, they shall, be celebrated on the following Monday. Should any of the aforementioned holidays fell on a Saturday, they shall be celebrated on the preceding Friday.
2. In add ition to the aforementioned holidays, foe State will grant a holiday when the Governor, in his role as Chief Executive ofthe State of New Jersey,

declares a holiday by Proclamation.
rXrL the month of March, employees may submit requests for| Cqaivalent lone off at other times ,n accordance wrth the Governors alternative holidays to those specified to be celebrated within the calendar yeaJ proclamation, or as provided by the appomt.ng anthorny and, if opera.^aPy Xch shall be dates of personal preference such as religious holidays, employee! femabie. as requested by the employee If the nnc off occurs on a seven (..) day tohdav employee anniversary or like days of celebration provided;	I operatron employees regular day off. he.'she shall be granted equivalent Umc off
’ ’a p the agency employing the individual agrees and schedules thdf in accordance wuh the above proves,on,
alternative date off in lieu of the holiday specified and the employing agency js|
, , . ,	.	.<	fleered	I C. Inclement Weather
scheduled to operate on the alternative dates seiecrea,	t	.	•	L
b foe employee shall be paid on the holiday worked and deferred at The release ot employees by executive order or otherwise from the I * d ilv rate of pay	I wor^P^acc due to inclement weather shall not result in a toss of earnings for ihe
isregkiar aicommjtmgnt tfl schedule the personal preference day off shal| hours of release time, however employees on leave al the tune shall nut have
be non-revokable;	! thcir leave cred3t ariJuSted’
B.
d. and provided further that if, due to an emergency, the employee is required to work on the selected personal preference day he shall be paid on the same basis as if it were a holiday worked including the premium pay.
2.	Where more requests for personal preference days are made than can be accommodated with a work unit, the State seniority of employees in the work unit shall be the basis for scheduling the personal preference days, which can be accommodated. Requests received after March may be considered if the scheduling needs of the work unit are satisfied.
3.	Requests for personal preference days in lieu of holidays that fall between January 1 and March 31 may be submitted on December 1 of the preceding year.
4,	The provisions of section B apply only to employees who participate in a seven-day-a*weekT twenty-four-hour-a-day operation work schedule and whose
job responsibilities require that foe employee is involved in the aforementioned work schedule.
ARTICLE 18
SPECIAL TIME OFF
A, Emergency or Special Observations
J. Whenever the Governor may declare a special emergency or observation of an event of State or national concern and authorizes time off to employees of the Slate for the observation of such event, those employees covered by this Agreement who are required to work during the period ofthe authorized time off shall be compensated for such hours worked as outlined in this Agreement, or as otherwise authorized by the Governor.
2. Every employee designated.as essential will receive notice of such designation tach year. Notice of such designations will also be provided to rhe : Union.
*	3. Employees who are designated essential will receive a sticker for their
' JD card, identifying them as essential,
s Ek Other
r Whenever the Governor may declare time off for all employees (such as a ■ day preceding or following an existing holiday) those who are required to work :• on that day shall be compensated for such hours worked by being granted
34
8.	Effective July 1, 2004, HMO/NJ PLUS Co-payments for Primary' & Specialist increase from $5.00 to SI0.00.
9.	Active employees will be able to use pre-tax .dollars to pay contributions to health benefits under a Section 125 premium conversion option. All contributions will be by deductions from pay.
10.	Effective January 1, 1996t consistent with law, the State will no longer reimburse active employees or their spouses for Medicare Part R premium payments.
B.	Prescription Drug Program
1.	11 is agreed that the State shall continue the Prescription Drug Benefit Program during the period of this Agreement The program shall be funded and administered by the State. It shall provide benefits to ail eligible unit employees and their eligible dependents. Each prescription required by competent medical authority for Federal legend drugs shall be paid for by the State from funds provided for the Program subject to a deductible provision which shall not exceed $5.00 per prescription or renewal of such prescription and further subject to specific procedural and administrative rules and regulations which are part of the Program.
2.	Effective July 1,2004, retail Prescription Drug co-payments increase to $10.00 for brand name and $3.00 for generic drugs; mail-order co-payments to increase to $15.00 fer brand name and $5.00 for generic drugs.
C.	Dental Gare Plan
1.	Full-time employees and eligible dependents shall be eligible for the State-administered Dental Care Program.
2.	Participation in the Program shall be voluntary with a condition of participation being that each participating employee authorize a biweekly salary deduction not to exceed 50% percent of the cost of the type ofcoverage elected, e.g. individual employee only, husband and wife, parent and child or family coverage.
3.	Each employee shall be provided with a brochure describing the details of the Program and enrollment information and the required forms.
4.	Participating employees shall be provided with an identification card to be utilized when covered dental care is required.
5.	An optional Group Dental program which will provide services through specific dental clinics will be made available to employees in this unit. Participation in this program shall be voluntary with a condition that each participating employee authorizes a bi weekly salary deduction not to exceed 50% percent ofthe cost of the coverage for a one-year period. Employees will be able to enroll in only one ofthe two programs or in no program al all.
ARTICLE	;
RETIREM ENT BENEFITS	?
The State is a participant in the Public Employees Retirement System, j Eligibility for participation by employees and retirement benefits are governed by j statute and rules and regulations promulgated there under and administered i exclusively by the New Jersey Division of Pensions. Effective July I, 2004, | PERS employee contribution will increase from 3% to 5%. Upon request to the ; appointing authority, the Union and any employee in this negotiating unit shall be provided with a written description of the PERS Program as outlined by the , Division af Pensions, Employees within this unit shall be given information i regarding their retirement benefits in accordance with the Department of; Personnel guidelines and regulations and/or departmental policies through their ! department personnel officer.
ARTICLE 20
HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM and PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM
A, State Health Benefits Program
J, The State Health Benefits Program is appl icab Ie to employees covered by this contract. Except as other wise provided below, such employees will have the? option on the open enrollments dates of selecting one of the following plans:: Traditional Indemnity, Managed Care/Point of Service (New Jersey Plus), or an IIMO approved by the State Health Benefits Commission.
2.	I’he Managed Care/Point of Service Plan (New Jersey Plus) shall remain without any premium cost to eligible employees and their eligible dependents during the term of this Agreement.
3.	Effective July 1,2003, new hires are not eligible for enrollment in the Traditional Plan.
4.	Employees hired prior to July 1, 2003, who elect coverage in the Traditional Plan, shall pay 25% of the cost of the premium of that Plan as established by the State Health Benefits Commission.
5.	Effective July 1T 2003, employees who elect coverage in an approved H M O Plan shall pay 5% o f the cost o f the premium of that P Ian as established by the State Health Benefits Commission.
6	Coordination of Benefits:
If a husband and wife are both eligible for coverage under the State < Health Benefit Program as employees:
a. Each may cleet single coverage in any participating health plan, : provided that he or she is not covered under a health plan as a dependent of his or I her spouse.	r
b Each qualified dependent is eligible for coverage under one parent | only.	f
7.	Effective July I, 2004, Traditional Plan Deductibles increased from I $100.00 to $250.00.	t
36
37

D.	Eye Care Program
t.	Tt is agreed that the coverage under the Bye Care Program shall provide far a S35,00 payment for regular prescription tens or $40.00 fbr bifocal tens o i more complex prescriptions. Included are all eligible full-time employees ant . their eligible dependents (spouse and unmarried children under 23 years of ag< who live with the employee in a regular parent-child relationship). The extension; of benefits to dependents shall be effective only after the employee has beai : continuously employed for a m i nimum of s ixty (60) days. Effective J uly 1,2003 • the eyeglass benefit will increase by $5.00 pursuant to die current biannua . formula.
2.	Full-time employees and eligible dependents as defined above shall bt eligible for a maximum payment of $35.00 or the cost, whichever is less, of ai eye examination by an Ophthalmologist or an Optometrist.
3.	Each el igibl e emp ioyee and dependent may receive only one payment fd; examinations and one payment for glasses during each of the 24-month period . beginning July 1,2003. Proper affidavit and submission of receipts are require®, of the employee in order to receive payment.	t
E.	Intermittent Employee Health Benefits
1.	An Intermittent employee who worked 750 hours or more in FY *03 or who works at least 750 hours in FY ‘04, will be eligible fbr enrollment in NJ Plus and tbc prescript ion drug program effecti ve J □ ly 1, 2004.
2.	An employee who qualifies for enrollment in NJ Plus and the ' prescription drug program effective July l» 2004, shall receive benefits for the period July 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005, including periods during which the employee is furloughed.	]
3.	To qualify for continued coverage in calendar year 2006 and in । subsequent calendar years, an employee must work at least 750 hours in FY ’05 and each subsequent fiscal year.
4.	An employee who faits to work at least 750 hours in a fiscal year shall • be ineligible for continued coverage on January 1 of the next calendar year. r
5.	An employee who fails to quality fbr continued coverage will re> . qualify for coverage once the employee works 750 hours.
6.	An employee who does rot qualify for coverage effective Ju ly 1,2004; will qualify for coverage effective January 1, following any fiscal year in which ■■ the employee works at least 750 hours. Upon qualification for coverage, the ■ employee will receive benefits for the entire calendar year, including periods. during which the employee is furloughed.	1
F.	Benefits Levels and Continuation of Coverage:
There will be no reduction in benefits or increases in coinsurance, co-. payments or deductibles paid by employees participating in the (a) Traditional ■ Indemnity Plan, New Jersey Plus or an HMO, (b) Prescription Drug Plan, (c) Denta] Care Plan, or (d) Eye Care Program, absent mutual agreement between . tbe State and the Union during the term of this agreement.
£
38 |
ARTICLE 21
HEALTH INSURANCE IN RETIREMENT
A.	The State agrees to assume upon retirement the foil cost of the Health Benefits coverage for State employees and their dependents including the cost of charges under Part 0 of the Federal Medicare Program for eligible employees and their spouses, but not including survivors, for employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit service, as provided under the State plan, by July 1, 1997, and those employees who retire fbr disability on the basis of fewer years of pension credit tn the State plan by July 1, 1997.
B,	Those employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit service or retire on a disability retirement during the period from July 1, 1997 through June 30,2000 are eligible to receive the following when they retire:
1.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Managed Care/Point of Service (NJ Plus) or any of the approved HMO Plans shall nor have to contribute to the cost of any premium for health insurance coverage.
2.	Employees in this group who cloct to enroll in the Traditional Plan and cam $40,000 or more tn base salary in the year they retire shall pay the difference between the cost of die Trad i tional P lan and the average of the cost to the State of the Managed Care/Point of Service (NJ Plus) and the approved HMO Plans for health insurance coverage.
3.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in die Traditional Flan and earn less than $40,000 in base salary in the year they retire shall pay I % of their annual base pay at retirement but not less than $20.00 a month for health insurance coverage.
4.	Employees in this group shall receive Medicare Part B reimbursement after retirement up to a cap of $46.10 per month per eligible employee and the employee's spouse.
C.	Those emp loyees who accrue 25 years of pension cred it service or reti re on 3 disability retirement during the period from July 1,2000 through June 30,2003 arc eligible to receive (he following when they retire:
1.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Managed CareToint of Service (NJ Plus) or any of the approved HMO Plans in retirement shall not have to contribute to the cost of any premium for health insurance coverage.
2.	Employees in this group who elect to enroll in the Traditional Plan shall pay 25% of the premium cost of the Traditional Plan fbr health Insurance coverage.
3.	Employees in this group shall receive Medicare Part B reimbursement after retirement up to a cap of $46.10 per month per eligible employee and the employee’s spouse.
D» Those employees who accrue 25 years of pension credit or retire on a disability retirement on or after July I, 2003 will be subject to the provision til' paragraph C. above, unless superceded by collective negotiations or law.
£. All retirees who elect approved HMDs may choose only one family policy, regardless of retirement date.
F.	Employees hired on or after July 1, 1995, will not receive any reimbursement
39
for Medicare Part B after retirement
G.	Employees who elect deferred retirement are not entitled to health benefits under this provision.
ARTICLE 22
LEAVES OF ABSENCE	j
A.	Administrative Leave-Career Service Program
1.	Employees covered by this Agreemcntshallbeentit!edtothree(3)days , of administrative leave of absence with pay in each calendar year.
2.	Administrative leave may be used for (a) emergencies, (b) observation of religious or other days of celebration but not holidays as defined herein, (c) personal business or (d) other personal affairs.
3.	Newly hired employees shall be granted one-half (1/2) day of administrative leave after each full calendar month of employment to a maximum , of three (3) days during the remainder of the calendar year in which he is ; employed.	•
4,	a. Administrative leave shall be granted by the appointing authority upon request ofthe employee and, except in emergencies, leave shall be; scheduled in advance provided the request may be granted without interference with the proper conduct of the government function involved.
b. Priority in granting such requests shall be (I) emergencies, (2); observation of religious or other days of celebration but not holidays, (3) personal■ business, (4) other personal affairs. Where, within a work unit, there are more ■ requests than can be granted for use of this leave for one ofthe purposes above, the conflict will then be resol ved on the basi s of State seni arity and the maximum number of such requests shall be granted in accordance with the first paragraph । of 4. Administrative leave may be scheduled in units of one-half (1/2) day, or; multiples thereof and may be taken in conjunction with other types 0 f paid leave.
5.	Such leave credit shall not accumulate. Unused balances in any year: shall be cancelled.
B.	Jury Duty and Witness Leave
I An employee shall be granted necessary time off without Joss of pay when he is summoned and performs jury duty as prescribed by applicable law; or when required to perform emergency civilian duty in relation to nations! defease: or other emergency when so ordered by the Governor or foe President of the, United Stales. When his appearance is required during a shift period, which is: immediately contiguous to his scheduled shift and wholly within the day of such duty, he shall be excused from such shift without loss of pay. If his shift hours extend from one day to the next, and the required appearance is during a shift period not immediately contiguous to the scheduled shift, the employee shall have the option of choosing to be excused from the scheduled shift prior to or after the required appearance provided the shift from which he is excused is partly within the day of such duty, to no event is an employee to be excused from his work schedule for more days than the number of days of such duty performed.
2.	When an employee is summoned to appear as a witness before a court, legislative committee or judicial or quasi-judicial body, unless the appearance is as a party to the litigation in a matter unrelated to his capacity' as an employee or ofTtccr of his agency he shall be granted necessary time off without loss of pay if such appearance is during his scheduled work shift. Where his appearance is , during a shift period immediately contiguous to his scheduled shift, he shall be ' granted compensatory time equal to the hours required for such duty.
3	. In no case will this special leave he granted or credited for more than eight (8) hours in any day or forty (40) hours in any week.
4.	The employee shall notify management immediately of his requirement • for this leave, and subsequently furnish evidence that he performed the duty for which the leave was requested.
I C. Leave of Absence Due to Injury' (SLI)
■ J. AH employees covered by this Agreement who are disabled because of job-related ifoury or disease may. if it is reccimraended by the appointing authority and approved by the Department of Personnel, be granted a leave of absence with pay from funds appropriated for this purpose and as provided in
r State regulations.
>	2. Any part of the salary or wages paid or payable to an employee for
■ disability leave shall be reduced by the amount of worker's compensation award • under tlie New Jersey Worker's Compensation Act for temporary' disability.
3.	Such leave may be granted for up to one (I) year from the date of injury or illness and shall be based on medical or other proof of the injuiyor illness and the continuing disability ofthe employee.
4.	When such leave is granted, the employee shall not be charged ordinary' sick leave or vacation. However, if this leave (SLI) expires, the employee may utilize sick leave or vacation if required to remain off duty.
5.	If an application for SLI is rejected by the appointing authority, the employee concerned may appeal such determination in accordance with
? Department of Personnel Rules and Regulations.
> D. Pregnancy-Disability Leave
L 1. Permanent employees covered by this Agreement, upon the submission of acceptable medical evidence, shall be entitled to pregnancy-disability leave as hereinafter set forth. Request for such leave will be made in writing tn the Personnel Department. Notification of the pregnancy shall be given to the Personnel Department not later than the end of the fourth month of the ■pregnancy. Except for reasons of health and safety or inability to perform her job, 'the pregnant employee shall be permitted to work provided the attending physician approves and so advises in writing. The utilization of earned and accrued sick leave shall be limited only by the length ofthe employee's approved disability due to pregnancy.
2.	During pregnancy-disability leave, permanent employees may utilize earned leave time (sick, vacation, administrative or compensatory') but shall not be required to exhaust accrued leave before taking a leave without pay for pregnancy-disability. The employee must exhaust all accrued sick leave prior to
being eligible for New Jersey Temporary Disability Insurance.
3.	Subject to approval by the appointing authority, employees covered by this Agreement who are entitled to pregnancy-disability leave who arc without or have exhausted accrued sick leave, vacation or compensatory time will be granted a leave of absence without pay to the end of the period of pregnancy-d isab i Li ty preset (bed above. Leaves of absence may be granted by the appointing authority with the approval of the Department of Personnel for a period or periods not to exceed a total of one (1) year from the initial date of pregnancy-disability leave, upon written request when accompanied by a doctor's certificate setting fort!) the need therefore.
4	Child care leave may be granted by the appointing authority for a maximum of one (1) year under the same terms and conditions applicable to all other personal leaves without pay.
E. Military Leave
1.	A permanent employee who enters upon active duty with the military or naval service in time of war or emergency shall be granted a leave of absence for the period of such service and three (3} months thereafter.
a,	tn case of service-connected illness or wound, which prevents him from returning to his employment, such leave shall be extended until three (3) months after recovery, but not beyond the expiration of two (2) years after the date of discharge,
b.	An employee who voluntarily continues in the military service beyond the time when he may be released or who voluntarily re-enters the Armed Forces or who accepts a regular commission shall be considered as having abandoned his employment and resigned.
2.	A permanent employee who enlists in a reserve component ofthe Armed Forces ofthe United States or is otherwise required to perform an initial period of active duty for training pursuant to the Reserve Forces Act of W55 (Reserve Enlistment Program) shall be granted leave of absence for such period of training. Such leave is not considered military leave.
3.	An employee with provisional or temporary status who enters upon active duty with the Armed Forces or who, pursuantto the Reserve Forces Act of 1955 (Reserve Enlistment Program) either enlists in a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States or is otherwise required to perform an initial period of active duty for training, shall be recorded as having resigned.
4	A permanent employee who is a member ofthe National Guard or naval militia or of a reserve component of any ofthe Armed Forces ofthe United States who is required to undergo annual field training or annual active duty for training shall be granted a leave of absence with pay for such period as provided by regulation. Such leave shall be in addition to regular vacation leave.
5.	A full-time provisional employee who is a member of the National Guard or naval militia or of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States who is required to undergo annual field training or annual active duty for training shall be granted a leave of absence with pay or without pay as provided by regulation.
6.	a. Employees who are members ofthe National Guard must be given ti me off with full pay to attend required drills. Such ti me off shal I be in additi o n to vacation, sick and administrative leave.
b. An appointing authority may, however, reschedule an employee's hours and days of work in order to enable an employee to attend drills and siiil fulfill all employment responsibilities without the need for additional time off. F. Sick Leave
1.	AU employees covered by this Agreement and eligible for sick leave with pay shall be entitled to the use of sick leave as provided herein.
2.	The Stale will comply with all requirements of the Federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) in administering this Article and will notify all employees covered by this Agreement of their rights under FMLA.
3.	Sick leave may be utilized by employees when they are unable to perform their work by reason of personal illness, accident or exposure to contagious disease. Sick leave may also be used for short periods because of death in the employee’s immediate family. Sick leave may also be used for the attendance ofthe employee upon a member of the immediate family who is seriously ill in accordance with the New Jersey Family Leave Act and the FMLA.
4.	a. During the remainder of the calendar year in which an employee is first appointed, he will accumulate sick leave privileges as earned on the basis of one (I) day per month of service or major fraction thereof.
b. In each full calendar year thereafter, he shall be entitled to fifteen (15) days sick leave. The leave is credited in advance at the beginning of the year in anticipation of continued employment for the full year and may be used on that basis and in accordance with established State policy. Such leave not utilized shall be accumulated.
5.	a. In all cases of illness, whether of short or long term, the employee is required to notify his superior ofthe reason for absence at the earliest possible time but in no event less than his usual reporting time, or other time as required each working day as necessitated by the circumstances. If the duration of the absence exceeds two (2) days it will he necessary to report on every third day. Failure to report absences or abuse of sick leave privileges cm the part of any employee may be cause for disciplinary action.
b. When it is known that sick leave will be required for mure than ten (10) days, such leave must be requested by the employee in writing Id his immediate supervisor. This request must be accompanied by a written and signed statement by a physician prescribing the sick leave and giving the reasons for the sick leave and the anticipated duration ofthe incapacity.
6.	a. The appointing authority may require proof of illness of an employee on sick leave, whenever such requirement appears reasonable. Such requirement shal! be consistent with the Department of Personnel Rules and Regulations.
b. An employee who has been absent on sick leave for periods totaling fifteen (15) days in one (1) calendar year consisting of periods of less than five (5) days, shall submit acceptable medical evidence, but where reasonable and
42
43
appropriate an affidavit ofthe employee shall be acceptable as medical evidence, for any additional sick leave tn that year unless such illness is of a chronic or recurring nature requiring recurring absences of one (1) day or less in which case only one certificate shall be necessary for a period of six (6) months.
7.	When an employee is on vacation and requires sick leave for any portion efthat vacation leave, he must immediately request the use of accumulated sick leave, in accordance with State regulations, through the designated authority. Such requests may be made by telephone, telegram or letter buL, if by phone, should be confirmed by telegram or letter to clearly establish time of request No sick leave will be credited unless supporting medical evidence verifying the illness or injury which would have precluded working is presented,
8.	Death in Family
If there is a death in the family as defined in the State Sick Leave Program and an employee has exhausted his sick leave balance, he shall be granted leave without pay or may charge leave against vacation or administrative leave or compensatory time balances for up to three 13) days upon his request to the appointing authority. In exceptional situations, the time limit maybe extended at the discretion of the appointing authority.
9.	Employees shall not be charged for sick leave on a non-working day.
10.	An employee may apply for use of sick leave for periods of less than his full work day for any appropriate and approved reason such as becoming til while working during the assigned shift or in order to keep a medical appointment which could not be arranged during nun-work time. The employee must charge
such sick leave against hi s accumulated sick leave balance, or, if such employee has no sick leave balance, he may charge such time against other accrued paid leave time if available, or alternatively, leave without pay Utilization of any sick leave for less than a full workday shall be on an hourly basis, one hour of sick leave charged for each hour, or portion thereof, excused from the work shift. For purposes of this clause, only, seven (7) hours is equal to one (1) day of sick leave
for employees serving in a No Limit (NL) category and eight (8) hours is equal to; I employee may reque^ r ’	*	-	-	-l r< A	..	:? hr carrlM tnrwftrH i-ntn tn® n<*vf Eni^i"**®r4i<rtlt	Tha t<wiAr4	k& mnyla \>.
one (i) day of sickteave for those employees serving in an NL4 category.! b* carried forward into the next succeeding year. The request shall be made in x 7 J	........... -	- « *• ---1.- l- a. writing to the appropriate appointing authority and may be approved for good
reason and providing the employee and his supervisor have scheduled the use of
Where an NL or NL4 employee utilizes sick leave for a period of less than his established work schedule for the day, such employee shall be charged sick leave
on a
oro-rala basis in accordance with the work schedule established on the day; i sudt vacation allowance. Such approval and scheduling shall not be unreasonably ff. ..	withheld.
of utilization.
11,	Unused Sick Leave - Retirement
a.	A permanent employee who enters retirement pursuant to the / provisions of a State administered or approved retirement system and has to his , credit any earned and unused accumulated sick leave shall be entitled to receive ( supplemental compensation for such earned and unused accumulated sick leave.;
b.	The supplemental compensation to be paid shall be computed at the;
l?, me juppipnjcuiai L-Miiiut-niauivu w	v-wv.x-r-*^-—- —, •	.	.	. .	,	,	,	,	,,
rate of one-half (?) ofthe eligible employ's daily rate of pay for each day of ! ™ntbs m the calendar year m which the separation or retirement earned and unused accumulated sick leave based upon the average annuaf >	effec^ve any vacation leave which may have been carried over
compensation received during the last year of his employment prior to the effective date of his retirement, provided, however, that no such supplemental^ ‘	.
equal to the compensation figured on his salary rate at the time of death shall be




compensation payment shall exceed S15,000. This supplemental compensation shall be paid in a lump sum after the effective date of retirement or as may he elected by the employee deferred for one (I)year, G, Vacation Leave - Career Service Program
L A11 career service employees covered by this Agreement and e ligible foe-vacation leave with pay shall be entitled to the use of vacation leave as provided herein:
a.	One (I) working day of vacation for each month of employment during the first calendar year of employment.
b.	Twelve(l2) working daysofvacation from one (1)to five (5)years of service.
c.	Fifteen (15) working days of vacation from six (6) to twelve (12) years of service.
d.	Twenty (20) working days of vacation from thirteen (13) to twenty (20) years of service.
c.	Twenty five (25) working days of vacation after the twentieth (20) year of service.
It is understood that the current program to schedule vacation time in effect at each institution or agency will be continued. Conflicts concerning the choice of dates when scheduling vacations will be resolved within the work unit on the basis of State seniority. Specific requests for vacation utilization which do
• not conflict with operational considerations shall not be unreasonably denied.
2.	a. Vacation leave is credited in advance al rhe beginning ofthe calendar ; year in anticipation of continued employment for the full year and may be used . on that basis and in accordance with established State policy. Vacation .' allowance must be taken during foe current calendar year at such time as > permitted nr directed by the Department Head unless the Department Head • determines it cannot be taken because of pressure of work; except that ati
b. Where an employee has an earned vacation balance, which has not
been previously scheduled as of October L the supervisor will mecr with the
employee to determine a schedule of such vacation time so that no accrued
j. vacation time will be lost.
3.	Upon separation from the Stale or upon retirement, an employee shall be
/ entitled to vacation allowance for the current year prorated upon the number of
f. from the preceding calendar year.
4.	If a permanent employee dies having vacation credits, a sum of money
44
calculated and paid to his estate,
5.	tn the event the State of New Jersey enacts legislation granting additional vacation benefits to employees of the State, such additional vacation benefit will be made available to members of the Unit prorated as ofthe first full month following the effective date of such legislation.
6.	When the vacation allowance for an employee changes based on his years of service during any calendar year, the additional annual allowance will be given for the entire year.
IL Continued Benefits
During any leave of absence with pay employee fringe benefits shall be continued and leave allowances shall continue to accrue for any employee affected.
ARTICLE 23
VACATION LEAVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE FOR
unclassified employees
In accordance with applicable rules, regulations, and policies, employees serving in the unclassified service shall have an option of selecting a policy of vacation leave acid administrative leave as prescribed by the State for employees in the career service ar the policy of vacation leave and administrative leave for unclassified employees as determined to be appropriate by the Department Head. This option may be exercised not more than once on forms furnished by the respective employee's Personnel Officer. The department policy in effect on (he date ofthe signing of the Agreement shall not be changed without prior notice to and negotiations with the Union.
The provisions of the above paragraph shall not apply to employees whose work schedules are governed by (he academic calendar.
Teachers serving in the unclassified service of 12-month assignments shall be entitled to vacation days equivalent to those employees in the career service and shall also be entitled to holidays and personal leave days as set forth in this Agreement for the career service. Such teachers employed prior to July I, 1979 and having less than five (5) years service shall by exception be granted fourteen (14) vacation days in each full year of employment until their fifth anniversary.
The schedule as to utilization of this vacation and holiday leave shall be consistent with the academic calendar. However, requests for use of the balance of leave days, not determined by the academic calendar, shall be honored where practicable and operationally nun-disruptive, and special attention shall be given to requests for such time off in the summer months.
Such 12-month teachers shall be granted not Jess than three (3) days of professional development time for workshops and other similar non-student contact activities, in addition to time provided by statute far the professional convention,
A program io schedule vacation time at each institution or agency will be established by the appropriate management official. Conflicts concerning the choice of dates when scheduling vacation will be resolved within the work unit
on the basis of State seniority. For purposes of this Article, an unclassified employee shall begin to accumulate State seniority front the dare of initial hire with the State of New Jersey until there is a break in service.
This provision does not apply to ten (10) month employees whose work schedules are governed by an academic calendar.
ARTICLE 24
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
A.	All employees covered by this Agreement, upon written application setting forth the reason, may be granted a leave of absence without pay for a maximum period of one (1) year by the appointing authority with the approval of the Department of Personnel. Further leave in exceptional situations may be granted by the appointing authority with the approval of the Department of Personnel, where it is in the public interest. The granting of a request for a leave of absence without pay will not be unreasonably withheld.
B.	Leaves of Absence Without Pay for Employees in Full-Time Union Positions
]. Leaves for Six (6) Months or More
Upon request of the Union, OER will approve an unpaid leave of absence for an employee elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union. The leave of absence will continue for the duration of the employee's term in office or appointment or until the Union requests to terminate the leave.
2.	Leaves for Ixss than Six (6) Months
The Union may request a leave of absence for an employee appointed ur elected to a full time position with the Union for less than six (6) months. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied. Requests to extend leaves of six (6) months or less will not be unreasonably denied.
C.	Pension Contributions
While on leave pursuant to section B of this Article, an employee may make contributions to the appropriate State pension system and will receive service credit for the lime the employee is on unpaid leave.
D.	Right to Return to Previously Held Title
An employee on leave pursuant to section B of this Article, will have the right to return to his or her previously held title in the department in which the employee was employed immediately prior to the leave. The State will.be notified of such return, ten (10) days in advance.
ARTICLE 25
UNION RIGHTS AND REPRESENTATIVES
A.	Access to Premises
1.	Union officials and duly authorized Union representatives, whose names and identification have been previously submitted to and acknowledged by the State, shall be admitted to the premises of the Stale on Union business. Requests for such visits shall be directed with reasonable advance notice to State officials who shall be designated by (he State and shall include the purpose of the visit,
46
47
proposed time and dale and specific work areas involved. Permission for such visits shad not be unreasonably withheld. Provided that requests have been made pursuant to this paragraph, such Union Officials shall have the opportunity to =’ consult with employees in the unit before rhe start ofthe work shift, during lunch or breaks, or after completion of the work shift. The State will designate appropriate places for such meetings at its facilities. Access to the premises as set forth in this paragraph shall not be given by the State to any employee organization other than to the Union set forth herein or to any officer or representative of such other employee organization lor the purpose of communicating with employees in this unit.
2.	The Union shall be allowed to conduct normal business meetings on S tate properties, provided that space is ava Hable during hours when the faci I it ies are open; requests are made and approved at least one (1) week, in advance ofthe proposed date of use and that liability for the damages, care and maintenance, and any costs which are attendant thereto are home by the Union. Employees may attend such meetings only Ouiiug off duty hours. Less notice may he acceptable to the State.
3.	The above is not intended to restrict Union Officials and Representatives ; from exercising their ordinary right as citizens as regards access to the public premises of the State.
B,	Leave of Absence for Union Activity
1.	The State agrees to provide leaves of absence with pay fur designees of : the Union to attend Union activities. A total of 785 days of such leave of ■ absence may be used during each year of the agreement. After the contract is ratified, all stewards receive one paid day to attend training sessions on new • contract language under the union leave provided above.
2.	a. This leave is to be used for participation in regularly scheduled meeti ngs or conventions of labor organi zations with which the U nion is affi iiated ; and for training programs or other Union activity for which appropriate approval by the State is required and which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. ;
b. Applications for the use ofsuch leave on behalf of designeesofthe Union shall be made in writing or orally ten (10) days in advance or lesser period if appropriate by the Union President or other duly authorized representative to the Office of Employee Relations.	:
3.	Leaves will be granted individuals authorized by the Local President, ■ subject to the limitations set forth above. Authorized leaves granted to an individual shall not exceed a maximum of Twenty (20) days in a year and seven (7) days of paid leave for any single activity except where special approval of an exception may be granted by the State. Approval for such leave shall not be unreasonably withheld.
4.	Any leave not utilized in a yearly period shall not be accumu Laled except where a written request of the U ni on for carry-over o f such leave for a particu far purpose is made not later than thirty (30) days prior to the end of the year period. This request may be approved in whole or in part by the State.
5	In addition, the State agrees to provide leave of absence without pay for
49
designees oTthe Union to attend Union activities approved by the State. A total of 7 8 S days of such leave of absence witho ut pay may be used d uring the per iod July 1,2003 to June 30,2004; and 785 days during the year July 1,2004 to June 30,2005; and 785 days during the period July 1,2005 through June 30,2006, and 785 days during the period of July 1,2006 through June 30, 2007.
6.	This additional leave of absence without pay is to be used under the same conditions and restrictions expressed in connection with leaves ofabsenc-e with pay.
7.	The time provided herein is in addition to time provided elsewhere in this Agreement for negotiations meetings and contract administration meetings.
8.	Jn exceptional circumstances the Union may request, through the Office of Employee Relations, a day off without pay fora local Union officer who In in the active employ of the State in order for such officer to represent a grievant in his negotiating unit and local at Steps 1 and 2 pursuant to the Article, Grievance Procedure. The request for release must be made in accordance with die Article, Union Rights and Representatives, snhsnctinn B. Leave of Absence for Union Activity and approval shall he at the discretion of departmental management based upon operational considerations and/or the exceptional nature of the grievance.
9,	Inaddition to thetwenty(20)daysof unpaid leave ofabsence for Union activity provided for in the Union Rights and Representatives Articles currently found in the various Agreements, upon proper application the State agrees to grant to the four (4) negotiating units a combined total of up to twelve (12) Union officers named by the Union and recognized in advance by the State, a maximum often (10) additional days of unpaid leave of absence per individual for Union activity for which appropriate approval by the Slate is required.
C.	Bulletin Boards
1.	In central locations and in work areas where there are large numbers of employees covered by this Agreement, the State will make space available on existing bulletin boards which space will be for the exclusive use ofthe Union. The space provided on each bulletin board will minimally approximate 301' hy 30" or an equivalent. If the Union desires bulletin boards at other locations, then it may request permission to provide its own bulletin boards. Approval of such requests shall conform to State standards and will not be unreasonably withheld by the State.
2.	Appropriate material on such bulletin boards shall be posted and removed by representatives ofthe Union. The material shall not contain anything profane, obscene or defamatory of the State or its representatives and employees, nor anything constituting election campaign material. Materials which violate provisions of this Article shall not be posted. Material to be pasted will consist ofthe following;
a.	Union elections and results thereof;
b.	Union appointments;
c.	Union meetings;
d.	Social and recreational events ofthe Union;
49
e Reports of official Union business and achievements.
3.	The Union will be permitted to post notices on designated bulletin boards where available in field locations not within institutions or offices ofthe . State provided such postings are consistent with the conditions agreed to above. Requests for permission for such postings shall be granted by the departmental or appropriate subordinate level of management.
4	The State may, upon request of (he Union undertake to make specific postings of authorized materials on behalf of the Union,
5.	The State will provide space in central locations and areas frequented by employees in die unit where Union newspapers, circulars and literature may be . placed so that employees may pick up copies during non-work time provided that such material for distribution is consistent with Item 2 of this provision. It is further agreed (hat the Union will assure that all undistributed literature is removed from the distribution points after a reasonable time.
D.	Representation Lists
I.	The Union agrees to furnish the State with complete written lists of Union representatives including Shop Stewards or alternates and their appropriate । and mutually agreed upon grievance districts. The Union further agrees to inform the State through the Office of Employee Relations of any changes and to keep such Lists current and correct at all times.
2.	The State will appoint appropriate representatives of management at each location who will respond to the Union in Grievance Procedure or other designated functions. The Slate will provide a list of such management representat ives to th e U n ion.
E.	Union Stewards and Representatives
The Union has the sole right and discretion to designate employees ofthe State who are authorized to serve as the Union's representatives, including, . stewards or alternates, and local executive board members. The Union will specify the responsibilities and authority of its representatives to act on behalf of the Union. The parties agree that the privileges afforded to Stewards, elsewhere provided, arc applicable to a reasonable number of Stewards. Should conflict arise in the administration of (his clause, the parties agree to resolve the corfiict(s) through further discussions.
F.	Union Privileges
1.	Where the State has a newsletter or house organ, which is published periodically for the information of employees, announcements o fUnion meetings of unit representatives or affairs may be included if requested by the unit representative.
2.	Where the Union has mail to be delivered to lbs officers or other representatives, the interoffice mail system will be made available to deliver such mail within any institution or building provided that priority is retained for the business ofthe Stare.
3.	Where there are public address systems in the work areas, the unit representative may submit notices of meetings or other unit matters which will be announced except where the broadcast system is open to the public or to persons
50
in ihe care and custody cf the State, where such announcements may he inappropriate.
4.	When telephone messages for unit representatives are received by the employer, the message will be delivered to the representative at the earliest possible time.
5.	The President of a local may request use of available space for storage of papers and files of the local council or chapter pertaining to State employees. Provisions of such space shall not be unreasonably withheld, when available; however, the provision of space shall not take priority over essential operational uses and the State shall Incur no responsibility for the security or safety of any Union materials nor any liability for loss or damages which may occur. Further, the Union may be permitted to furnish, file cabinets or other equipment related to the commitment above under the same conditions. The permission to utilize the facilities ofthe State may be withdrawn at anytime, but will nor be unreasonably withdrawn.
6,	When a managerial or consultant investigating or implementing committee seeks views of employees affected, the Union shall be notified and one ofthe employees who will be allowed to speak shall be a person selected by the Union. Where such an investigation procedure is undertaken without the solicitation of views of employees, the Union may present a written statement of its views to the investigating agent.
7.	Regulations or documents specified in this Agreement shall be available for reference at the Personnel Office ofthe employee seeking the information. G. Informational Postcards
The Union will make available to the Departments self addressed stamped postcards. The postcard will contain space for the following Information: employee name, employee address, home phone number, job title, hiring date, department which hired employee, employee's work location, and the payroll number where the employee works.
Upon receipt of such cards from the Union, the departments personnel officc(s) will distribute the card to new hires when the new hire comes In to fill out the necessary paperwork needed to Initiate the payroll processes. The card can be filled out by the new hire. Cards filled out by the new hire will be forwarded to the Union via the mail.
IL Membership Packets
The Union representative may supply membership packets which contain information far distribution to employees in the unit, including the role of the Union representative, the membership application and a copy of this Agreement as well as other material mutually agreed to by the State and the Union representative. The State agrees to distribute such membership packets in all employees In the unit at the time such employees receive the copies of this Agreement and to new employees during the initial phases of employment which shall not ordinarily exceed twenty (20) days from the date of employment.
L Orientation Sessions
1.	The following understanding shall apply to all State Departments except
51
the institutional facilities at the Department of Corrections, the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs and the Department of Human Services. When a Department or Division plans to hold an orientation session for new employees, the Union shall be so notified in advance if a reasonable number ofthe new employees attending the session are in titles covered by the Contract. The Department or Division holding the orientation will provide the Union with a thirty (30) minute period in which to meet with new employees whose titles are coveted under this contract, if so requested by the Union. The thirty (30) minute period shah be within the employee’s workday but may not be during lunch or break time. The representative ofthe Union shall be a local Union representative. If a non-State employee Union representative cannot be present during ah orientation session, a unit employee designated by the Union will be allowed to make such presentation.
2.	At State institutions in the Department of Human Services. Department of Corrections and the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, (he State will provide a thirty (30) minute period during the new employee's orientation period to allow a non-State employee representative ofthe Union to meet and explain the Union's responsibilities. If the non-State employee representative of the Union cannot be present during such orientation period, one (I) unit employee ofthe institution designated by the Union may be allowed to make such presentation to a maximum of twelve (12) times per year. Any employee released pursuant to this paragraph for the purpose of addressing employees during orientation shall only address employees whose titles are contained in the same negotiating unit as the employee making the presentation.
ARTICLE 26
ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILE
A* Upon request and with reasonable notice, an employee shall have thy opportunity to review and examine pertinent documents including those related to performance evaluation and conduct in his or her personnel history file or in any permanent supplementary personnel file. The State shall honor the request of such employee for copies of documents in the file. The State shall have the right to have such review and examination take place in the presence of an appropriate official of the agency or department in question. The employee may tile a written response of reasonable length to any memoranda or documents, whi ch are derogatory' or adverse to him or her. S uch response wi 11 be included in the relevant permanent personnel history file or permanent supplementary personnel file and will be attached to and retained with the document in question. If any material, derogatory or adverse to the employee is placed in the file in question, a copy of such material shall be sent to the employee.
B.	No document of anonymous origin shall be used against any employee.
C.	Copies of any written documents specifically related to discipline or the work performance of an employee which arc relied upon by the State during any disciplinary proceedings, grievance hearing, or in any final evaluation report rendered under the PARS Program will be given to the employee upon his
request.
D,	A copy of specific written material which is derogatory or adverse to an employee and is in the possession ofthe State or its representatives, acid which ' has not been previously transmitted to the employee, shall be provided to the employee when such written material is to be relied upon in any adverse personnel action resulting in disciplinary proceedings, or in any evaluation report rendered under the PARS program, and a reasonable time provided for response.
ARTICLE 27
SENIORITY
1.	Definition
A. State seniority is the accumulated period of service uf a permanent employee ofthe State.
B* Job classification seniority is the accumulated period of service of a . permanent employee ofthe State in a particular job classification.
• 2. Permanent Employee
A.	Employees shall be considered to have State seniority upon successful : completion of the probationary period (working test period) for any permanent position, effective on the first day worked following such successful completion but computed from the date of Initial hire. Suclf State seniority is accumulate unless there is or has been a break in service as set forth below',
B.	Employees shall be considered to have job classification seniority upon successful completion of the probationary-period (working test period), for the job classification effective on the first day worked following such successful completion but computed from the dale of initial hire or promotion to the particular job classification. Such job classification seniority in the job classification to which the employee is assigned is accumulate unless there is or has been a break as set forth below or where the employee is appointed to another -.job classification or during such time an employee serves a disciplinary suspension.
C.	A break in continuous service occurs when an employee resigns, is discharged for cause, retires or is laid off; however, employee State and job classification seniority accrued prior to layoffshall be continued upon recall and reemployment and the provision of Article 28 shall apply.
D.	In the case where an employee is promoted but docs not success folly complete the probationary period (working test period), he may be returned to his previous job classification in his most recent location or his then current location if practicable, without loss of job classification seniority and such job classification seniority shall be construed to have continued accumulation in the permanent position provided the positions are in the same or appropriately related job class series as determined by the Department of Personnel.
E.	The Stare agrees to supp ly current sen iority lists to the Uni on on a semiannual basis.
F.This Article shall not apply (o the computation or application of seniority in determination of individual rights administered by the Department of
52
53
Personnel, such as layoff and promotional rights. In such circumstances, seniority determinations and applications shall be determined by the Department cP Personnel The terms and conditions of seniority pertaining to layoff and promotions are fully set forth in statutes and indie Merit System Regulations and arc intended to be observed in the administration of this Agreement, The provisions above are not intended tn vary the application of the seniority provisions under rule or law as they pertain to layoff and promotional matters.
3.	Provisional and Probationary Employees
A.	Provisional and probationary employees (serving working test period), who have accrued State and job classification seniority under Section I above in another permanent position shah be considered to have the State and job classification seniority previously accumulated and shall continue to accumulate such State and job classification seniority as long as such previous permanent status is maintained, subject to any break in service and provided that with reference to job classification seniority the continuation of accumulation is predtealcd on the determination ofthe Department of Personnel that the positions are in the same or appropriately related job class scries.
B.	Except as provided in paragraph A. above, provisional and probationary employees (serving working test period) shall be considered to be without seniority in their provisional or probationary job classification. The absence of seniority'shall not be construed to diminish the assign ability of any employees co overtime or emergency work.
C.	Provisional appointments will not be made except in the case of an emergency as provided in N.J.S.A. 11A;4-I3b. Where an examination is required, such will be scheduled at the earliest possible time.
ARTICLE IS
LAYOFF AND RECALL - CAREER SERVICE
A.	When it is necessary to lay off employees, the Union shall be notified at once and as far in advance as possible of the notice referred to in D. below and be supplied with relevant data concerning the layoff and procedures discussed and the conditions outlined below and the established protections administered by the Department of Personnel shall be observed. The State shall provide the Union with seniority lists and grids for directly affected employees in advance ofthe final option selection interviews at the time these materials are received by the affected department.
B.	In the event of a layoff the Union shall be allowed to have one (I) representative not in the active employ of the State attend the preliminary layoff conference for all affected unit employees when conducted by the department and one (I) representative not in the active employ of the State attend the individual employee’s final options selection interview. Jt is understood that the purpose ofthe Union representative’s attendance at the meetings is to observe and advise employees with respect to questions arising out of the process, however, the representative shall not disrupt or delay the proceeding in any way. A shop steward may attend such meeting without pay in order to act as representative in
lieu ofthe non-employce Union representative if acceptable to the State.
C.	Permanent employees within a department will not be laid off before any emergency appointments, temporary appointments io temporary extra positions, provisional appointments to permanent positions or employees serving in working test period within the classification affected.
D.	The State will prej v ide a m ini mum of forty- fi ve (45) ca leudar days notice of layoff to any permanent employee to be affected.
E.	Job classification seniority shall be a determining factor to be considered when identifying, which permanent employees arc to be laid off.
F.	Whenever poss ible, the State wi 11 try to identify al I enipl oyment o pportunities and to avoid layoff by transferring, reassigning or offering to demote employees to available vacancies within the authority of the appointing authorities concerned.
G.	Permanent employees affected by layoff requirements may exercise bumping rights within their job classification or to equated or lower rated job classifications as provided.
H.	Employees finally determined to be laid oit and who leave the payroll shall be given ten (10) working days notice. This provision is subject to the Department of Personnel adjusting its rules and regulations as are required to accommodate this program.
L The name of the permanent employee who is laid off shall be placed on a special reemployment list. Persons on such a list will be given preferential consideration over any other type of applicant for appointment to the job classification or equated job classification and no new employee shall be hired until all employees on layoff status desiring to return to work shall have been recalled, provided such employees on layoff status are capable of returning to work. The employee must provide the employer with any address change while waiting fbr recall.
J.	Permanent employees will be recalled to work in the reverse order in which they wore laid off by the appointing authority, subject to the limitation ihat those permanent employees who were laid off first for reason of an unsatisfactory performance rating shah be placed on a special reemployment list in accordance with their seniority credits. Notice of recall will be made in writing by mail to the employee's home address of record.
K.	1. An employee who is recalled must respond within five (5) calendar days of the date of receipt of the notice of certification for recall or within ten (10) days ofthe date of mailing or be considered to have abandoned his recall rights.
2.	An employee recalled to his former or equated job classification must report for reinstatement or be considered to have abandoned his recall rights.
3.	An employee recalled to a job classification with a lower salary rale tiian his previous job classification may refuse such position and remain eligible for recall.
4.	An employee who is demoted in accordance with the regulations ofthe Department of Personnel during a layoff shall be continued on a previously established promotional list during its existence.
54
55
L.	An employee on layoff accrues no additional sick leave or vacation credits. When an employee is recalled from layoff and reinstated* he is considered to have continuous service credit for computation of future earned vacations.
M.	Except for the commitments concerning ’notice"* "layoff and procedures discussed" and the supply of "relevant data’1 set forth in paragraph A. and except for paragraph F., it is recognized that the provisions of paragraph A. through K. above are illustrative portions of the layoff and recall rights established under Department of Personnel Statutes and Regulations and that the overall system is administered by the Department of Personnel. The Union reserves die right under applicable law to challenge changes to any ofthe foregoing.
N.	1. The State will discuss with the Union any decision to subcontract work based on solely fiscal reasons when it is apparent that employees'will be laid off as a direct result of the subcontracting.	■
2.	If, during the term of this Contract, the Stale contracts out or subcontracts work normally performed by employees covered by this Contract and such action results m layoff or demotion, empfuyces affected will be given ’ every priority available to continue their employment within their classification: or any other position available for which they are qualified, prior to layoff or demotion. Any employee thus affected will be protected bythe layoff and recall provisions ofthe Contract and by any relevant laws, rules and regulations.
3.	Where employees in titles covered under this contract arc to be either transferred or reassigned due to work being phased out, (he State will meet and discuss with rhe Union any contracting out of that specific work, if such contracting out is to occur within ninety (90) days.
Ch LA reorganization is the abolition or consolidation of a Stale office,
2.	When a determination is made to reorganize an entire focal State office or a larger Departmental entity, the Union shall be notified of such reorganization prior to its implementation. Upon request, the Union and the Department shall, meet to discuss matters relating to the reorganization. The scheduling of such; meeting shall not sen's to delay the reorganization process.
ARTICLE 29
LAYOFF AND RECALL FOR UNCLASSIFIED AND PROVISIONAL EMPLOYEES
A.	In the event management determines that a department-wide layoff due to financial exigencies or programmatic changes must take place which will affect unclassified or provisional employees the foilowingprocedurushall be observed:
L The Union shall be notified bf the layoff as far. in advance as possible.
2.	Affected employees shall be given a generalized notice of layoff at least forty-five (45) calendar days, prior to the reduction in force.
3.	The State will supply the Union with relevant data concerning the layoff.
4.	Employees serving in the same job classifications within the work unit affected who, in the judgment of management, have performed unsatisfactorily; or are lacking with respect to having achieved or maintained necessary and/or
56
expected certifications, degrees, or like qualifications; or are lacking the abilities and/or skills necessary to perform current or future work assignments shall at the option of management be laid off first. Due consideration shall be given to the concepts of affirmative action.
5.	Where, in the judgment of management, the elements set forth in paragraph 4. above do not distinguish employees affected by the reduction in force such employees serving in the same job classification within the work unit shall be laid off in inverse order of job classification seniority. For purposes of this article, an employee shall begin to accrue job classification seniority as of six (6) months subsequent to the effective date ofthe employee's initial appointment to the particular job classification to which he is assigned. Employees who are appointed to a new job title (due io promotion, for example) subsequent to having served the initial six (6) month period shall begin to accrue job classification seniority three (3) months subsequent to the effective dale ofthe employee's appointment to such new job title, provided that there has been no break in service. An employee's job classification seiijuj iiy accrued prior io a layoff shall be continued and again begin to accrue immediately upon the employee's return to full employment status in the same job title in which he had been serving prior to the layoff. Job classification seniority shall continue to accumulate until there is a break in service. Employees on unpaid leaves of absence or layoff shall not accrue job classification seniorily during the leave or during the period of layoff. Employees who are reinstated due to improper application of this Article shall not suffer any loss of seniority accrual.
6.	Nothing herein shall convey any bumping rights tn employees covered by this article. Failure to comply with any element of this article shall not result in delaying the effectuation ofthe layoff, and any errors identified with respect to the application of this procedure shall be corrected on a prospective basis only. Back pay shall not be awarded.
7.	The various appointing authorities shall create and maintain a recall list by title composed of those employees’who were laid off. The list shall continue i' in existence for nine (9) months following the date of layoff except for teaching personnel covered by this article in which case the list shah continue until the > beginning of the next full academic year immediately following the expiration • dale ofthe recall list. Employees who are fully qualified, possessing credentials deemed necessary, whose performance has been satis factory and who are capab Ie i of per forming the work to be ass igned shal I be recalled in inverse order of layoff. >• The appointing authority shall not be required to recall employees who were laid ! off pursuant to paragraph 4. of this article, however, such employees may be recalled at rhe option of the appointing authority' when the list of eligible . employees is exhausted.
8.	The term job classifications as used in this article shall encompass all titles w Ith in a title serie s. Hence, layoff wi ] I be based upon total seniority with! n ; a title series when applicable.
B. Procedure
The appointing authority shall simultaneously notify by regular mall or
57
.	iaL ।. ...	, r	...................^provide the defense,
phone at least three (3) eligible employees of a vacancy m their particular title and a copy of such notice shall be forwarded to the Union, The most senior t
2.	Indemnification
a. If the Attorney General provides for the defense of an employee, the
employee affirmatively and timely responding to the notice shall fill the position* We shal]	ide lndertlmikat,on fcr lbe ^1^. Nothing in ttlis setliun
The employee must respond within five (5) working days of the receipt of th«	e,,,.	v, or oxemolarv damans nr
authorizes the State to pay for punitive or exemplary damages or damages
notice or within ten (10) working days after the mading. 1 he letter o (recall shall : w from commis51on of a crima.
specify the latest date by which the employee may timely contact the appointing j. . b lfthe Attorney General refuses to provide for Ute defense of a State authority Employees who do not respond m a timely manner may be ; wlo„e tbc employee shall be entitled to indemnification if he establishes that permanently removed from the list. Each employee shall be responsible foj • t[1£. act ornmission upon which the claim or judgment was based occurred within address and phom SCl?pt. of his employment as an employee of the State and the State falls, to
number. The employee must report to work within a reasonably prompt period ? cstibl]sh tbat he or failed w act tec011se nf actual frakd, actuaj maflct. or
keeping the appointing authority advised of their current
of time which m no case shall exceed twenty (20) calendar days. Failure ttf i:>il|M roiscollducti 1flhe employee establishes that he was entitled to a defense, report within the time frame set forth above may result >n forfeiture of the f (hc Staw pay or reimburse bim for any bona fide settlement agreements position to which the employee had been recalled and elimination from the recalf etllere(i jnt{J by [fle employcei and sha(l pay or reimburse foln for any judgments entered against the employee, and shall pay or reimburse him for all costs of J defending the action, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses, together
list.

ARTICLE 30 LIABILITY CLAIMS INDEMNIFICATION
!•: with costs of appeal, if any.
Nothing in this section authorizes the State to pay for punitive or
A.	Employees covered hy this Agreement shall be entitled to defense	[a dama daraage5 re5ulting from the
indemnification as provided in NJ.S.A. 59:10-1 et seq. and NJ.S.A. 59.10A-1 a :	An emn!mce s(wll nnt bc entitled it
commission of a crime.
seq.
B.	For informational purposes only, the following paragraphs generally describe the provisions presently contained in the aforesaid statutes.	|
1.	Defense of Employees	i
c. An employee shall not be entitled to indemnification unless within
f ten (10) calendar days of ihe time ho is served with any summons, complaint, j- process, notice, demand or pleading, he delivers the original ora copy thereofto j. the Attorney General or his designee. Upon such delivery die Attorney General
may assume exclusive control of the employee's representation and such
a. Except as provided in paragraph 2. below, the Attorney General shall, , sllaN c00perale folly w]th the Attorney General's defense.
upon a request of an employee provide for the defense of any action broughl ,q pTOVjs^ons of	Article shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure
against the employee on account of an act or omission in the scope of his i-wset forthm Article 4
employment.. The Attorney General's duty to defend shall extend to a cross^ -
action, counterclaim or cross-complaint against an employee.
b. The Attorney General may refuse to provide for the defense of an jravfl REGULATIONS action referred to in paragraph 1. above if he determines that;
I.	the act or om ission was not with in the scope of emp loyment; or
2,	the act or failure to act was because of actual fraud, willful misconduct or actual malice; or
3.	The defense of the action or proceeding by the Attorney
ARTICLE 31
A. Transportation Allowance
l. Whenever an individual employee is authorized and required to use his privately owned vehicle or as a condition of his employment uses such vehicle, the State will be responsible for indemnification pursuant to appropriate
legislation for such sanctioned use and shall reimburse the employees at the
j IWKJJiaUUJ I IVl	□Oll’r b IVI	Ml IM *
General would create a conflict of .merest between the State and the employee. ■■ lj(,abje rate provided by ,aw f0[ each c. In any other action or proceeding, including criminal proceedings, thq 'ir the defftnep nfflfi emnlnvrft if he cnncludtfl
c. In any other action or
Attorney Genera] may provide far the defense ofan employee if he concludes
that such representation is in the best interest of the State.
d. Whenever the Attorney General provides for the defense of art employee, the Attorney General may assume exclusive control over the, representation of such employee and such employee shall cooperate fully with
the Attorney General's defense.	■
c. The Attorney General may provide for a defense by an attorney from; his own staff or by employing other counsel for this purpose or by asserting the State's right under any appropriate insurance policy, which requires the insurer ter
mile of such use. Authorization for
such use is predicated on the individual maintaining basic automobile insurance
as specified in the New Jersey Travel Regulations and current registration and licensure.
2.	During such authorized use of his privately owned vehicle, the State requires each individual accepting such authorization to maintain insurance for personal liability in the minimum amounts of $25,000. for each person and $5 0,000 for each accident and $ 10,000 property damage tor each acc i de nt. 'I h e
State will provide insurance coverage where such privately owned vehicles are used in the authorized business of the State covering the excess over the valid
59
58
and collectible private insurance in the amount of$ 150,000 for each person and $500,000 for each accident for personal liability and 550,000 property damage for each accident unless and until legislation is passed which requires the State to indemnify and held harmless iheir employees for personal injuries and property damage caused by the negligence of said employees while operating their privately owned vehicles on the authorized business ofthe State,
3.	The requirement to utilize a privately owned vehicle shall not be imposed where it causes undue hardship on the employee.
B.	Reimbursement
I,	Employees shall be reimbursed for travel expenses while on the authorized business of the State in keeping with the conditions set forth in the Travel Regulations ofthe State.
2,	a. Expenses incurred for necessary parking and tolls directly related to the authorized use of a vehicle on official State business are allowed and reimbursable by the State. A11 such expenses require documentation and may require advanced authorization. An exception to the requirement of documentation of an expense may be authorized for such circumstances where receipts for payments are not available; for example, the payment of parking meter expenses.
b. Vouchers, inclusive of required supplemental documentation, shall be submitted on a monthly basis when travel expenses are incurred. Such vouchers presented for reimbursement on or prior to the last day of the month shall be processed promptly through local authorization procedures and, if approved, submitted to the Division of Budget and Accounting to assure receipt prior to the tenth (10) day of the following month.
3.	Payment where warranted under the Travel Regulations shall be made promptly providing the voucher is complete and accurate and received within the time schedule outlined herein.
4.	In exception to these conditions, whenever an employee accumulates authorized expenses of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more, that employee may exercise an option to submit an appropriate voucher with documentation for payment without regard to the ordinary monthly schedule. Further, where authorized monthly expenses are less than ten dollars ($10.00), the State may exercise an option to accumulate such expenses to include other monthly periods until there is an amount in excess often dollars ($10.00) but such accumulation shall not be continued beyond three (3) successive months.
C.	An employee who is authorized to use a privately owned vehicle for State business may elect not to transport other employees of the Stare except that this election must be communicated in advance of any travel assignment thus providing sufficient time notice for planning purposes.
D.	When the State requ ires an employee to be med ically exam ined by a State designated doctor or medical facility, travel expenses, not inconsistent with the Travel Regulations ofthe State, shall be paid in the same manner and under the same conditions as other travel expenses. An employee attending such examination shall do so without loss of pay for necessary time of such attendance
and necessary (ravel time appropriate thereto if during no mini working time, £. 1. In order to provide continuity of scheduled work by an employee who is regularly authorized to use a privately owned vehicle for State business and in the event such vehicle is damaged or otherwise inoperable and undergoing major repairs such employee may request temporary use ofa State owned vehicle from those vehicles in the motor pool servicing the particular function. The request If endorsed by the appropriate supervisor shall be presented to the State official in charge of those vehicles for approval and authorization. Such vehicles may be assigned for up to three (3) days and such period may be extended if required.
2,	AU such use of State vehicles most conform to the regulations pertaining thereto.
3,	Employees authorised to utilize State owned vehicles shall obtain gasoline and related services and products at State facilities.
4.	Employees may request the issuance of State credit cards when circumstances seem to warrant. Such requests if endorsed by appropriate management and approved by the State official at the local motor pool will be forwarded to the Central Motor Pool for authorization. The issuance of credit cards shall be within conditions and criteria established by the supervisor ofthe Centra} Motor Peel
F. Grievances concerning these matters shall be considered noTi-contractuai.
ARTICLE 32
HEALTH AND SAFETY
A.	The State shah continue to make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment. The State will discharge its responsibility for the development and enforcement of occupational safety and health standards to provide a safe and healthful environment in accordance with PEOSHA and any other applicable statutes, regulations or guidelines published in the New Jersey Register which pertains to health and safety matters. The State wi I i set up necessary job safety and health programs for all employees covered by this Agreement and shall provide a reasonably safe and healthful place of employment for all employees.
B.	The parties agree to cooperate in maintaining and improving safe working conditions and health protection for the employees consistent with established safety standards and In the promotion of safety, safe working habits and good housekeeping throughout the work environment. Where reasonably possible each employee will comply with ail safety rules and regulations.
C,	Employee complaints of unsafe or unheahhful conditions shall be reported to the immediate supervisor and shall be promptly investigated. Corrective action shall be Initiated as soon as practicable to remedy the condition within safety guidelines.
D,	Employees shall not be required to work under conditions of work, which are unsafe or unhealthful. An employee whose work is temporarily eliminated as a result ofthe foregoing may be promptly assigned on an interim basis to other comparable work for which the employee is qualified to perform. Each
61
department and agency ofthe State will appoint a health and safety coordinator who will have the power to investigate employee health and safety complaints, and who shall have the authority to recommend to the Commissioner or his/her designee the issuance of stop work orders when there is an imminent threat tn employee safety or health The Commissioner or his/her designee shall act on the recommendation within a reasonable period of time. Health and safety coordinators will report directly to department or agency heads or their designees. The Union will be provided with the names of all health and safety coordinators.
E,	If an employee incurs an on-the-job injury during regular hours of employment requiring professional medical attention, the State will expedite such medical treatment by calling for an ambulance, if required, or providing transportation to a recognized medical facility when the injured employee can be moved.
F.	I. a. The State and the Union shall establish a Joint Safety and Health Committee for the purpose of discussing safety and health problems, hazards and/or programs in an effort to develop recommendations concerning improvements or modifications of conditions regarding health and safety. It is appropriate for the committee to handle issues of a Statewide and local nature. The committee sliall be attended by one (1) unit member appointed by the Union and representatives from the State and the appropriate operating departments). At the request of either partyT rhe committee shall be scheduled to meet at a mutually convenient lime and place bimonthly. In emergent situations, additional meetings may be convened upon the mutual agreement of the parties. Where there is a mutual agreement to do so, special safely meetings may be scheduled at work locations. None of these meetings are intended to bypass the grievance procedure nor be considered collective negotiations sessions. Any program instituted, as the result of any meeting shall be considered experimental and not constitute a binding practice unless the parties specifically agree in writing.
b.	The party requesting the meeting shall submit a written agenda of the suggested topics) to be discussed al least fifteen (15) workdays prior to convening the meeting except where an emergent situation warrants a waiver of this period. There must be mutual agreement upon topics to be placed on the agenda for ihe meeting.
c.	The State and the U nion agree to set up a subcom m Ittee o f the State Health and Safety Committee to discuss the use of VDT machines in State Departments. Included tn the discussions will be ihe Department of Health Guidelines on the use ofVDT machines. The subcommittee will consist of four management representatives and four Union representatives. The subcommittee may make recommendations to ihe Commissioner ofthe Department of Labor as to future PEG SHA regulations. The subcommittee will meet quarterly. The committee shall meet within 90 days after the contract is signed.
d.	The committee shall consider recommendations for new or revised health and safety standards developed by either the Union or the State.
This program shall expire on June 30,2003 unless extended in whole or
62
in part by mutual agreement between the State and the Union.
2.	The State and the Union shall establish Departmental Health and Safety Committees. These committees shall consist of representatives from the Department and representatives from ihe Local Union whom are not in Lhe active employment of the State. The Union may also have one (1) unit employee representative attend such meetings. Such employee representative shall be released only for the purpose of attending his/her department's scheduled meeting. The purpose of the Joint Committee meetings is to provide the parties the opportunity to raise and discuss important Departmental health and safety matters, and to make recommendations concerning Improvements or modifications of conditions regarding health and safety. Department committee meetings may be scheduled at the request of either party, The party requesting the meeting shall submit a written agenda of the meeting cicil less than fourteen (14) working days prior to rhe meeting along with any documents or reports that are relevant to the topic(s) listed on the agenda. Complaints of unsafe or unhealthy conditions shall be accompanied by written documentatinn when available.
3.	Where reasonably possible, all committee meetings shall rake place during working hours and employees shall suffer no loss of pay as a result of attendance at such meetings
4.	This provision shall not be construed as conveying any additional liabilities upon either party with respect to health or safety.
G.	I. References to safely are intended to include a concept of reasonable personal security and protections, which shah he maintained to assure employees against physical harm.
2.	It is understood that references to safety and health hazards and conditions of work referred to in this Article are not Intended to include those hazards and risks which are an ordinary characteristic of the work or arc reasonably associated with the performance of an employee's responsibilities and duties. However, this is not intended to eliminate the State's genera! obligations for the safety and health of such employees as set forth in cither provisions of this Article.
3.	Notice of proposed work site relocations nr renovations shall be provided to the Union. The State agrees to meet with the Union concerning the impact of such relocations and renovations upon health and safety conditions and other terms and conditions of employment.
4.	Pursuant ro the State's contractual Health and Safety' Committee, the State agrees io set up meetings with rhe Union to discuss security concerns of field workers and to recommend safeguards as to field workers. Additionally, meetings will also be held to discuss workplace security issues.
H.	VID EO DISPLA ¥ T ERM INAL OPERATORS
1.	Full-time employees who operate VDT machines on a full-time basis shall be eligible for annual eye exams, Such employees shall also be eligible fur
63
reimbursement for the cost of glasses, should there be a change in the employee's lens prescription. Reimbursement rates are those established in Article 20, Section D.
2,	A full-time VDT operator who is pregnant and experiencing significant discomfort at her work station may request reassignment to other work allowing greater flexibility as to position and posture. Such requests will be given consideration and may be granted in full or in part when there is comparable work available. I f a reassignment is not available, the employee may be given other duties during the workday, based upon availability of the work and the employee's ability to perform it. These accommodations are, as to their degree nr contin lj ily, subject to the overrid ing need s of the emp laying agency. Grievances concerning the determination to grant or refuse such requests or otherwise directly related to those determinations are non-contractual and processed exclusively under Article 4, B.l _b.h of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 33
CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT
Where a loss or damage to personal property is sustained as a result of an action taken in the performance of the assigned duty of an employee, such loss will be adjusted. A claim for such loss must be filed within thirty (30) days of the time when the loss occurred. The claim must be filled out on rhe forms provided, including the requested adjustment, and submitted to the Stare for this action. The State shall provide the forms and any instructions, which may be necessary for the completion or processing ofthe forms.
ARTICLE 34
TUITION AID AND EMPLOYEE TRAINING
A.	Tuition Aid Program
1.	Where a department or appointing authority ofthe State has established a tuition aid program, the Union shall be provided with a published description of the program, if available. Applications for tuition aid and determinations concerning the approval and conditions for payment shall be in accordance with the Merit System Rules.
2.	Employees of a State College who take approved courses at the College where they are employed under the program outlined in Appendix I shall have tuition waived upon enrollment.
Waiver of tuition is predicated on satisfactory completion of such courses and other conditions set forth in the program description.
3.	In all departments where tuition aid programs are in effect, those programs will be made available to employees in this unit.
B.	Employee Training
1	The State shall continue to offer training programs of proven worth, which are aimed at skills development and improvement in order to alTord employees greater opportunity for performance improvement and promotional growth. Such offer ing may be regulated or limited by availability of funds or
64
other factors,
2	, When in-service or out-service training programs are available to a group of employees, the selection of the employee(s) to be trained shall he predicated on the needs of the State, the polcntiaE of an employee to benefit by (he training and to contribute to the operational program in which he or she is employed, and with due regard to a principle of fair opportunity for all eligible employees within the group.
ARTICLE 35
EMERGENCY WORK
A.	Unit employees shall be eligible for the special emergency rates ar the employee's regular overtime rate, when entitled to overtime under the Fair Labor Standards Act, whichever is greater, if called in to work under the following specific circumstances:
I.	Employees in the unit must be called in outside of scheduled work shifts; and
2,	The work involved must be for emergency maintenance, replacement or repair of equipment or mechanical devices which arc vital to the operation of an institution, agency or other function ofthe Slate; and
3,	Such work must be necessitated by damage or failure resulting from storm, flood, explosion, sudden unexpected catastrophe or like causes; and
4.	Such conditions must constitute unreasonable, safety hazard to the public employees, other persons or properly ofthe State.
5.	In winter weather conditions, codes C, D and E are to be used exclusively for emergency work performed in excess of normal work hours related to winter weather conditions such as snow removal and ice'control.
B.	It is clearly understood that all of the foregoing elements or criteria must be met fbr an employee to be entitled to payment at the emergency rate. The following special project pay rates shall apply:
1.	Supervisors exclusively in rhe Department of Transportation^ Trenton Emergency' Control Center during all emergency situations, Including winter wealhcr conditions. The talc of $43.23 per hour is authorized and known as Emergency Rate Code 7.
2,	Employees who are engaged in manual or unskilled work as by use of shovels, picks, axes, choppers, etc., the rate of$21.63 per hour is authorized and known as Emergency Rate Code 6.
3.	Employees who perform semi-skilled work including the operation of mechanized equipment such as trucks, plows, .light-graders, backhoes, etc.; a rale of S27.76 per hour is authorized and known as Emergency Rate Code 5.
4.	Employees who perform skilled work including the operation of heavy equipment or (hose employees who are assigned to be in charge of or supervise either semi-skilled or unskilled workers or both, (he rate of S3 3.74 per hour is authorized and known as Emergency Rate Cude 4.
5.	Employees who supervise skilled workers or mixed teams of skilled, semi-skilled anchor unskilled employees, the rate of S36.fi4 per hour is authorized
65
and known as Emergency Rate Code 3.
6.	Supervisors who are in charge of a local area or district emergency operations, the rate of S42.62 per hour is authorized and known as Emergency Rate Code 2.
7.	Supervisors who are In charge of emergency operations on a Statewide or regional level within a department with operations going on in several areas throughout the State, the rate of $49,3 7 per hour is authorized and known ns Emergency Rate Code 1.
8,	Employees who supervise and/or assist in the supervision of sectional or area crews will have an hourly rate of $3 9.5 7 per hour and such wo rk shall be known as Code Rate C.
9.	Employees who operate heavy duty equipment, such as truck/front end loader mounted snow blowers; perform mechanical repair work; supervise the distribution of inventory parts for emergency operations; perform skilled labor involved in the repair of equipment; or act as Department representative assigned to snow removal activities shall have an hourly rate of $35.93 per Hour and such work shall be known as Code Rate D.
10.	Employees who operate “walk behind” snow blowers, graders, front end loaders, trucks, snow plows, material spreaders, compressors, and other mechanized equipment; make or assist in making occasional mechanical or electrical repairs; distribute or assist in the distribution of inventory parts for emergency operations; handle radio communications consoles at base radio stations or assist in State or district control center operations shall have an hourly rate of $33.70 per hour and such work shall be known as Code Rate E.
C.	The emergency rates described in B. 14 0 above, shall be adjusted by the
across-the-board increases noted in Article 6.
D,	The requirement of each employee to respond, if called when such emergency conditions are present, constitutes a condition of State employment. An employee who refuses an assignment because of a reasonable excuse will not be subj ected to disc ip Unary action. However, any absence or repeated absence cr refusal to respond without good and sufficient reason, may be cause for such action.
E* When an employee is called in and reports for an emergency work assignment, he shall be paid for all hours actually worked outside his normally scheduled work shift and shall be entitled to a minimum oftwo (2) hours pay at the appropriate special project rate whether or not such two (2) hours are actually worked, providing the employee remains available for any work assigned.
F. Lists showing the rotational order of each employee and the total hours work cd and refused by each emp ioyce shall be maintained in the work unit. Such lists shall be made available for inspection on request to Union Officers, G. An emergency overtime assignment is subject to all appropriate rules and regulations ofthe State and the Department.
H. In exception to the requirement that employees be called in outside of regular work shifts, employees assigned to Snow and Ice Central Emergency Overtime will receive the appropriate special project rate after the end ofthe
employee's regular work shift during the time prior to the next regular work shift.
ARTICLE 36
The following provisionfs) are set forth herein for informational purposes only. These matters as they apply to individual employees affected shall be grievable within the provisions ofthe Grievance Procedure in the Agreement as defined in Article IV, Section A.2. except for the provisions below that arc underlined which are grievable under Article IV, Section A.l.
TRANSFER AND REASSIGNMENT
A. Transfer
J. Transfer is the movement of an employee from one job assignment tn another within his job classification in another organizational unit or department.
2.	An employee shall not be transferred without the approval and consent of the appointing authority from and to whose unit the transfer is sought, nor without the consent of the employee, or the approval of the Department of Personnel, except that;
a.	The consent of the employees shall not be required when the employee movement is the result of a transfer or combining of functions of one unit to or with another;
b.	When a temporary transfer is made, the consent of the employee shall not he required; but if the employee objects, be shall have the right to have the transfer reviewed by the Department of Personnel;
c.	AnyspecialhardshipthatmayresuitwillbcgivendueceinsideraTion; .
d.	The.rights of an employee who has voluntarily transferred shall not be adversely affected except that he shall not retain any rights in rhe unit from which he has transferred:
e.	The rights of an employee who has involuntarily transferred shall not be adversely affected but he shall retain no rights in the unit from which he has been transferred except ihat if he is on a promotional lisV his name shall be retained on the promotional eligible list for the unit from which he has been transferred until he has had an opportunity to take a promotional examination, in his new unit and the resultant list has been promulgated. Nothing herein is intended to diminish the rights of employees resulting from a layoff:
f.	Transfer shall not affect the accumulation of an employee's State or job classification seniority,.
3.	Upon .any transfer, of a permanent employee, all sick jeave and vacation balances shall be transferred with flie.employee, except that:
a.	Upon voluntary transfer, all accrued compensatory time will, at the discretion of the State, be transferred with the employee, taken as time off prior to transfer or paid in cash at the employee's current rate of pay.
b.	Upon involuntary transfer of a permanent employee, all_accrued compensatory time tealances shall be transferred with the employee.
c.	When accepted for transfer by an organizational unit or department the request for transfer shall not be unreasonably withheld by the organizational unit or department where the individual is employed.
66
67
4.	Ah employee may request a transfer through his personnel officer.
B,	Reassignment
1.	Reassignment is the movement of an employee from one job assignment io another within his job classification and within the work unit, organizational unit or department.
2,	Reassignments of emp loyees may be made in accordance with the fisca I responsibilities ofthe appointing authority, to improve or maintain operational effectiveness, or to provide employee development and job training or a balance of employee experience in any work area. Where such reassignments are not mutually agreed to, the appointing authority will make reassignments in the inverse order of the job classification seniority ofthe employees affected, given the above conditions, providing the employees are capable of doing the work and it is agreed that special qualifications of a personal nature or special hardships which may result will be given due consideration.
3,	When temporary reassignments (ordinarily of (ess than six (6) months* duration) are made to achieve any of The objectives in B. 2. above, employees to be affected will be £ivcn majrirriiim possible, notice, The consideration of seniority otherwise applicable in reassignments will not apply. The utilization of the concept of temporary reassignments wilt not be used unreasonably.
4.	When personae! changes in a work unit provide opportunities for shift or schedule changes^ interested employees may apply for desired assignment to the work unit supervisor. Such changes in assignment will be made on the basis of the job classification seniority of employees requesting the change, except that priority is given to the assignment of individual employees as provided in B,2. above.
5.	When a vacancy is filled by an employee from outside a work unit, the employee joining that work unit shall be assigned the open position on the shift and work schedule, which were appropriate to the opening.
6.	a. Where the principles in B, 2. above are observed, requests for voluntary reassignment within the organizational unit or department shall be given consideration.
b ■ A_n_ employee desiring reassignment to any job in hi$_prfianjzstional unit or department may submit an application th rough his supervisor inwrittneto his PersonngLOlljcojistating (he reasons for the request, Employees who are capable of performing the work and who apply for such reassignments will be considered and reassignments will be made on the basis of these requests. Where more than one request for reassignment from qualified employees deemed capable of performing the work in such a job is on record, any assignments) will be made on the basis of the job classification seniority of employees having recorded such a request.
7.	An employee may have on record no more than two (2) requests for reassignment in d.b. above.
8.	When an employee is granted a voluntary reassignment under provisions of 4,5 or 6 above, he shall then be eligible for only one (1) additional voluntary reassignment in the succeeding twelve (12) -month periods. Consideration will
be given to a request for additional reassignment where special circumstances exist.
9.	Salary steps, seniority or like substantive rights shall not be adversely aflcctedbvreassignTnerrt unless specifically set forth herein.
10.	Permanent employees shall be given preference for consideration for voluntary reassignment as contrasted to provisional or probationary employees. C. Special Requests
Requests for transfer or reassignment predicated on extreme personal hardship will be given priority consideration where positions are available which the employee is capable of performing.
D* Reassignment Tor Union Officers and Stewards
I.	The State and the Union recognize that Union Officers and Shop Stewards ,have in their relationship jto jhejrj.ohs a need fnr_c.ontj.nujty _in the assigned shift and iurisdfetionjwhich exceeds Ihat ol'nthcr Ibllow.pmpljryecs. It is agreed, therefore^that these U mtm_Otfic.ersand Stewards wHl.not be routinely reassigned outside of their established jurisdiction.
2.	The State and the Union recognize rhe need to utilize alt personnel to meet operational requirements effectively and notwithstanding the commitment in Paragraph I., above, movement of such Union Officers and Shop Stewards outside of their established Jurisdiction may be necessary and appropriate (generally on a temporary basis) in exception to the guidelines agreed to jn Paragraph 1.
3.	The exception used in Paragraph 2, will not be used unreasonably.
ARTICLE 37
PRESENTATION OF AGREEMENT TO EMPLOYEES
Printing nf Agreement
After the signing of this Agreement, the State, at its expense will reproduce this Agreement in sufficient quantities so that each employee in the unit may receive a copy, and so that there are sufficient additional copies for distribution to employees hired during the term nf this Agreement and for additional copies to the Union. The State shall distribute such copies of the Agreement to all employees in the unit and to the Union within a reasonable period of time after the Agreement has been executed. The cover ofthe Agreement shall include the seal of the State of New Jersey and (he insignia or other appropriate designation of the unit representative.
ARTICLE 38
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION AND DISABILITY
A.	Alt eligible employees in this unit are covered under (he State Unemployment Compensation Plan under the current laws of the Slate of New Jersey.
B.	The State agrees lo include eligible employees in this unit in the Stare of New Jersey Temporary Disability Plan. That is a shared cost plan, which provides payments to employees who arc unable to work as the result of non
69
68
work connected illness or injury and who have exhausted their accumulated sick leave,
ARTICLE 39
MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS, EFFECT OF AGREEMENT AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT
A,	Maintenance of Benefits
The fringe benefits* which are substantially uniform in their application to employees in the unit, and which arc currently provided to those employees, such as the Health Benefits Program, the Life Insurance Program and their like, shall remain in effect without diminution during the term of this Agreement unless modified herein or by subsequent agreement ofthe parties.
B.	Effect of Agreement
Regulatory policies initiated by the various institutions and agencies where these employees are working which have the effect of work rules governing the conditions of employment within the institution or agency and which conflict with any provision of this Agreement shall be considered to be modified consistent with the terms of this A greement, provided that if the State changes or intends to make changes which have the effect of elimination in part or in whole such terms and conditions of employment, the State will notify the Union and, if requested by the Union within ten (10) days of such notice or of such change or of the date on which the change would reasonably have become known to the emp loyces affected, the State shall within twenty (20) days of such request enter negotiations with the Union on the: matter involved, providing (he matter is within the scope of issues which are mandatory negotiable under the Employer-Employee Relations Act as amended and further, if a dispute arises as to the negotiability of such matters, that the procedures of the Public Employment Relations Commission shall be utilized to resolve such dispute.
C.	Complete Agreement
The State and the Union acknowledge this and any Memoranda of Understanding attached hereto to be their complete Agreement inclusive of all negotiable issues whether or not discussed and hereby waive any right to further negotiations except as may otherwise be provided herein or specifically reserved for continued negotiation by particular reference in memorandum of understanding pre-dating the date of signing ofthe Agreement and except that proposed new rules or modifications of existing rules governing working conditions shall be presented to the Union and negotiated upon the request of the Union as may be required pursuant to Chapter 303 ofthe Laws of New Jersey, as amended.
ARTICLE 40 PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the parties hereto recognize and agree that they separately maintain and reserve al I rights to util ize the process o f the P ubl ic Emp loytneni Relations Comm ission and to seek j ud icial
review oFor interpose any and all claims or defenses in legal actions surrounding such proceedings as unfair practices, scope of negotiations, enforcement or modification of arbitration awards, issues of arbitrability, and specific performance ofthe Agreement.
ARTICLE 41
EFFECT OF LAW
A- Legislative Action
I.	If any provisions of (his Agreement require legislative action, nr require adoption or modification of the rules and regulations of the Department of Personnel to become effective, or require the appropriation of funds for their implementation, it is hereby understood and agreed that such provisions shall become effective only after the necessary legislative action or rule modification is enacted, and that the parties shall jointly seek the enactment of such legislative action or rule modification.
2.	In the event (hat legislation becomes effective during the term of this Agreement, which has the effect of improving the wages and fringe benefits otherwise available to eligible employees in this unit, this Agreement shall not be construed as a limitation on their eligibility for such improvements.
B. Savings Clause
L If any provision of this Agreement shall conflict with any Federal or State law or have the effect of eliminating or making the State ineligible for Federal funding, that specific provision of this Agreement shall be deemed amended or nullified to conform to such law. The other provisions of the Agreement shall not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect. Where a conflict of a provision of this Agreement with Federal or State law would result in the amendment or nullification of the language of this Agreement as provided above, the modification shall be made only to the extent required to preclude any unlawful provisions.
2. Upon request of either party the State and the Union agree io meet and renegotiate any provision so affected.
ARTICLE 42
NOTICES
For the purpose of giving notice as provided herein, die State may be notified through the Director, Office of Employee Relations. Governor's Office, State House, 4th floor, PO Box 228, Trenton, New Jersey, 08625; and the Union through the Communications Workers of America, 134 Franklin Comer Road, Suite 201, Lawrenceville, New Jersey 08648-2527.
70
71
ARTICLED
TERM OF AGREEMENT AND NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
A,	Term of Agreement
I,	This Agreement shall become effective on the date when the Union presents written certification of proper ratification to the Stale and shall remain in foil force and effect until June 30, 2007. The certification shall be effective if delivered to the State within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement.
2.	The Agreement shall be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either; party shall give written notice of its desire to terminate, modify or amend the Agreement. Such notice shall be by certified mail prior to October 1, 2006 or October 1 of any succeeding year for which foe Agreement has been renewed.
B,	Negotiations Procedure
I,	The parties agree to enter into collective negotiations concerning a successor Agreement to become effective on or after July 1,2007, subject to the provisions of paragraph A, above.
2.	The parties also agree to negotiate in good faith on all juutLcrs presented for negotiations. Should an impasse develop, the procedures available under law. shall be utilized exclusively in an orderly manner in an effort to resolve such; impasse.
72
TN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Stine and iJif Union have caused ehii Agreement iq> be signed by their duly authorized representative? u oflhis 9‘* day of February, 2004.
FOR I HE STATE OF NBW JERSEY;

FOR THE COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA/
73
M EMOR ANDUM O F UNDERSTANDING 1
The following contractual provisions do not apply to the unclassified service;
Department of Persoilnel Rules
Promotion
Job Posting and Announcements - Career Service
Department of Personnel Exams
Leaves of Absence (Paragraph A in (he Professional, Primary Level Supervisors and Higher Level Supervisors Contracts; and Paragraph F in the Administrative and Clerical Services Contract)
Seniority
Layoff and Recall - Career Service
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 2
A- The inclusion of certain part-time employees with in the negotiating unit shall not be construed to expand the coverage of any State program relating to terms and conditions of employment for which such part-time: employees were not previously deemed to be eligible, or to include such part-time employees under the coverage of any provision of this Agreement unless the substance of the provision describes a type of program for which such part-time employees were generally eligible prior to inclusion under the Agreement. Where such part-time
employees are eligible for State programs or coverage under provisions of this ; ■ Agreement, appropriate pro-rations will be made In accord with their part-lime status.
B. Disputes concerning whether part-time employees are eligible for coverage under any provision of the Agreement between the parties, or the terms and 5 conditions ofthe coverage, shall be deemed to be a B.l.b (non-contractual) grievance and shall not be eligible for Step Three arbitration.	.<

APPENDIX 1
STATE COLLEGES TUITION WAIVER PROGRAM
A* The tuition waiver program provides tuition assistance to employees who take approved courses at the college where they are employed on their m time. The intent ofthe program is to fulfill the needs ofthe State college sponsoring the aid, State government as a whole arid to enhance employee development. Each college shall determine its needs and waive tuition for employees engaged in an approved course of study.
B.	Each State Co I lege shal 1 prepare a tuition aid p Ian at the beginning of each fiscal year with consideration given to affirmative action responsibilities. The plan shall specify:
1.	Employee el igibil ity which is 1 imited to fill l-time, permanent emp loyees in the classified and unclassified services with exceptions granted on a case by case basis by the college;
2.	Internal application procedure;
3.	Maa in mi i l autvunl i/f aid available per peison not to exceed $ 1,000.00 : or the cost of twelve credits, whichever is greater, per semester or education program;
c.
4,	Acceptable academic grades for waiver af tuition;
5.	Eligible costs; and
6,	A procedure to notify employees of approval or disapproval.
Employees who do not satisfactorily complete courses for which tuition
waiver had been granted, shall be required to reimburse the College Ibr all waived costs. Until such reimbursement has been made, no further waivers will be available to that employee.
D.	I It is understood that major programmatic changes shall not be made without negotiating with the Union whenever that obligation would exist.
2.	Additional criteria for determining eligibility within the program may be
: established by the College.
E.	When an employee is on an approved program of study under the tuition 1 waiver program, that employee may elect to take courses under that study •' program either at the State College where the employee works, or at another
State College if such course is available there. Courses taken at another State . College are subject to the same contractual requirement* as the courses taken at
the College where the employee works.
APPENDIX 2
UNIT ELIGIBILITY FOR INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES PERFORMING ADMINISTRATIVE AND CLERICAL WORK,; PROFESSIONAL WORK, OR PRIMARY LEVEL SUPERVISORY WORK
A.	Employees Voting in the Election	!
Intermittent employees shall be in the unit if the employee works at least the stipulated number of hours during each payroll quarter within the calendar . year. An employee must work 20ft hours during the payroll quartern beginning nearest January I and July 1 and 242 hours during the payroll quartern beginning nearest April I and October 1.
I,	If an emp loyee fails to work the requ ired hours with in a calendar year quarter, that employee shall be removed from the unit at the beginning the next quarter, unless the provisions cl’C are applicable.
2.	An employee removed from the unit due to not meeting the quarterly , hours requirement, shall be reinstated to the unit by working 69 hours during a : period consisting of two consecutive bi-weekly pay periods and continuing to work 69 hours in each subsequent two bi-weekly payroll periods until the next quarter begins. The employee would be readmitted into the unit the first bi- '■ weekly pay period subsequent to qualifying as above. When the employee reenters rhe quarterly rotation, the employee shall be expected to continue to work the required hours to remain in the unit.
B.	New Employees	।
I.	New employees shall enter the unit after having worked 208 hours 1 • during six consecutive pay periods and must continue to work at least 69 hours fbr each subsequent two bi-weekly payroll periods preceding the start of a calendar year quarter.
2,	After entering the quarterly calendar cycle, employees must work the required hours a quarter.
3.	Failure to work the required hours a quarter would trigger the provision outlined in A.I. and 2., unless the provisions of C are applicable. J C. Furloughed Employees
1.	Employees who were in the unit but were furloughed due to operational requirements shall automatically be placed back in the unit upon their return from furlough.
2.	Such employees would be expected to work 69 hours for each two i consecutive bi-weekly pay periods during the time an employee works prior to ; the start of a quarterly cycle.
3.	The employee must continue to work the required hours a calendar < year quarter to continue in the unit.
4.	Employees who work less than the required hours a calendar year quarter would trigger the provision outlined in A. J. and 2.
5.	The period of furlough shah be removed from the computation of : hours worked in any period and the requirement prorated. As an example — if an employee is furloughed during a calendar quarter the required hours for the
i
76	;
quarter would be reduced by 35 hours for each biweekly pay period the employee is furloughed.
77
APPENDIX 3 SIDE LETTER OF ACRE EM ENT# I Access to Premises
The State and the Union agree that both parties will abide by the access to premises provision in the Union Rights and Representatives contract article. If problems develop as to access to premises a representative from the Office of Employee Relations and the Communications Workers of America will meet to seek an amicable resolution to the problems. If no resolution is achieved both parties reserve their rights to exercise legal and contractual options available.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2
Access to Premises
During the time prior to the ratification of this Agreement the Union may request access to premises in accordance with the Access to Premises provision ofthe applicable Agreement in order to explain the negotiated Agreement. As a one time per location per unit exception to the normal circumstance regarding Union meetings, the meetings may be conducted for up to 30 minutes.: Employees may attend such meetings by combining their fore and afternoon breaks. Recognizing its responsibility to maintain necessary coverage, management shall attempt to accommodate employees who wish to attend such meetings. Employees who are unable to attend such meetings due to the need to maintain coverage shall be allowed tu combine their breaks should subsequent pre-ratification meetings be conducted by the Union. No employee may attend a. 30-mmute meeting more than once.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #3 Additional Titles to the Clothing Allowance
The parties agree that employees serving in the list of titles set forth below and who meet the e tigi bi I ity requirements otherwise set forth in Article 6, Section B, Clothing Maintenance Allowance, (with the exception ofthe requirement of receiving the clothing maintenance allowance in fiscal year 2002/2003), shall be entitled to receive a clothing allowance as contractually set forth in the above mentioned article effective in fiscal year 2003/2004. These titles shall be added to the I is t of titles already el igibl e to reed vc the c lothing maintenance al Io wanes:
1)	Prof. Serv. Spec. 2 Facilities (P-81270)
2)	Prof Serv. Spec. 3 Computer (P-81258)
3)	Prof. Serv. Spec, 4 Computer {P-81254)
4)	Prof. Serv. Spec. 4 Facilities (P-81256)
5)	Computer Operator 1, H E (A -533 041)
6)	Computer Operator 1, OIT (A-533O4C)
7)	Computer Operate r 2,1 IE (A-5 33031)
8)	Computer O perator 2, OIT (A-5 3 30 3C)
9)	Computer Operator 3, HE (A-53302I)
10)	Computer Operator 3, OTT (A-53302C)
11)	Technical Oper. Analyst CATV (P-15301)
78
12)	Area Superv isor B ridge Operations (S-4 03 5 5)
13)	Supervisor Supply Support Oper. (S-43875J
] 4) Princ ipal Engineer Mechanica I (R-16894)
15)	Senior Engineer Mechanical (P-16893)
16)	Head Microfilm Machine Operator (R-22025)
17)	Head Vault Clerk ( S-2062 5)
18)	Supervisor Motor Carrier Inspec. & Inv. (S-13336)
19} Asst. Supervisor Fingerprint Tech. Unit (R-45014)
20)	Supervisor Fingerprint Tech. Unit (S-45D15)
21)	Field Investigator Institutionalized Elderly (P-60276)
22)	Field Investigator, Nursing Care Institut. Elderly (P-60280)
23)	Chemist Trainee (P-01550)
24)	Principal Environmental Technician (R-59976)
25)	Principal Environmental Technician, Water Resources (R-59976D)
26)	Interpretive Spec. 4 (R-54399)
27)	Resource Interpretive Spec. 3 (P-54398)
28)	Resource Interpretive Spec. 2 (P-54405)
29)	Resource Interpretive Spec. 2± Natural (P-54405C)
30)	Resource Interpretive Spec. 2, Historic (P-54405D)
31)	Resource interpretive Spec. 1 (P-54406)
32)	Resource Interpretive Spec. lt Natural (P-54406C)
33)	Resource Interpretive Spec. 1» Historic (P-54406D)
34)	Research Scientist 2, Chemistry (F- 03165C)
3 5) Public Information Assistant (P-54452)
3 6) Puhi ic Informati on Trainee (P:5 44 50)
3 7) Environmental Eng ineer Trainee (P-16310)
38)	Environmental Scientist 1 (R-15874)
39)	Environmental Scientist 1, Cons. & Environ. Health Srvc. (R-15874F)
40)	Environmental Scientist 1, Health & Sr. Srvs. (R-15874D)
41)	Environmental Scientist I, Water Resources (R-l 5874C)
4 2) Environmental Sc ientist 2 (P-15 8 73)
43)	Environmental Scientist 2, Health & Sr. Srvs. (P-T 5873H)
44)	Environmental Scientist 2, Water Resources (P-15873D)
45)	Environmental Scientist 3 (P-15872)
46)	Entomologist 1 (R-02474)
47)	Entomologist 2 (P-02473)
48)	Supervising Entomologist (S-024 75)
49)	Research Scientist 2, Microbio. (P-03165D)
5	0) Research Sc ientist I, M icrobio. (P-03166 D)
51)	Safety Ceerdi nafor (WS A) (A -no code)
52)	Supervisor Public Safety Telecom. (R-03865)
53)	Deaf Blind Specialist (P-62656)
54)	Teacher 1, JJC & DOC (P-75293)
55)	Teacher 2, JJC & DOC (P-75294C)
79
56)	Teacher 2, 12 mos., JJC & DOC (P-75292) 5
57)	Teacher 2, ]Q mos.r JJC & DOC (P-75282) 5
58)	Teacher 3, 12 mos., JJC & DOC (P 75291)5
59)	Senior Instructor Counselor (R-6138!)
60)	Identification Officer (A-450J2)
61)	Senior Identification Officer (A45033)
62)	Supervising Clinical Dietician (S^4784)
63)	Institutional Transportation Supv, (R-43726)
Effective July 1,2004,500 additional employees will be eligible for the clothing allowance.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #4 Agency Fee
The State and the Union are contracting parties in an agreement concern ing wages and terms and conditions of cmpluyment for the period July 1, 2003 through June 30,2007. One article of that agreement embodies a condition whereby employees are required to pay a representation fee to the Union, As a condition ofthe continuance of that requirement, it is understood that the Union will provide relevant financial information to employees and maintain its demand and return system in such manner as to be in accord with the then current law and determinations by the U.S. Supreme Court in all related matters but specifically with regard to expeditious response, provision of required information and the preservation of individual's constitutional rights; and further, it is understood that any rules or regulations promulgated by the New Jersey Public Employment Relations Commission concerning this matter will be abided by in the administration of the program.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #5
Alternate Workweek
When an Alternate Workweek Program is put forward by a Department or requested by the Union, the State, through the Governor's Office of Employee Relations and the Union, shall meet to discuss the parameters of such a program.
If the parties agree to proceed with an alternate workweek program in a particular Department or division within a Department, the State recognizes its obligation under the New Jersey Employer-Employee Relations Act to negotiate on negotiable terms and conditions of employment. The parties equally recognize that certain subjects within an alternate workweek program are preempted by Statute and/or regulations from negotiations.
Any agreement the parties may reach as to an alternate workweek program must be approved by the Department of Personnel as per their j urisd iction under N, J S.A. 11A, et seq.
5 Only Vocational and Horticultural
80
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #6 Department of Human Services
1.	The Union may request use of available space at an institution tn the Department of Human Services for use as an office or for the storage of papers and flies. Provisions of such space shall not be unreasonably withheld when available; however, the provision of space shall not take priority over essential uses and may be on a shared basis. The State shall incur no responsibility for security or safety of any Union materials nor any liability for loss or damages, which occur. Further, the Union may be permitted to furnish file cabinets or : other equipment to the commitment above and under the same conditions. The permission to utilize facilities ofthe State may be withdrawn by the State at any time.
2.	At State institutions ofthe Department of Human Services, the State will provide a thirty (30) minute period during the new employee's orientation period to allow a nun-State employee representative of the Union to meet and : explain the Union's responsibilities. If the non-Siate employee representative of the Union cannot be present during such orientation period, one (I) unit ' employee of the institution designated by the Union may be allowed to make ■ such presentation to a maximum of twelve (12) times per year. Any employee released pursuant to this paragraph for the purpose of addressing employees during orientation shall only address employees whose titles are contained in the same negotiating unit as the employee making the presentation,
3,	Upon the request of the Union at an institution in the Department of ; Human Services, a Labor/Management meeting shall be scheduled by management sometime during the second week of March, June, September and December. The quarterly meetings are to discuss local contract administration problems and improve communications. The Union shall designate one (I) employee from the Administrative and Clerical Services, Professional, Primary ; Level Supervisors and Higher Level Supervisors Units in order to attend such meetings. Meetings shall be up tn one-half(O).day induration. Either party may request a meeting and shall submit a written agenda of the topics to be discussed ; at least seven (7) days prior to such meeting. Employee representatives who attend such meetings during their scheduled work shift shall be granted time off to attend without loss of pay. If any employee representative who attends the meeting is scheduled to work on another shift on the date of said meeting or attends (he meeting on his/her normal day off, he/she shall be granted hour-for-hour compensatory' time for the time spent at the meeting.
This letter shall expire on June 30,2007 unless the parties mutually agree to an extension.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #7
Special Response Unit (SPRU), DYFS
The State and the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO agree that when DYFS workers who are represented by CWA work for the Special Response Unit (SPRU), they continue to be represented by CWA. The
81

parties agree that the status q uo concern] ng selection and pol ic ies and proced ures will remain unchanged.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #8 Department of Military and Veterans Affairs Alternate Workweek for Employees Performing Fire-fighting Duties
The Alternate Workweek Program currently in place at the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs, which affect employees in (he titles Staff Officer 3, Staff Assistant 1, and Staff Assistant 2, that perform fire’fighting services at the Atlantic City Air Base shall, for the duration of this contract, remain in place as is, as per the November 10, 1993 agreement between the Slate of New Jersey, Office of Employee Relations, and the Communications Workers of America. The July 19,1994 letter from the Department of Military and Veterans Affairs to the Communications Workers of America shall also continue for the duration of this contract as is.
This side letter of agreement expires on June 30, 2007.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #9
Dignity
In order to resolve an outstanding dispute concerning Articled, section C-6, commonly referred to as the dignity clause, it is agreed that where an issue or issues in a dignity grievance may be covered by another article in the contract, or by direct appeal to the Department of Personnel, those issues shall be severed from the dignity grievance and appealed under the appropriate contract prevision, or by appeal to the Department of Personnel as a means of resolving those aspects of the grievance.
The dignity grievance, if still viable, shall then proceed under Article 2, section C-6 of the contract.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #11)
DOT Mileage
After execution of the contract the parties will meet to discuss the DOT standard mileage deduction. The Union can select up to two (2) DOT employees to attend the meeting. The meeting will be conducted at a mutually agreeable time.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #11
Union Rights
The Union and OER will develop a voucher system to replace current method of tracking the use of paid union leave. The new system will entail the use of numbered vouchers, with each voucher representing one half paid day. Requests for the use of paid union leave days will be made to the department labor relations coordinator at least ten (10) days in advance. Approval for the use of paid union leave days will not be unreasonably withheld. If the labor relations
coordinator denies a request for paid union leave, the Union may appeal to OER. The Union will distribute and sign rhe voucher ofthe worker attending a uninn activity and the voucher will he submitted by the worker to the department.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #12
Pending PAR Appeals
The Union agrees to withdraw all pending PAR appeals that do not adversely impact the rights of employees. All appeals that are not withdrawn will be submitted to mediation in accordance with a procedure to be agreed upon by the parties. Appeals that are not resolved through mediation may be submitted to arbitration pursuant Article 4.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #13
Health Care Cost Containment Committee
I.	The STATE and the C WA agree to contin ue the I abor/manager ent cost containment committee. All costs associated with implementing the committee's objectives that are mutually agreed to by union and management shall be borne by the State. The term health insurance carrier shall include all providers of health services for represented employees, including HMDs and plan administrators. The Joint Union/Management Committee with equal representation of management and the Union shall be established. The committee shall:
a.	Conduct an ongoi ng study of activit ies which have the potential of limiting health plan costs without shifting costs to workers or otherwise reducing levels of benefits or quality of care. The study shall develop recommendations for measures to hold insurance carriers, administrators and hospitals and physicians more accountable for control!ing health care costs
b.	Conduct an ongoing review of any cost control programs agreed upon in the health care benefit contract, la performance of its duties, tlie Committee may have direct access to representatives of all health plan carriers providing plans to employees when and as deemed appropriate by management and the union. The Committee shall receive copies of public document reports on rhe health plan (including health plan cost and utilization information) and shall have the ability to request additional reports mutually agreed upon by management and the union.
2.	The Committee shall have the ability to request regular reports on cost control programs mutually agreed upon by management and the union. Such reports shall address costs ofoperating the program, activities, savings (including assumptions) and future plans/recommendalions.
3.	The Committee may also recommend additional measures or alternatives, consistent with the goals set forth above, and the report prepared by the CW A entitled "Good Medicine”.
82
83
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #14 Job Security
This side letter will confirm the understanding between the parties regarding some of die efforts the State of New Jersey (State) will undertake to lessen the impact of future privatization initiatives or the closing of State facilities that occur during the period from ratification of this contract through June 30,20Q7, and which impacton employees in CWA negotiation units. This letter refers to bargaining unit employees who are ultimately laid off at the conclusion of the State's layoff procedures, but the layoff would have to be the result ofthe State's decision to privatize a function onto close a facility.
In the event the State seriously considers privatization of a facility or function for purely fiscal or economic reasons impacting negotiation unit employees, the State agrees to give the Union reasonable advance notice, hut not less than 90 days prior to actual closure or privatization and, upon request, to meet with the Union to give the Union an opportunity to present its position on the economic issues. The Union shall be given the opportunity to demonstrate ' that unit employees will do the same work more efficiently than a private ! contractor. The State agrees to provide the Union with relevant cost information : necessary to enable the Union to develop its economic position, including publici documents involving the RFP, once issued and shall meet with the Union within thirty (30) days ofthe issuance of the RFP.
When the privatization decision is based upon policy reasons, and will ; result in a lay off or job displacement of bargaining unit employees, the State will • g ive the U n ion reasonable ad vance notice o f i decision and, upon request, meet ; with the Union to explain its rationale and discuss the impact on affected ■ employees. It is understood that in any event, the decision to privatize is a j managerial prerogative that may not be subject to the negotiation process.
The efforts the State will undertake to alleviate the impact on employees laid off as a result of such actions shall Include one or more of the following as -appropriate under the existing circumstances and shall be subject to discussions ; between the State and the CWA;
1.	Establishing preferential hiring lists with the private employer;
2.	Establi shing hiring freezes for posit Ions determined by the Department of Personne I to have the same or s iini lar duties and respons ibi I ities at other State locations within the department affected to create openings which will be filled by qualified laid off employees and, if practicable, by employees targeted far layoff, alt in accordance with DOP and SAC rules and regulations;
3.	Continuing health coverage under COBRA which the State will pay for a certain limited transition period but not less than three months in duration; i and
4.	Providing training for qualified employees to the extent there are openings and laid off employees require training to fill them.
The State agrees to make good faith efforts, which shall include compliance with all DOP regulations to lessen the possibility ofthe layoff or dcmotion-in-lieu-of layoff of employees in the bargaining unit. Where
84
practicable, these efforts will be made whenever workers are placed at risk through privatization, or program reductions or eliminations for reasons of economy, efficiency, or other reason. The efforts the State may take to lessen the possibility of layoff or demotion may include, wherever practicable, voluntaiy reduced work lime and voluntary layoff or demotion, which shall be offered to employees before the employer takes involuntary action to reduce the workforce.
Consistent with DOP regulations, The State will consider the following pre4ayoff actions prior to any permanent employees being laid off nr demoted:
1.	Hiring and promotion freezes;
2.	Separation of non-permanent employees;
3.	Returning provisional employees to their permanent titles
4.	Securing of transfers and reassignment to other employment; and
5.	Filling of existing vacancies.
Good faith attempts will be made to fill positions determined by the Department of Personnel to have substantially the same or similar duties and responsibilities at other State locations fay qualified laid off or demoted employees and, if practicable, by employees targeted for layoff. As practicable, the State shall train "at risk1’ employees to allow movement from the "at risk" location to work locations within or outside the appointing authority where positions are available. It is understood that all such actions must be consistent with operative law and DOP regulations.
In the event the State seriously considers privatization of a facility or function which could result in the layoff or displacement of bargaining unit employees, the State agrees to give the union reasonable advance notice, but not less than 120 days prior to the awarding a privatization contract tn perform the work. Accompanying the notice will he a detailed accounting of all costs under the privatization and a comprehensive tost analysis.
The parties shall mutually select an independent outside auditor to determine whether substantial cost savings will occur if the privatization occurs.
Where the independent auditor determines there is no substantia! cost savings, rhe State will undertake best efforts to ensure there shall be no layoff or adverse economic impact on State employees.
Where there is substantial cost savings, and the State chooses to privatize, the State agrees to use the displaced worker pool in order to lessen rhe impact of such layoff.
If there is a pending or proposed general layoff, the State shall review existing private contracts for work simitar to that of the employees considered for layoff or dislocation. Unless a cost analysis shows substantial cost savings for those existing private contracts, the State will use its best efforts to bring the work performed under the private contract(s) back in house and the State shall use the displaced worker pool to keep workers employed while the State determines whether to bring such work back in house.
Effective July 1,2003, when privatization is undertaken as a substantial cost savings, the State Auditor or a mutually-selected independent outside auditor will conduct periodic post audit cost analysis to determine whether or not there
■ 85
continues to be substantial cost savings. Where there is not substantial cost savings, the State shall make its best efforts to bring the work back in house.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #15 Labor/Management Health Care Advisory Committee
1. There shall be established a Labor/Managcment Health Care;	$$ [hat they are no longer eligible to receive the clothing allowance
Advisory Committee to expedite, on a voluntary basis, the transition op
negotiations unit employees from the Traditional Plan and Health Maintenance Organizations to New Jersey Plus from July 1,1999 through December! 1,2000. The Committee shall consist of four designees ofthe Division of Pensions and Benefits and four designees to be selected by the CWA. The Committee shall decide on what advice and recommendations will be made in determining the following issues:
a. County-by-County problem solving In-Network establishment.
with a standard of two doctors within a five mile radius ofthe covered employer were in the title eligible to receive rhe clothing allowance prior to its abolishment where sufficient providers exist; and at least 75% of the hospitals in New Jersey change to a title ineligible to receive the clothing allowance
under contract.
b. For current employees in rural areas where access is less than two-primary care physicians within 20. miles, the minimum solution shall be the; design of the Traditional Plan.
c. AH problems concerning transition cases and pre-existing conditions shall be resolved by having as the minimum solution the design ofthe Traditional Plan.
2. The Committee decisions shall be by majority vote. Ties shall be broken by the State Health Benefits Commission. The Committee shall endeavor to make the benefits of NJ Plus available to a maximum number of employees in
. - J ^Communications Workers of America, AFL’ClO, will create a task force, the negotiating units, discuss problems of substance abuse, and shall create? including representatives from the Office of Employee Relations, representatives conditions to facilitate the movement of State employees and their dependentsj:from CWA and CWA Locals, to review issues about promotions.
By July 1, 2004, the Task Force on Promotions will issue recommendations. The State will, review, the recommendations of the Task Force.
from the Traditional Plan and Health Maintenance Organizations to NJ Plus.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #16 Leaves of Absence Less Than 6 Months
The State agrees to consider requests made by the Union in accordance^ with the Leaves of Absence Without Pay Article in the various Agreements for periods of less than 6 months. In accordance with normal practice, such request: for an unpaid leave of absence will be made directly to the Office of Employee-
-work places during rest periods for safety reasons or operational requirements Relations which will investigate in an attempt to accommodate the requested shall be continued. However, if die employee is required to work during the rest period it shall be resched u led or, if this is n nt feas ibl e, th e lost rest period shal I be .accumulated at straight time and scheduled in accordance with the regulations concerning use of compensatory' time off.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #17 Potential Changes tn Titles Now Receiving the Clothing Allowance
In recognition that during the term of this contract titles that art currently eligible to receive the clothing allowance may be abolished nr substantially
■tinder the criteria set forth in the contract, the parties agree that, in the event this
occurs, the Union retains the right, during the term of this agreement, to reopen [the clothing allowance contractual provision to address this specific issue.
It is understood by the parties that, in the event the Union invokes this provision, the State’s only obligation Is to negotiate for an equal number of employees who will be eligible to receive the clothing allowance payments in a ^different title. The number of new employees the Union may negotiate as to : receiving the clothing allowance is the same as the number of employees who
,title
(•
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #18 Promotion - Unclassified Employees
Where a title series exists in the unclassified service, employees within the series shall be considered for promotion prior to the filling of a vacancy.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #19 Task Force on Promotions
Within 60 days of the ratification of this agreement, the State and the
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #20 Rest Periods
The current practice of requiring certain employees to remain at their
leave with the understanding that the requested period of leave shall be definite and requests by the Union for leave extensions shall be made in only exceptional situations.	;
■<

86
87
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #21 Essential Employees .
The State and Communications Workers of American AFL-CIO, agree to the following:
CWA and the State of New Jersey shall, no later than September 1,2003, forma joint committee to review the standard for designating employees as essential.
The committee will issue recommendations no later than November 15 2003.
Ry December 1,2003, OER will review and act upon the committee’s recommendations,
If the Union disputes the essential designation of an employee or employees, it may file a non-contractua! grievance pursuant to Article 4 of the Agreement.
Based upon the standard adopted by OER, employees and the Unions will be notified of essential employee designations. Essmtial employees will be given a sticker identifying them as essential.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #22 Exempt Titles
During negotiations for the July \2003 June 30, 2007 Agreements, CWA identified exempt titles to be included in CWA negotiations units. The parties agree that certain of the exempt titles identified by CWA in ranges 30 and below, and in ranges 88, 98 and 99, will be included in appropriate CWA negotiations uni ts. To determine the exempt titles to be included in CWA units, the following procedure will he used:
a.	During the first six months of FY 04, CWA and OER will review the above titles in an effort to reach agreement on the titles to be included in the appropriate C’WA negotiations units
b.	If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the titles to be placed in CWA negotiations units, the parties will designate James Mastriant as the Umpire to resolve all disputes relative to said exempt titles.
c.	By July 1, 2004, the Umpire shall determine which titles are property excluded as managerial executive or confidential titles and which titles are properly included in CWA negotiations units. The Umpire’s decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and shall not be subject to challenge or appeal in any administrative, judicial or other forum.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #23
Status of Part-Tim e> Intermittent* Temporary and Special Services Employees
Within sixty (60) days of the execution of the collective negotiations agreements the State and the Union will constitute a labor-management committee fbr the purpose of reviewing the status of non-negotiations unit employees performing the same or similar duties as employees represented by the CWA. A representative from the Department of Personnel will participate on the
committee. The committee shall be comprised of equal numbers of Union and management representatives and will develop standards to determine which part-time, intermittent, temporary and special services employees, not presently included in CWA's units, should be included.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #24
Tool Allowance
The State will maintain a list of tools required for the performance of work assignments by each of the employees listed in the titles below.
Each of those employees who provides and is required to use his personally owned tools as a
condition of employment shall, on or about December 15 of each year of this contract, be granted a tool allowance, if the employee completes a calendar year of employment in his current capacity and is on the payroll as of the date of payment.
Subject to any conditions set forth in the applicable contract the tool allowance shall be $165 .00 for the fiscal years beginning July 2003, SI 90,00 for the fiscal years beginning July 2004, $200.00 for the fiscal years beginning July 2005 and $210.00 for the fiscal years beginning July 2006.
Eligible employees includes only those employees working for the Department of Treasury, Central Motor Pool, in the following titles:
1)	Assistant Crew Supervisor, Mechanic
2)	Crew Supervisor, Garage Operations
3)	Crew Supervisor, Mechanic
4)	Crew Supervisor, Mechanics (body and fender shop)
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #2$
Training & Education Fund
The State and the Union agree to jointly fund special training and education programs for employees in the Administrative and Clerical Services, Professional, Primary Level Supervisory and Higher Level Supervisory negotiations units. Such training and education programs must be mutually agreed to by the Office of Employee Relations and the Union and may include, but not be limited fo. areas of specialized technical training, job skills refresher courses, and professional or career development, which are related to the employee's job, or which may be necessary or directly beneficial to career advancement within State service.
Employees eligible to participate in a program must be employed in a CWA negotiations unit and must be on the payroll at the beginning and at the end ofthe program. Additional eligibility requirements shall be mutually agreed tn by the State: and the Union.
The program shall be funded equally by the State and the CWA, with each party paying up to a maximum of $25,000 in each year of the Agreement, The parties may on a one-time basis, elect to carry over money not utilized during a one*-ycar period to the next year.
89
98
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #26 Training for Lower Paid Employees ft is understood that special attention shall be given to the needs of least, skilled lower paid employees to enhance their Job performance and potential for advancement inclusive of alternate career path choices. The'('raining Division of , the Department of Personnel will provide these training opportunities and will i develop a procedure to identify eligible employees withinoperating departments, A committee including (wo representatives ofthe Union, two from OER, and two from the Training Division ofthe Department of Personnel shall meet with the : objective of assisting in the development of this program. It shall be the responsibility ofthe Department of Personnel to determine the program and the ? resources to be made available after reviewing recommendations of this committee.
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT #27 Departmental Sick Leave Policies	,
Within sixty (60) days of the ratification of this agreement, the State and the Union agree to establish a committee to review and discuss State: Departments’ sick leave policies. The committee shall consist of a representative: from the Office of Employee Relations and representatives from the State Departments. The Commissioner of State Departments attending the committee I meeting shall designate representatives to attend such meeting. The Union shall be represented by a person from the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO, and representative^) from the CWA Locals.
The committee shall meet at mutually convenient times and places and the Union can request a meeting by sending such request with an accompanying agenda to the Office of Employee Relations. The committee will examine the J policies as it pertains to employees’ rights under the FMLA, protection and. preservation of employee’s rights of confidentiality. The committee will make' its recommendations to evaluate and improve upon sick leave policies. By July ’ 1, 2004, the committee will issue its recommendations. By September 1,2004,^ the State will review and act upon these recommendations.
Until such time as the State reviews and acts upon the recommendations of the Committee, the Sick Leave Policy contained in Department of Human» Services personnel circular 95-89, as revised October 15, 2000, will apply to Department of Human Services employees represented by CWA. Additionally, the State will issue a memorandum to all managerial staff explaining the use of' affidavits in lieu of a doctor’s note for sick leave verification in accordance with1 Article 22, F,6,b.
APPENDIX 4
Listed below are all titles included in the contract. If your title is not listed here it may be included in another CWA unit. Also listed is the title code . number, pay range, and workweek designation.
1	The pay range can be used to help determine an individual’s proper
pay.
The explanation of die symbols used for workweek designation is:
.35-	35 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime compensation is
regulated by the Overtime Article of this contract and Department of Personnel Overtime rules. Additionally, the FLSA (Fair Labor Standards Act) mandates overtime compensation for these workers for hours over 40 worked in a workweek.
, 40-	40 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime compensation is
regulated by the Overtime Article of this contract, Department of f Personnel Overtime rules, and the Federal FLSA.
NE- Non-exempt, non-limited, These workers work at least a 3 5 hour workweek with intermittent requirements for a longer workweek as warranted to complete projects or assignments. These workers arc covered by the Provisions of Federal FLSA mandated time and one-• half (pay or compensatory time) for hours in a week worked over 40 hours. Hour-lbr-hour hourly compensation (if any) for hours worked in a week between 35 hours and 40 hours is determined by Department of Personnel Overtime rules and Department policy.
iNL- Non-limited workers. These workers shall work at least a 35 hour • workweek with intermittent requirements for a longer workweek as warranted to complete projects or assignments. The State of New Jersey believes that these titles are exempt from coverage by the overtime compensation provisions of the federal FLSA. (Workers in these titles who believe they should be covered by the FLSA may appeal to the U.S. Department of Labor.)
Hotir-fbr-hour compensation (if any) for NL workers for hours over 35 worked in a week is determined by the Department of Personnel Overtime Rules and Departmental policy.
N4- Non-limited title which involve direct and continuous supervision of workers in 40 hour workweek titles. The State of New Jersey believes these workers are exempt from coverage by the federal FLSA.
Any compensation for hours beyond the normal workweek is regulated by the Department of Personnel Overtime rules and
90
91
Departmental policy,
3E- (exempt 35 hour) -35 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime compensation is regulated by the Overtime Article of this contract and Department of Personnel Overtime rules. The State of New Jersey' believes those workers are exempt from coverage by the FLSA.
4E- (exempt 40 hour) 40 hour fixed workweek worker. Overtime compensation is regulated by the Overtime Article of this contract and Department of Personnel Overtime rules. The State of New Jersey believes these workers arc exempt from coverage by the FLSA.
The above information is supplied by the Union for information purposes only. It is not part ofthe contract between the State and the CWA.
Professional Unit Titles
RANGE CODE TITLE	Hours 1
21	50453	Accountant 2	35
18	50452	Accountant 3	35
95	5332Q	Accountant'Audi tor Trainee Data Processing	*+
25	53322	Accountant/Auditor 2 Data Processing	NL
22	53321	Accountant-Auditor 3 Data Processing	NE
19	53319	Accounlanl/Aeditor 4 Data Processing	NE
98	55221	Actuarial Intern	NL
19	56526	Adjuster 1 Unsatisfied Claims & Judgment Fund	NL
24	56534	Adjuster 2 Unsatisfied Claims & Judgment Fund	NL
26	50075	Administrative Analyst 2	NL
27	50104	Administrative Analyst 2	4E
21	50073	Administrative Analyst 3	NE
22	50102	Administrative Analyst 3	40
19	50072	Administrative Analyst 4	NE
20	50100	Administrative Analyst 4	40
24	61744	Administrative Assistant State Parole Board	NL
26	59900	Administrative Assistant 1	4E
24	59905	Administrative Assistant I	3E
23	59901	Administrative Assistant 2	4E
21	59904	Administrative Assistant 2	3E
20	59902	Administrative Assistant 3	4E
18	59903	Administrative Assistant 3	3E
24	73163	Administrative Instructor Education - 12 mos.	NL
21	73063	Administrative Instructor Education - 10 mos.	NL
22 '	65512	Affirmative Action Assistant Public Contracts	NE
18	65513	Affirmative Action Investigator Public Contracts	NE
95	65960	Affirmative Action Specialist Trainee	
25	65964	Affirmative Action Specialist 1	NL
: 22	65963	Affirmative Action Specialist 2	NE
19	65962	Affirmative Action Specialist 3	NE
95	54722	Agricultural Marketing Specialist Trainee	■*
24	54725	Agricultural Marketing Specialist 2	NL
21	54724	Agricultural Marketing Specialist 3	NE
18	54723	Agricultural Marketing Specialist 4	NE
• 24	03067	Agricultural Resource Specialist 1	NL
: 21	03066	Agricultural Resource Specialist 2	NE
18	03065	Agricultural Resource Specialist 3	NE
95	03013	Agricultural Statistician Trainee	4*
. 25	03016	Agricultural Statistician 1	NL
22	03015	Agricultural Statistician 2	Nt.
19	03014	Agricultural Statistician 3	NE
21	07874	Airport Manager	NL
95	55300	Analyst Trainee	*«
26	00243	Analyst 2 Health Care Facilities	NL
: 25	00173	Analyst 2 Res. & Eval. Health & Sr. Services	NL
• 21	00242	Analyst 2 Health Care Facilities	NL
: 25	64684	Appeals Examiner L	NL
=• 21	64683	Appeals Examiner 2	NE
' 29	31410	Appellate Specialist Labor	NL
: 22	03073	Aquacultural Development Specialist	NL
20	17692	Architectural Assistant	40
95	17690	Architectural Trainee	M
\ 21	74223	Archivist 2	35
19	54341	Area Coordinator Community Involvement	40
'■ 25	93067	Assignment Editor PBA	4E
20	01742A Assistant Biologist		40
: 19	01752A Assistant Biologist		NE
: 18	52662	Assistant Buyer	35
19	01782	Assistant Clinical Laboratory Evaluator	NE
23	74564A Assistant Curator		NE
33	30777	Assistant Deputy Public Defender !	NL
30	30776	Assistant Deputy Public Defender 2	NL
25	30775	Assistant Deputy Public Defender 3	NL
33	30726	Assistant Deputy Ratepayer Advocate 1	NL
30	30725	Ass istant Deputy Ratepayer Ad vocate 2	NL
25	30723	Assistant Deputy Ratepayer Advocate 3	NL
24	02662	Assistant Division Forest Firewarden	N4
25	31624	Assistant Election Finance Analyst	NL
20	14092	Assistant Engineer Civil	40
92
L!
K j!
18	59922	Assistant Engineer Civil	35
20	16692	Assistant Engineer Electrical	40
20	16082	Assistant Engineer Hydrographic	40
20	17092	Assistant Engineer Industrial	40
20	13092	Assistant Engineer Materials	40
20	16392	Assistant Engineer Mechanical	40
20	12692	Assistant Engineer Planning	40
20	15281	Assistant Engineer Program Control	40
20	11282	Assistant Engineer Traffic	40
20	10272	Assistant Engineer Transportation	40
19	16302	Assistant Environmental Engineer	NE
20	163 J 2	Assistant Environmental Engineer	40
21	62163A Assistant Field Service Supervisor		NE
20	03042	Assistant Geologist	40
19	03052	Assistant Geologist	NE
25	31615	Assistant Legal Counsel NJ ELEC	NT.
30	60294	Assistant Ombudsman Secured Facilities	NL
19	16472	Assistant Planner	NE
20	16489	Assistant Planner	40
19	16457	Assistant Planner Environmental Protection	NE
19	93085	Assistant Producer/Director PBA	NE
24	55623	Assistant Promotional Material Specialist	NE
22	02653.	Assistant Regional Forester	NE
24	70082	Assistant School Safety Consultant	35
24	56684	Assistant Secretary 2 Utilities	NL
20	32404	Assistant Supervisor Academic Laboratory Services	NE
22	82655	Assistant Supervisor 3 Administrative Services	NE
22	82657	Assistant Supervisor 3 Facilities	NE
20	82652	Assistant Supervisor 4 Administrative Services	NE
20	82653	Assistant Supervisor 4 Computer Services	NE
20	82654	Assistant Supervisor 4 Facilities	NE
19	45617	Assistant Zoologist Non-Game	NE
98	93150	Associate Direct, Motion Pict. & TV Devek Comm.	NL
20	30360	Attorney Assistant	35
95	50960	Auditor Accountant Trainee	**
22	50963	Auditor 2	35
23	51073	Auditor 2	NE
24	51076	Auditor 2	40
24	50815	Auditor 2 Taxation	35
25	50816	Auditor 2 Taxation	NE
19	50962	Auditor 3	35
20	51072	Auditor 3	NE
21	50813	Auditor 3 Taxation	35
22	50814	Auditor 3 Taxation	NE
19	03646	Behavior Modification Program Technician	40
94
95	01750	Biologist Trainee	NE
22	64404	Boarding Home Evaluator Social	NL
95-	50090	Budget Analyst Trainee	#*
22	50093	Budget Analyst 2	NE
18	50092	Budget Analyst 3	35
21	52574	Building Management Services Specialist 3	NE
18	52572	Building Management Services Specialist 4	NE
19	40155	Building Management Technician	NE
23	40156	Building Management Technician Labor	NE
22	55515	Business Advocacy Specialist	NE
21	52663	Buyer	35
23	52667	Buyer	40
95	52660	Buyer Trainee	**
20	56823	Cable Television Planning Specialist	NE
27	53S04	Career Information Development Specialist State	NL
27	55515	Cath Management Analyst	NL
95	56833	CATV System Opera. & Complaint Invest.Trainee	**
25	00161	Certificate of Need Analyst 2	NL
22	00160	Certificate of Need Analyst 3	NE
98	80310	Certified Financial Examiner	NL
24	52320	Chain Store Relations Specialist	NL
95	16270	Chemical Engineer Trainee	et
29	59939	Chemical Safety Engineer	NL
19	01552	Chemist	35
21	01567	Chemist	40
95	01550	Chemist Trainee	35
26	62192	Child Care Coord. Div. Youth & Family Services	NL
21	62226	Child Care Quality Assurance Inspector I	NE
20	61971	Child Support & Paternity Specialist 3	NE
95	14090	Civil Engineer Trainee	40
95	15843	Civil Engineer Trainee	35
20	64952	Claims Adjudicator Disability Determination	35
95	54951	Claims Adjudicator Trainee Disabik Determinations	**
17	56092	Claims Examiner Unemploy & DisabtL Insurance	35
16	56372	Claims Investigator	NE
15	56122E	Claims Reviewer	35
20	61392	Classification Officer 1	NE
23	61393	Classification Officer 2	NL
26	61394	Classification Officer 3	NL
21	00632	Client Services Representative	N£
17	03952	Clinic Nurse	3E
19	07750	Clinic Nurse	40
22	01783	Clinical laboratory Evaluator 2	NE
24	01293	Clinical Pharmacist	
99	00468	Clinical Psychiatrist Board Eligible	NL
95
99	10074	Clinical Psychiatrist Post Certified	NL
99	10075	Clinical Psychiatrist Board Certified	NL
37	00467	Clinical Psychiatrist 2	NL
27	60320	Clinical Psychologist 1	NL
26	00473	Clinical Specialist in Psychiatric Nursing	NL
25	59940	Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist ]	NL
26	32074	Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 1	N4
21	59941	Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 2	35
23	32073	Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 2	40
17	59942	Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 3	35
19	32072	Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 3	40
27	17283	Code Writer 1 Code Section	NL
24	17282	Code Writer 2 Code Section	NL
21	54532	Community Involvement Information Specialist	NE
19	60948	Community Program Specialist	NE
2i	64173	Community Service Officer 2	NE
18	64172	Community Service Officer 3	NE
18	63003	Community Service Officer 3 Addictions	NE
20	60705	Community Supervisor Foster Grandparent Program	NL
2]	31618	Compliance & System Admin. NJ Election Law	35
26	51318	Conferee 1 Taxation	NL
25	30801	Construction Management Specialist 3	40
22	30800	Construction Management Specialist 4	40
26	70375	Consultant Curriculum & Instruction 2	NL
24	70075	Consultant School Nutrition Services	NL
26	51252	Contract Administrator 1	NL
27	51253	Contract Administrator 1	4E
22	51254	Contract Administrator 2	NE
23	51255	Contract Administrator 2	40
30	52654	Contract Proced. & Control Special. Hazard. Waste	NL
29	62931	Coord. Consult. & Develop. Local Health Services	NL
28	07900	Coordinator Emergency Telecommunications System NL	
26	64855	Coordinator Employment# Training Programs	NL
26	44717	Coordinator Food Sanitation & Training	NL
22	59945	Coordinator of Occupational Health Services	3E
21	36304	Coordinator of Records Rules Promulgation OAL	NL
25	63025	Coordinator Women's Program Addictions	
25	56380	Counselor NJ Stale Police Employee Assist. Prog.	
22	60674	Counselor 1 Vocat. Program Develop. Disabilities	NL
20	60673	Counselor 2 Vocat. Program Develop. Disabilities	NL
29	60248	County Representative Human Services	NL
95	56781	Customer Service Rep. Trainee Public Utilities	**
2)	56779	Customer Service Representative 2 Public Utilities	35
21	56779C	Customer Service Representative 2 Public Utilities	35
18	56777	Customer Service Representative 3 Public Utilities	35
96
55727	Customized Training Representative 1	NL
55726	Customized Training Representative 2	NE
55725	Customized Training Representative 3	NE
53 005	Data Base Analyst 1	N L
53003	Data Base Analyst 2	NL
5.3244	Data Processing Analyst 2	NL
532441	Data Processing Analyst 2	NL
53257	Data Processing Programmer 2	40
53350	Data Processing Programmer Trainee	35
53263	Data Processing Programmer 2	35
53261	Data Processing Programmer 3	40
53262	Data Processing Programmer 3	35
53275	Data Processing Systems Programmer 1	NL
53274	Data Processing Systems Programmer 2	NL
62656	Deaf Blind Specialist	NL
01057	Dentist 2	NL
21816	Dispute Resolution Speci alist 1	N L
21815	Dispute Resolution Specialist 2	NL
21814	Dispute Resolution Specialist 3	NL
31970	Driver Improvement Analyst Trainee	**
31972	Driver Im prevement Analyst 2	35
56479	Driver Improvement Analyst 2	40
31971	Driver Improvement Analyst 3	35
564 78	Driver improvement Analyst 3	40
55565	Economic	Development Representative 1	NL
55503	Economic	Development Representative 2	NL
5 5 502	Economic	Devel opmem Re presentativc 3	N L
55513	Economic	Development Representative 4	NE
72622	Education Planner	NL
72635	Education Planner 1	NL
70341	Education	Program Development Specialist	2	N1.
70339	Education	Program Development Specialist	3	NL
70340	Education	Program Develop. Specialist 3 -	10 mos. NL
70333	Education Program Specialist 1	NL
70331	Education	Program Specialist 2	NL
70329	Educati on Program Spec ialist 3	NL
60941	Education Specialist 1 Development	Disabilities NL
16690	Electrical Engineer Trainee	40
15863	Emergency Response Specialist 3	4E
15862	Emergency Response Specialist 4	4E
64854	Employment & Training Specialist	I	35
64853	Employment & Training Specialist	2	35
64762	Employment Counselor	35
64760	Employment Counselor Trainee	**
64612	Employment Serv ices Spec ial ist 2	35
97
18	64611	Employment Services Specialist 3		..	64392	Field Representative Housing	NE
95	64790	Employment Services Trainee	** a	19	51682	Field Representative Local Property Tax	NE
19	64692	Employment Test Technician	NE ;	i' 21	01282	Field Representative Pharmaceuticals	NE
28	56632	Energy Conservation Program Reviewer 1	NL ::	; 21	03063	Field Representative State Soil Conservation Comm.	NE
24	56630	Energy Conservation Program Reviewer 2	NE <	k-19	62572	Field Represent. Vend. Facility Operations CFTVBT	NE
26	56629	Energy Policy Analyst 1	NL ?	, 19	55982	Field Representative Wage & Hour Compliance	NE
24	56709	Energy Program Representative 1	NL ■	' 22	30693	Field Representative 2, Public Advocate	NE
21	56708	Energy Program Representative 2	NL *	: 26	55546	Financial Analyst Senior Services	NL
22	93303	Eng./Fihn Editor PBA	40	1	23	54863	Financial Examiner 3	NE
27	10253	Engineer Specifications Transportation	4E ■!	20	54882	Financial Examiner 4	NE
27	10494	Engineer Structures Plans & Specifications	4E *	29	55548	Financial Specialist	NL
95	03260	Engineer Trainee Hazardous Site Mitigation	NE	h?	60268	Fire & Safety Coordinator Human Services	NL
22	59951	Engineer 3 Hazardous Site Mitigation	NE '		50532	Fiscal Analyst	35
19	59952	Engineer 4 Hazardous Site Mitigation	NE '	24	03078	Fish & Seafood Marketing Specialist	NL
95	02470	Entomologist Trainee	** i	: 30	55707	Foreign Trade Representative 1	NL
19	02473	Entomologist 2	NE	i. 37	55706	Foreign Trade Representative 2	NL
95	12517	Environmental Engineer Trainee	40 ;	20	55705	Foreign Trade Representative 3	NE
95	16310	Environmental Engineer Trainee	NE	*22	0159)	Forensic Scientist	NE
95	15870	Environmental Scientist Trainee	NL	ns	01592	Forensic Scientist I Dept. Law & Public Safety	NE
28	15873	Environmental Scientist 2	NL	?2l	43029	Forest Fire Pilot	NL
29	15878	Environmental Scientist 2	4E -i	' 19	02652	Forester	NE
25	15872	Environmental Scientist 3	NL J	;95	02650	Forester Trainee	**
26	15876	Environmental Scientist 3	4E '■	ris	74227	Forms Analyst L	NE
22	12522	Environmental Specialist 4	NL	; 21	74228	Forms Analy st 2	NE
20	12522	Environmental Specialist	40 i	i 29	16904	Frequency Coordinator Analyst	N4
19	15852	Environmental Specialist	NE :	; 95	03174	Geographic Information Systems Specialist Trainee	NL
95	15840	Environmental Specialist Trainee	NE :	1 95	03207	Geographic Information Systems Specialist Trainee	4E
95	12516	Environmental Specialist Trainee	40 i	■'25	03163	Geographic Information Systems Specialist 2	NL
28	03093	Erosion Control Engineer	NL	i<26	03209	Geographic Information Systems Specialist 2	4E
18	15271	Estimator Building & Construction	40 i	•'21	03176	Geographic Information Systems Specialist 3	NL
17	56192	Examiner Unemployment Tax	35	<	22	03208	Geographic Information Systems Specialist 3	4E
19	70131	Examiner 1 Credentials	35	95	03050	Geologist Trainee	NE
22	70132	Examiner 2 Credentials	35	95	12515	Geologist Trainee	40
22	03963	Eye Health Nurse	NL	: 22	54442	Governmental Relations Specialist 2	ne
28	62156	Family Development Consultant	NL	•• 18	54440	Governmental Relations Specialist 3	NE
95	62150	Family Service Specialist Trainee		. 27	50730	Grants Specialist	NL
24	62153	Family Service Specialist 1	NE	22	93106	Graphic Artist I PBA	40
22	62152	Family Service Specialist 2	NE i	;• 22	60601	Guardianship Services Specialist 2	NL
19	62151	Family Service Specialist 3	NE	19	60600	Guardianship Services Specialist 3	NL
26	33645	Federal Aid Coordinator Fish Game & Wildlife	NL <	•• 22	60669	Habi lrtaiion Plan Coordinator	NE
22	60276	Field Investigator Institutionalized Elderly	NE	95	03269	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist Trainee	NE
24	60280	Field Invest Nursing Care Institutionalized Elderly	NE	' 95	12514	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist Trainee	40
26	03994	Field Representative Board of Nursing	NL	: 23	03273	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist 3	40
18	33372	Field Represent Construction Contract Compliance	NE	22	59964	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist 3	NE
21	64884	Field Representative Eye Health	NE	l 20	03272	Hazardous Site Mitigation Specialist 4	40
		SB				99	
J-l :b	19	59965	Hazardous Sice Mitigation Specialist4	NE	IS	45021	Intelligence Research Analyst	NE
i	98	00156	Health Care Consultant	NL	; 95	45020	Intelligence Research Analyst Trainee	$ ti
	23	03954	Health Care Services Evaluator Family Planning	NE	17	56089	Intermittent Labor Services Worker	35
	25	60451	Health Care Services Evaluator/Nurse	NL ■	21	34814	Internal Communications Specialist	NL
L *	23	60453	Health Care Facilities Evaluator 1	NL	, 27	65085	Interstate Claims Coordinator	NL
1	20	60452	Health Care Facilities Evaluator 2	NL	21	61081	Interstate Specialist 2	NE
	25	00373	Health Data Specialist 2	NL :	.. 17	64751	Interviewer	35
F V	22	00372	Health Data Specialist 3	NE	" 16	10250	Investigator Aide Labor	35
;•»	26	00382	Health Economics Research Specialist 2	NL i		54932	Investigator Banking	NE
	22	0038J	Health Economics Research Specialist 3	NE <	‘ 19	56500	Investigator Collect. Sec. Unsat. Claim Judg. Fund	35
r •,	21	00274	Health Facility Cost Estimator	40	;	; 1?	65052	Investigator Disability Insurance	NE
ti r.	27	00282	Health Systems Specialist 2	NL .	23	15702	Investigator Environmental Protection	NE
	25	00281	Health Systems Specialist 3	NL	s. 17	55152A	Investigator Insurance	NE
	27	61414	Hearing Officer Inmate Disciplinary Program	NL •	19	55170	Investigator Insurance Fraud Prevention	NE
	27	61753	Wearing Officer 2 State Parole Board	Nt '	'• |9	33452	Investigator Public Defender	ne
	29	31446	Hearings & Review Officer Labor	NL <	L 95	56788	Investigator Trainee	NE
	19	17492	Highway Safety Specialist	NE	, 95	65851	Investigator Trainee Division on Civil Right	* X
K?	26	55525	Hispanic jMTairs Officer 2 Com. & Economic Devel,	NL :	F 95	65045	Investigator Trainee Labor	V *
	IB	15679	Historic Preservation Specialist	NE "	95	33854	Investigator Trainee Law& Public Safety	NE
	21	44772	Home Economist	NE	: 95	33350	Invest. Trainee Public Advocate/Public Defender	
	IS	62662	Home Instructor Comm. For Blind & Vis. Impaired	NE	95	54992	Investigator Trainee Real Estate Commission	NE
	95	62661	Home Instruct. Trainee Comin. For Blind & Vis.imp. NE		; 95	51590	Investigator Trainee Taxation	NE
	95	17090	Industrial Engineer Trainee	*•	? 26	33858	Investigator 1 Law & Public Safety	NE
	IS	60702	Institutional Coordinator Foster Grandparent Prog.	NE	; 22	56083	Investigator 1 Unemployment Insurance	NE
A."	28	93056	Instructional Television Utilization Specialist PBA	NL	r 19	30566	Investigator 2 Citizen Information & Complaints	35
	21	62672	Instructor Comm. For Blind & Vis. Impaired 10 mos. NE		20	30613	Investigator 2, Consumer Protection	NE
• f	24	62663	Instructor Comm. For Blind & Vis. Impaired 12 mas. NE		< 20	65853	investigator 2 Division on Civil Rights	NE
H	IS	61382	Instructor Counselor	NE	22	65047	Investigator 2 Labor	NE
	19	61387	Instructor Counselor	4E	23	33837	investigator 2 Law & Public Safety	NE
r.	23	03874	Instructor of Nursing	4E	;• 23	54974	Investigator 2 Real Estate Commission	NL
• • i	22	73093	Instructor 1 Education - 10 months	4E ’	22	51593	Investigator 2 Taxation	NE
1:	25	73193	Instructor 1 Education - 12 months	4E	■ 19	56082	Investigator 2 Unemployment Insurance	NE
	23	75475	Instructor 1 12 months	4E	? 16	30565	Investigator 3 Citizen Information & Complaints	35
	19	73092	Instructor 2 Education - 10 months	4E	18	65832	Investigator 3 Division on Civil Rights	NE
Il	22	73192	Instructor 2 Education - 12 months	4E	19	65046	investigator 3 Labor	NE
J	20	75474	Instructor 2 12 months	4E	20	33856	Investigator 3 Law & Public Safety	NE
	95	61380	Instructor — Counselor Trainee	4E	20	54993	Investigator 3 Real Estate Commission	NE
	95	55270	Insurance Analyst Trainee	4E	; 19	51592	Investigator 3 Taxation	NE
	26	55 274	Insurance Analyst 2	NL	18	33855	Investigator 4 Law& Public Safety	NE
	22	55273	Insurance Analyst 3	NE	95	52480	Investment Analyst-Trainee	
	19	55272	Insurance Analyst 4	NE	26	52483	Investment Analyst 2	NE
	20	55105	Insurance Education Specialist	NE	'• 22	52482	investment Analyst 3	NE
p	95	55081	Insurance Examiner Trainee	•*	95	54140	Labor Market Analyst Trainee	
'.	23	55083	Insurance Examiner 2	NE	: 22	54143	Labor Market Analyst 3	35
	20	55082	Insurance Examiner 3	NE	19	54142	Labor Market Analyst 4	35
n			100				101	
95	10690	Landscape Designer Trainee	40	:.3O	10136	Network Administrator 2	N4
23	10693	Landscape Designer 2	40	■'24	93065	News Writer PBA	4E
20	10692	Landscape Designer 3	40 :	•28 ••	18097	Nuclear Engineer	NL
20	30464	Law Clerk	NL d	ft]	51200	Nurse Practioner	NL
23	01403	Learning Disabilities Specialist	NL	•28	00183	Nursing Consultant	NL
25	36305	Legal Assistant 3 Office of Administrative Law	NL	*24	44793	Nutrition Consultant	NL
24	60402	Legal Services Coordinator	NL :	<1.9	64892	Occupational Analyst	NE
21	74073	Librarian Garden State School District	35		03112	Occupational Health Consultant Trainee	NE
21	74083	Librarian 2	35 ;	£27	03914	Occupational Health Consultant 1	NL
IS	74082	Librarian 3	55 •;	125	03913	Occupational Health Consultant 2	NE
15	02288	Library Associate	35	i22	03912	Occupational Health Consultant 3	NE
16	74112	Library Technician	35 ?	its	03114	Occupational Health Consultant 4	NE
22	15109	License Examiner 2	NE	■23	03945	Occupational Safety Consultant 1	NL
19	15108	License Examiner 3	NE ;	;'22	03944	Occupational Safety Consultant 2	NE
20	13723	Local Aid Analyst	40	^0	03671	Occupational Therapist	40
IS	56492	Management Assistant	” i		03670	Occupational Therapist Trainee	*4
20	56491	Management Assistant	40	.22	53153	Office Automation Specialist 2	NE
31	53103	Management Information Systems Specialist 2	NL i	19	53152	Office Automation Specialist 3	NE
29	53102	Management Information Systems Specialist 3	NL '		55302	Operations Analyst	35
95	56489	Management Trainee	40	19	61846	Parole Counselor State Parole Board	NE
95	56490	Management Trainee	35 Ilf J	35	53650	Pensions Benefits Specialist Trainee	**
24	55243	Market Conduct Examiner 2	NL :	■21	53653	Pensions Benefits Specialist 2	35
21	55240	Market Conduct Examiner 3	NE	MS	53652	Pensions Benefits Specialist 3	35
18	55238	Market Conduct Examiner 4	NE 1	:23	65363	Permit Coordination Officer 2	NE
95	16890	Mechanical Engineer Trainee	_ __ ,1	s-i	01292	Pharmacist I	35
32	00067	Medical Examiner Disability Determinations	NL । - f"	isi	03691	Physical Therapist	40
14	21232	Medical Records Librarian	35 :	22	07752	Physician Assistant	NL
26	53934	Medical Review Analyst	NE	*39	00088	Physician Specialist 1	NL
21	60055	Medical Social Care Spec. 1 Med. Assist. & nllh Srvs.ML <		$7	00087	Physician Specialist 2	NL
19	60054	Medical Social Care Spec.2 Med. Assist* Hlth Srvs. NE >		$8	00098	Physician 1	NL
28	60176	Medical Social Work Consultant 1	NL >	*35	00097	Physician 2	NL
25	60174	Medical Social Work Consultant 2	NL J	■32	00096	Physician 3	NL
H	01954	Medical Technologist	35 •	^2	15072	Planned Real Estate Development Analyst 2	4E
95	02001	Microbiologist Trainee	J ... ;	&5	J 6469	Planner Trainee	40
22	02003	Microbiologist 4	NE •*	!95	16470	Planner Trainee	*4
19	02002	Microbiologist 5	NE ■	20	12492	Planner Transportation	40
21	17274	Mine Safety Education Technician	NE	31	72614	Planning Associate I Education	NL
22	55393	Municipal Finance Auditor 2	NE ■	?18	72624	Planning Associate 2	NL
19	55392	Municipal Finance Auditor 3	ne ;	"■U	72612	Planning Associate 2 Education	NJ.
19	74593A Museum Registrar		NE :	.26	72623	Planning Associate 3	NL
15	74573	Museum Technician	35 d	•26	03197	Planning Coordinator Fish Game & Wildlife	NL
19	02772	Naturalist	40	'22	02554	Plant Pathologist 1	NL
26	10107	Network Administrator 1	NL	19	02553	Plant Pathologist 2	NE
27	10137	Network Administrator 1	N4 .	••29	52554	Portfolio Manager Stocks &. Bonds	NL
29	10108	Network Administrator 2	NL	t26	15095	Principal Engineer Code Service	4£
		102		!.		103	
			
18	62053	Principal Income Maintenance Technician	NE
v	24	03173	Principal Research Analyst	NL
*	25 b	03183	Principal Research Analyst	4E
■	27	S6698	Principal Utility Management Analyst	NL
is	54242	Procedures Analyst	35
20	54246	Procedures Analyst	40
25	52628	Procurement Specialist I	3E
;	• 22	52626	Procurement Specialist 2	35
19	52624	Procurement Specialist 3	35
i	26	93087	Producer/Director PBA	NL
21	74260	Product. & Market. Assist. NJ Historical Comm.	NL
I	27	81271	Prof. Sm Spec. 1 Administrative Services	NL
27	Ki 272	Professional Services Specialist 1 Computer Services NL	
27	81280	Professional Services Specialist 1 Facilities	NL
24	81264	Professional Services Specialist 2 Admin. Services	NL
i	24	81265	Professional Services Specialist 2 Computer Service!	NL
24	81270	Professional Services Specialists Facilities	NL
21	81257	Professional Services Specialist 3 Admin. Services	NE
•	21	81258	Professional Services Specialist 3 Computer Services NE	
1	21	81263	Professional Services Specialist 3 Facilities	NE
!	18	81253	Professional Services Specialist 4 Admin. Services	NE
!	15	80180	Prof. Services Specialist 4 Admin. Srvs. 10 mos.	NE
=	18	81254	Professional Services Specialist 4 Computer Services NE	
18	81256	Professional Services Specialist 4 Facilities	NE
[	16	■ 80081	Program Assistant Administrative Services	NE
13	80080	Program Assistant Administrative Services 10 mos.	NE
16	80083	Program Assistant Computer Services	NE
25	55745	Program Assistant Corrections	NL
25	60664	Program Assistant Div. Developmental Disabilities	NL
20	62753	Program Assistant Eye Health Services	NE
18	80201	Program Assistant Financial Aid	NE
?	25	62895	Program Assistant Health & Senior Services	NL
;	25	60385	Program Assistant Mental Health	NL
1	21	93149	Prog. Assist. Motion Picture & TV Develop. Comm.	NL
24	55744	Program Assistant 2 Corrections	NL
22	80312	Program Associate Student Assistance	NE
26	31544	Program Development Specialist 1 Legal Services	NL
21	64483	Program Development Specialist?	NE
22	64481	Program Development Specialist 2	40
21	31542	Program Development Specialist? Legal Services	NE
r	18	64480	Program Development Specialist 3	NE
19	64479	Program Development Specialist 3	40
18	64482	Program Development Specialist 3	NE
28	60301	Program Monitor Americans with Disability Act	NL
24	80555	Program Officer Health Professions Education	NL
104
24	80545	Program Officer Health Workforce Utilization	NL
F- 23	65293 A Program Planning & Development Specialist 2		NL
: 24	5422 5A Program Researcher		NL
: 25	62995	Program Specialist Alcohol Abuse Activities	NL
; 25	63055A	Program Specialist Drug Abuse Activities	NL
? 26	00321	Prog. Spec. Hlth. Facil. Evaluation and Licensing	NL
: 26	63056	Program Special. Pediatric Emerg. Medical Services	NL
' 22	00142	Program Special. 3 Occupational Environ. Health	NE
■ 24	62I02A Program Support Specialist 2		NL
21	62 LOO	Program Support Specialist 3	35
■ 24	62102	Program Support Specialist 2, Youth & Family Srv.	NL
: 22	62101	Program Support Specialist 3, Youth & Family Srv.	NE
:: 21	80145	Program Assistant Comm. On Science & 'l ech.	NE
28	17296	Project Engineer Safety	NL
27	55624	Promotional Material Specialist	NL
• 24	55750	Promotional Sales Specialist State Use Industries	NL
: 18	52602	Property Management Services Specialist 1	NE
21	52603	Property Management Services Specialist 2	NE
i 24	52604	Property Management Services Specialist 3	NE
99	01383	Psychological Interne	NE
■ 32	01067	Public Health Dentist 2	NL
.. 24	62864A Public Health Consultant 2		NL
26	60610	Public Health Consultant 2 Nursing	NL
• 25	03974	Public Health Epidemiologist	NL
; 32	00057	Public Health Physician	NL
: 2!	03983	Public Health Project Nurse	NE
95	62920	Public Health Representative Trainee	
21	62924	Public Health Representative 2	NE
18	62922	Public Health Representative 3	NE
18	54452	Public Information Assistant	NE
95	54450	Public Information Trainee	* *
26	93036	Publications Editor PBA	NL
: 23	70264	Pupil Transportation Specialist	NL
26	55954	Quality Assurance Specialist Health Services	NL
27	62356	Quality Assurance Specialist Health Services	40
21	65003	Quality Assurance Technician	35
18	62191	Quality Control Analyst Med. Assist. & Htlh. Srvs.	NE
25	59981	Radiation Physicist 2	NL
22	59982	Radiation Physicist 3	NL
28	59979	Radiochemist 1	NL
■ 95	56720	Rate Analyst Utilities Trainee	
24	56724	Rate Analyst 1 Utilities	3E
21	56723	Rale Analyst 2 Utilities	35
18	56722	Rate Analyst 3 Utilities	35
22	57083	Rea] Estate Appraiser 1	NE
105
2J	74202	Records Analyst 2	35
18	74201	Records Analyst 3	35
26	64655	Referee Labor	ML
20	60950	Reg. Coord. Of Transp. Day Care & Training	40
34	01072	Reg, Denial Consult, Med. Asst. &. Health. Services	NL
25	03894	Regional Staff Nurse Medical Assistance	NE
26	03897	Regional Staff Nurse Medical Assistance	4E
25	03894C Regional Staff Nurse Medical Assist./Health Services NE		
95	03150	Registered Environmental Health Inspector Trainee	*♦
19	03152	Registered Environmental Health Inspector 1	NE
22	03153	Registered Environmental Health Inspector?	NE
26	55030	Regulatory Officer 2 Insurance	NL
28	13333	Regulatory Officer 2 Public Transportation	NL
29	56751	Regulatory Officer 3	NL
22	55028	Regulatory Officer 3 Insurance	NL
26	56749	Regulatory Officer 4	NL
20	62552	Rehabilitation Counselor Mental Health	NE
95	65270	Rehabilitation Counselor Trainee Mental Health	*•
23	64460	Rental Housing Development Specialist	NL
18	35361	Report Examiner	35
95	35360	Report Examiner Trainee	**
18	03171	Research Analyst	NE
27	62204	Research Analyst Medical Assist, & Health Services	NL
16	35072	Research Assistant Law Enforcement Planning Agcy. NE	
20	12282	Research Assistant Transportation	40
24	52334	Research Associate State Lottery	NL
26	72194	Research Associate Technology for Children Proj.	NL
24	54224	-Research Associate Youth Reception & Corr. Ctr.	NL
95	54000	Research Economist Trainee	«*
28	54005	Research Economist 2	NL
25	54)04	Research Economist 3	NL
22	54001	Research Economist 4	NL
29	54012	Research Economist 3	4E
30	03166	Research Scientist 1	NL
28	03165	Research Scientist 2	NL
29	03212	Research Scientist 2	4E
26	03161	Research Scientist 3	4E
25	03164	Research Scientist 3	NL
99	00476	Resident Psychiatrist Second Year	NL
99	00477	Resident Psychiatrist Third Year	NL
99	00478	Resident Psychiatrist Fourth Year	NL
22	04183	Residential Services Specialist 2	NE
19	04182	Residential Services Specialist 3	NE
20	54406	Resource Interpretive Specialist 1	NE
22	54405	Resource Interpretive Specialist 2	NE
106
25	54398	Resource Interpretive Specialist 3	NL
17	57062	Right of Way Negotiator	NE
95	57061	Right of Way Negotiator Trainee	**
26	57145	Right of Way Research Analyst	NL
23	64406	Rooming & Boarding Home Compliance Officer	NE
24	56904	Rules Analyst Administrative Procedure	NL
21	65153	Rural Workforce Technician	35
22	61485	Safety Officer Developmental Disabilities	NE
22	61484	Safety Officer Mental Health	NE
18	40452	Sales Representative 2 State Lottery	35
19	52393	Sales Representative 2 State Lottery	NE
20	40453	Sales Representative 3 State Lottery	35
21	52396	Sales Representative 3 State Lottery	NE
21	03120	School Nurse	NL
23	73105	School Psychologist - 10 months	NL
26	73104	Srhncl Psychologist - 12 months	NL
19	73103	School Social Worker	NL
20	0266)	Section Forest Firewarden	NE
95	52501	Securities Market Trader Trainee	»*
27	52503	Securities Market Trader 2	NL
22	52502	Securities Market Trader 3	NL
18	02462	Seed Analyst	35
95	02460	Seed Analyst Trainee	**
17	52340	Senior Account Adjuster State Lottery	NE
21	10298	Senior Animal Health Technician	NE
23	17693	Senior Arch itectural Ass is tan t	4 (J
22	54345	Senior Area Coordinator Community Involvement	40
23	01743A Senior Biologist		40
22	01753A Senior Biologist		NE
20	56832	Senior CATV System Operat. & Complaint Invest.	NE
22	01553	Senior Chemist	35
24	01568	Senior Chemist	40
23	64947	Senior Claims Adjudicator Disability Determinations 35	
25	64964	Senior Claims Adjudicator Spec. Disabil. Detenu,	35
21	56093	Senior Claims Examiner Unemploy. & DisabiL Ins,	35
20	56373	Senior Claims Investigator	NE
19	56123	Senior Claims Reviewer	35
19	03953	Senior Clinic Nurse	35
21	07751	Senior Clinic Nurse	40
27	01385	Senior Clinical Psychologist	NL
22	60949	Senior Community Program Specialist	NE
22	64763	Senior Employment Counselor	35
22	64693	Senior Employment Test Technician	NE
23	10483	Senior Engineer Architectural Bridge Design	40
23	10493	Senior Engineer Civil	40
107
21	59987	Senior Engineer Civil	35 \	
23	H5693	Senior Engineer Electrical	40	
23	10463	Senior Engineer Geology	40 ■	
23	10453	Senior Engineer Geotechnical	40	
23	16083	Senior Engineer Hydrographic	40	;	
23	17093	Senior Engineer Industrial	40	
23	13093	Senior Engineer Materials	40	
21	16893	Senior Engineer Mechanical	40	
23	12693	Senior Engineer Planning	40	
23	10473	Senior Engineer Structural Bridge Design	40	■<	
23	10468	Senior Engineer Structural Evaluation	40	?	
23	11283	Senior Engineer Traffic	40	V’
23	10273	Senior Engineer Transportation	40	•:	
23	12293	Senior Engineer Transportation Research	40	
23	14893	Senior Engineer Utilities	40	'	
22	15353K	Senior Environmental Specialist	NE '	
22	16303	Senior Environmental Engineer	NE i	
23	16313	Senior Environmental Engineer	40	L
23	12523	Senior Environmental Specialist	40	
22	15853	Senior Environmental Specialist	NE	
21	15273	Senior Estimator Building & Construction	40 J	
21	56193	Senior Examiner Unemployment Tax	35	1.
22	60655	Senior Field Operations Analyst Develop. Disabil.	NE '	
21	64393	Senior Field Representative Housing	NE	?
22	51683	Senior Field Representative Local Property Tax	NE :	c
25	01283	Senior Field Representative Pharmaceuticals	NL	•
22	55983	Senior Field Represent. Wage & Hour Compliance	NE a	I
24	93126	Senior Film Editor FBA	4£	?	■
21	50533	Senior Fiscal Analyst	35	;	=;
23	03043	Senior Geologist	40	?	
22	03053	Senior Geologist	NE	
22	17493	Senior Highway Safety Specialist	NE	
21	15680	Senior Historic Preservation Specialist	NE	
21	02452	Senior Horticulturist	NL	
16	62052	Senior Income Maintenance Technician	NE >	
IS	62223	Senior Inspector Child Care Centers	NE	
21	45022	Senior Intelligence Research Analyst	NE ?	
21	64752	Senior Interviewer	35 J	
20	54933	Senior Investigator Banking	NE	
20	55153A	Senior investigator Insurance	NE \	
22	55176	Senior Investigator Insurance Fraud Prevention	NE j	
22	33453	Senior Investigator Public Defender	NE	
21	56493	Senior Management Assistant	35	
23	56494	Senior Management Assistant	40	
21	01953	Senior Medical Technologist	35	
19	74577	Senior Museum Technician	35
22	64893	Senior Occupational Analyst	NE
21	55303	Senior Operations Analyst	35
21	61847	Senior Parole Counselor State Parole Board	NE
19	03688	Senior Physical Therapist	35
23	03692	Senior Physical Therapist	40
22	16473	Senior Planner	NE
22	164731	Senior Planner	NE
23	16490	Senior Planner	40
22	16459	Senior Planner Environmental Protection	NE
23	J 2493	Senior Planner Transportation	40
21	54243	Senior Procedures Analyst	35
21	54453	Senior Public Information Assistant	NE
18	62032	Senior Quality Control Reviewer	NE
23	62553	Senior Rehabilitation Counselor Mental Health	NE
21	03172	Senior Research Analyst	NE
22	03181	Senior Research Analyst	40
23	12283	Senior Research Assistant Transportation	40
22	12674	Senior Ride Sharing Coordinator	40
21	57063	Senior Right of Way Negotiator	NE
21	02463	Senior Seed Analyst	35
22	34660	Senior Shelter Analyst Emergency Management	NE
24	62194	Senior Standards & Procedures Technician	NE
21	54083	Senior Statistician	35
21	15304	Senior Technical Operations Analyst CATV	NE
19	53100	Senior Technician Mgt. Information Systems	40
18	62042	Senior Technician Mgt. Information Systems	NE
22	32424	Senior Tidelands Appraiser	NE
20	57143	Senior Title Examiner	NE
21	63563	Senior Training Technician	35
22	63578	Senior Training Technician	NE
23	13283	Senior Transportation Analyst	40
24	56696	Senior Utility Management Analyst	NL
29	10100	Senior Veterinarian	NL
29	00876	Senior Veterinarian Disease Control	NL
21	61867	Senior Vocational Counselor Corrections	NE
23	65263	Senior Vocational Rehab. Counselor	NL
22	03360	Senior Zoologist Non-Game	NE
31	03256	Site Manager	N4
30	59992	Site Manager	NL
27	55616	Small Business Development Representative 1	NL
24	55614	Small Business Development Representative 2	NE
95	60050	Social Worker Trainee	**
20	60053	Social Worker 1	NL
18	60052	Social Worker 2	NE
109
108
26	03092	Soil Erosion & Sediment Control Specialist	NL
19	52344	Special Investigator State Lottery	NE
25	18484	Specification Writer 1	4E
23	18485	Specification Writer 1	35
2)	18483	Specincation Writer 2	35
23	18486	Specification Writer 2	40
22	72740	Speech Correct! onist	NL
25	03653	Speech/IIearing Specialist 1	NL
22	03652	Speech/Hearing Specialist 2	NL
20	05650	Speech/Hearing Specialist 3	NI-
16	34363	Staff Assistant 1	NE
17	34364	Staff Assistant 1	40
15	34361	Staff Assistants	40
14	34362	Staff Assistant 2	NE
18	60308	Staff Clinical Psycho legist 1	NE
24	01394	Staff C1 inical P sycho legist 1	NL
21	60309	Staff Clinical Psychologist 2	NL
21	01393	Staff Clinical Psychologist 2	NL
24	60310	Staff Clinical Psychologist 3	NL
18	01392	StafTCiinical Psychologist 3	NE
17	03841	StaffNurse 10 Months	4E
20	03852	Staff Nurse 12 Months	4E
18	60007	StaffNurse 12 Months	3E
21	62193	Standards and Procedures Technician	35
24	40195	State Park Equipment Management Specialist	NE
19	53801	Statistical & Research Assist. Family Development	35
18	54082	Statistician	35
95	54080	Statistician Trainee	
17	93003	Studio Assistant to the Director PBA	40
18	63114	Substance Abuse Counselor 2	NE
21	59996	Supervising Radiological Technician	35
25	72374	Supervisor Comm. Indust. Relat. Newark Skills Ctr.	NL
23	52803	Supervisor Emergency Welfare	NL
25	82444	Supervisor Model Shop & Science Equipment	NE
21	41946	Supervisor of Bridges & Structures Highway	40
24	42506	Supervisor of Building Repairs	4E
25	52724	Supervisor of Operations Racing Commission	NL
21	93011	Supervisor of Volunteers PBA	NL
21	52984	Surveyor Physical Ptant/Life Safety	NL
22	51403	Tax Analyst 2	35
19	51402	Tax Analyst 3	35
95	51400	Tax Representative Trainee	
26	51332	Tax Services Specialist 2	NL
23	51331	Tax Services Specialist 3	NL
95	51412	Taxation Analyst Trainee	*•
no
21	51323	Taxpayer Service Representative 2	NE
IS	51322	Taxpayer Service Representative 3	NE
24	75293	Teacher 1 12 Months	NL
21	75283	Teacher 1 10 Months	NL
22	75294	Teacher 2	4E
21	75292	Teacher 2 12 Months	NL
18	75282	Teacher 2 10 Months	NL
17	75291	Teacher 3 12 Months	NL
17	61391	Technical Assistant Classification	NE
20	64183	Technical Assistant I Community Affairs	NE
17	64182	Technical Assistant 2 Community Affairs	NE
19	15301	Technical Operations Analyst CATV	NE
24	53063	Technical Support Specialist 1	35
26	53079	Technical Support Specialist 1	40
20	5306!	Technical Support Specialist 2	35
22	53080	Technical Support Specialist 2	40
24	62658	Technolog. Srv. Special Comm, for BV1	NL
28	53044	Telecommunications Systems Analyst 2	NL
25	53043	Telecommunications Systems Analyst 3	NL
24	93136	Television Cinematographer PBA	4E
98	10064	Tentative Title Commerce	NL
19	03720	Therapist Art	40
19	03715	Therapist Movement	40
19	03662	Therapist Music	40
17	57142	Title Examiner	NE
26	55594	Tourism Representative 1	NL
23	55593	Tourism Representative 2	NL
19	55592	Tourism Representative 3	NE
26	64620	Training & Development Analyst	NL
18	63562	Train ing T echnician	35
19	63577	Training Technician	NE
95	63560	Training Technician Trainee	**
20	13282	Transportation Analyst	40
95	13280	Transportation Analyst Trainee	**
21	51102	Transportation Services Specialist 3	35 '
1.8	51101	Transportation Services Specialist 4	35
25	56104	Unemployment Insurance Technician 1	NE
22	56103	Unemployment Insurance Technician 2	35
19	56102	Unemployment insurance Technician 3	35
21	56694	Utility Management Analyst	NL
95	56693	Utility Management Analyst Trainee	NL
22	62344	Veterans Services Officer 2	NE
95	62352	Veterans Services Officer Trainee	*4
19	62353	Veterans Services Officer 3	NE
26	00866	Veterinarian	NL
Ill
18	61862	Vocational Counselor Corrections	NE
20	65272	Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor 1	NE
23	65263	Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor 2	NL
18	60152	Volunteer Services Assistant	NE
25	55993	Wage Collection Referee	NL
19	60199	Work Program Specialist 2	NL
APPENDIX 5 Titles Eligible for Clothing Allowance PROFESSIONAL UNIT
TITLE	CODE
New Jersey Water Supply Authority TITLE
Information Specialist, WSA
Project Engineer I, WSA
Project Engineer II, WSA
Water Protection Specialist, WSA
New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission TITLE
Account Executive
Accountant/Auditor Specialist
Anesthetist Nurse	03884
Assistant Biologist	01742/01752
Assistant Curator	74564
Assistant Division Forest Fire Warden	02662
Assistant Engineer Transportation	10272
Assistant Engineer Materials	13092
Assistant Landscape Architect	10692
Assistant Landscape Architect	10689
Assistant Regional Forester	02653
Assistant Supervisor Academic Lab Services	82404
Assistant Supervisor 3 Administrative Services	Facilities	82655
Assistant Supervisor 3 Administrative Services	Pub lie. Safety 826 5 3
Assistant Supervisor 4 Administrative Services	Public	Safety 82652
Assistant Supervisor! Facilities	82657
Assistant Supervisor 3 Facilities 10 Months	82645
Assistant Supervisor 4 Fac i litics	82654
Assistant Supervisor 4 Facilities 10 Months	82642
Associate Director 2, Facilities
Associate Director 3, Facilities
Associate Director 4, Facilities
Behavioral Mod ification Program Tcchnic ian	03 646
Biologist Trainee	01750
Boarding Home Evaluator, Social	64404
Building Inspector Health Facility	52994
Building Management Services 111	52574
Building Management Services l.V	52572
Camp Nurse	03962
Chemist	01567/01552
Child Care Quality Assurance Inspector	62226
Clinic Nurse	03952
Clinical Laboratory Evaluator	01783
Clinical Pharmacist	01293
Clinical Specialist in Psychiatric Nursing	00473
Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 1	32074/59940
Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 2	32073/59941
Coastal Zone Implementation Specialist 3	32072/59942
Complaint Investigator	60451
Day Care Counselor	60924
Dentist 2	01057
112
113
Dentist 3
EngIneer/FiIm Editor PBA
Eye Health Nurse
Field Representative Board of Nursing
Field Representative Housing
Field Representative Pharmaceutical
Forensic Scientist
Forensic Scientist 1
Forester
Staff Nurse, 10 Months
Staff Nurse, 12 Months
Graphic Artist I PBA
Graphic Artist 2 PBA
Health Care Facilities Evaluator 1
Health Care Facilities Evaluator 11
Health Care Services Evaluator Family Planning
Health Facilities Construction
Historic Preservation Specialist
Instructor Counselor
Instructor ofNursing
Lighting Director PBA
Medical Technologist
Microbiologist 4
Microbiologist 5
Museum Registrar
Naturalist
Nursing Consultant Health
Occupational Health Consultant 1
Occupational Health Consultant 2
Occupational Health Consultant 3
Occupational Health Consultant 4
Occupational Health Nurses
Occupational Safety Consultant 1
Occupational Safety Consultant 2
Occupational Therapist
Pharmacist
Physical Therapist
Public Health Consultant II
Public Health Nurse
Public Health Project Nurse
Radio Chemist 1
Radio Chemist 2
Regional Staff Nurse, Medical Assistance
Registered Environmental Health Inspector 1
Registered Environmental Health Inspector?
01056
93303
03963
03994
64392
01232
01591
01592
02652
03841
03852/60007
93106
93105
60453
60452
03954
52984
15679/74712/74713
61382
03874
93148
01954
02003
02002
74593
02772
00183
03914
03913
03912
03114
03932
03945
03944
03671
01292
03691
62864/60610
03972
03983
18084/59979
18083
03894/03897
03152
03153
Research Scientist 3 Radiological Health	18073
School Nurse Education Center	03942
Section Forest Fire Warden	02661
Senior Biologist Transportation	01743
Senior Biologist	01753
Senior Chemist	01553
Senior Chemist	01568
Senior Clinic Nurse	03953/07751
Senior Engineer Materials	13093
Senior Engineer Structural Bridge Design	10473
Senior Engineer Structural Evaluation	10468
Senior Engineer Transportation	10273
Senior Field Representative Housing	64393
Senior Field Representative Pharmacist Health Facilities	01283
Senior Film Editor PRA	93126
Senior Geotechnical Engineer	10453
Senior Historic Preservation Specialist	15680
Senior Landscape Architect	10691
Senior Landscape Architect	10693
Senior Medical Technologist	01953
Senior Physical Therapist	03688,03692
Senior Rehabilitation Counselor	65273
Senior Training Technician	63578
Senior Training Technician	63563 *i
Senior Training Technician	63563(FOnly)
Senior Quality Control Reviewer	62032
Senior Vocational Rehab Counselor	65203
Speech Hearing Specialist 3	03650
Speech Hearing Specialist 2	03652
Speech Hearing Specialist I	03653
Staff Assistant 1 Department of Defense	34363/34364
Staff Assistant 2 Department of Defense	34362/34361
Supervisor Building Repairs	42506
Supervisor Model Shop and Science Equipment	82444
Supervisor of Bridges and Structures	41946
Teacher I (Serving in DDD)	75293 1
Teacher II (Serving In DDD)	752921
Teacher III (Serving in DDD)	75291 1
Teacher (Serving in DYFS)	75291/75292/75293 :
Teacher I	75293 4
Teacher 2	75294 4
Teacher 3	75291 4
Television Cinematographer PR A	93136
Therapist Art	03720
Therapist Movement	03715
114
115
Therapist Music
Therapist P&ychodrama
Training Technician
Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor Trainee
Vocational Counselor Corrections
Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
03662
037J0 63562/63577
65270
61862
65272
* 1 Variantsnot included
2 P/R 603,604,607,613,614,663,664,667,672,680,683,684,685,686,689, 692
3 Teacher I, 11, III, P/R 669, 674, 675,676, 677
4 P/R 600, 611, 620, 621, 641,650, 665
116
INDEX
Absence ar lateness due to weather conditions......................... 27
Access to personnel file...............................................52
Access to premises...................................................47, 78
Administration of Agreement,	Meetings...................................8
Administration of positions	and	salary ranges........................ 23
Administrative Leave days............................................. 40
Agency fee............................................................ 80
Alternate work week................................................. 80,	82
Arbitration...................................................10, 11, 17, 34
Benefits, Dental Care Plan
eligibility, salary deductions optional Group Dental plan....................................... 37,	38
Benefits, Eye Care Program eligibility, co vei age, depend euls   ........................      38
Benefits, Intermittent employee health benefits coverage qualifications............................................. 38
Benefits, Prescription Drug Plan eligibility and co-payments..........................................37,	38
Benefits, State Health Benefits Programs
optional plans available to employees eligible employees:.............  ....................  ......... 36
Benefits^Health insurance in retirement eligibility and coverage ...............  ........................   39
Bonus pay for second and third shifts................................. 23
Breaks.................................................................25
Bulletin boards.....................................................   49
CETA and other programs.................................................4
Clothing allowance additional eligible titles ....................................      78
eligibity requirements............................,.............. 21,	78
Clothing Allowance, changes to titles..................................87
Compensation Plan and Program......................................... 20
Compensatory time
Balances Requirements for requests:...................................     28
Confidential duties......................................................1
Damage or loss of personal property............................        64
Death in the family....................................................44
Deferred compensation plan...................................          -	22
Dental Plan........................................................... 37
Dependent care problems................................................27
Dignity.............................................................. 7,	82
117
Discipline
General rules, eligible employees.................................15
Investigations, time-off, general provisions...................19,20
Minor Di sc ip line...............................................16
Discrimination........................................................4
Dues Deduction and Membership Information
Representation Fee................................................4, 5
Eligibility for union membership......................................1
Employee Information
Computer Tape......................................................7
Essential employees..................................................88
Examinations, Department of Personnel, lime-off......................31
Exempt titles........................................................88
Grievance
Group Grievance................................-..................13
Union Rights..............................'.................12, 7S, £2
Grievance Procedure
Definitions........................................................9
Purpose............................................................8
Grievance Steps and Time Frames General.................................................              9
Harrassment, verbal/physica!..........................................7
Health & Safety......................................................61
Health & Safety Committee............................................62
Health Care Advisory Committee.......................................86
Health Care Cost Containment Committee...............................83
HMO Benefit Plans.................................................36, 39
Hours of work:.......................................................25
Informational packets................................................51
Interoffice mail, union activity.....................................50
In voluntary transfer................................................67
Job security.........................................................84
Job vacancy announcements, unclassified employees....................31
Lateness.............................................................27
Layoffs. Unclassified and provisional employees......................56
Leaves of Absence
Union activity..............................................-.....48
Leaves of Absence without pay
Union positions...................................................47
Leaves of Absence, Administrative Leave-Career Service Program....40,45
Leaves of Absence, Child care leave........................    —..--.42
Leaves of Absence, continued benefits............................    46
Leaves of Absence, Jury duty and witness leave.......................40
Leaves of Absence, less than six months..........................    86
Leaves of Absence, Military permanent, temporary or provisional employees........................42
Leaves of Absence, Pregnancy-Disability leave........................41
Leaves of Absence, Work related injury or disease....................41
Liability Claims.....................................................58
Liability Claims Indemnification.....................................59
Lunch breaks.........................................................25
Membership packets...................................................51
Merit System Board...........................................3,	8, 14, 15
Office of Employee Relations... 1,6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 22,47,48, 49,71, 78, 80. 82. 86, 87
Orientation sessions.............................................    52
Out-of-Titlc Work....................................................29
Overtime..........................................................25.65
Holiday hours scheduled overtime non-scheduled overtime incidental overtime............................................25,26
Performance Evaluation System (PES) General provisions...................................................31
Persona! preference days
requests for eligible employees................................................34
PES form
Performance Evaluation System meeting
Unsatisfactory rating Appeals procedures..............................................32,	33
PES, new employees...................................................33
Preamble......................................................        ,,	I
Probationary period...........................................       53
Promotion
permanent provisional...................................................29, 30
Promotions, Task Force...............................................87
Promotions, unclassified employees................................i.... 87
Public address system in work area, union activity...................50
Reassignment...............................,.........................68
Recall from layoff.....................................................56
Reclassification of positions, rce valuations of job classification
Merit System Rules and Regulations..................................24
Recognition of Rights and Definitions
Recognition of Union and Unit
Special Circumstances Management Rights........................................,.......|
Reorganization, Union rights.........................................56
118
119
Representation fee..........................................................5
Rest periods, working during...............................................87
Retirement Benefits
P nb! ec Emp] oyees Reti rement System (P ERS) PERS employee contribution...........................................36
Salary adjustments for nurses and teachers.................................24
Salary Program, 7/03-6/07..................................................20
Seniority lists........................................................... 53
Sick Leave, Federal Medical Leave Act (FMLA) requirements and uses...................................................43
Special Response Unit, SPRU........ .......................................81
Special Service employees...............................................   88
Special Time Off
Special emergencies
inclement weather Other,,...,..................................................     35,	36
State vehicles..........................................................   61
Topi allowance ......................................................      89
Traditional Heal th Benefits Plan.......................................36,	38
Training and Education Fund............................................    89
Training for lower paid employees..........................................90
Training, Adminislrative/Cierical Unit.....................................22
Transfer..-.,,,,....,,,............................................        67
Transportation allowance and reimbursement..............................59T	60
Travel regulations.........................................................59
Tuition Aid Program........................................................64
Tuition Waiver Program.....................................................75
Unexcused absence..........................................................27
Union privileges at workplace..............................................50
Union Rights and Representatives...........................................47
Union Stewards.............................................................50
Unused sick leave, retirement............................................. 44
Vacation leave
Career Service Program..................................................45
VDT Operators, eye exams ............................................      64
VDT Operators, pregnancy...................................................64
120
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee* EfTecdva: June Z6P 2004
10 Month Employe** Effective; September 1, 2004
Covering Employee Relation* Group*: P * R * £
Range	1	. 2	3	4	5	fi
/increment	707.59	740,35	770.29	815.04	056.79	901.66
Step 1	17.211.81	17,919.40	18,659.75	19,436.04	20,251.08	21,107.87
Step?	17,919.40	18,659 75	19,436.04	20,251.08	21,107.87	22,009.53
Steps	18,626.99	19,460.10	20.212 33	21,066,12	21,964.66	22,911.19
Step 4	19,384.58	20,140.45	20,980.52	21,081.18	22,821.45	23,812.85
Step 5	20,042.17	20,880.50	21,764.91	22,696.20	23,878.24	24/14.51
Step 6	20,749.76	21,621,15	22,541.20	23,511.24	24.535.03	25.816.17
Step?	21,457.35	22,361.60	23,317.49	24,326.23	25,391.62	26,517.03
Step fl	22,164.94	23,101.05	24,093.78	25.141.32	26,248.61	27,419.49
StepS	22,872 53	23,642 20	24,870.07	25,956.36	27,105.40	20,321,15
Renga	?	8	9	1a	11	12
teerement	940.40	894.17	1.041.95	1.092.70	1.146.44	1.203.17
Step 1	22,009.53	22.905 93	23,950.10	24,992 05	26.084.75	27,231.19
S tep 2	22,955.93	23.950.10	24,992.05	26.084.75	27,231.19	28, <34.36
Step 3	23,902.33	24.944.27	26,034.00	27,177.45	28,377.63	29,637.53
Step 4	24,840.73	25,93344	27,075.95	20,270.15	29,524.07	30.B40.70
Step 5	25,795.13	26,932.61	28,117.00	29,362.05	30,670.51	32,343.67
Stepfi	26,741.53	27.92678	29,159.05	30,455.55	31,816.95	33,247,04
Step 7	27,607.93	28,92 0 95	30,201.80	31.548 25	32,963.39	34.450,21
Step 8	28.634.33	29,915.12	31,243.75	32,640.95	34,109.63	35,653.30
Step 9	29,580.73	30,909.29	32,285.70	33,733.55	35,256.27	36,056.55
Range	13	14	15	15	17	1$
/increment	1,265.79	1.32059	1,394.20	1,465 89	1.540,50	1.615.11
Step?	28,434 36	29,700 15	31,023.74	32,422.94	33,808.03	35,429.39
Stes2	29.700.15	31,02674	32,422.94	33,088.53	35,429.39	37.M4.50
Step 3	30,965.94	32,357.33	33.B17.14	36,364.72	36.969.95	36,059.51
Step 4	32.231.73	33,685.92	35,211.34	36,820.61	38,510,51	40,274.72
SfecS	33,497.52	35.014.S1	36,605.54	30,286.50	40,051.07	41,809,03
Step 6	34.763-31	36.343.10	37,999.74	39.752.39	41,591.63	43,004.94
Step 7	30,029.10	37.071.69	39.393.94	41.218.28	43,132.19	45,120.05
Step 8	37,294.69	39,000,25	40.78614	42,684. T?	44.072.75	46,735.16
Step 9	30,560.68	40,328.87	42,182.34	44,150.06	46.213.31	40,350.27
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: Jun# 26, 2004
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1, 2004
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R * S
Range	10	20	21	22	23	24
tecremenf	1,695.74	1,702.37	1,071.90	1,964.40	2,062.95	2,164.48
Step 1	37.044.50	38.740.24	40.52261	42,394.61	44,358.99	46,421.05
Step 2	35,740.24	40,522.61	42,394.51	44.358.99	46,421.95	48.506,43
Step 3	40,435,90	42,304,98	44.266.41	46.32347	48,464.91	50,750.91
Step4	42,131.72	44,087.35	46,138.31	48.287-95	50.547,87	52,91539
step 5	43,027.46	45.669.72	48,010.21	50,252.43	52,810.83	55,079.07
Step 6	46,523.20	47,652.09	49.8&2.11	52,216.91	54,67379	57,244.35
Step 7	47,210,94	49,434.48	51,754.01	54,181,39	56,736.75	59.408.83
Step 6	40.914.65	51,218.83	53.625.91	56,145 87	50.799-71	61.573.31
Step?	50,610.42	52,899.20	55,497.81	50,110.35	50,062.67	63,737.79
Range	25	26	27	Z8	29	W
frictePtefll	2,274.94	2,388.41	2,507.82	2,633.21	2,764.56	2,901.93
Step 1	48,686.43	50,061.37	53,249.78	55,757.50	56,390 81	61.15537
Step 2	50,861.37	53,249,78	55,75760	58,390,81	61,15537	&4.057.30
Step 3	53,136.31	55,638,19	58,265.42	61,024.02	63,919.93	66,959.23
Step 4	55.411 25	58,026.00	60,773.24	63,667.23	66,684.49	69,861.16
Step 5	57,686.19	60,415,01	63.281.08	66,290.44	69,449-05	72,783.09
Step 6	69,961,13	62,803.42	65,733.88	68,923.65	72,213.61	75,656.02
Step?	62,236.07	65,191.83	68.296.70	71,566.86	74.978.17	70,566.95
step 8	54,611.01	67,580,24	70.804,52	74,190.07	77,742,73	81,468,08
Step 9	66.788.96	69,968.85	73,312.34	76,823.28	80,507.29	84,370.81
Rang*	31	32	33	34	36	36
tncrwrtenl	3.048,17	3.200,46	3,358.70	3,528.87	3,703.00	3,807.14
Step?	64,057.30	67.105.47	70,308,93	73,664.63	77,193-50	80,895,50
Step 2	67,105,47	70.305.93	73.854.63	77,193-50	80,895.50	84,782 64
Step 3	70,153,64	73,506.39	77.023.33	80.722-37	84,587.50	98,689.78
Step 4	73,201.01	76,706.05	00,382.03	04.251241	88.299.50	92.56692
Steps	76.249.98	79,907.31	03,740.73	07,760.11	92,001.50	96,444.06
Step 6	79,298.15	63,107 77	87,099,43	91.308.98	95,703.00	100,331.20
Step 7	82,346,32	86,300.23	90,458.13	94.837.06	99.4Q5.S0	104,218.34
Step 8	85.394.49	89.508.69	93.815.03	98.366.72	103,167-50	108,105,40
I Step 9	88,442.66	92,709.16	97,175,53	101,895.59	106,809.50	111,992.62
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: June 26, 2004
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1, 2004
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R * S
Ring*	37	38	39	40	41	42
jTw/wment	4,084,17	4,287,15	4.502,14	4,726.06	4,964.64	5,209.72
Step 1	64,752.64	88.888.81	93.153.96	97,656.10	102,382.16	107,347.00
Steps	88,886.01	93,15398	97,858.10	102,382.16	107,347,00	112,556,72
Step3	92,950 36	97,441.11	102,156.24	107,108.22	112.3T1.84	117,786.44
Step 4	97,035.15	101.728.26	108,660.38	111.B34.28	117,276.66	122,976.16
Step 5	101.110.32	108,015.41	111,162,52	118,580.34	122,241.52	128,185.88
Steps	105,203.49	110,302.56	115,684.68	121,286.40	127.2M.38	133,395.60
Step 7	109,267.66	114,569.71	120,166.80	126,012.46	132,171.20	138,605.32
steps	113,371.63	118,576,88	124,668.94	130,736.52	137,136.04	143,315.04
Step 9	117.456.00	123.164.01	129,171.08	135,464.56	142,100 68	149,024.76
Ring*	43	44	45
^nevwrwj^	5,472.45	5,747.08	B,033.85
Step 1	1J2.5M.72	f f 8,029. f7	123,775,25
Step 2	118.029.17	123,776.25	129,809.90
StepS	123.501.62	129,523.33	135,843.55
Step 4	128.974.07	135,270.41	141,077.20
Step 5	134.446.52	141,017.49	147,910,85
Step 6	139.91 B.07	148,784.57	153,944.50
Step 7	145.391.42	152,511.65	159,978.15
Step 9	150.883.07	158,258.73	166,011,90
Step 9	156,336.32	164,005.81	172,045.45
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: June 25, MOS 10 Month Employees Effective: September 1, 2005 Covering Employee Relations Groups; P * ft »5
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: June Z5, 2005
10 Month Empfoyeej Effective; September 1, 2005 Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R > 8
Range	1	2	3	4	5	S
Increment	721.74	755.16	791.81	831.34	873 93	919.69
Stop f	17,558.05	10,277.79	19,032,95	19,524,76	20,556.10	21,530.03
Step 2	15.2777$	19,032.95	19,024.76	20,556.10	21,530.03	22.449.72
Step?	18,999.53	19.7M.11	20,615.57	21,487.44	22,403,96	23.369.41
Step 4	19,721.27	20,543-27	21,400.36	22.315.78	23,277.89	24.289.10
Step £	29.443.01	21,298,43	22.200.19	23,130.12	24,151.82	25,208,79
Step6	21,184.75	22,053.59	22,992.00	23,981.46	25,025.75	26,128.48
Step 7	2l.8M.49	22.805.75	23,783.51	24.812.80	25.fi99.68	27,040.17
Step 8	22,005.23	23,563.91	24,575.62	25.644.14	26,773.61	27,967.06
Steps	23,329.97	24.319.07	26.367.43	26,475.48	27,647.54	20,807,55
Range	19	20	21	22	23	24
Increment	1,729.65	1,81 fi. 02	1,909.34	2,003.77	2,104.22	2,207.77
Step J	37.7fi5.39	39,515.04	41,333-06	43,242,40	45.246.17	47,350,39
Steps	39.515.04	41,333.06	43,242.40	45,240,17	47.350,39	49,550.16
Step 3	41,244 89	43.151.0fi	45,151.74	47,249.94	49,454,61	51,760.93
Step 4	42,974.34	44,969.10	47.061.08	49,253.71	51,500.83	53,973.70
Step 5	44.703.99	48,707.12	40,970.42	51,257.48	53,603.05	56,181.47
Step 6	46.433.54	48,605.14	50,679.76	53.261.25	55.767.27	58.3B9.24
Step 7	43,163.29	00,423.16	62,789.10	55,265.02	57,071.49	60,597.01
Stepfi	49,892.94	52.241.18	54,698.44	57,268.79	5'0,075.71	62,804.70
StepS	51,022.59	54,009.20	56,807 70	09.272.56	62,079.93	65,012.55
Range	7	8	9	40	41	11
teGrernenr	965.33	1,014.05	1,062.79	1.114,56	1.189 36	1.Z27.24
Step 1	22,449.72	23.415.05	24,429.10	25,491 69	26,606 45	27,775.81
Stop 2	23,415.05	24,429.10	25.491.89	26,506.45	27,775.81	29,003.05
Step 3	24,380.38	25,443.15	26,554 55	27,721.01	20,945,17	30,230.20
Step 4	25,345.71	26,457.20	27,617.47	Z8.835.57	30.114.53	31.457.53
Step 5	26.311.04	27,471.25	28,680.26	29,950.13	31.283.89	32,684.77
Step 6	27.275.37	28,455.30	29,743.00	31,004.69	$2,453.20	33,912.01
Step 7	28.241.70	29,499.35	30.855 84	32,179.25	33.622.61	35,139.25
Step 8	29,207.03	30.513.40	31.M8.53	33,293.81	34,791.97	36,366.49
Step 9	30.172.36	31,527.45	32,831.42	34,400.37	35.961.33	37.593.73

Range	26	26	27	28	39	30
tecromenf	2,320.44	2,438,10	2,557,97	2,685 08	2.819.S5	2,959.07
Step 1	49.05fi.l8	51.878 60	54.314.70	56.87275	59,558 53	. 62,378.48
Step 2	51.fi78.60	54,314.78	56,872.75	59,550.63	62.370,48	65,339.45
Step 3	5.4,199.04	56.750.90	59,430 72	62,244.51	65,190.33	56,290.42
Stop 4	56.519.48	69.107.14	81,988.69	84,930.39	60,018.16	71.258.39
Step 5	58,059.92	61.623 32	64,546.60	67,616.27	70,838.03	74,218,36
steps	61,160.38	84,059.50	87,104.63	70.302.15	73,857.88	77,170,33
Step 7	63.480.80	66.495.68	69,662.00	72,986 03	76,477.73	80,130 30
Step 8	65,801.24	68.931.86	72,220.57	75,673.91	79,297.56	83,098 27
Step 9	68,121.68	71,368.04	74,770.54	7fi ,359.79	02.117.43	66.008.24
Range	13	14	15	15	17	16
j'ncT'pmenf	1,291.10	1.355.16	1,422.09	1,495.21	1,571.37	1,647.41
Step 1	29,003.65	30,294.15	31,049.31	33,071.40	34,566.61	36.137.9fi
Step 2	30,204.15	31,649.31	33,071.40	34.666.61	38,137.98	37,78539
Step 3	31.585,25	33.M4.47	34.493.49	3C.-061.a2	37,709.35	39,432.80
Step 4	32,376.35	34.359.63	35,915.50	37,557.03	39,280.72	4l,ttfi0,21
Step 5	34,167.45	35,714.79	37,337.67	39.052 24	40,852.09	42,727.82
Step 5	35,458.55	37,080.95	30,769.76	40.547.45	42,423 46	44,375.03
Step 7	36.749.65	38,425.11	40,181.85	42,042.66	43,994.63	48,022.44
Step 5	38,040.75	39,780.27	41,603.94	43,537.67	45,568.20	47.689.85
Step 9	39,331.05	41,135.43	43,026.03	45,633.08	47.137.57	49.317,26
Range	31	32	33	34	36	38
Inaomeni	3,109,13	3,264.47	3,425.87	3,599.45	3.776.04	3,964.88
Step 1	65,336.45	68,447.58	71,712.05	76.137.92	78,737.37	• 82,513.41
Step 2	68,447.58	71.712 05	7S.T37.02	76,737.37	82,513.41	06.47B.29
Step 3	71.558 71	74.976.02	76,563.79	82,338 82	06,309.45	90,443.17
Step 4	74,665.84	78,240.99	81,989.66	86,936.27	90,065.49	94,400.05
StepS	77,774.97	01,505.46	85.415.63	89,535.72	93.041.53	90.372.93
Step 6	00,084.10	84,760.93	88,041,40	93,135.17	97,617.57	102,337.01
Step?	83.993.23	88,034.40	92,267.27	96,734.02	101.393.6t	108,302.69
Step B	87,102.36	91,298.07	95,693.14	100.334.07	105,169.65	110,267.57
Step 9	90,211.49	94,563.34	99,119.01	103,933.52	108,945.69	114,232,45
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee* Effective: Jun* 25,2005
10 Month Employees Effective: September 1, 2005
Covering Employee Relations Groups: P * R * S
Range	37	38	39	40	41	42
trrcrernent	4,165.06	4,372.09	4,592.10	4,820.58	5,064.14	5,313.91
Step t	BS,47829	90,644.15	95,017,04	99,60922	104,429.80	10S .493.94
Step 2	90,644.15	95,017.04	99,806.22	104,429.80	109,493 94	114,807.85
Step S	94,910.01	99.389.93	104,201.40	109,250.30	114,558 08	120,121.76
Step 4	9B.975.87	103,762.82	108,793.50	114,070.96	119,622.22	125,438.67
Stepi	103,14173	100,135.71	113.3B5-75	118,891.64	124,006.36	130,749.50
StepS	107,307.59	112,508,60	117,977.94	123,712.12	129.750 50	136,063.49
Step 7	111,473.45	116,081.49	122,570.12	120,532.70	134.814.64	141,377.40
Step 8	115.839.31	121,254.38	127.162,30	133.353-28	139.870.78	148,691.31
Step 3	119,80S. 17	125,627,27	131,754.48	138,173.86	144.942 92	152,005.22
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees- Effective; December 24, 2006 10 Month Employees Effective; January 21, 20-06 Covering Employee Relations Groups; P ’R<S
Range_______1________2________3________4_________5________6
Increment	736.18	770.28	007,68	847.96	09?.41	936.08
Step 1	17,907.17	18,843.35	19,413.61	20,221.26	21,069.22	21,960.03
Step 2	18,643 35	19.413.61	20,221.20	21,069.22	21.960.63	22,898.71
StepS	19,379.53	20,183.87	21,020.91	21,917.18	22.852.Ci4	23,336.79
Step 4	20.115.71	20,954.13	21,036.55	22,765.14	23,743.45	24,774.07
Step 5	20.851.89	21.724.30	22,644.21	23,613.10	24,634.80	25 712.05
Step 6	21,588.07	22.404.85	23.451.86	24,461.06	25,526.27	26,051.03
Step?	22,324.25	23,264.01	24.259 51	25.309,02	26,417.66	27.589.11
Step 5	23,060.43	24,035.17	25.007 16	26,168.98	27,300 C9	28.527.19
Step 9	23,796.61	24,00543	25.874 01	27.064.94	28.2C0 50	29.465.27
Range______«	*4_______«
tncremenr	5,561.90	5,862.03	6,154.32
Slept	114,807.05	120.389.75	126,251.78
Step 2	120,38975	126,251.70	132,406.10
Step 3	125,971,85	132,113.81	138,560.42
Step 4	131,553-85	137,975.84	144,714.74
Step 5	137,135-46	143,037.87	150.880.06
Step 6	142,717.35	149.699,90	167,023.30
Step 7	148,299.25	185,561.93	163,177.70
Steps	153,881.15	161,423.96	169,332.02
Step 9	159,483.05	167,205.99	175.486.34
Range	7	0	9	10	11	12
Increment	984.64	1,034.33	1,084.05	1,136.85	1,192.75	1,25170
Slept	22.098.71	2 3,883.35	24.917.88	28,001.73	27.138.58	28,331.33
Step 2	23.883.35	24,917.00	26.0Q1.73	27,130.58	28.331.33	29,583.11
Step J	24,067.99	25,952.01	27.005.70	28,275.43	29.524.DS	30,834.39
Step 4	25,052.63	26,986.34	28.169.03	29.412.28	30,716.63	32,036.67
Step 5	26,637.27	20,020.07	29.253-08	30.549.13	31,009.58	33,336.45
Step 8	27,021.91	29,055.00	30,337.93	31,605.90	33,102.33	34,5S0 23
Step 7	28,006.55	30,089 33	31,42198	32.B22.83	34,295.08	35,842.01
SlepS	29,791.19	31,123.66	32.506.03	33,959 88	35,437,83	37,093.79
Step 9	30,775.83	32.157.99	33,590.08	35,096.53	36,68D.58	38,345 57
Range	13	14	15	16	17	1B
Increment	1,316.92	T,382.27	1,450.53	1,525.11	1,602.80	1.680.36
Step 7	29,583.11	' 30,900.03	32,282-30	33.732.83	35.257.94	36,060.74
Step 2	30,900.03	32,202.30	33,732.83	35,257.94	36,860.74	38.541,10
Step 3	32,218.95	33,664.57	35,183.36	36,703.05	38,403.54	40,221.40
Step 4	33,533.87	35,046.84	36,633.09	30,300.18	40,066.34	41,901.02
Step 6	34,850.79	36,429.11	38,08442	39,033.27	41,669.14	43,502.1S
Step 6	36,167.71	37,811.38	39,534.95	41,358.30	43,271.94	45,262.54
Step 7	37.404 63	39,193.65	40.965.48	42,88349	44,87474	46.942.90
Step 8	38,801.55	40,575.92	42.436.01	44,408.60	46,477.54	48,623.26
Step 9	40.110.47	41,958.19	43,806.54	45,933.71	48,000.34	50.303.62
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: December 24,2005
to Month Empfcyeea Effective: January 21, 2005
Covering Empteyee Rerations Groups: p ♦ R * $
Range	15	20	21	22	23	24
inawnent	1.764.24	1,854.38	1,947.53	2,043.84	2,146.31	2,251.92
Step 1	38,541.10	40,305.34	42,159.72	44,107.25	46.151.09	40,297.40
Step 2	40,305.34	42,159.72	44,107.25	46,151.09	48,297.40	50,549.32
Step 3	42,069.55	44,014,10	46,054.78	48.194.93	50,443.71	52,001.24
Step 4	43,833.82	45,868-48	46,002.31	50.238.77	52,590.02	55,053.16
Step 5	45.59fl.DB	47.722.06	49.949.84	S2.202.ff1	54,736.33	57,305.00
Stop 5	47,362.30	49,577.24	51,897,37	54.320.45	56,082,64	59,557.00
Step 7	4&,126.64	51,431.52	.53,044 90	56,370.29	S9.O20.9S	61.008.92
Step 8	50.S90.7S	53,366.00	65,792.43	53.414,13	61,175.26	64,060.84
Step 9	52,655.02	56,140.36	57,739,96	60,467.97	33,321.57	66.312.76
Range	26	26	27	28	29	3d
tecremenf	2,366.85	2,484.91	2,609.13	2,739.59	2.876,26	3,DI 9.17
Step i	50,549.32	52,910-17	55.401 06	58,010 31	00,749.80	63,628.05
Step 2	52,016.17	55,401-08	50.010.21	60,749.00	63,026.05	60,645.22
Step 3	55,283.02	57,885.99	60.619.34	• 63,489.39	66,602.30	69.884.39
Step 4	57,649.87	60,370.90	63,228.47	86,228.95	59,370.55	72,603.56
Step 5	00,016.72	62,655.81	65,837.60	68,988.57	72,254,80	75.702.73
Step 3	62,363.57	65,340.72	88,446.73	71,708-16	"5,131.05	73.721.80
Step 7	64,750.42	67,025.63	71.055.B6	74.447,75	78,007,30	01,741.07
Step 8	67,117.27	70,310.54	73,664.99	77,107.34	■ 00,863.55	04,760.24
Step 9 .	69,484.12	72.795.45	76,274.12	79.926.93	03.759.00	87.779.41
Range	31	32	33	34	35	36
j'ncrejTTftcrf	3,171.31	3.329-78	3,494.39	3,671.44	3,851.50	4,044.10
Step 1	66,845.22	69,816.53	73,146.29	76,640.68	80,31212	04,163.85
Step 2	69,816.53	73.146.29	76,640.60	60,312. T2	04,183.60	88,207.06
Step 3	72,987.84	76.470.05	80,135.07	83,983.56	S6.015.24	92.252.04
Step 4	76,159.15	79.605.81	03,629.46	07,655.00	91.866.80	98,296.22
Step 5	79,330.48	83,135.57	87,123.85	91,326.44	95,718.36	100.340.40
Step 6	82.5Q1.77	06,465.33	90 610.24	94.097.80	99.569.92	104,304.50
Step?	85,673.00	69,7 &5.09	94,112.63	98,669.32	103,421.48	100,428.76
Step S	68,844.39	93.124.85	97.607.02	102,340.76	107.273.04	112,472.94
Step 9	92.015.70	98,454.61	TOT,101,41	106,072.20	111,124.60	116.517.12


SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: December 24,2CQ5 10 Manth Employee? Effective: January 21 r 20CS Covering Employe? Relation* Group?: P * R » s
Range	37	38	39	4D	41	42
/ncfement	4,249.17	4,460.35	4.654.02	4,917.00	5,165.42	5.42Q.19
Step f	M, 207.85	92,457.03	96,917.38	101,301,40	106.510.40	111,603.02
Step 2	52.4S7.03	96,917,38	101,601,40	106,518 40	111,683.02	11? 104.01
Step 3	95,706.20	1C1.J77.73	106,285 42	111,435.40	116,849.24	122,524.20
Step 4	100,955.37	105.838.08	110,969,44	115,352 40	122,014.56	127.944.3&
Step 5	105,204.54	110,295.43	115,653.46	121,269.40	127.180.00	133,364.50
Step 6	109,453.71	114,758,70	120,337.48	126,168.40	132.345.50	130,784.77
Step?	113,702.88	119,219,13	125,021,50	131.103.40	137,510.92	144,204.96
Step 5	117,652.05	123,679.48	129,705.52	138,020.40	142,676.34	149,625.15
Step 9	122,201,22	128.139.63	134,389.54	140.937.40.	147,041.76	045,34
Range	43	44	45
Jncmmenr	5,693.54	5,979,27	6,277.40
Step 7	117.104.01	422,797.55	120,776.82
Step 2	122,797.56	120,776.82	105.054.22
Step 3	128.491.09	134,756.09	141,331 62
Step 4	134 jaw	140,735,36	147,609.02
Step 5	139,070.17	146,714,63	153,886.42
Steps	145.57f.71	152,893.90	160,163.02
Step 7	151,265.25	158,673.17	160,441.22
Step S	156,958.79	164,652.44	172,71 B.52
Step 9	162,652.33	170,631.71	178,996.02
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee* Effective: June 24, 300$
10 Month Employee* Effective: September 1,2000
Covering Employee Relations Group*; P * R + $
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employee* Effective: June 24, 2008
10 Month Employee* Effective: September 1, 2C0fl
Covering Employee Relation* Group*: P < R ■ R
Range	1	2	3	4	5	6
Jiwemeot	752.75	787.59	025.82	867.04	911.4$	959.19
step 1	18,310. DS	19,062.03	19,050.42	20.676.24	21,543.2a	22,454.74
Step 2	19,062.SS	19,850.42	20,676.24	21.543.23	22,454.74	23,413.93
Step 3	19,015.58	20,838.01	21,502.06	22,410 32	23,366.20	24,373.12
Step 4	20,568.33	21,425.60	22,327 ea	23,277,36	24,277.66	20,332,31
Step 5	21.321,06	22,213.19	23,153.70	J4,144.40	25,109.12	26,291.50
Step 5	22,073.83	23,000.78	23,979.52	25,011.44	28,100.58	27,250.69
Step 7	22, $28.55	23,780.37	24,803.34	25,878.40	27,012.04	2fl.2D9.68
Stes>$	23,579.33	24,575.95	25,631.15	26,746.52	27,923 50	29.168.07
Step 9	24,332.08	25.353.55	26.455.9fl	27,612.66?	20,034.9$		3D.128.26
Step 10	25,084.03	25.151.14	27,282.80	28,479 SOi 29.746.42		31 007.45
Range	13	20	21	22	23	24						
fnemmete	1,80X94	1,096.10	1,991.35	2,089.63	2,194.601	2.302.58	
Step f	39,408.27	41.212,21	43,100.31	45.099 66	47,189.49	49,384.02
Step 2	41,212.21	43.10B.31	46,099.66	47,169.49	49,384.09	51,006.68
Step 3	43.Q18.T5	45,004.41	47.091.01	49,279.32	51,578.09	53,909.27
Step 4	44,020.08	46,900.51	49.082.30	51,368.15	63.773.29	56 291.36
Step 5	46.624.03	48,796.61	51.Q73.71		53,408.00	$5,967 09	58 594.45
Step 6	40,427.97	50,692.71	55,005.06	55,548.81	$8,152.49	00,897.04
Step 7	60,231.81	52,580.01	55,050.41	57,636.64	60,357.09	S3,’99.63
Step 8	62,036.85	54,484.91	57,047.76	59,720.47	62,551.681	05,502.2?	
Step 9	53,339.79	56,36101	58,039.1T	61,810.30	64745.29	67 0C4 8'
Step 10	55,643.73	50277,11	81,030.40	63 900.13?	66.94Q.a9		73.1C-7.4C
Range	7	fl	»	10	11	12
/ncreunatf	1.D06.80	1,057.60	1,100.44	1,162.43	1,219.5a	1579.9$
Step T	23,413.93	24,420.73	25,478.33	26,580.77	27,748.20	28.960.78
step 2	24.42D.73	25,470.33	26,506.77	27,749.20	28,968.76	30,240.73
steps	25,427.63	26,535 93	27,695.21	26,911.63	30.168.36	31.520.00
step 4	26.43433	27,593.63	28,803 65	30,074.06	31,407.94	32,800.03
Sfepi	27,441.15	28,651.13	29,912.09	31,236.49	32,627.52	34.080.58
Steps	28,447.93	29,700.73	31,020.53	32.398.92	33,847.10	35,366.58
Step 7	29,454.73	30,766.33	32,120.97	33.5S1.35	35.066.80	30,649.40
Step 8	30,461.53	31,623.93	33,237.41	34,723.70	36.266.26	37,920.43
Step 9	31,408.33	32.581.53	34,345.05	35,806.21	37.606.84	39,200.30
Step 10	32.475,13	33.939.13	35,454.29	37,048.64	30.725.42	4D, 438.33
Range	25	26	27	20	29	36
fricremant	1420.10	2.540 82	2.007.04	2,601.23	2,940.9?	3067.10
Step 1	51.006.09	54,109,70	56.847.60	$9,315.44	82,11X6?	.05,057.04
Step2	$4,100,78	$6,647,60	59,315.44	02,116.67	65,057.64	50,144.74
Step 3	56.526.68	59,166.42	01,903.20	64,917.90	67,990.61	71,231 34
Step 4	50,946.98	$1,729.24	04,051.12	67,719.13	70,939.58	74,310.94
Step 5	61,307.08	$4,270.06	67,318.96	70,526.36	73,880.55	77,406.04
Step 8	63,707.18	66,810.88	69,988.30	73,321.59	76,821.52	80,493.14
Step 7	66,207.26	89,351.70	72,654.04	78,122.02	79.752.49	83,580.24
StesB	6fl.5Z7.3B	71.892.52	75,322.4®	70,924.0$	B2.7D3.4B	®6,S67.34
Step?	71,047.40	74,433.34	77,990.32	81.725,2$	85.64443	89.754 44
Step it?	73,467.59	70.974.10	00,650.18	84 626,51	86,505.40	92 041 54
Range	13	14	15	18	17	18
?jwejnenf	1,348.55	1,413.37	1,403.17	1,560.42	1.638.07	1,718.16
Step 1	30,240.73	31,696 28	33,000.05	34,491,02	• 36,051.24	37,690.11
Step 2	01,595.28	33.QOfl.B5	34,401.02	36,061.24	37,690.11	39.400.27
Siep 3	32,941.83	34.422.02	35,974.99	37,610.68	39,326.90	41,126.43
Step 4	34,208.30	35.035.39	37,450.16	39,170.00	40,967,85	42,844.69
Step 5	35,684.93	37.248.75	30,941.33	40,729,50	<2,60$.72	44,562.75
Step 6	30.961.40	30,602.13	40.424.50	42,208.92	44,245 S9	40,280.91
Step 7	30.328.03	40,075.50	41,907.67	43,846.34	45.884,46	47.999.07
Step 8	39,674.58	41,488.87	43.390.84	45.407.76	47,523.33	49.717.23
Stepd	41,021,13	42,902.24	44,074.01	48,967.18	49,162.20	51,435.30
Step 1$	42,367.68	44,316.81	46,357,18	40.526.00	50,001.07	53,153.55
Range 31	32	39	34	35	38
JnCtemMf	3,242 36	3,404.80	3,573.02	3,754 04	3,930.22	4,135.15
Step 1	68.144.74	71,307.40	74,792.08	70,385.10	02,119.14	86,057.38
Step 2	71,387,40	74,792.08	• 78,305.10	82.110.14	86,057.30	9C 192,54
Steps	74,630.05	78.19fl.7B	9-1,930.12	65,673.16	89,995.50	94,327.72
Step 4	77,072.72	01,001.44	85,511,14	69,627.22	63,933.00	99,452 EC
Step 5	81,116.38	05.006,12	69,084.10	93,301.28	97,872.02	102 506.06
Step $	64,356.04	86.410.80	92,057.10	97,135 30	101.610.24	1C6.733 25
Step 7	07,800.70	91,015.40	QS.230.20	100,089.34	105,748 40	11G 668.44
Step 6	90,043.36	95,220, t6	99,603.22	104,643.30	'09,506 6fl	115 303.6?
StepP	94.066.02	98,624 64	103,376.24	106,397,42	1 * 3,624.90	'1913a BO
Step 10	97.32fl.6B	102,029.52	100,849.26	112,181.46	1'7,553.12	123,273 98
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: Jun* 2A 2006
10 Month Employeei Effective: September 1, 2006
Covering Employee Relation* Groups: P * R ' S
Range	37	38	39	40	41	42
toctei'nwrf	4,344.77	4.560.71	4,739.41	5,027.83	5,281.85	5,542.10
Step r	90,102.54	94,537.31	3&h0&3.02	103.B87.43	108,915. OB	114.19S.71
Step 2	94.537.31	99.098.02	1O3.BQ7.43	108,915.06	114,196.71	119.738.85
Stop 3	9B.BB2.05	103,655.73	106,676.84	113,942.69	119,478,36	125,280.99
Step 4	1D3.2Z6.fl5	108.219.44	113,468.25	113,970.32	124,760.01	130.623.13
Step 5	107.571.62	112.78O.1S	118,255,66	123.997.&5	130,041.66	1SB.3BS.27
Stope	111. 916.39	117,340.66	123,045.07	129,025.58	135,323.31	141907.41
Step 7	118,261.16	121,901.57	127,934.48	134,053.21	140.6Q4.9S	147.449.55
Step ff	120,805.93	126,462.28	132,823.89	139,080,84	145.086.61	152,991,69
Stop 9	124,950.70	131,022.9S	137,413.30	144.108.47	T51J66.26	T5B,533.83
Step TO	129,295.47	135,585.70	142,202.71	149.T3B.10	156.449.9T	164,075.97
Rang*	43	44	45
fntrament	5.821 84	6,113.81	6,418.84
Step ?	119 738.85	125,560.49	131,674.30
Step 2	125.SW.49	131,674.30	136,092.94
Steps	131,382.13	137,763.11	144.5T1.5B
Stop 4	137,203.77	143,901.92	150,930.22
Step 5	T43,025.41	150,015.73	157,348.86
Step $	148,647.05	158,129,54	183,767.50
Step 7	154.66B.B9	162,243.35	170,185.14
Stepfi	1B0,490,33	168,357.16	176,804,75
Step 9	166,311.07	174,470.97	183,023.42
Step TO	172.133.01	100,584.78	169,442.06
SALARY SCHEDULE
ISMonthlmployeeaEffective: Dfhcejnber2li,2006
10 Month E trip Loy etj Effective: January 26, 2007
Covering Employe? Relatione Group;; P<R«S
Hauge	I	2	3	4	5	6
Zrttrwrt e/t f	770.44	&D6.09	846.23	867.42	932.86	981.73
Step J	IS,740.37	19,610.31	20,316.00	21,163.19	22,049.65	22.D02.4H
Step 2	10,510. Bl	20*316.90	21,162.13	22,049.55	22,952.43	23,964,10
Step 3	20,281.20	21,122.99	22,007.33	22,936.97	23,915.31	24,945.39
Step 4	21,05169	21,929.03	22,652.59	23,824.30	24,848,19	25,927.62
Step 5	2i,mi3	22,735.17	23,697.62	24,711,81	25.781.07	26,909.3,i
Step S	22,392.57	23,541.26	24,645.05	26,599.29	26,713.95	27,891.OH
Step 7	23,363.01	24,347,35	2S,3fi&-2-8	36,466.65	27,646.&j	28.872.81
Step 8	24,133.45	25,163.44	28,23331	27,374.07	28,579.71	29,854.54
Step 9	24,903.59	26,359.53	27,078.74	23.261.49	29,512.59	30,836.27
Step JO	1" 25,674.33	26,766.32	27,923.97	29,148.91	80,445.17	31.318.00f
Range	7	a	9	10	11	12
Ine rtnwii	1,030.46	1,062.45	1,134.49	1,189,75	1,248.24	1*31003
Step t	33,964.16	24,904,52	26,077.07	27,211.56	28,401.31	29.64955
Step 2	24,994.62	26,077.07	27,211.56	28,401.31	29,649,55	30,959.58
Step 3	26,025.08	' 27,159.62	28,346.05	29,691.06	30,897.79	32,269.61
Step 4	27,055.54	28,241.97	39,480.54	30.780.81	82,146.03	33.579.64
Step S	28,006.00	29,324.42	30,615.0$	31,970.56	33,594.27	H5B9.67
Step S	29,116-46	30,406.97	31,749.52	. 33,160.31	34,642.51	36,1.99.70
Step 7	30,146,92	31,489.32	32,884.01	34,350.06	36,800,75	37,509.73
Step S	31,177.38	32,571.77	34,018.50	35,539.81	3 7, J.$8.99	SR.619.7fj
Step 9	32,207.84	33,654.22	35,152.99	36.729.56	38,387,23	40,129,70
Step tQ	33,239.30	34,736.67	36.287.48	87,919.31	39,635.47	41,439.82
Run	23	14	16	16	17	1$
fzie/c*7ifn<	1,378.19	1,446,68	1,518.08	1,596.06	1,677.39	1.758.5J
Step 1	30,959.58	32,237.77	33,784.35	33,302.38	36,398.44	38.57S.83
Step 2	32,337.77	33,784.38	35,302.38	36,806.44	38,575.8a	40,334.36
Step 3	33,715.86	36,230:93	3fi;fl20.41	38,494.50	40,253,22	42,092.89
Step 4	35,094.18	36,677,61	38.388.44	40,090.56	41,&3Q.61	43 £51.42
Step 5	36,473.94	38.124.09	39,856.47	41,636.62	43,608.00	45,609.95
Step 6	37£50JS3	38,570.67	41,374.60	43,282.68	45,285.39	47,369.18
Step 7	88,220.72	41,017.25	4,1,892,53	44,878,74	46,962.78	49.127,01
Step 8	40,606.81	42,463.83	<4,410.5$	46,474.80	48.640.17	iO;8B5.54
Sit fl 9	41,980.10	43,910.41	45,928.59	48,070.86	50,317.55	&,644.07
Step 10	43,363,29	45,356 90	47,446.62	49.660.92	51,994.95	n4.402.80
issr-c-.wmer.oi1 -kbJLUtPI.1
SALARY SCHEDULE
1£ Month Employee Effective: December- 23,2006
10 Month Employees Effective: January S0d 2007
Cohering EmpkjyeeRelatiana Groups ?'R‘S
Range	id	20	21	22	£3	24
Increment	1,346.34	1,340.66	2,033.14	2.130-04	2,246.10	2,358.70
Step I	40,334.36	42.130,70	44.12 L36	46,159-50	48,290.44	60,544.62
Step 2	42,160.70	44,121.36	46,169.50	40,296-44	50,544.62	62,901.92
Step .3	44,027.04	46,062.02	43,197.34	50,437.38	52,790.80	66;2S6-02.
Step 4	45,373,33	43.002.68	50,236.70	52,576.32	56,030.90	57,614.72
Step S	47,719.72	49,943.34	52,273.02	54,715.26	57,263.1’6	59,97142
Step 6	49,566.06	51,334.00	54,313.00	56,054.20	59,529.34	62,338.12
Step 7	$1,412.40	53,324.56	56,360.20	50,993.14	81.776.52	64,684.82
Step S	53,258.74	55.765.32	58,306.34	61,132.08	84,021.70	67,041-52
Step 9	53,105.03	67,705.98	50,426.49	63,271.02	66,267.80	69,398.22
Step 10	56,051.42	59,646.64	62,464.62	66,409.96	68,514-06	71,754.92
Range	28	38	27	23	29	30
J/wreFnerrt	2,476.97	2,60053	2,730.53	2,867.06	3,010.08	3,159.65
Step 7	52,901.32		57,978.82	60,709.35	63,578.41	66,508.49
Step 2	55,370.29	57,970.82	60,700.35	63,576.41	66,586.49	69,740.14
Step 3	57,855.25	60,579-36	63,439.88	66,443 47	69,596.57	72,906.79
Step 4	60,332.23	63,179.68	66,170.41	09.310.53	72,606.06	76,005-44
Step 5	62,809.20	65,700.41	60,900.94	72,177.59	75,616.73	79.225.09
Step 6	85,206.17	68,300.94	71,651.47	75,044-05	78,626.81	02,384.74
Step 7	67,763.14	70,981.47	74,362.00	77,911-71	01,630.89	85,544-30
Step 8	70,240.11	73,582.00	77,092,53	80,778,77	04,646.97	08,704.04
Step 9	72,717.00	"6,182.63	79,023,06	83,645,08	87,657.05	91,863.69
Step 20	75,194-05	70,783.06	82.553.59	06,512.89	90,667.13	95,023.34
Range	31	32	33	34	80	M
Jncreme-'tl	3,318.86	3,404.69	3,656.99	3,042 26	4,030.77	4,282.35
Step I	69,746.14	73,065-00	78,549.69	00,206.60	04,043.94	00,079.71
Step 2	73,065.00	76,549.69	80,208.60	84,040.94	08,079.71	92,311.06
Step 3	76,833.86	60,034.38	83,883.07	87,891.20	92,110.48	90,544.41
Step 4	79,702.72	03,519.07	87.520,00	91,733.46	96,141.25	100,776.76
Step 5	83,021.58	07,003.76	91.177,85	95,875.72	100,172.02	105,009.11
Step 6	86,840.44-	90,488.45	94,034.64	99,417.98	104,202.79	199,24146
Step ?	89,659.30	93.973-14	98,491.83	103,260.24	108^33-16	113,475.81
Step 8	92,978.16	97,457-33	102,140,62	107,102.60	113,264.33	117,706.16
Step 9	96,297.02	100,942.52	105,805.61	110,944.76	116,295.10	IH, 938,51
Step It)	99,615,88	104,427,21	109,462.60	114,787.02	120.825.87	186,170.86
SALARY SCHEDULE
12 Month Employees Effective: December 23, 2006
10 Mimth Employees Effective: J&nwBry 20, 2007
Covering Employee Relation* Groops; P * R * 8
37	38	38	40	41	42
fricrR/n^nf	4,446.68	4,667,08	4,901.96	5,145.70	5,405.77	5,672.38
Sf«p J	82,312.06	96,756.94	101,426.02	106,328.78	111.474.56	116,830.33
■Step 3	86,768.94	101,426.02	100,326.70	111,474.56	116,800.33	122,562,71
Step 3	101,206.82	106,094-70	111,230.74	116,620.34	122,206.10	128,225.09
Step 4	105,652.70	110,762.58	116,132.70	121,766.12	127,691.87	13.%097.47
Step 3	110,09».S8	115,430.46	12L.D34.66	126.911,90	133,097.64	139,969.85
i'iep $	114,546.46	120,090.34	126,936.62	132.057.68	138,503.41	145,242.23
Step 7	116,903.34	124,766.22	139.630.56	137,203.46	143,909.10	150.914.61
Step 8	183,440.22	128,434.10	135,740.54	142.349.24	149,314.95	156.506.991
Step 9	189,607.10	134,101.98	1411,642.50	147.495.02	154,730.72	162.25M Hl!
Step ID	1,12,333.98	138,769.86	145,544.46	152.640.80	16O.12fi.40j Jg7.y;il ,7.5|	
Range	43	44	4$
/rterement	5,908.46	6,257.49	556&4?
Step J	122,552.71	125,511.16	104,760.65
Step 2	123,511.16	134,760.65	141,338.12
Step 3	134.46S.61	141,028,14	J4?,907.59
Step 4	140,425.06	147,203.63	154,477.06
Step a	146,386.51	153,541.12	161,046.63
Strrp 6'	102,344.96	159,798.61	167,616.00
Step 7	158,303.41	165,056.10	174.185.47
Step S	164,261.86	172,31359	180.754.94
StepS	170,220.31	178,571.08	107.324.41
Step 10	176,170.76	164,820.57	I93.8W.&8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FORM LliMd^UdUUUUUBSQ bUHCmfafacr	
IWlJIlKWttSL Ihi, 4rw>IBH Fwa II r» = tryil Slilr SmfJi^drt, fahrfQ H^anH **• “ **	“T ■ Wfa	T» fafan cbe flHllil fnma. cz^Vkfir ML iUfT» 1* fc: fllUEVMICE HFCNMAlWN tolkn nd nfcil tfa Tra In fa WH*1! <rfta U faiftofa b> J lib Iokk 1 itoi ■ ■ q «fall JO Ufafa Ana tnK fa drtx e« vfati fa aJk|d k1 nrurni. NtkTu Aj^ali fa whKh M4ft£ S>moi mn bn^iiM aci, Kd < dK4c frrtlifcig to Enmmtoi, linfanH |a»fa4ilk	Skb Luvk^iuj v LajfaT. infa ofaAbM Mr nJ lyaun VPUl JrtOda.	
	| w"n£
MAM4 4MUA	| MKtk >Cfa«rr>MfaA
LP**'“WT:	| Cn>M>< ■'4’^uTiCn- M ■itoaCr
BEUMATtba H IIW«K& n COfDMCnitk Juu Mfa fa mfai htcfaJ a1 tie wiraci faen >u Lfa 4 aifaw:	
□ VOHMimcrUAI,	
IMW1I fTAHMtMT	jwriir tj ■dcw*‘?J:
>4COfVRSCFnrUrtVAM frmi pw|RP HW RCCU^
CJ i Buwwr W Hk ■	^1	LI MT Wtf IBTTitmE WU IC		 blttaVH ft flMI H‘ 	
wrrMwn tuv incui*;			
DOMArLU On UDLDVU'			CUiFE.	
			
RtAto	Q0M*. {r*rrT #7 fvabpvr 4rj0i»m. I^	J1*—fjiwii. h^v ewj £vv^iwj *lLi*4*wr 4a .taji J.
CWA TjkiI Jurisdkltos
Coal mi Jprlsdlerioat	Stair College System, DKa oftadent As sis tan ue. Cuenmisskin cm Niftier EducMto
Offirt;	M Culver Raad Mcwuulh JiBdicat, NJ 08837
Pfetwe:	732.274.217] FlX3 132.274.0154
E'uil;	lurfwlitwaECHI rm
WN3 Addreui	www.cwal03l.ijTg
Pniidertl:	JdMt E. Rott
LMfil ItKT Jnrlrflrtio"!
LCKUl.Ull
Junsdktian:
Office:
Phene WebAddroi; rrrtUeat;
Local 1033 JeiBtUcEiM;
Du p atms n i o r T mu mw I a n. New Jer-sey Public Broadcasting Authority, O.LT.
67.SttiDthRuud
NJ 0M2*
609 4j4.3032 Put: 609.tt3.8IS4 ■i'i*.inCTilhcri.ar>1.i.ijflu'<.vr! I Q.i7 JimMahevll
Office:
Phone:
WtD Adi«W!
Local 1M4 joHsdlcdMi
In Die County of Mercer, tw folkrwing Fheettbe Branch D^afenstB: Bankiatg end Inturaw, Education, MUlUty A VcKWtS Afftara, Office nf the Public Defentter, Stale, Treasury (except O.I.T.l, Law & tyfblbt-Safety, Motor Vehicle CorarniAJiori, Said Library (Iti'L'AESC], OA1. (it) tut Mr uf TnsfiuryJ ud Public Advocate 311 'Vest blase Sires Trento,NJ (ft I? bO9.394??2J Fat; «fl9.,193.7!ll fesew cwolccnl I Cltlcnoi Rae Roeder
(Jffiea:
rtuiK.
E-cail;
Wato Addies;
Frsldeol:
l ocal »*J> Jirisdictioa
Concert in rhe New feney Waler .Atgiply Authorin', Piliiailes iDlorjliiU; Farit CMMlitfto’n, state walkers in the Ccvntie; nf Bergen, Els sex, I iudscm, Morris, Pasik. Sussex, UiiwJiI anri Wanetl. tn the Counties nf Hunterdon. MirfkUC-KJL Monmouth. Ocean and Samerat jorisdiclkin includes *11 DcpartJtXliaCMtpt Human Services. Correstkeis andL'nmmunrty A [Tain. Also escladed >i all Counties irt wuriunut the CtxuiMliion on Higher EdvCKkm end 'ITaotponsinn (except MohX Vehicle rcmunisiun)arJ [nsCitulicmrf workers in tfr$ LXpanmeilti ul CtHttHkill! and FwiM Services 30 Clinton Street Newark.NJ 071-02 972.023.181* hl;
|u t^vj] jhn 111.1 ? _ceg wwvi.cwa1O37.iiru Hetty Etocrkttin
o«t+!
Phtoe:
EraaiJi
Wtb Addreu:
Pres dear:
In the Craity of Mtrucr, die feltOWto DWrtifrErtlS AirlcuMure. ■Commerce Commisri», EnvironsmtaJ PrutcctiOrl, HealihA Senior Serried, Liter- Sw WOtfceo in ih:Cc4inti«n( Atlartk.. Buffington, Caatttea Capa May. Cwnberlmd, Gknwaterimd Salem Includes Motor Vehicle Ccraotissidn in these-Qriun ties. furisfictimeidatlH (nstilutKnaJ wc«i£rt in the Departments of ChaneliuU atuf HunMrt Set*Ices. Wld emptoirftt ofthe Corfimdukm oe H i akr Edratton and T r«f pottal i m One Lower Fairy Road Wart Tren ten, N108628 6O9.53D.0O6U KU! 609.5341.1)638 ■fll,&ftlli|1l2rx&'*ll CtM-Om yny.cwnlimwii CstaA. Etrtz
Office:
Pboae:
Web Address; pTHldul!
UtnlUN*
JaristkSoa:
Office:
Ptioet: I-salli WebAddreu:
FrwIiJeat:
Thn axrPirt p-«u=l Lrp nw* LckM LDJJ mem ten ■ the Sent Piter Stup
NCm-inililuliOnal enieAtyCES * Hurderdrm, Mercer. Middlesex, Monmouth. Gceri, SomerictL uuntiCi. the Depietnwnl uf CcinimunstY AllairS. Stale Pan?Ic Board, Huriitii ScF'l^'. (inducing DivBiunurbcYckipmCinal Disabilities in Northern HUiliiigrcu-i ■ Cotkity). AMfttle JuaicsConuni'sitm Cun intimity Froerpma 13 W«5r Front Street
Trentm. Nf 08608
609.394.915] Kak: 6U9 35* 94] l u-ivw.vu iil<l.l:J.nrn
Thomas 1. Pdema, Jr.
lustituiitmaJ wurkati iriihc Dcp<vnwn> orcotfedtos, MlJitwy and Veterans Affairs, Human Skivxzi {statewide). lA the CuuntyCil Mtlttf, Non-in^itutirmel workers In Corrections, Depirtment cf Cored ic'd Central Office, fuvCuilc Justice C'cenmissicfi [nslstiiliOtiS St Centra Office, DepubntrUOfEttfscinnel I !KD[ (lAdcwifcl tutpt Trentini 230 Park way Avouk rrtntcm.NJ HH6lJi 609.HUB99 F«: 6(59.334 r.L'COl 1040 Xl'jLd.ClTm httni'Thimcluwii.aol. um 11 •' I ccnl 104IU1 uidux.htnil/indcx.lii-iii'' CnroiyTiC Wade