H , Ood
AGREEMENT
Between
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL NO. 1
Property Service Division
and
THE APARTMENT BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION
OF ILLINOIS
Covering JANITORS IN FIREPROOF APARTMENT BUILDINGS
Effective December 1, 2005 - November 30, 2000
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Parties to the Agreement
Article I	- Effective Date and Duration
Article II	- Definitions and Application of Agreement
Article III	- Union Recognition, Security, Hiring and Staffing
Article IV	- Duties of Employees
Article V	- Obligation of Employer
Article VI	- Compensation and Hours of Employees
Article Vil	- Holidays, Vacations and Other Benefits
Article VIII	- Adoption of Health, Pension and Training Fund Trusts
Article IX	- Local No. 1 Health Fund Contributions
Article X	- SEIU Local No. 1 Pension Trust Fund Contributions
Article XI	- SEIU Local No. 1 Training Fund Contributions
Article XII	- Health Fund Contribution Purposes
Article XIII	- Health, Pension and Training Fund Delinquent Contributions and Right to Audit
Article XIV	- No Strike and No Lockout
Article XV	- Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
Article XVI	- Management Rights
Article XVII	- More Favorable Agreements
Article XVIII	- Wage Information
Article XIX	- Americans with Disabilities Acts
Article XX	- Nondiscrimination
Page Numbers
i
2
2, 3, 4, 5, 6
7, 8, 9,10
10,11,12,13,14
15,16, 17,18,19
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33
33
33, 34, 35, 36
36, 37
37, 38
38
38
39
40, 41,42, 43
43
43
44
44
44
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Numbers
Article XXI	- Severability	45
Article XXII	- Continuing Education and Training	45, 46, 47
Article XXIII	- Execution	48
Drug and Alcohol Policies	49
ABOMA Wage Rates	50
Exhibit “A" Signatory Buildings
AGREEMENT
Between
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL NO. 1,
Property Service Division
and
THE APARTMENT BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION
OF ILLINOIS
Covering JANITORS IN FIREPROOF APARTMENT BUILDINGS
Effective December 1, 2005 - November 30, 2008
PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into effective as of December 1, 2005 by and between SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL NO. 1, (The "Union”) and APARTMENT BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF ILLINOIS (The "Association") acting for and on behalf of itself and each of the Owners and other Employers (as defined in Article II, Section 1(f) hereof) of specified premises (as defined in Article II, Section 1(e) hereof) represented by the Association who have authorized the Association to enter into this Agreement. It is intended that this Agreement shall constitute the Standard Agreement for premises (as defined in Article II, Section 1(c) hereof) within the jurisdictional area of the Union (as defined in Article II, Section 1(b) hereof). Accordingly, the parties to this Agreement shall also include all other Employers who have agreed to, adopted, or assented to be bound by this Agreement (or who hereafter so agree) whether or not such agreement, adoption, or assent is signified in writing, in practice, or by other conduct. This Agreement shall, in addition, be binding upon the successors, administrators, executors and assigns of each Owner and/or Employer of premises covered thereby whether such is voluntary or by operation of law.
1
ARTICLE I
Effective Date and Duration
Section 1.	Duration. This Agreement shall become effective December 1, 2005 and shall remain in full force and effect until November 30, 2008, provided that this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect thereafter until terminated by either party giving to the other no less than sixty (60) days prior written notice of its intention to terminate the Agreement, which notice shall be delivered in person or sent by first class mail to the other party.
Section 2.	Termination Procedure. In the event that a sixty (60) day termination notice is sent by either party to the other pursuant to Article I, Section 1 hereof, the Association and the Union shall each appoint a Committee to meet jointly and engage in collective bargaining negotiations. Such negotiations shall commence promptly. Unless extended by mutual agreement, such negotiations shall be concluded within thirty (30) days after the first meeting of the Committee. Failure to reach an Agreement within the thirty (30) day period shall (unless the parties otherwise agree in writing) automatically terminate the Agreement at the conclusion of the sixty (60) day period or November 30, 2008, whichever date is later.
ARTICLE II Definitions and Application of Agreement
Section 1.	The following terms as used in this Agreement, unless the context indicates otherwise, shall have the following meanings and the Agreement shall have the following application:
(a)	"Notice" or "Notification". When required by an Employer, "notice" or "notification" means written notice sent by first class mail to the Union at its main office at 111 E. Wacker Drive, 25th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60601. A copy by first class mail shall be sent to the District Office of the Union, where such exists, in the district in which the premises is located. Failure to provide timely notice to the District office will not nullify the effect of providing timely notice to the main office of the Union.
(b)	"Jurisdictional Area". The jurisdictional area of the Union shall include but shall not be limited to buildings and premises in Cook, Kane, DuPage, Will, McHenry, Lake and Kendall counties.
2
(c)	"Premises". Premises means any building/s or any complex or any project of more than one (1) building, of fireproof construction, four (4) stories or more in height, in which there are one or more flats, apartments, or units, including private garages, stores, shopping centers, offices (if any) and the like, and including all floors, hallways, stairways, basements, porches, approaches, yards, lawns and abutting sidewalks and parkways comprising the property in which employees covered by this Agreement perform services; provided, however, this Section shall not be construed to give the Union jurisdiction over any employees employed on the premises who are already represented by another union pursuant to an existing collective bargaining agreement.
(d)	"Apartment" or "Flat". Apartment or flat means that part of the premises rented or occupied for private use by a tenant or other resident or used by the Employer.
(e)	"Specified Premises". Specified premises in the case of each Employer means those premises which are listed on Schedule A attached hereto and any supplement thereto and such additional premises of employers who hereafter authorize the Association to act as their collective bargaining representative in respect to particular premises. ABOMA shall furnish to the Union, on or about October 30 of each year of this Agreement, an updated list of ABOMA members who have authorized ABOMA to negotiate on their behalf, including a list of all specified premises covered under the Agreement with respect to each such member. For each specified premises the Association or Employer will provide the Union with names and addresses of the Owner or Management Representatives or Agent, the applicable federal employer identification number, and the address of the premises. It is the understanding of the parties that without regard to whether or not a particular building is listed in Schedule A and any supplement thereto, this Agreement will also cover all premises: (1) which were covered under the Fireproof Apartment Buildings Agreement of December 1, 2002 unless the Union was notified in writing prior to October 1, 2005 that the Owner of such premises did not desire such premises to be covered; and (2) which any Employer specifies or signifies is covered whether or not such a coverage is evidenced in writing, by practice or by other conduct, as in the case where, for example, an Employer recognizes the application of the Agreement by operating under its terms and by making contributions to the Local No. 1 Health Fund and/or Local No. 1 Pension Trust Fund and/or Local No. 1 Training Fund, or by any other conduct or action/s consistent with an affirmation of the coverage of the premises by the Agreement. Notwithstanding the coverage by this Agreement of premises not listed in Schedule A, or supplement thereto, it is expressly understood that no premises are covered by this Agreement solely by reason of being owned, managed or represented by an Employer who maintains, operates, and/or controls "specified premises" as defined in this Section.
3
(f)	"Employer". An Employer means an Owner and any other person designated by an Owner, whether acting as a Management Agent or Representative or as the association, board or other body designated by the owners of a condominium or cooperative building, or in any other capacity, to maintain, operate and/or control "specified premises" of the Owner within the jurisdictional area of the Union, and to hire and direct employees to perform "duties" covered by this Agreement in respect to such "specified premises", and/or to be responsible for the tenure, terms and conditions of such employment and/or the administration thereof. The term Employer includes but is not limited to: (1) all Employers who have designated or hereafter designate the Association as their collective bargaining representative in the negotiation of this Agreement in respect to specified premises; (2) all Employers with respect to premises which were covered under the Fireproof Apartment Buildings Agreement of December 1, 2002 whether such coverage was signified in writing, in practice or by other conduct, unless the Union was notified in writing prior to October 1, 2005_that the Owner of the premises did not desire to be covered by this Agreement; (3) all other persons who agree to adopt or assent to be covered by this Agreement whether signified in writing, in practice, or by other conduct; and (4) the Owner of any premises operated under this Agreement irrespective of the extent, if any, to which the Owner has retained or delegated to any management representative or agent or any other person any of the functions or responsibilities of an Employer. Each such management representative or agent or any other person who is a party to this Agreement or who has designated the Association to represent it in negotiations for this Agreement or to enter into this Agreement on its behalf for specified premises shall be deemed also to be acting for and on behalf of the Owner as a party to this Agreement in respect to the premises specified and such Management Agent or Representative or other person hereby expressly warrants that in so doing it is fully authorized by the Owner to bind the Owner as a party thereto and, upon written request, shall submit to the Union written evidence of such authorization to bind the Owner, but such Management Agent or Representative is not bound with respect to any premises which are not "specified premises" solely by reason of its managing or representing premises which are "specified premises". For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "Owner" shall not mean the individual shareholders of a cooperative building, but shall mean such person/s designated by and acting for and on behalf of such owners or shareholders collectively as in the case of a Management Agent or Representative or as the association, board, or other such body acting as an Employer in their stead. The term "Employer" shall include the successors, administrators, executors and assigns of the Employer.
4
(g)	"Employee". An Employee means and includes persons employed by an Employer in the following classifications:
(1)	"Head Janitor". Head Janitor means any employee engaged by the Employer to do the work and as a matter of routine to transmit the Employer’s directions and instructions in respect to the performance of the work involved in the maintenance, cleaning, servicing, heating and operation of the premises, but such employee shall have no authority to hire, discharge, or otherwise discipline or reward other employees, to adjust their grievances, or to recommend any action in respect to discipline or their status as employees, or terms or conditions affecting their employment. An Employer may, however, authorize a Head Janitor in an emergency to direct the physical removal of any employee from the premises when the conduct of such person constitutes a hazard to the safe operation of the premises or the safety of its occupants. Whenever the term Janitor is used in this Agreement, it shall interchangeably also mean Head Janitor.
(2)	"Exclusive Service Head Janitor1'. This term refers to a Head Janitor who is employed to render services for an Employer exclusively in respect to premises at a specified iocation consisting of a single building or a single complex of buildings at such location and who is not permitted to service any other premises for any other employer or at another location.
(3)	"Assistant Head Janitor". Assistant Head Janitor means any employee who is engaged by the Employer to assist the Head Janitor in the performance of his duties and responsibilities with like availability in respect to hours and emergency situations.
(4)	"Helper A". Helper A means any employee engaged by the Employer to perform such duties with respect to the premises as are defined and enumerated in this Agreement.
(5)	"Helper A Trainee". Helper A Trainee means any newly hired employee who is to be trained for a position as a Helper A and who has less than one year's previous experience in the industry as a Janitor or Helper A.
(6)	"Helper C". Helper C means any employee engaged by the Employer to perform such duties with respect to the premises as are defined and enumerated in Article IV, Section 1(a)-(c) of this Agreement.
(7)	"Helper C Trainee". Helper C Trainee means any newly hired employee who is to be trained for a position as a Helper C. The training period may not exceed 6 consecutive months.
5
(8)	’‘Swimming Pool Attendant”. Swimming Pool Attendant means an employee, including a lifeguard, who performs maintenance or cleaning services with respect to swimming pool operations in addition to other duties.
(9)	“Maintenance Employee and Other Job Classifications”. Such classifications cover employees engaged by the Employer, under such job title/s as the Employer may designate, to perform primarily and on a non-seasonal basis such duties as the Employer may require in respect to the physical care, maintenance and operation of the premises other than general janitorial or custodial services.
(h)	“Apparatus". Apparatus means appurtenances, such as boilers, furnaces, gas and oil burners, electrical heat and other heating plant devices and mechanisms, incinerators, stokers, smoke abatement devices, pumps, refrigeration machines, air conditioning equipment, elevators, vacuum cleaners, motors and ash hoists which are permanently installed in the premises, garbage and refuse disposal equipment, and other like and related equipment, the operation of which constitutes an essential adjunct in the servicing of the premises and such other appurtenances which, if not usual to the servicing of premises, shall be agreed upon between the Employer and the Union.
(i)	“Equipment". Equipment means appurtenances such as furnishings, carpets, cleaning devices, windows and door screens, storm doors and storm windows and similar articles commonly considered necessary to the furnishing and operation of the premises.
(j)	"Gas, Electric or Oil Heat". Such reference means and applies only to premises heated with gas, electric or oil and operated with automatic controls.
(k)	"Time Computations”. All references herein to the number of days in computing time limitations shall mean calendar days, unless specified otherwise.
Section 2.	Permits for Temporary Employees. All employees who are hired on a temporary or substitute basis as defined by this Agreement shall be required to secure a Union Permit.
6
ARTICLE III
Union Recognition, Security, Hiring and Staffing
Section 1.	Recognition. The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the employees defined or otherwise referred to in this Agreement and shall bargain collectively with the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining agent for such employees with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours and terms and conditions of employment.
Section 2.	Union Shop. All employees, as a condition of employment, shall be or become members of the Union on the 31st calendar day following the effective date of this Agreement or the 31st day of their employment, whichever is the later, and shall remain members of the Union in good standing during the life of this Agreement as defined by the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended. For the purposes of this Agreement, Union membership shall mean only that the employee has tendered to the Union the lawfully required initiation fees and periodic dues uniformly required as a condition of retaining membership in the Union. The Employer shall discharge an employee for non-payment of Union initiation fees or dues ten (10) days after receipt of written notice by the Union that such employee is not in good standing. Said notice shall state that the employee has previously been given fifteen (15) days' written notice: (a) of the delinquency; (b) the amount arid method of computation thereof; (c) that the employee is not in good standing; and (d) that discharge will result at the end of said fifteen (15) day period unless all arrears are paid. The Union will indemnify the Employer against all claims and costs incurred by reason of the Employer's compliance with this section. The Union reserves the right, at its option, to appear and defend all such claims whenever suit is brought against the Employer. Such discharge will not be subject to arbitration.
Section 3.	Dues Deduction. The Employer shall deduct from the wages of employees who authorize such deductions in writing, monthly Union dues, in advance, in the first pay period of each month. Such deductions shall constitute Trust Funds and shall be forwarded to the Union within twenty (20) days thereafter. In the event such deductions are not paid to the Union within said period, the Employer shall be assessed interest on such deductions at the rate of one percent (1%) per month.
Section 4.	Vacancies and Hiring. The Employer will inform the Union of all job vacancies and shall secure all employees through the Union to the extent that the Union can promptly supply qualified employees, if available. The Union agrees to refer qualified employees on a non-discriminatory basis.
7
(a)	Employees Information. The Employer shall notify the Union of the names, addresses, social security numbers, classifications, dates of hire, and wage rates of all new employees within five (5) working days of their hire.
(b)	Probationary Employees. Newly hired employees shall be considered probationary employees until they have completed a 90-day period of employment. The probationary period may be extended upon good cause shown with the approval of the Union. The employee’s obligation to pay Union dues in accordance with Article III of this Agreement arises upon completion of his initial thirty (30) calendar days of employment.
(c)	Employee List. On or about December 1 and May 1 of each year, the Employer shall provide to the Union a complete list of all employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 5.	Union Visitation. Any authorized representative of the Union shall, upon prior notice to the Employer, be permitted to meet with any employee during working hours at the place of his employment, provided that there shall be no interference with employees' duties. Reasonable requests for visitation shall not be denied by the Employer:
Section 6.	Staffing.
(a)	On premises where one or more janitors are employed, at least one of such employees shall be classified as a Head Janitor, whether the employee shall be an exclusive or non-exclusive Head Janitor.
(b)	The employment of employees in the classification of Helper C is subject to the following conditions:
(1)	No employee employed at the premises on the effective date of this Agreement may be terminated for the purpose of replacing such employee with a Helper C or Helper C Trainee.
8
(2)	For premises with 12 or fewer regular employees covered by this Agreement, the ratio of Helpers C to the entire janitorial staff shall be as follows:
Total Janitorial Staff
Maximum No. of C's Allowed
1 2
3 4
5 6
7
8
9 10
11 12
0
1 1
2 2
3
3 4
4
4
5
5
For premises with more than twelve (12) regular employees covered by this Agreement, the percentage of Helpers C within the entire janitorial staff shall not exceed forty-two (42%) percent.
(3)	Where a Helper A or higher classified employee is discharged for just cause or leaves his employment voluntarily, such employee may not be replaced by a Helper C unless the formula provided herein is followed or after the negotiation with, and written agreement of, the Union. However, no presently employed Head Janitor, Assistant Head Janitor, Helper A or Helper A Trainee may be replaced by a Helper C or Helper C Trainee.
(4)	Any change in staffing pattern which increases the number of Helpers C at any premises shall be the subject of negotiation and written agreement with the Union.
(5)	Any negotiated reduction-in-force of any employee covered by this Labor Agreement shall be according to seniority as provided in Article V, Section 3 of the Agreement as presently amended. Any such employee covered by the Labor Agreement affected by such negotiated re-staffing resulting in a reduction-in-force of employees and an addition of Helper (s) C shall be entitled to preferential hiring if such affected employee wishes to apply for said new Helper C position.
9
(6)	In cases of bona fide emergencies and/or vacation relief, a Helper C may occasionally perform duties outside the scope of the Helper C classification on the basis of seniority; provided that the Helper C performing such other duties shall be considered a Helper A or a higher classification and shall be entitled to the applicable wages for such work performed, unless prior written agreement to the contrary has been reached with the Union. The Helper C will receive the higher classification wage rate after the fourth (4th) consecutive day is worked in such higher classification.
(7)	In cases of new buildings or other premises that have no prior established staffing pattern, only items 2 and 6 above shall be applicable.
(c)	In the event of any controversy or disagreement, for any reason whatsoever, determination of the number of employees necessary at any building or premises shall, at the election of the Employer or the Union, be a matter for arbitration under Article XV of this Agreement.
(d)	In the event a Head Janitor is unavailable for work for more than three (3) consecutive days, the employee temporarily assigned to perform the principal duties of the Head Janitor shall be paid at a rate not less than the minimum monthly wage rate established for the Head Janitor under this Agreement, commencing on the fourth day of such temporary assignment.
ARTICLE IV The Duties of the Employees
Section 1. Duties Covered. It shall be the duty of the employee to safeguard the interest of the Employer in every possible manner, to render him efficient, capable and loyal service, and to maintain the premises, apparatus and equipment thereof and protect it against avoidable damage, loss and deterioration, and no lesser service shall be considered to be in harmony with the intent and spirit of this Agreement. The Employee shall be obligated to wear and use all provided safety equipment And maintain them in a reasonable fashion. All equipment purchased by the Employer must be returned to the Employer upon termination of employment. The employees shall perform such work and duties as are necessary to carry out the intent and spirit of this Section and this Agreement. Employees shall be obligated to be on time for their shift. In respect to any premises, employees shall continue, if required by the Employer, to perform such duties as they have previously performed, subject to the agreement of the Union. It is further agreed that the employees will obtain all governmental certifications as mandated by law for performance of all duties of the employee's position. After two attempts (at the Employer's expense) to pass each educational criteria the employee will be responsible for the cost of any additional attempts and after the third or subsequent failure to pass the test the employee can be demoted or transferred by the Employer.
10
In addition to these general duties, employees shall perform duties as set forth herein.
Helpers C and Helper C Trainee shall be responsible for the following duties:
(a)	Keeping the premises clean and in order and employing reasonable diligence in the removal of snow to afford ready access into and past the buildings and garages belonging to the premises.
(b)	Putting all ashes and other refuse into the receptacles provided by the premises for waste removal.
(c)	Sweeping and dusting vacant apartments or flats, common areas (including party rooms, swimming pools, locker rooms, laundry rooms, et al.), keeping the plumbing fixtures, refrigerators and gas or electric ranges clean, and washing windows as often as may be necessary to keep the premises in presentable condition for rental, provided that employees shall not be required or permitted to wash windows on the outside above the ground level. In cases where there is an abnormal tenant turnover so that the need to clean vacant apartments cannot be fulfilled within the scope of the employee’s normal daily duties and would place an abnormal burden upon the employees, such employee shall either be scheduled on overtime for the completion of such work or shall not be required to perform all of the duties normally assigned by him in order that such work may be performed, it being understood that the basic principle shall be a fair day’s work during a regular work day.
In addition to all the above duties of Helpers C, it shall be the responsibility of all other classifications set forth in Article II, Section 1(g), except Swimming Pool Attendants, to perform the following duties:
(d)	Keeping the premises supplied with hot water at all times; keeping the premises heated in the cooler months; keeping the premises cooled in the warmer months where central air conditioning has been supplied; performing routine maintenance and repair on central and individual air conditioning units owned by the Employers under this Agreement or, where previously authorized or performed, in respect to units located in condominium or cooperative apartments; and making the most effective and economical use of the fuel and supplies furnished for these purposes.
(e)	Giving such care to apparatus as may be necessary for its continuous operation and functioning, and conserving equipment and keeping it in good condition. Emergency repairs required to prevent immediate damage shall be performed.
11
(f)	Assisting in the renting of vacant apartments, offices and garages or other vacancies on the premises by showing them to prospective tenants upon proper authorization by the Employer. Such showing of vacant premises shall be required only during the employee's regular working hours and, when deemed necessary, by appointment made and verified by the Employer. The Employer shall not use the employee's telephone number in any advertisement relating to rentals unless authorized by the employee. No employee shall be used to assist in the sale of any premises by showing it to any prospective buyer except when accompanied by a representative of the Employer, nor shall any employee make any statement to a prospective buyer covering the occupancy or condition of the premises or the apparatus or equipment pertaining thereto.
(g)	In respect to work done by other workmen on the premises, the employee may be requested to observe the progress of the work, report thereon to the Employer and give his best opinion concerning the satisfactory performance of such work.
(h)	Putting up and taking down window and door screens, storm doors, and windows as the season requires or according to any local ordinance or regulation, and keeping such equipment in presentable condition and property stored when not in use. In respect to storm windows, the Employer shall provide employees with such additional help as is reasonably necessary to aid and assist this work.
(i)	To supply hand tools at his own expense.
(j)	In addition to all the above duties, Head Janitors and Assistant Head Janitors shall be required to subscribe for telephone service at their place of residence and to pay for the cost of local calls. The Employer shall reimburse the employee for all calls made in the discharge of his duties for the Employer. The employee's telephone shall be listed in the telephone book. No reimbursement shall be made for calls which do not exceed the normal charge provided under the service subscribed to by the employee. To be entitled to reimbursement, the employee shall keep (and furnish upon request) a record of the telephone numbers called, the name of the party called, the nature of the call (i.e., supplier, contractor, tenant, etc.) and the date of the call.
Section 2.	Prohibited Work. Employees shall not be required by an Employer:
(a)	To do work which will conflict with the recognized field of work of any other union except in cases of emergency or where the interest of the Employer will suffer from failure to have the work done at once, and except, further, as may be permitted pursuant to Subsection (d) of this Section 2.
12
(b)	To collect rents or manage tfie property.
(c)	To serve or deliver legal notices to tenants.
(d)	To perform duties not normally considered janitorial or custodial in
nature, unless it is work which has been regularly performed in the past by employees on the premises to the knowledge and Wjtp the consent of the Union. An Employer who desires an employee to perform sp$cia[ assignments in addition to his regular duties shall notify and discuss the work jn question with the Union. The basis of compensation for such work, in addition to the regular wages due under this Agreement, shall be negotiated with the Uhion. In the event that the Employer and the Union disagree as to the appropriate wage after discussion, this wage dispute may be submitted to arbitration under Article XV of this Agreement.
(e)	To use their apartment as receiving rooms or to act as receiving clerks, except in emergencies.
(f)	io hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, reward or discipline other employees, or to recommend such action, or to adjust their grievances. In no event shall a Head Janitor be either required or permitted to perform such supervisor duties, nor to prepare or execute a written recommendation that an employee covered by this Agreement is Iq be discharged, suspended, or otherwise disciplined. However, this shall not limit thG requirement that any employee covered by the collective bargaining agreement may bb asked to give a written statement as to his knowledge of the facts which were involve^ anq resulted in the disciplinary action.
(g)	To make up their regular v^ork when they are taken away from their normal jobs to perform assignments or dutjes at the direction of the Employer, unless their regular work may be reasonably performed during their regular working hours or performed as overtime work upon agreement by the employee.
(h)	To utilize his or her spouse t^ perform or assist in the performance of his job, nor shall such work be permitted, except to take or transmit messages when the spouse is available.
(i)	To employ or to permit the employment of others to assist him in the performance of service under this Agreement. Nor shall any employee undertake to work for any Employer at more premises than can reasonably be serviced faithfully and efficiently in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of this Article IV.
(j)	To take orders from any tenant or other person not expressly designated by the Employer to give orders, except in case Of emergency.
h
(k)	Persons who are not members of the bargaining unit shall not be permitted to do unit work or work covered by this Agreement except in emergencies or when unit employees are not readily available.
(I)	All skills taught by the Union Training Programs shall not be prohibited work for a Head Janitor, Assistant Head Janitor, or Helper A.
Section 3.	Employee Obligations Upon Termination. An employee shall give the Employer fourteen (14) days' notice in writing before leaving his job. An employee who fails to perform his duties during the notice period shall be subject to termination prior to the expiration of the notice period. If the employee finds it necessary to leave before the expiration of such notice period, he shall, with the prior approval of the Employer, furnish a temporary qualified substitute. The Employer shall be entitled to employ temporary employees to carry on services until such time as a regular replacement can be engaged.
Section 4.	Obligation to Release Apartment. An employee who is discharged for just cause or who quits shall vacate any apartment which has been furnished him under this Agreement not later than fourteen (14) days after notice of discharge or quit, unless extended by agreement, and shall at that time, in addition, return to the Employer all keys, equipment or other property of the Employer for which the employee has signed as having received, excepting only such property as was necessarily expended in the course of employment. An employee who is discharged immediately, in accordance with Article V, Section 2, shall also vacate any apartment furnished under this Agreement not later than fourteen (14) days after the termination.
The Union shall utilize its best efforts to require affected employees to comply strictly with this requirement. If such efforts are unsuccessful, the employee will be liable for the payment of rent for each day he remains in the apartment after the effective date of the termination or the agreed extension of time for vacating the apartment. The amount of daily rent shall be the pro rata amount of a monthly rent equal to 25% of the employee's regular wage rate but shall not be in excess of the amount permitted or provided under any law or program applicable to such building.
14
ARTICLE V The Obligations of the Employer
Section 1.	General Obligations. The Employer shall have the following obligations:
(a)	To pay the wages of employees in accordance with the basic wage scale and to provide for all other benefits established under this Agreement.
(b)	To furnish uniforms if required by the Employer and to clean and repair them at the Employer's expense. However, it shall be the employee's responsibility to clean and maintain the uniform when the employee fails to return the uniform for cleaning in a timely manner.
(c)	The Employer shall provide the original pieces of safety equipment.
(d)	The Employer may prohibit the wearing of sandals, athletic shoes, open
toed or other non-work related shoes by employees.
Section 2.	Discharges. No employee shall be disciplined or discharged except for just cause. In cases of gross misconduct (including, but not limited to, dishonesty, insubordination and the like, willful destruction of the Employer's property, drinking alcohol on the job, possession or unauthorized use of controlled or illegal substances on the premises, or working under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs) employees may be subject to summary discharge without prior notice. Subsequent written notice of the discharge shall be provided to the employee and the Union within five (5) days of the discharge. In all other cases, employees shall be entitled to fourteen (14) days' written notice of discharge with a copy of such notice to be simultaneously sent to the Union. Failure to notify the Union in this regard shall nullify the notice to the employee. The notice shall state the reasons for the discharge and shall be signed by the Employer or his designated representative. In no event shall the notice be signed by an employee in the bargaining unit. Where the Union consents, the Employer may be permitted to pay the employee for the fourteen (14) days instead of keeping him on the job. In any event, where the discharge is immediate, the employee shall be permitted to occupy the apartment furnished on the premises for no more than fourteen (14) days thereafter. During the fourteen (14) day period, the Union shall investigate the reasons for discharge and may grieve the discharge pursuant to Article XV if it is of the opinion that the discharge was not for just cause. No employee shall be discharged while he is not at work due to vacation or illness. Except as otherwise provided herein, all monies due or which have accrued, including vacation or accrued vacation allowances and holiday pay, shall be paid to an employee within five (5) business days. Where an employee is not entitled to fourteen (14) days' notice of discharge under this provision,
15
the employee shall nevertheless be entitled to a written notification of such discharge, including a statement of the reason/s for the discharge. Where it is not practical to give such notice prior to or at the time of discharge, it shall be given as promptly as possible but not later than five (5) calendar days following the discharge, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by fax.
Section 3.	Layoffs. Layoffs due to lack of work shall be in accordance with the length of service of the employees within each classification at the premises in which the employees are employed so that the employee with the least service in an affected classification shall be laid off first, except that a junior employee having special skills and qualifications not possessed by a senior employee may be retained without regard to seniority. Employees in a higher classification shall have the right to exercise seniority and replace the least senior employee in a lower classification at the lower rate of pay. The Employer shall give the Union and the employees affected not less than fifteen (15) days' notice of any such layoff. Recall from layoff shall be in the reverse order of the layoff so that the employee last laid off in an affected classification shall be the first to be recalled for a maximum of one year after the most recent layoff.
Section 4,	Seniority. The term "seniority" shall mean an employee's length of unbroken service on the premises, by classification. An employee's seniority rights shall not be affected by a change in ownership or management of the premises so long as said employee remains in the employ of the new owners or managers.
No employer shall transfer any employee to different premises without the prior consent of the employee and notification to the Union.
Seniority shall not be broken except by:
(a)	discharge for cause,
(b)	resignation,
(c)	layoff for more than one year, except that employees having less than one year's service shall retain their seniority only for a period equal to their length of service, or
(d)	failure to return to work upon expiration of leave of absence.
Seniority rights shall not apply to temporary or relief employees.
16
Section 5.	Promotions and Transfers, in the case of employees applying for transfers to a different shift within the same classification, the most senior applicant shall be entitled to any available opening. Within thirty (30) working days of any promotion or transfer under this section, the employee may be returned to his former position if he is unable to demonstrate the ability to perform the work or otherwise adequately meet the requirements of the new job or shift. The Employer shall provide notice to the Union at the time any job opening within the bargaining unit becomes available, in accordance with the terms of Article III, Section 4, and shall also notify the Union of any promotion or transfer of employees within the bargaining unit.
Section 6.	Changes in Ownership and/or Operation-Successorship.
(a)	Obligations of Owner and/or Management Agent. In the event of the sale, transfer, assignment or other change, in whole or in part, of the ownership or operation of any premises covered by this Agreement (whether voluntary or by operation of law), including changes incident to conversion to a condominium or cooperative form of ownership and operation and including, also, a change in the Management Agent/s or Representative/s or other person/s acting for the Owner/s or in the place or stead of the Owner/s in the operation of the premises, it shall be the obligation of the Owner and/or Management Agent:
(1)	Prior to the date of any agreement for the sale, transfer, change of management representative or other change in the ownership or operation of the premises, to provide the successor owner, transferee, or assignee with a copy of this Agreement and to advise such person/s in writing that the premises are subject to this Agreement and that its terms expressly provide that it is binding .upon the successors, executors, administrators and assigns of the Owner and all other persons acting as or on behalf of the Employer in respect to the employees represented by the Union at the premises; and
(2)	To notify the Union in writing, not later than five (5) working days after the date of the agreement for sale, transfer, or other change in ownership or operation of the premises, that it has taken the action specified in paragraph (1) above, and provide the Union with the name and address of the successor Owner and/or Management Agent, as applicable.
17
(b)	Compliance and Failure of Compliance. An Owner or Management Agent, Representative or other person acting for or in place of the Owner in the management and operation of the premises who complies with the provision of Paragraph (a) of this Section, shall not, following the effective date of the change in ownership or management, be liable for any failure of any successor to adopt or abide by the terms of this Agreement. An Owner or a Management Agent, Representative, or other person acting for or in place of the Owner in the management and operation of the premises who fails to comply with the provisions of Paragraph (a) shall be liable to the Union and the affected employee/s for such damages as may have been sustained by them due to such failure.
(c)	Accrued Liabilities. Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, in the case of any change in ownership or operation of the premises, the prior Employer/s shall pay to each employee all wages and holiday pay, and to the Health, Pension, and Training Funds all contributions, which have accrued up to and including the last day of the Employer's control, possession, ownership, or management of the premises, and shall make such payment by no later than the effective date of such change. In the event that there is outstanding pro-rated vacation pay due and owing to employees at the premises on the date of such change, either (i) the amount of such pro-rated vacation pay shall be paid by the prior Employer on or before the date of the change, or, (ii) if the successor and predecessor Employers agree, the successor Employer shall pay the entire vacation amount due at the time the employee takes his vacation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, provided that the Union has been notified in writing of such agreement The prior Employer shall remain liable for any and all employee benefits which have accrued up to and including the last day of the Employer's control, possession, ownership, or management of the premises, unless otherwise expressly provided in writing between the parties and notice thereof given to the Union.
(d)	Rights Against Successors. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to limit or diminish in any respect whatsoever any rights which the Union may have for the enforcement of this Agreement against any transferee, assignee or other successor pursuant to applicable law and to pursue such rights before any court or other tribunal or in any proceedings permissible under law in addition to or as a substitute for arbitration under the provisions of this Agreement. In any event and notwithstanding any of the provisions of Article XIV, the Union shall have the right to engage in strike, picketing, or other lawful economic action against the transferee and/or against any successor management agent, representative or other person acting as an Employer who fails to recognize and to adopt this Agreement, but such action shall be limited by the provisions of Section 4 of Article XIV.
18
Section 7.	Subcontracting. Except, as provided hereunder, no Employer shall subcontract to any person, in whole or in part, any of the work within the scope of this Agreement without the agreement of the Union, which shall be evidenced in writing.
(a)	During the term of this Agreement, the Employer may contract for all or part of the cleaning services being performed or to be performed by employees within the jurisdiction of the Union, for new buildings and condominium conversions, provided that the Employer includes in its agreement with such contractor the following provisions:
(1)	The contractor must observe the economic terms and conditions of this Agreement such as wages, hours, fringe benefits and other terms and conditions of employment applicable to cleaning personnel;
(2)	All employees currently employed by the Employer shall be employed by the contractor as a continuing condition of any contract between the Employer and the contractor; and
(3)	In the event the contractor shall not faithfully observe the terms of this Agreement, the Employer may terminate its agreement with the contractor upon 30 days notice, a copy of which shall be sent to the Union.
The Employer shall act as guarantor and be liable for compliance with all the terms and conditions of this Agreement and, in the event that the contractor shall fail to observe the terms of this Agreement, shall assume all the responsibilities and liabilities hereunder.
(b)	The Employer shall be permitted to hire a contractual cleaning company to perform a seasonal or temporary task which would otherwise be performed by a janitorial employee where such seasonal or temporary task cannot be completed by the regular janitorial staff within the normal working schedule, provided that:
(1)	Where such subcontracting will not be completed within two (2) weeks, the Employer shall provide the Union with prior written notice of such subcontracting and the dates on which such subcontracting will begin and end; or
(2)	Where such subcontracting will be completed within two (2) weeks, such notice will be given to the Union orally.
19
ARTICLE V) Compensation And Hours Of Employees
Section 1. Wage Scale and Rates.
(a)(1) Establishment. The wage rates for Head Janitors, Assistant Head Janitors, Helpers and other existing job classifications in which employees are presently employed have been negotiated and have become fixed contract rates applicable to such classifications. Such rates shall not be less than the minimum rates established for such jobs in this Agreement and may, in particular instances, be higher than the minimum rates. In no event shall existing rates which are higher than the minimum rate be reduced but, instead, shall be increased by the amounts specified in Subsection (a) of this Section 1. The increases shall not apply to Swimming Pool Attendants. The wage rates for such job classifications at premises not heretofore covered by this Agreement, or, if covered, for jobs not established at such premises, shall be the rates specified in this Agreement for such classifications or, where no fixed rate is established for a particular classification, shall be the rate established by negotiations between the parties, based upon the wages applicable to such jobs in premises of the same general type in the same general area. In respect to job classifications falling within Paragraph (a) (7) of this Section 1, it is recognized that no uniform rate for such job can be established in view of the non-uniform nature of their job content and it is, accordingly, agreed that the rate for each such job shall in each case be established by negotiations taking into account the particular duties to be performed by employees in each such job, provided that the negotiated wage rate for any Maintenance Employee shall be not less than the wage rate for a Helper A on the premises. Any controversy which arises in setting a wage rate under this Agreement which cannot be settled by negotiations shall be settled under the arbitration procedure set forth in Article XV.
Any employee receiving a wage rate in excess of the hourly rate herein shall continue to receive the higher wage rate in addition to the increases provided in this Section.
(a) (2) Exclusive Service Head Janitors. Effective December 1, 2005, the hourly wage of all Exclusive Service Head Janitors shall be increased by seventy cents ($0.70) over their hourly wage which was in effect as of November 30, 2005. The minimum wage scale for such janitors servicing premises shall then range from a minimum of not less than $19.45 per hour to a minimum of not less than $22.86 per hour.
20
Effective December 1, 2006, the hourly wage of all Exclusive Service Head Janitors shall be increased by seventy-five cents ($0.75) over their hourly wage which was in effect as of November 30, 2006. The minimum wage scale for such janitors servicing premises shall then range from a minimum of not less than $20.20 per hour to a minimum of not less than $23.61 per hour.
Effective December 1, 2007, the hourly wage of all Exclusive Service Head Janitors shall be increased by eighty cents ($0.80) over their hourly wage which was in effect as of November 30, 2007. The minimum wage scale for such janitors servicing premises shall then range from a minimum of not less than $21.00 per hour to a minimum of not less than $24.41 per hour.
(a) (3) Assistant Head Janitors. Effective December 1, 2005, the hourly wage rate in effect for Assistant Head Janitors shall be increased by seventy ($0.70) cents per hour provided that the minimum hourly wage rate for such employees shall then be no less than $18.57.
Effective December 1, 2006, the hourly wage of Assistant Head Janitors shall be increased by seventy-five ($0.75) cents per hour provided that the minimum hourly wage rate for such employees shall then be no less than $19.32.
Effective December 1, 2007, the hourly wage of Assistant Head Janitors shall be increased by eighty ($0.80) cents per hour provided that the minimum hourly wage rate for such employees shall then be no less than $20.12.
(a) (4) Helpers A. Effective December 1, 2005, Helpers A shall receive an hourly wage increase of fifty-five ($0.55) cents per hour over their wage rate which was in effect on November 30, 2005. No Helper A shall receive less than $16.83 per hour.
Effective December 1, 2006, Helpers A shall receive an hourly wage increase of fifty-five ($0.55) cents per hour over their wage rate which was in effect on November 30, 2006. No Helper A shall receive less than $17.38 per hour.
Effective December 1, 2007, Helpers A shall receive an hourly wage increase of fifty-five ($0.55) cents per hour over their wage rate which was in effect on November 30, 2007. No Helper A shall receive less than $17.93 per hour.
(a)(5) Helpers C. Effective December 1, 2005, Helpers C shall receive an hourly wage increase of fifty ($0.50) cents per hour over their wage rate which was in effect on November 30, 2005. No Helper C shall receive less than $13.57 per hour.
21
Effective December 1, 2006, Helpers C shall receive an hourly wage increase of forty-five ($0.45) cents per hour over their wage rate which was in effect on November 30t 2006. No Helper C shall receive less than $14.07 per hour.
Effective December 1, 2007, Helpers C shall receive an hourly wage increase of forty-five ($0.45) cents per hour over their wage rate which was in effect on November 30, 2007. No Helper C shall receive less than $14.57 per hour.
(a) (6) Non-Exclusive Fixed Wage Janitors and Other Employees Including Employees at Condominiums and Cooperatives. Effective December 1, 2005, all Maintenance Employees, non-exclusive fixed wage janitors and all other employees (except swimming pool attendants) shall receive an increase of 3.17% over their wages in effect as of November 30, 2005, except that in the case of gross hardship the increases to be effective may be the subject of negotiations with the Union. Vacancies in such jobs shall be filled at a wage rate not less than the minimum of the rate negotiated with the Union for that job in effect at that time except that the rate for the job in effect at that time shall not apply when it was negotiated in respect only to a particular employee upon special facts applicable to such employee and/or the duties to be performed and which do not apply to the replacement for such employees. Effective December 1, 2006, all such employees shall receive an increase of 3,.33% over their wages in effect on November 30, 2006, except that in the case of gross hardship the increases to be effective may be the subject of negotiations with the Union. Vacancies in such jobs shall be filled at a wage rate not less than the minimum of the rate negotiated with the Union for that job in effect at that time except that the rate for the job in effect at that time shall not apply when it was negotiated in respect only to a particular employee upon special facts applicable to such employee and/or the duties to be performed and which do not apply to the replacement for such employee. Effective December 1, 2007, all such employees shall receive an increase of 3.48% over their wages in effect on November 30, 2007, except that in the case of gross hardship the increases to be effective may be the subject of negotiations with the Union. Vacancies in such jobs shall be filled at a wage rate not less than the minimum of the rate negotiated with the Union for that job in effect at that time except that the rate for the job in effect at that time shall not apply when it was negotiated in respect only to a particular employee upon special facts applicable to such employee and/or the duties to be performed and which do not apply to the replacement for such employee.
(a) (7) Maintenance Employees. The monthly wage rate for any Maintenance employee shall be negotiated between the Union and the Employer pursuant to subsection (a) (1) of this Article VI, provided, however, that in no event shall the minimum monthly wage rate for any Maintenance employee be less than the wage rate for a Helper A on the premises.
22
(a) (8) Helpers A Trainees. The rate of a Helper A Trainee shall not be less than ninety percent (90%) of the then current minimum rate for a Helper A. Effective December 1, 2005 the Helper A Trainee hourly rate shall be no less than $15.15. Effective December 1, 2006 the Helper A Trainee hourly rate shall be no less than $15.64. Effective December 1, 2007 the Helper A Trainee hourly rate shall be no less than $16.14. When a Helper A Trainee has completed fifty percent (50%) of the Apprenticeship Program the Trainee A rate of pay will not be less ninety-five percent (95%) of the current minimum rate for a Helper A. Effective December 1, 2005 the Helper A Trainee hourly rate for Trainees that have completed fifty percent (50%) of the Apprenticeship Training Program shall be no less than $15.99. Effective December 1, 2006 the Helper A Trainee hourly rate for the Trainees that have completed fifty percent (50%) of the Apprenticeship Training Program shall be no less than $16.51. Effective December 1, 2007 the Helper A Trainee Hourly rate for Trainees that have completed Fifty percent (50%) of the Apprenticeship Training Program shall be no less than $17.03
(a) (9) Helper C Trainees. The rate of a Helper C Trainee shall not be less than ninety percent (90%) of the then current minimum rate for a Helper C. The Helper C Trainee Rate may not be effective for longer than the first six (6) months of employment. Effective December 1, 2005 the Helper C Trainee hourly rate shall be no less than $12.21. Effective December 1, 2006 the Helper C Trainee hourly rate shall be no less than $12.66, Effective December 1, 2007 the Helper C Trainee hourly rate shall be no less than $13.11.
Upon completion of the five (5) classes the Helper C Trainee will be increased to the full Helper C Janitor rate of pay.
(a)	(10) Night Shift Premium. Helpers who are employed on a shift in which the greatest number of working hours come within the period of 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. shall receive a premium of five percent (5%) over the regular rate for such jobs. Employees in other classifications falling within Subsection (b) (6) of this Section shall receive a premium of five percent (5%) over the regular rate for such jobs provided that such night shift differential has not been expressly negotiated and added to the rate of such jobs.
(b)	Parking Lots. Effective May 1, 1998, with respect to all buildings having parking lots adjacent thereto, no additional compensation shall be required for servicing such lots. However, all employees hired prior to May 1, 1998 who have performed such services under the Agreement effective from December 1, 1996 through November 30, 1998 and who were paid additional compensation for such services shall continue to perform such services and shall continued to be paid such additional compensation.
23
Section 2.	Condominiums and Cooperatives. Wages for employees in cooperatively owned buildings or condominium apartment buildings shall be equivalent to the wages applicable to rental buildings of the same general type for the same general area.
Section 3.	Bonuses. Any payments made by the Employer which are in excess of the wage rates established under this Agreement and which are made at its discretion shall be considered as bonus payments and shall not be considered as a part of the established wage rate hereunder for that employee, provided, however, that such payments shall not be deemed to be bonus payments unless made with the knowledge and approval of the Union. Bonuses shall apply only to the1 individual employees who are receiving them. Bonuses for such individuals shall not be reduced by nor shall they be offset against any wage increases due under this Agreement. Bonus payments need not be included in computing sums due to the Local No. 1 Health, Training or Pension Funds.
Section 4.	Living Quarters. Head Janitors (and Assistant Head Janitors and other employees for whom it has been negotiated or who are otherwise being so provided, whether or not they are exclusive service janitors) shall be provided living quarters, rent free, with all such services as are customarily provided a tenant in the premises as part of such tenant's rent, including air conditioning. Such apartment shall be heated at the expense of the Employer and shall be decorated at least once every two (2) years at the expense of the Employer. In the event, however, that decorating services are not provided to tenants, such Janitors shall be provided with the necessary paint and other materials required to decorate the apartment and reasonable time off within which to perform that work. In any event, however, the apartment shall be decorated at the expense of the Employer when such janitor is replaced by another such janitor in the building. No Employer shall be required to furnish the Janitor more than one (1) apartment as living quarters but such apartment shall include one (1) bedroom if there is such an apartment in the building and shall be in good and habitable condition. No employee shall be required to post a security deposit for an apartment. No Employer shall be required to furnish living quarters for any Helper or other classification of employees or for relief janitors. It is expressly agreed, however, that the cost or value of any living quarters, decorating or any other tenant services provided in accordance with this Agreement shall not be considered or included as part of the wages paid to any employee covered by this Agreement, but shall be deemed only to be in addition to such wages, and for the convenience of the Employer. Nor shall the value of the living quarters be deemed, in whole or in any part, as an offset against overtime or any other pay which may otherwise be due to an employee. An employee who is provided an apartment under the provisions of this Agreement may be required to sign a lease if the Employer requests the employee to execute such lease.
24
However, such lease shall become operational and binding only on the effective date when the employee's right to occupy the apartment as an employee expires. Upon termination of the employee's rights to continue the occupancy of the apartment, whether such termination of the employee's occupancy rights have been effectuated by discharge for just cause by the Employer or voluntary termination of employment by the employee, shall any lease, regardless of the date of such lease, become effective. Upon termination of an employee who has not executed a lease, such employee's tenancy shall be considered month to month and shall be deemed covered by the terms and conditions of the most recent standard lease form used at the premises by the owner or manager. It is expressly understood that this Agreement takes precedence over such a lease and any provisions in a lease which are contrary to the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalid and unenforceable in a court of law or otherwise. No employee shall be entitled or permitted to sell, lease, or sublease any apartment, or other space, parking space, amenity or privilege of the employee to a third party. In the case where living quarters are provided which are in excess of what is required hereunder, a use and occupancy agreement may be entered into covering such arrangement.
No janitor shall have the right to refuse the occupancy of an apartment unless both the Union and the Employer shall mutually agree for good cause shown to excuse the janitor from such occupancy. However, in such a case, or if an apartment is not available or not furnished to the janitor for good cause shown, an apartment allowance shall be negotiated in lieu of the apartment based on the average fair market rental for a one-bedroom apartment in the area for purpose of insuring that the janitor will reside in a location convenient to the premises for which he has responsibility.
Section 5.	Work Week for Head and Assistant Head Janitors. The regular work week for Head Janitors .and Assistant Head Janitors shall consist of forty (40) hours per week arranged to provide such employees with time off from the premises consisting of 48 consecutive hours each week; provided, however, that if another employee is not available for emergency service during such period either the janitor shall be available or provide a substitute approved by the Employer as a substitute for such period at no cost to the employer. Upon good cause shown and with the approval of the Union, the Employer may on a temporary basis adjust the regular workweek for Head Janitors and Assistant Head Janitors.
25
Section 6.	Work Week for Helpers and Other Employees. The regular work week for Helpers and employees in other job classifications specified in Sections 1(a) (4), 1(a)(5), 1(a)(7), 1(a)(8), and 1(a)(9) of this Article shall consist of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours each comprising forty (40) hours per week. Upon good cause shown and with the approval of the Union, the regular workweek may be adjusted provided that all days within the regular workweek are scheduled to be worked consecutively.
Section 7.	Overtime. Sections 5 and 6 above are intended only to establish the regular work week of the employees covered thereby and do not prohibit the Employer from scheduling reasonable mandatory overtime on the sixth and seventh day of an employee’s work week. Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week by employees in Section 5 of this Article shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times such employee's regular rate of pay. Hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one day (unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the Union) or forty (40) hours per week by employees in Section 6 of this Article shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times his regular rate of pay. In no event shall time off be substituted for overtime pay in any case. No employee may work overtime without authorization of the Employer except in the event of an emergency.
Section 8.	Wage Computations. The regular hourly rate of the employees specified in Section 5 and Section 6 of this Article VI shall, for all purposes including overtime, be computed by dividing the monthly rate by 173.33 hours. In no case shall time off or any other benefit whatsoever be substituted for overtime pay. The regular daily pay of an employee for an 8 hour day shall be equal to 4.62 percent of the monthly wage. The regular weekly pay for an employee for a 40 hour week shall be equal to 23.1 percent of the monthly wage. The regular bi-weekly pay for such employee shall be equal to 46.19 percent of the monthly wage. The regular semimonthly pay for such employee shall be equal to 50.0 percent of the monthly wage.
Section 9.	Reporting Pay. In the event any employee is called back to work for an emergency, the employee shall be paid for all time worked at the appropriate rate (including the overtime rate when required by Section 7) plus one hour at straight time as travel time if the employee does not live on the premises.
26
Section 10.	Maintenance of Benefits. No benefits, privileges or other terms and conditions of employment heretofore in effect for employees covered by this Agreement which provide conditions more favorable than what is established under this Agreement shall be reduced or eliminated, but shall continue in full force and effect, except by express written agreement with the Union. This provision, however, shall not apply where such benefits are in contravention of this Agreement or were established and applied solely in respect to a particular employee/s based upon special facts applicable to such employee/s and such facts do not any longer apply to such employee/s or to the replacement for such employee/s.
Section 11.	Pay Discrepancies. Employers will make there best effort to issue paychecks for pay discrepancies within two (2) business days after being notified by employee or Union.
ARTICLE VII Holidays, Vacations and Other Benefits
Section 1.	Holidays. AU employees shall observe the following holidays without loss of pay for the period beginning December 1, 2005 through November 30, 2008.
New Year's Day - January 1, 2006; January 1, 2007, January 1, 2008 Memorial Day - May 29, 2006; May 28, 2007, May 26, 2008 Independence Day - July 4, 2006; July 4, 2007, July 4, 2008
Labor Day - September 4, 2006; September 3, 2007, September 1, 2008 Thanksgiving Day - November 23, 2006; November 22, 2007, November 27, 2008 Christmas Day - December 25, 2005; December 25, 2006, December 25, 2007
Either Employee's Birthday or Martin Luther King's Birthday (at employee's option) -January 16, 2006; January 15, 2007, January 21, 2008
Three (3) Floating Holidays per contract year.
(a)	The Employer and the employee shall select the Floating Holidays and may agree to an alternate holiday in lieu of the Employee's Birthday/Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday. Such employees, other than those engaged in a temporary or substitute capacity, when required to work on holidays shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay in addition to their holiday pay, except for the Employee’s Birthday/Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday, for which the employee shall receive straight time plus holiday pay.
27
(1)	If the holiday occurs on an employee's day off (except in the case of temporary or substitute employees) or while the employee is on vacation, the employee shall receive one day's pay for such holiday or an extra day's paid vacation as the case may be.
(2)	In the case of an employee working on a swing shift, if the majority of his hours fall on a holiday, he shall receive an extra day of pay for work on that day. When, however, one-half of the employee's hours falls on a regular day and the other one-half falls on a holiday, the day on which the employee starts to work shall determine whether or not it is a holiday.
(3)	Regardless of the provisions of this Section 1, an employee shall not be eligible for holiday pay unless he has worked both the last scheduled day of his regularly scheduled workweek prior to the holiday and his first scheduled day of his regularly scheduled workweek subsequent to the holiday, unless the absence is excused for illness, injury or other bona fide reason.
(b)	In the case of Head Janitors or Assistant Head Janitors, the Employer may, in its discretion, in lieu of a designated holiday, give such employee alternate days off within one month of the holiday or add such days to his vacation period. If the Employer does not exercise this option, but requires the employee to be on duty on such holidays, the employee shall receive a total of 1-1/2 times his regular rate of pay in addition to his regular holiday pay for the holidays worked.
(c)	No more than one (1) Floating Holiday shall be taken in any one (1) quarter of the contract year.
(d)	An employee who has not received the Floating Holidays provided herein during the contract year shall be paid for such holiday/s and an employee who is terminated prior to having received the Floating Holidays specified in this Agreement shall be paid for such holidays upon termination. Such payments shall be at straight-time pay.
(e)	In order to be eligible to receive Floating Holiday benefits under this Section, an employee must have been employed at the premises at least six (6) months.
28
Section 2.	Vacations, (a) Amount. All employees with at least six (6) months of continuous service on the premises, preceding June 1st of any year, shall be entitled to a vacation with pay according to the following schedule:
(1)	Six months' of service - one (1) week of vacation equal to 23.1% of the monthly wage.
(2)	For each full month of service in excess of the first six (6) months' service - One (1) additional work day of vacation but not more than a total of two (2) weeks for one (1) year of service. Each additional day's pay equals 4.62% of the monthly wage.
(3)	One (1) year or more but less than three (3) years of service - Two (2) weeks of vacation equal to 46.2% of the monthly wage.
(4)	Three (3) years or more but less than ten (10) years of service - Three (3) weeks of vacation equal to 70% of the monthly wage.
(5)	Ten (10) years or more but less than twenty (20) years of service - Four (4) weeks of vacation equal to 93% of the monthly wage.
(6)	Twenty (20) or more years of service - Five .(5) weeks of vacation equal to 116% of the monthly wage.
(7)	Twenty-five (25) or more years of service - Six (6) weeks of vacation equal to 139% of the monthly wage.
(b)	Prorated Vacation Pay. An employee with at least six (6) months of continuous service on the same premises whose employment terminates before he qualifies for his next vacation shall be entitled to prorated vacation pay equal to one-twelfth (1/12th) of his vacation pay for each full one (1) month of service for which he has not received prior vacation allowance credit whether or not such service precedes June 1st of any year.
(c)	Scheduling. Vacations may be scheduled at any time during the year as agreed between the Employer and employee. Vacation scheduling requests shall be granted in the order in which they are received. If vacation schedules are submitted at the same time, preference on the basis of seniority will be granted.
29
(d)	Substitutes. The Employer may hire a temporary or substitute employee for each employee on vacation so that the same number of employees in all classifications shall be maintained during vacations. On premises where no Helper is employed, the Union may furnish, at the Employer's expense, a substitute employee in the classification of the vacationing regular employee.
Section 3.	Sick Leave.
(a)	Leave of Absence. In the case of inability to work due to physical disability or illness, an employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence. In any twelve (12) month period, sick leave(s) shall not exceed the cumulative maximum of six (6) months after one year of service or, in the case of employees with less than one (1) year of service, the cumulative maximum of one-half (1/2) the employee’s length of service except that this period may be extended in hardship cases by mutual agreement. An employee with a bona fide work related injury will be entitled to a maximum of one year leave of absence. If the employee occupies an apartment on the premises, the employee shall continue to live there rent-free during the leave of absence. In addition, the Employer shall continue to make payments to the Local No. 1 Health Fund, Local No. 1 Pension Trust Fund, and the Local No. 1 Training Fund for an employee for the leave of absence period which is provided by this section; an Employer who voluntarily extends the leave of absence beyond the period required by this section is not obligated to continue making payments to the Funds during the period of such extension. An employee engaged as a substitute for the employee on leave shall not be entitled to an apartment, provided that if the Employer requires that the substitute live on the premises the Employer and the Union shall agree upon a suitable arrangement to accommodate the Employer's operating needs. Nor shall the Employer be required to contribute to the Local No. 1 Health Fund, Local No. 1 Pension Trust Fund, or the Local No. 1 Training Fund on account of the employment of a substitute.
(b)	Family Medical Leave Act. The provisions of this Section shall be interpreted and applied in conformance with all applicable requirements of the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act ("FMLA"). To the extent any provision of this Agreement or any policy or practice of the Employer is contrary to the FMLA, such provision, policy or practice shall be deemed modified so as to conform to the requirements of the FMLA. Only in the event an employee takes a leave of absence for which he/she is eligible pursuant to the FMLA and not pursuant to a specific provision of this Agreement, the employee must first exhaust all unused vacation time towards the twelve (12) week FMLA period.
30
Section 4.	Sick Leave Pay.
(a)	Regular Sick Leave. All employees who have accumulated a minimum of six (6) months of service with the same Employer or his successor or predecessor shall be entitled to five (5) days of sick leave in eachyear of employment, measured from date of hire, without suffering any loss or reduction of earnings for bona fide illness preventing them from performing their job duties. Employees may carry over any unused sick days from year to year, up to maximum accumulation of twenty-five (25) days. An employee shall notify the Union and his Employer promptly in order to be eligible for sick leave payments and shall, upon the request of his Employer, present medical evidence of his/her illness.
(b)	Disability Sick-Leave. In addition to regular sick leave provided under Section 4(a) above, an employee who meets all of the foregoing conditions of Section 4(a) shall also be entitled to receive up to 23 days of paid sick leave in each year of employment, measured from date of hire, for time during which he/she is unable to work due to bona fide disability, as evidenced by a written statement from his doctor, except that employees who have less than twelve (12) months of service with the same Employer or his successor or predecessor shall only be entitled to receive up to ten (10) days of paid disability sick leave. At the time of the request for the sick leave, the employee requesting leave must provide a Medical Statement with the date of his/her expected return to work. Under this subsection, "bona fide disability" shall mean any verifiable medical condition which requires hospitalization or outpatient surgery and shall not include routine illness. No leave days used under this Section 4(b) shall be deducted from any regular sick leave accumulated under Section 4(a) above. After an employee has used all available disability sick leave under this subsection, he may then convert any accumulated regular sick leave for use as disability sick leave.
(c)	No pyramiding. An employee shall not be entitled to sick leave pay and disability payments under the state worker’s compensations law for the same day of absence. If an employee received paid sick leave and subsequently received payment under worker’s compensation for those same days, he/she must reimburse the Employer for the paid sick leave for which he/she was not entitled. The Employer may obtain such reimbursement through a payroll deduction plan.
31
Section 5.	Jury Duty. Any employee who is called to jury duty and who loses time from his regular work week because of such duty will receive pay from the Employer in an amount representing the difference between his regular pay and the amount received by the employee while on jury duty, including time spent when qualifying as a juror; provided, however, to be eligible for such payment the employee must notify the Employer that he has been summoned for such duty within five (5) days after receipt of notice thereof and provided, further, that such payment shall not be due more than once during the term of this Agreement.
Section 6.	Bereavement Leave. In the event of the death of an employee's spouse, parent, child, brother or sister, parent of current spouse, or other relative residing in the employee’s residence, and upon prompt notice to the Employer, any employee covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to three (3) consecutive working days off with no reduction or loss in earnings.
Section 7.	Maternity Leave. In the event of pregnancy, the pregnant employee shall notify the Employer and be entitled to a leave of absence. The maternity leave shall commence at a reasonable time prior to delivery and shall end at a reasonable time following delivery when she is medically able to return to work, such time to be established by her doctor subject to verification by a doctor selected by the Employer, as required by law.
Section 8.	Computation of Pay For Sick Leave. Employees shall be paid their regular pay, calculated at one-fifth of the employee's regular weekly wage, for each leave day for which the employee is entitled to payment under this Agreement
Section 9.	Official Union Leave. An employee selected to represent the Union at conventions, conferences, collective bargaining, grievances and arbitration proceedings or other Union business, shall be granted a personal leave of absence (at no pay) based on the following employee classification and schedule:
Head Janitors: no more than ten (10) work days per contract year to carry out said business.
All other Employees: no more than twenty (20) work days per contract year to carry out said business.
32
Such leave shall require a thirty (30) day advance written notice to the Employer for Head Janitors requesting such leave and fourteen (14) day advance written notice to the Employer for all other employees requesting leave. Any building with three (3) or less employees shall be exempt from this requirement. Only one (1) employee per building will be granted a personal leave of absence to represent the Union at any one time.
ARTICLE VIII
Adoption of Health, Pension and Training Fund Trusts
The Employer hereby adopts and subscribes as a party to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, dated July 10, 1963, as amended, covering the Local No. 1 Health Fund, the Agreement and Declaration of Trust dated January 4, 1967, as amended, covering the Local No. 1 Pension Fund and Plan and the Agreement and Declaration of Trust, dated May 1, 1996 covering the SEIU Local No. 1 Training Fund, and agrees to and adopts, further, the appointment of the Employer Trustees of each of the Funds who shall from time to time be appointed as such in accordance with the terms of said Agreements and Declarations of Trust. The Employer agrees to pay the amounts of money which are required to be paid in Articles IX, X and XI of this collective bargaining Agreement relating to the Health Fund, Pension Fund and the Training Fund and to be , bound by and be a party to the Trust instruments relating thereto and all amendments and revisions thereof from time to time hereafter made as if the Employer had signed the original copy of the said Trust instruments and amendments and revisions thereof from time to time made or to be made.
ARTICLE IX
Local No. 1 Health Fund Contributions
Section 1.	For the period beginning December 1, 2005 and ending November 30, 2006, Employers shall contribute to the Local 1 Health Fund the sum of $641.33 (six hundred forty one dollars and thirty three cents) each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer’s contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2005 and ending November 30, 2006, Employers shall contribute $3.70 (three dollars and seventy cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
33
Section 2.	For the period beginning December 1, 2006, and ending November 30, 2007, Employers shall contribute to the Local 1 Health Fund the sum of $ 658.67 (six hundred fifty eight dollars and sixty seven cents) each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer's contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2006 and ending November 30, 2007, Employers shall contribute $3.80 (three dollars and eighty cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
Section 3.	For the period beginning December 1, 2007 and ending November 30, 2008, Employers shall contribute to the Local 1 Health Fund the sum of $684.67 (six hundred eighty four dollars and sixty seven cents) each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer's contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2007 and ending November 30, 2008, Employers shall contribute $3.95 (three dollars and ninety five cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
(a)	For purposes of the foregoing, a “regular full-time employee" shall be defined as one who is normally scheduled to work 120 (one-hundred-twenty) or more hours within a calendar month.
(b)	Paid vacations, holidays and funeral leave shall be treated as time worked. In the event an employee works during his or her holiday or vacation, one payment to the Welfare Fund is all that will be required.
34
(c)	It is understood that the Welfare Fund confirms Participant eligibility on the basis of Employer contribution remittance reports and that prompt notification of termination of employment is necessary for the efficient administration of the Welfare Fund and the proper determination of eligibility and payment of claims. Therefore, it is agreed that, notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, the Employer shall give written notification to the Local 1 Health Fund of the termination of employment of any employee within ten calendar days of such termination.
(d)	The contribution to the Health Fund shall begin on the first day of an Employee’s employment.
(e)	The hourly contribution to the Welfare Fund shall not be paid for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week.
Section 4.	Employee Co-payment.
(a)	All employees who have elected “Plan A” coverage shall be required to make a co-payment of ten dollars ($10.00) per month as of January 1, 2006, ten dollars ($10.00) per month as of December 1, 2006 and twenty dollars ($20.00) per month as of December 1, 2007 to supplement the Employer's contribution for continued coverage under the Local No. 1 Health Plan. Such co-payments shall be deducted from the employee's wages by the Employer on the pay period prior to the month for which contributions are due to the Health Fund. The Employer shall be responsible for the remittance of the employee's co-payment together with the Employer's contribution in advance each month. Such remittance shall be made no later than the 10th day of each month for coverage for such month.
35
(b)	All employees who have elected “Plan B" coverage shall be required to make a co-payment of eighty dollars ($80.00) per month as of February 1, 2006, eighty dollars ($80.00) per month as of December 1, 2006, and ninety dollars ($90.00) per month as of December 1, 2007 to supplement the Employer's contribution for continued coverage under the Local No. 1 Health Plan. Such co-payments shall be deducted from the employee's wages by the Employer on the pay period prior to the month for which contributions are due to the Health Fund. The Employer shall be responsible for the remittance of the employee’s co-payment together with the Employer’s contribution in advance each month. Such remittance shall be made no later than the 10th day of each month for coverage for such month.
ARTICLE X
Local No. 1 Pension Trust Fund Contributions
For the period beginning December 1, 2005, and ending November 30, 2006, Employers shall contribute to the Local 1 Pension Fund the sum of $138,67 (one hundred and thirty eight dollars and sixty seven cents) each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer’s contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2005 and ending November 30, 2006, Employers shall contribute $0.80 (eighty cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
For the period beginning December 1, 2006, and ending November 30, 2007, Employers shall contribute to the Local 1 Pension Fund the sum of $156.00 (one hundred and fifty six dollars)each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer's contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
36
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2006 and ending November 30, 2007, Employers shall contribute $0.90 (ninety cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
For the period beginning December 1, 2007, and ending November 30, 2008, Employers shall contribute to the Local 1 Pension Fund the sum of $182.00 (one hundred and eighty two dollars) each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer’s contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2007 and ending November 30, 2008, Employers shall contribute $1.05 (one dollar and five cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
For purposes of the foregoing, a "regular full-time employee" shall be defined as one who is normally scheduled to work 120 (one-hundred-twenty) or more hours within a calendar month.
ARTICLE XI
SEIU LOCAL NO. 1 TRAINING FUND CONTRIBUTIONS
For the period beginning December 1, 2005 and ending November 30, 2008, Employers shall contribute to the Local No. 1 Training Fund the sum of $13.86 (thirteen dollars and eighty six cents) each month on behalf of each regular full-time employee covered by this Agreement who is on its active payroll; provided, however, that Employer’s contributions shall be prorated for those months in which such regular full-time employees begin working, cease their employment and/or remain on medical or personal leaves of absence for periods in excess of those specified in Article VII, Section 3.
In the case of employees other than regular full-time employees, for the period beginning December 1, 2005 and ending November 30, 2008, Employers shall contribute $0.08 (eight cents) for each paid hour of work performed by such employee.
For purposes of the foregoing, a “regular full-time employee" shall be defined as one who is normally scheduled to work 120 (one-hundred-twenty) or more hours within a calendar month.
37
In the event that the Training Fund shall cease operation, the Training Fund monthly contribution shall be added to the monthly pension contribution.
ARTICLE XII
Health Fund Contribution Purposes
The contributions provided for in Article IX are intended for the purpose of maintaining the same or substantially similar benefits as were available to the employees pursuant to the Fund plan as of November 30, 2005. No improvements in the plan of benefits or changes resulting in an increase in the Employer's contribution to the Local No. 1 Health Fund with respect to employees covered by this Agreement shall be made during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII
Health, Pension and Training Fund Delinquent contributions and Right to Audit
Section 1.	The Employer recognizes the necessity of making prompt Health and Welfare, Pension and Training Fund contributions to preserve the benefit standing of employees. If the Employer continues to be delinquent in making payments to either the Health and Welfare Fund or the Pension Fund or the Training Fund for a period of twenty (20) calendar days after written notice of delinquency is given to the Employer, via certified mail, return receipt requested, or refuses to make available payroll records in accordance with Section 2 of this Article, the Union may strike the Employer to enforce such payments or production of records without regard to the No-strike clause in Article XIV or the Grievance and Arbitration procedure provided in Article XV. In addition, any Employer delinquent for more than 30 days after receipt of notice or delinquency in making required contributions to the Health and Welfare Fund or the Pension Fund or the Training Fund shall be required to pay, in addition to the actual delinquent amount, interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month thereon, and liquidated damages at the rate of two percent (2%) per month thereon, as well as accounting and attorney's fees and court costs, if any, incurred in effecting collection.
Section 2.	The Funds shall have the right to inspect payroll records of the Employer for the purpose of determining whether the Employer is complying with the provisions of this Agreement relating to the fringe benefit contributions being paid on behalf of employees covered by this Agreement. The Employer shall make such books and records available at reasonable business times and hours to the representatives or a certified public accountant designated by the Funds. If the audit reveals violations by the Employer in excess of ten percent (10%) of the required contributions for the period audited, the cost of the audit shall be borne by the Employer.
38
ARTICLE XIV No-Strike and No-Lockout
Section 1.	The Association and ail Employers covered by this Agreement agree that there will be no lockouts during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2.	The Union agrees that, except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 3 of this Article XIV, there will be no strikes, work stoppages, or slowdowns against any building covered by this Agreement during the term of this Agreement with respect to issues covered by this Agreement and it will not countenance or permit suspension of work or strikes by its members for any purpose whatsoever, and that its members will not suspend work or refuse to perform their regular duties or engage in any sympathetic strike. The Union agrees that it will promptly take reasonable steps to end any unauthorized strike or stoppage. If the Union promptly takes such action in good faith, the Employer agrees that it will not bring any action against the Union in respect to any such concerted activity. It shall not be a violation of this Agreement nor cause for discharge or discipline for any employee covered hereunder to refuse to cross a lawful primary picket line or to refuse to perform work where such picket line has been authorized by the labor organization picketing. It is understood that an employee shall not refuse to perform his work under such circumstances until he has been so authorized and has notified his Employer that he intends not to work.
Section 3.	Regardless of the provisions of Section 2 of this Article, the Union shall have the right to picket, strike, or use other lawful economic means against any Employer or building by reason of the failure or refusal of the Employer to pay the contributions required to the Local No. 1 Health Fund and/or the Local No. 1 Pension Trust Fund and/or the Local No. 1 Training Fund and/or the wages of any employee as is more fully provided by the terms of this Agreement, or refuses to arbitrate or mediate as provided under this Agreement, or, in the case of an Employer who is bound by this Agreement, fails or refuses upon request to execute an adoption of this Agreement in written form for the premises covered by it, or fails to comply with the terms of an Arbitration Award.
Section 4.	Any lawful strike, picketing or other economic means engaged in by the Union under this Article XIV shall not take place at the premises of any other Employer who may be represented by the same Management Agent that represents the premises concerning which the Union has the primary dispute.
39
ARTICLE XV
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
Section 1.	Employees within the first ninety (90) days of service (probationary period) shall be entitled to file a grievance for any violation of the Agreement, except for termination.
Section 2.	STEP 1: Should the Union or any employee covered by this Agreement have any complaint, grievance or dispute concerning or arising from the application of this Agreement or directly related thereto, the Representative of the Union (or designated representative) and the Employee shall meet and discuss the grievance, complaint or dispute with the Building Manager of the Employer (or designated representative) involved within fifteen (15) business days after the grievance, complaint or dispute arose. Failure to act within the time period specified waives the grievance.
Section 3.	STEP 2: If the matter cannot be settled in above manner (Section 2. Step 1) within five (5) business days after the meeting, the representative of the Union shall reduce, the complaint, grievance or dispute to writing, stating the nature of the dispute and the requested relief, and send a copy thereof to the Employer or its designated representative, requesting that the principal representative(s) of the Employer (other than the representative of the Employer who participated in the STEP 1 meeting) meet with a principal representative of the Union (other than the representative of the Union who participated in the STEP 1 meeting) within ten (10) business days to endeavor to settle the matter. Failure to act within the time period specified waives the grievance.
Section 4.	STEP 2 A: Should an Employer have any complaint, grievance or dispute concerning or arising from the application of this Agreement it shall have the right within fifteen (15) business days after the grievance, complaint or dispute arose to meet and discuss the matter with a principal officers) of the Union to endeavor to settle the matter. Failure to act within the time period specified waives the grievance.
Section 5.	Differences of every kind which may arise with reference to this Agreement involving members in good standing of ABOMA, and which if not resolved under Article XV, Section 1, Section 2, Section 3 or Section 4 above, shall be referred to a "Joint Board of Arbitration" in the following manner;
40
STEP 3: The written statement of the specific grievance to be arbitrated shall be furnished by the party making the complaint to the other party and to ABOMA or the Union, as the case may be, setting forth in detail the grievance requiring arbitration, the requested relief, the dates of the prior grievance meetings as specified in Article XV, Section 1, Section 2, Section 3 or Section 4 above, and the names of the participants at each meeting within ten (10) business days of the meeting held pursuant to Section 2, Section 3 or Section 4. Failure to act within the time period specified waives the grievance.
(b)	STEP 4; The '* Joint Board of Arbitration" shall be selected within
ten (10) business days from the receipt of the written statement of grievance, and shall consist of one (1) person selected by ABOMA and one (1) person selected by the Union, and shall endeavor to resolve the matter. No party may have legal counsel present. In the event a party insists upon legal counsel being present, that party will be deemed to have waived the right to a Board of Arbitration hearing and decision, and the grievance shall be considered unresolved at Step 5. Upon mutual written consent of the Union and ABOMA, time limitation contained in STEP 4 may be extended.
(c)	STEP 5: The !! Joint Board of Arbitration" shall meet within ten
(10)	business days after being selected and shall render their written decisions within (10) business days after the meeting. The arbitrators may not alter, change or in any way expand or contract the provision of this Agreement. Upon mutual written consent of the Union and ABOMA, time limitation contained in STEP 5 may be extended.
(d)	In the event that the two members of the Joint Board of Arbitration issue an opinion in which they both concur, the matter shall be considered resolved, and the decision of the " Joint Board of Arbitration" shall be final and binding on both parties, and shall be enforceable in a court of law in accordance with State and Federal law.
(e)	The fees and expenses of the Joint Board of Arbitration shall be divided equally between the Union and the Employer. All other expenses of the arbitration shall be assumed by the party incurring them
41
Section 6.	The Union or the Employer, as the case may be, may within thirty (30) business days after completion of the Section 2 or Section 3 procedure, or, in cases of ABOMA members in good standing, for matters not resolved by the Section 5 procedure, notify the other party in writing that it wishes to arbitrate the grievance, complaint or dispute. Such notice, in the case of the Union shall be given to its Principal Representative and in the case of an Employer shall be given to its designated Principal Representative. The parties shall then attempt to agree upon an arbitrator. Failure to act within the thirty (30) business day time period waives the grievance. In the event that they cannot so agree within a period of five (5) business days, either party may apply to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for a panel of seven (7) impartial arbitrators from which the parties shall select an arbitrator as follows.
(a)	Either party shall have the right to strike the entirety of the first panel submitted by the Service and apply for a second panel.
(b)	From the panel which is effective the parties shall, commencing with the party requesting arbitration, alternately strike off six (6) names. The remaining arbitrator shall be the arbitrator in the case.
Section 7.	The arbitrator may not alter, change or in any way expand or contract the provision of this Agreement The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties and shall be enforceable in a court of law in accordance with state and federal law.
Section 8.	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the Union and the Employer. All other expenses of the arbitration shall be assumed by the party incurring them.
Section 9.	If the parties are unable to resolve a complaint grievance or dispute concerning the payment of wages or benefits (other than those benefits provided pursuant to the Health Fund, Pension Fund and Training Fund), in lieu of arbitration pursuant to Section 5 through 8 of the Article, either party may apply to the Illinois Department of Labor, Conciliation and Mediation Division, for expedited mediation of the dispute. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on a resolution, the Mediator will be empowered to issue a final and binding resolution, which shall be enforceable in a court of law in the same manner and with the same effect as if the Mediator's resolution was an arbitration award.
Section 10.	Upon mutual written consent of the parties, time limitations contained in this Article may be extended.
42
Section 11.	Upon mutual written consent of the Union and the Employer and with written notice to ABOMA, Section 3 (STEP 2) or, Section 4 (STEP 2 a) or Section 5 (STEPS 3, 4 and 5) of Article XV can be waived.
ARTICLE XVI Management Rights
The management of the premises, the direction of the work force and the authority to execute all of the functions and responsibilities of management including, but not limited to, the right to schedule the work to be performed and the assignment of employees to such work, the control and regulation of all equipment and other property of the Employer, the determination, establishment and enforcement of reasonable published rules of safety and conduct, and the right to maintain discipline and efficiency of all employees, are all vested exclusively in the Employer, except that such rights, functions and responsibilities are subject to and shall not be exercised in such manner as to conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVII
More Favorable Agreements
Section 1.	No Employer covered by this Agreement shall bargain with or enter into any agreement with any employee/s covered by this Agreement independently of the Union and no agreement made by such Employer in respect to or on behalf of such employee/s with whomsoever made concerning wages, hours or other terms and conditions of employment as provided in this Agreement shall be valid or binding upon the Union unless a principal officer of the Union is a party thereto in writing.
Section 2.	Should the Union at any time during the term of this Agreement enter into a lawful agreement with any other Employer in respect to premises as defined in this Agreement which Agreement grants more favorable conditions in total to such Employer than those contained in this Agreement for the performance of the same work under the same conditions within the city limits of Chicago, such more favorable conditions shall, unless corrected by the Union within 90 days after notice thereof in writing is served upon a principal officer of the Union by any Employer whose premises are covered by this Agreement, be automatically allowed to every other Employer in respect to premises covered by this Agreement as of the date of such other agreement.
43
ARTICLE XVIII Wage Information
The Employer shall, upon written request, promptly supply the Union with the name, address, classification, social security number, date of hire and wage rate of each employee covered under the terms of the Agreement and shall, in addition, promptly supply the Union with such wage and related information as may be necessary to comply with the law and/or to determine compliance by the Employer with the provisions of this Agreement In the event of the imposition of wage controls during the term of this Agreement, the Council and the Employer shall cooperate fully with the Union to secure such approval of the economic provisions of this Agreement as may be necessary.
ARTICLE XIX
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
In the event an employee requests a reasonable accommodation because of a mental or physical disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Employer shall attempt to provide a reasonable accommodation as provided by law. To provide such an accommodation, seniority shall not be applicable for any purpose except layoff and recall. Any dispute with respect to the Employer's or Union's compliance with this Article shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. However, the Union's decision in respect to the grievance and arbitration procedure shall not waive or affect the employee’s right to seek additional remedies under any applicable federal, state, or local law.
ARTICLE XX NONDISCRIMINATION
The Employer and the Union shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment by reason of race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion, handicap, disability, military service (including the Reserves and National Guard), Union membership or activity and shall in such respects comply with applicable state, local and federal law. Any disputes with respect to the Employer's or Union's compliance with this Article shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. However, the Union's decision in respect to the grievance and arbitration procedure shall not waive or affect the employee's right to seek additional remedies under any applicable federal, state, or local law.
44
ARTICLE XXI SEVERABILITY
In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held to be in violation of law, it shall be deemed to be of no force and effect, and this Agreement shall be construed as if such provision were not a part thereof, it being understood, however, that all other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby.
ARTICLE XXII CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Section 1.	Formation of Joint Labor-Management Committee
Local No. 1 and ABOMA will create a Labor-Management Committee to discuss continuing education and training across all job classifications.
The Labor Management Committee in cooperation with the Training Fund will mutually agree upon required classes. Classes will be offered through the Training Fund.
Section 2.	Continuing Education and Training Proposals
Head Janitors, Assistant Head Janitors & Helper A Janitors
a.	Annual requirement of Continuing Education to be completed during work-time and all hours will be compensated at straight-time.
b.	All must show certificate of completion for the allotted training.
c.	The Labor Management Committee will mutually agree upon the Continuing Education curriculum before any continuing education requirements take effect.
d.	Head Janitors must complete six (6) hours of continuing education annually; Assistant Head Janitors and must complete eight (8) hours of training annually.
e.	Helper A Janitors as of July 1, 2006 will be required to complete eight (8) hours of training annually.
45
Helper A Janitors
a.	All newly hired Helper A Janitors must complete a two-year Apprenticeship Program through the Training Fund. Enrollment Forms for the program will be included in the application packet for all new hires.
b.	All newly hired Helper A Janitors will be' hired at a rate of pay equal to ninety percent (90%) of the Helper A Janitor rate. After completing fifty percent (50%) of the Apprenticeship Program, pay will increase to ninety-five percent (95%) of the Helper A Janitor rate. Upon receiving a certificate of completion they will receive the full Helper A Janitor rate.
c.	All employees hired into Helper A Janitor positions before November 30, 2003, will be exempt from this requirement.
d.	Any Helper A Janitors hired prior to November 30, 2003 that has already completed the two (2) year Apprenticeship program will receive a monetary bonus of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Five hundred dollars ($500.00) will be paid upon providing proof of completion. The remaining five hundred dollars ($500.00) will be paid after six (6) months. It is understood that to receive the remaining five hundred dollars ($500.00) bonus, the employee must remain with the same Employer an additional six (6) months after the completion of the Apprenticeship program.
e.	All employees hired before November 30, 2003 as a Helper A Janitor that enroll in the two (2) year Apprenticeship program will receive a one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) bonus. Five hundred dollars ($500.00) upon providing proof of completion. The remaining five hundred dollars ($500.00) will be paid after six (6) months. It is understood that to receive the remaining five hundred dollars ($500.00) bonus, the employee must remain with the same Employer an additional six (6) months after the completion of the Apprenticeship program.
46
Helper C Janitors
a.	All newly hired Helper C Janitors must complete five (5) training classes. The rate of pay will be increased to the full Helper C Janitor rate upon completion of the classes.
b.	All employees hired into Helper C Janitor positions before November 30, 2003, will be exempt from this requirement. Any Helper C Janitor hired before November 30, 2003 that completes the training program will receive a monetary bonus of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250;00) upon completion of the program.
47
ARTICLE XXIII Execution
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, being fully authorized, have hereto set their hands and seals effective as of December 1, 2005.
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL
UNION, LOCAL NO. 1
APARTMENT BUILDING OWNERS AND MANAGERS ASSOCIATION OF ILLINOIS
48
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICIES
The Union acknowledges the right of ABOMA members to devise and implement a drug and alcohol policy within the parameters of State and Federal Laws. The Union states that it has no objection to the implementation of any such policy to the extent that such policy constitutes a lawful exercise of the Employer’s managerial discretion to institute reasonable rules and regulations; provided, however, that the Union reserves the right to review such policy and to challenge the unreasonableness of either the policy or its application through the Grievance Procedure set forth in the Standard Agreement.
Approved and Agreed effective as of December 1, 2005
Apartment Building Owners and Managers Association of Illinois
49
SEIU LOCAL NO.1 PROPERTY SERVICE DIVISION ABOMA WAGE RATES
Head Janitor	Effective 12/1/05 Effective 12/1/06 Effective 12/1/07 ($0.70 increase) ($0.75 increase) ($0.80 increase) $22.86/hr.	$23.61/hr.	$24.41/hr.
Assistant Head Janitor	($0.70 increase)	($0.75 increase)	($0.80 increase) $18.57/hr.	$19.32/hr.	$20.12/hr.
Helper A	($0.55 increase)	($0.55 increase)	($0.55 increase) $16.83/hr.	$17.38/hr.	$17.93/hr.
A Trainee	$15.15/hr. (90%) $15.64/hr. (90%) $16.14/hr. (90%) $15.99/hr. (95%) $16.51/hr. (95%) $17.03/hr. (95%)
After completion of the 2 yr. Apprenticeship program employees will be brought to the full Helper A Janitor hourly rate in effect.
Helper C	($0.50 increase) ($0.50 increase) ($0.50 increase)
$13.57/hr.	$14.07/hr.	$14.57/hr.
Helper C Trainee $12.21/hr. (90%) $12.66/hr. (90%)	$13.11/hr. (90%)
After completion of five (5) Training classes employees will be brought to the full Helper C Janitor hourly rate in effect.
Non-Exclusive Fixed-Wage Janitor,
And other Employees. Excluding
Maintenance Employees
3.17%	3.33%	3.48%
50
Schedule A: ABOMA Member Buildings (employers) who have authorized ABOMA to include them into the collective
bargaining agreement by and between ABOMA and SEIU Local 1 Building Service Division beginning December 1,
2005 and ending on November 30, 2008 covering maintenance employees as specified in Article II, Section 1 (g) and
who are employed in ABOMA Member Fireproof Apartment Buildings.
BUILDING NAME	ADDRESS	EIN
100 E. Walton Condominium Association	100 East Walton Place	36-2959971
100 East Huron Street Condominium Association	100 E. Huron Street	36-3737083
100 West Chestnut Apartments	100 West Chestnut	36-3743825
1000 Condominium Association	1000 North Lake Shore Plaza	36-2887043
1010 Lake Shore Association	1000 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2886717
110 E. Delaware Condominium Association	110 E. Delaware	36-3662850
1100 North Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	1100 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2706360
111 E. Chestnut Condominiums	111 E. Chestnut	36-3996178
1110 Lake Shore Association 1111 N. Dearborn	1110 North Lake Shore Drive 1111 N. Dearborn	36-2706360
1111 S. Wabash Condominiums	1111 S. Wabash	77-0617211
1115 South Plymouth Court Condominiums 1120 N. LaSalle	1115 S. Plymouth Court 1120 N. LaSalle	36-3069158
1120 North Lake Shore Drive Building Corp.	1120 North Lake Shore Drive	36-1035070
1122 North Dearborn Condominiums	1122 North Dearborn	36-4131098
1130 Lake Shore Drive	1130 Lake Shore Drive	36-1356775
1130 South Michigan 1133 N. Dearborn	1130 S. Michigan Avenue 1133 M. Dearborn	36-2609660
1143 S. Plymouth Court Condominium Association	1143 S. Plymouth Court	36-3087200
1150 Condominium Association	1150 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2959029
1169 South Plymouth Court Condominium Association	1169 S. Plymouth Court	36-3117198
1200 North Lake Shore Drive	1200 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2730027
1209 Astor Building Corporation	1209 North Astor Street	36-2031865
1212 Lake Shore Drive Condominiums	1212 N. LakeShore Drive	36-2681812
1212 LaSalle Private Residences	1212 North LaSalle	36-3878134
1212 S, Michigan Avenue Apartments	1212 S. Michigan Ave.	20-2434162
1240 Lake Shore Drive	1240 Lake Shore Drive	36-2878605
1242 Lake Shore Drive Corporation	1242 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2064020
1250 North Dearborn	1250 N. Dearborn	36-3467168
1260 Astor Street Building Corporation	1260 N. AstorStreet	36-1885745
1300 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	1300 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2802902
132 East Delaware Place Condominium	132 East Delaware Place	36-3637172
1320 North State Street Apartments	1320 N. State Parkway	36-3285629
1335 Astor Cooperative Apartments, Inc.	1335 North Astor Street	36-2182764
1350 Lake Shore	1350 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2646521
1366 North Dearborn Condominiums	1366 N. Dearborn Parkway	36-3104849
1400 State Parkway Condominium Association	1400 N. State Parkway	36-3043904
1410 North State Parkway Condominium Association 1415 North Dearborn Condominium Association	1410 N. State Parkway 1415 North Dearborn Parkway	36-3121038
1420 Lake Shore Drive	1420 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-0905680
1430 Lake Shore Drive Building Corporation	1430 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2027855
1448 Lake Shore Drive Building Corp.	1448 North Lake Shore Drive	36-1095980
1500 Lake Shore Drive Building Corporation	1500 Lake Shore Drive	36-1070040
1516 North State Parkway	1516 N. State Parkway	36-2934346
1530 N. Dearborn Condominium Association	1530 N. Dearborn	36-2870950
1530 North State Parkway Building Corporation	1530 North State Parkway	36-1070235
1540 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	1540 Lake Shore Drive	36-2086418
1550 Condominium Association	1550 Lake Shore Drive	36-2969127
1550 State Parkway Condominium Association	1550 N. State Parkway	36-2935772
1555 Astor Condominium Association	1555 N. Astor Street	36-2914087
161 Chicago Avenue East Condominium Association	161 Chicago Avenue East	36-3372050
1630 Sheridan Corporation	1630 Sheridan Road, Wilmette	36-6071044
1660 Condominium Association	1660 N. LaSalle Street	36-2977113
1700 East 56th Street Condominium	1700 E. 56th Street	36-6190741
175 East Delaware Place Homeowners Association	175 E. Delaware Place	36-2778132
20 East Cedar Condominiums	20 E. Cedar Street	36-2754742
Schedule A: ABOMA Member Buildings (employers) who have authorized ABOMA to include them into the collective
bargaining agreement by and between ABOMA and SEIU Local 1 Building Service Division beginning December 1,
2005 and ending on November 30,2008 covering maintenance employees as specified in Article II, Section 1 (g) and
who are employed in ABOMA Member Fireproof Apartment Buildings.
BUILDING NAME	ADDRESS	EIN
200 East Delaware Condominiums	200 East Delaware	36-2919061
2020 Lincoln Park Condominiums	2020 Lincoln Park West	36-3167736
209 East Lake Shore Drive Corp 21 East Chestnut Condominium Association	209 E. Lake Shore Drive 21 E. Chestnut	36-3038250
21 West Chestnut Place Condominium Association	21 West Chestnut Place	36-4273042
210 East Pearson Condominiums	210 East Pearson Street	36-2685327
211 E. Delaware Place	211 E. Delaware Place	
212 W. Washington Condo. Assn.	212 W. Washington St	
2144 Lincoln Park West Condominium Association	2144 Lincoln Park West	36-3122811
220 Walton Condominium Association	220 East Walton	36-2639363
227-237 East Delaware Place Corporation	227 E. Delaware	36-2084299
233 East Walton Place Building	233 E. Walton Place	36-1889420
2400 North Lakeview Avenues	2400 N. Lakeview	36-2788642
2430 Lakeview Building Corporation	2430 North Lakeview	36-1887070
2450 North Lakeview Avenue Building	2450 North Lakeview	36-1886775
247 East Chestnut Condominium Association	247 E. Chestnut	36-2792948
2500 Lakeview Condominium Association	2500 North Lakeview	36-2806277
253 East Delaware Condominium Association	253 E. Delaware	36-3142057
2626 Lakeview Condominium Association	2626 N. Lakeview Avenue	36-2886197
2650 Lakeview Condominium Association	2650 North Lakeview	36-3033722
270 Pearson Condominium Association	270 E. Pearson	36-4348881
2800 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	2800 North Lake Shore Drive	36-3014989
2970 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	2970 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2880845
3000 Sheridan Road	3000 N. Sheridan Road	36-1768720
3150 Lake Shore Condominiums	3150 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2808386
3150 North Sheridan Road Condominiums	3150 N. Sheridan Road	.36-2948124
3180 Condominium Association	3180 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2808390
3240 Lake Shore Drive	3240 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-1766900
3260-3270 Lake Shore Drive	3270 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2039715
33 East Cedar Condominiums	33 E. Cedar	36-4066507
33 W. Huron Condo. Assn. 330 S. Michigan, The Residences	33 W. Huron 330 S. Michigan Avenue	36-4322289
3300 Lake Shore Drive Condominiums	3300 North Lake Shore Drive	36-2797972
336 Wellington Condominium Association	336 W. Wellington	36-2799213
3440 North Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	3440 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-3054890
345 W. Fullerton Parkway Condominium Association	345 W. Fullerton	36-3809838
3470 North Lake Shore Drive 3520 Lake Shore Drive Condominium	3470 North Lake Shore Drive 3520 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-3044743
3550 Condo Association	3550 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2998349
3600 Condominium Association	3600 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-3000745
3730-3740 North Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	3730-3740 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2938814
3750 Lake Shore Drive	3750 N. Lake Shore Drive	
3800 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	3800 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-3005682
3900 North Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	3900 Lake Shore Drive	36-2995394
3950 N. Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association	3950 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2988240
399 W. Fullerton Parkway	399 W. Fullerton Parkway	36-2236866
40 East Cedar Condominium Association	40 E. Cedar Street	36-2998501
400 East Ohio Condominium Association	400 E. Ohio	36-3246054
400 North LaSalle LLC	400 North LaSalle	36-4457620
400 North LaSalle Condominium Association	400 North LaSalle	20-3590371
401 E. Ontario	401 E. Ontario	36-1008670
415 Aldine	415Aldne	36-2785178
420 East Ohio Apartments	420 E. Ohio	36-3587349
422-24 Melrose Street	422 West Melrose Street	36-2039715
4343 Clarendon Condominium Association	4343 North Clarendon Avenue	36-3021519
50 East Bellevue Condominium Association	50 E. Bellevue Place	36-3046121
Schedule A: ABOMA Member Buildings (employers) who have authorized ABOMA to include them into the collective
bargaining agreement by and between ABOMA and SEIU Local 1 Building Service Division beginning December 1,
2005 and ending on November 30, 2008 covering maintenance employees as specified in Article JI, Section 1 (g) and
who are employed in ABOMA Member Fireproof Apartment Buildings.
BUILDING NAME
5000 Marine Drive Buildng Corp.
5000 South East End Cooperation
5040-60 Marine Drive Condominiums
5100 Condominium Association
535 Cornelia Building
535 North Michigan Avenue
540 Lake Shore Drive Condominiums
5445 Edgewater Plaza Condominium Association
5455 Edgewater Plaza Condo Association
555 Cornelia Condominium Association
5550 Dorchester Building
601 Lake Meadows Condo Association
65 East Goethe Condominium Association
680 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association
700 W. Bittersweet
720 Gordon Terrace Condominiums
735 Junior Terrace
777 Condominium Association
800 North Michigan Condominium Association
. 801 South Plymouth Court Condominium Association
840 North Lake Shore Drive Condominium
850 DeWitt Place Condominium Association
860 Lake Shore Drive Trust
899 South Plymouth Court
900/910 Lake Shore Drive Condominium Association
901 South Plymouth Court
990 North Lake Shore Drive Homeowners Association
999 Lake Shore Drive Co-Op
Algonquin Apartments
Ambassador House Condominiums
Americana Towers Condominium Association
Asbury Plaza
Astor Tower Condominium Association
Astor Villa Condominium Association
Bloomingdale Apartments
Bristol
Buckingham Condominium Association
Bumham Park Plaza Condo. Assoc.
Cambridge Manor
Canterbury Court Apts.
Cari Sandburg Village Condo Assn. #1(Cummings/Dickinson)
Cari Sandburg Village Condominium Association #2
Castleman Apartments________________________________
Cedar Street Corporation
Central Park Apartments
CHA-Elderly Eckhart
CHA-Elderiy Franklin & Drake
CHA-Elderiy Wicker Park
Chestnut Tower
Chicago Residential, Inc.
Cityfront Place
CityView Condominium Association
Columbus Plaza
Commonwealth Plaza Condominium Association
Constellation Condominium Association
Darien Apartments Condominium Homes
ADDRESS
5000 Marine Drive
5000 S. East End Avenue
5048 N. Marine Drive
5100 Marine Drive
535 W. Cornelia Avenue
535 N. Michigan Avenue
540 N. Lake Shore Drive
5445 N. Sheridan Road
5455 North Sheridan Road
555 West Cornelia Avenue
5550 S. Dorchester Avenue
601 E. 32 Street
65 E. Goethe
680 N. Lake Shore Drive, Suite 2038
700 West Bittersweet
720 W. Gordon Terrace
735 Junior Terrace
777 N. Michigan Avenue
800 N. Michigan Avenue
801 S. Plymouth Court
840 North Lake Shore Drive
850 North DeWitt
880 N. Lake Shore Drive
899 S. Plymouth Court
900 Lake Shore Drive
901 S. Plymouth Court
990 N. Lake Shore Drive
999 Lake Shore Drive
1606 E. Hyde Park Blvd
1325 N. State Parkway
1636 N. Wells Street
750 N. Dearborn
1300 N. Astor Street
1430 North Astor Street
1745 N. Keystone
57 E. Delaware Place
360 E. Randolph Street
40 E. 9th Street
2631 S. Indiana
1220 North State Parkway
1355 North Sandburg Terrace
1455 North Sandburg Terrace
4945 N. Sheridan Road_____________
70 East Cedar Street
4501 -15 N. Central Parkway
838 N. Noble
440 N. Drake
2020 W. Schiller/1414 N. Damen
121 W. Chestnut
2440 North Lakeview Avenue
400 N. McClurg Court
440 & 480 N. McClurg Ct
233 E. WackerDrive
330 W. Diversey
1555 N. Dearborn
3100 North Lake Shore Drive
EIN 36-2133908 36-1082770 36-335580 36-3047913 36-2039715 36-3186516 36-3226044 36-3010062 36-3020159 36-3091276 36-6519283 36-4214047
36-3672062
36-3052119
36-3073434
36-2993203 36-4170172 36-3293507 36-4348883 36-2986379 36-2242556 36-3098257 36-3042864 36-3069157 23-7271481 36-2076964 36-6214934 36-2972030 36-3012680 36-3117545 36-3047178
36-2792416
36-4339209
36-3988730
36-6550306
36-3030049
36-3030051
36-6000618
36-2181130
36-2089774
36-2981584
36-2816768
36-3043749
36-3036762
Schedule A: ABOMA Member Buildings (employers) who have authorized ABOMA to include them into the collective
bargaining agreement by and between ABOMA and SEIU Local 1 Building Service Division beginning December 1,
2005 and ending on November 30, 2008 covering maintenance employees as specified in Article II, Section 1 (g) and
who are employed in ABOMA Member Fireproof Apartment Buildings.
BUILDING NAME	ADDRESS	EIN
Davis Apartemnts	3632 S. Indiana	
Dearborn Tower Condominium Association	1530 S. State Street	36-4435249
Delaware Place Condo. Assn.	33 W. Delaware, Management Office	32-0075583
Domain Condo. Assoc.	900 N. Kingsbury	36-4435002
Drake Tower Apartments, Inc.	179 East Lake Shore Drive	36-2080979
Drexel Terrace Apartments	6140 S. Drexel	36-3956619
East Park SRO	3300 W. Maypole	36-3969060
Eddystone Condominium	421 West Melrose	36-2770256
El Lago Condominium Association	6157 N. Sheridan Road	36-3026497
Eliot House	1255 Sandburg Terrace	36-3055818
Elm Street Plaza Eugenie Terrace Apartments	1130 N. Dearborn 1730 N. Clark Street	36-2963086
Faulkner House Condominium Association	70 West Burton Place	36-3055822
Fewkes Tower	55 W. Chestnut Street	36-2609734
Fisher Apartments	5821 N. Broadwav	36-6000618
Fordham Condominium Association Fullerton Courts	25 East Superior 2303 N. Clyboum	82-0571704
Gateway Centre Apartments Ltd. Partnership	7450 N. Rogers Avenue	36-4418771
Goethe-Astor Incorporated	1301 Astor Street	36-0753205
Gold Coast Galleria	111 W. Maple Street	36-4262914
Grand Orleans Condominiums	330 W. Grand Avenue	36-4442161
Granville Beach Condominium Association	6171 N. Sheridan Road	363-04-1426
Granville Tower Condominium Association	6166 N. Sheridan Road	36-3056251
Grove Parc Plaza Apartments	6101 S. Evans	36-3578857
Haberdasher Square Loft Condominiums	728 West Jackson	36-3951549
Hampden Green Condo.	2728 N. Hampden Ct	36-3038010
Hanover Condominium Association	21 W. Goethe Street	36-2138663
Harbor House Condominiums	3200 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2880374
Harbor Point Condominiums	155 Harbor Drive	36-3680730
Harper Square Coop	4800 S. Lake Park Blvd.	36-2792973
Hawthorne House	3450 N. Lake Shore Drive	36-2689780
Hemingway House Condominium Association Hermitage Condominium Association	1850 North Clark Street 70 W. Huron	36-2989327
Hollywood Towers Condominiums	5701N. Sheridan Road	36-3017899
Homestead Apartments	443 Sherwood Road	36-7128324
Horizon House, Inc.	5733 N. Sheridan Road	36-2596126
Huron Plaza	30 E. Huron	36-2981584
Ike Sims Village	3333 W. Marpole	
Jade Garden Apartments	336 West Cermak, Suite 1D.	36-4031376
James Kilmer Condominium Association	1560 N. Sandburg Terrace	36-3079576
Judae Slater Apartments	4218 S. Cottage Grove	36-6000618
Kenmore Plaza	5225 N. Kenmore	36-6532863
Kennelly Square Condominium Association	1749 N. Wells Street	36-3047794
Kinzie Park	501 N. Clinton Street	34-4438970
Kinzie Station Condominiums	330 N. Jefferson	36-4363351
Lake Meadows Apartments	500 E. 33rd Street	36-2668608
LAKE PARK CRESCENT ASSOCIATES	1061 E. 41st Place	81-0566028
Lake Park Plaza Condominium Association	3930 North Pine Grove	36-3060834
Lake Point Tower	505 North Lake Shore Drive ste.200	36-3662125
Lake Shore Condominium Association Lake Shore Towers Cooperative	1440 N. Lake Shore Drive 3920 N. Lake Shore Prive	36-2705000
Lanalev Apartments	4930 S. Lanalev	36-6000618
Las Moradas Apts.	1307-26 N. California	36-3188493
Lincoln Park Tower Condominium Association	1960 Lincoln Park West	36-2960257
Logan Vistas	2600 N. Kedzie	36-3359500
Long Grove House	2001 S. Michigan Avenue	36-2669286
Schedule A: ABOMA Member Buildings (employers) who have authorized ABOMA to include them into the collective
bargaining agreement by and between ABOMA and SEIU Local 1 Building Service Division beginning December 1,
2005 and ending on November 30, 2008 covering maintenance employees as specified in Article II, Section 1 (g) and
who are employed in ABOMA Member Fireproof Apartment Buildings.
BUILDINGNAME	ADDRESS	EIN
Lowell House Condominium Association	88 West Schiller	36-3055822
Malibu Condominium	6007 N. Sheridan Road	36-2670953
Malibu East Condominiums	6033 N. Sheridan Road	36-2712312
Marina Towers Condominiums	300 N. State Street	
Marlborough Condominium Association	400 W. Deming PI.	36-6780612
McClurg Court Center	333 E. Ontario	74-6056896
Medical Dental Arts	185 N. Wabash	
Metropolitan Place	130 S. Canal	36-4131279
Michigan Building Corporation	229 East Lake Shore Drive	36-2033693
Millennium Centre Condominium Association	33 W. Ontario	
Narragansett	1640 East 50th	36-2644985
Newberry Plaza Condominium Association	1030 North State Street	36-3157394
North Harbor Tower	175 N. Harbor Drive	36-3398348
One East 14th Place	5 East 14 th Place	
One East Delaware	One East Delaware	74-6056896
One East Schiller	1 East Schiller Street	36-2811033
One East Scott Condominium Association	One East Scott Street	36-3000842
One Magnificent Mile Condominium Association	950 North Michigan Avenue	36-3273071
One Superior Place	1 W. Superior	74-6056896
Ontario Center	446 E. Ontario	36-4396152
Ontario Place Condo Association	10 E. Ontario	
Orleans Court	320 West Illinois Street	74-6056896
Palmer Square Apartments	2118 North Kedzie	36-2986341
Palmolive Building Landmark Residences	159 Walton Place	
Park Alexandria Condominium Association	125 South Jefferson	20-0168867
Park LaSalle	1000 LaSalle	
Park Newberry	55 West Delaware	36-4209058
Park Place Chicago Condominium Association	600 North Kingsbury	30-0073787
Park Place Towers	655 W. Irving Park Road	
Park Tower Condominium Association	5415 N. Sheridan Road	36-3021311
Park/Astor Condominium Association	1515 N. Astor	
Parkshore Condominium	195 N. Harbor Drive	36-4027431
Patrick Sullivan	1633 West Madison	36-6000618
Pavilion Apartments #1	5421 N. East River Road	34-1730040
Pavilion Apartments #2	5431 N. East River Road	34-1730040
Pavilion Apartments #3	5441 N. East River Road	34-1730040
Pavilion Apartments #4	5451 N. East River Road	34-1730040
Pavilion Apartments #5	5461 N. East River Road	34-1730040
Pines of Edgewater	5439 N. Kenmore Avenue	36-2066831
Pines of Edgewater - Phase II	5439 N. Kenmore Street	36-3207035
Plaza 440 Condo Assoc.	440 N. Wabash	20-1272006
Plaza on DeWitt Condominium Association	260 East Chestnut	36-2789654
Pomeroy Apartments	1039 W. Hollywood	36-6000618
Prairie District Homes	1717 S. PrairieAvenue	36-35725
Prairie Shores #1 Apartments	2901 South King Drive	36-2385239
Prairie Shores #2 Apartments	2951 S. King Drive	36-2477899
Prairie Shores #3 Apartments	3001 South King Drive	36-2478195
Prairie Shores #4 Apartments	2851 South King Drive	36-2471416
Prairie Shores #5 Apartments	2801 S. King Drive	36-2470896
Presidential Towers	555 W. Madison Street	36-3110117
Quadrangle House Condominiums	6700 S. Shore Drive	36-6193808
Racine Apartments	1611S. Racine	36-6000618
Renaissance Place at Hyde Park Condominium Association	5200 S. Ellis	36-4321427
Residences at River East Center Condominium	512 McClure Court	36-4474932
Ritchie Court Condominium Association	1313 North Ritchie Court (3rd Floor)	36-3939281
Ritchie Tower Condominiums	1310 Ritchie Court	36-2754885
Schedule A: ABOMA Member Buildings (employers) who have authorized ABOMA to include them into the collective
bargaining agreement by and between ABOMA and SE1U Local 1 Building Service Division beginning December 1,
2005 and ending on November 30,2008 covering maintenance employees as specified in Article II, Section 1 (g) and
who are employed in ABOMA Member Fireproof Apartment Buildings.
BUILDING NAME River City Condominium River Plaza Condominium Association Riverview Condo Assn. Sheridan and Devon	ADDRESS 800 S. Wells Street 405 N. Wabash Avenue 445 E. North Water Street 6400 N. Sheridan Road	EIN 364455858 36-2861230 36-4380469 36-6000618
Sheridan and Leland	4645 N. Sheridan Road	36-6000618
Shoreline Park	4950 N. Marine	36-4456917
Shoreline Towers Condominiums	6301 North Sheridan Road	36-2978332
South Commons / York Terrace	2701 S. Indiana	36-6156652
South Commons Condominium Association (Oxford/Windsor)	3001 S. Michigan Avenue	36-2698313
State Parkway Condominium Association	1445 N. State Parkway	36-3849210
Streeterville Center	233 E. Erie Street	36-3142205
Surfside Condominium Association	5815 N. Sheridan Road	36-3092234
The 100 Bellevue Place Condominium Association	100 E. Bellevue	36-2882500
The Carlyle Apartments Homeowners Association The Chicagoan	1040 N. Lake Shore Drive 750 N. Rush Street	36-2604103
The Conservatory The Edge Lofts and Tower	2314 Lincoln Park West 210 S. DesPlaines	36-3245040
The Fisher Buildng	343 S. Dearborn	36-4295310
The Grand Ohio Condominium Association	211 East Ohio Street	36-1006535
The Habitat Company	400 E. Randolph Drive	36-2780451
The Manhattan The Metropolitan A Condominium	431 S. Dearborn 5320 N. Sheridan Road	36-4174359
The Montgomery	500 W. Superior	134179391
The New York Association The Newport	3660 North Lake Shore Drive 4800 S. Chicago Beach Drive	364405795
The Oaks	820 S. Park Terrace	36-3199425
The Pearson	250 E. Pearson	364348882
The Pierre Condominium Association The Sterling Condominium Association	2100 N. Lincoln Park West 345 N. LaSalle Blvd.	36-2186532
The Wellington Condominium Association	360 West Wellington	23-7275980
The Whitney Condominium Association	1301 N. Dearborn	364183990
Tiara Homeowners Association	6145-6147 N. Sheridan Road	36-2643140
Towers Condominium Association	1221 N. Dearborn Street	36-3097558
Transportation Building	600 S. Dearborn Street	364090155
Twelve55 S. Michigan Ave	1255 S. Michigan Avenue	20-0436633
Twin Towers Apartments	1649 E. 50th Street	36-6214934
University Park Condominiums Van Buren Park	1451 E. 55th Street 2045 W. Jackson Boulevard	36-3021956
Washington Park Apartments	4949 S. Cottage Grove	36-6000618
Water Tower Place Condominiums	180 East Pearson Street	36-2842938
Waterford Condo. Association	4170 N. Marine Drive	36-2781039
Wellington Arms	2970 Sheridan Road	36-2039715
Wells St. Tower	701 S. Wells Street	03-0425643
West Point Plaza	300 S. Damon	36-2914950
Wheaton Center	Two Wheaton Center	36-6528120
William Jones Apartments	1447 S. Ashland	36-6000618
Winston Towers #5	7141 N. Kedzie	36-2742689