Wl
5( exo ee_
Collective Bargaining Agreement
between
Abbott Northwestern Hospital, Metropolitan Linen Services, Phillips Eye Institute, and United Hospital
and
SEIU Local 113
SEIU
Stronger Together
Effective March 1,2003 through February 28,2006
175M

Collective Bargaining Agreement between
Abbott Northwestern Hospital, Metropolitan Linen Services, Phillips Eye Institute, and United Hospital
and
SEIU Local 113
Effective March 1,2003 through February 28,2006
Definitions	1
Article 1	Union Representation	1
Article 2	Grievance and Arbitration Procedure	5
Article 3	Uniform Allowance Working Conditions	6
Article 4	Hours of Work and Overtime	8
Articles	Holidays	12
Articled	Sick Leave / Leaves of Absence	14
Article 7	Vacation	16
Articles	Seniority	18
Article 9	Discipline and Discharge	21
Article 10	Wages	22
Article 11	Health and Welfare Benefits	24
Article 12	Pension Benefits	25
Article 13	Social Security Benefit	27
Article 14	Health and Safety	27
Article 15	No Strike / No Lockout	28
Article 16	Educational Development	28
Article 17	SEIU Cope Language	29
Article 18	Duration and Renewal of Agreement	29
Letter of Understanding	30
Letter of Understanding	31
Letter of Understanding	32
Letter of Understanding	34
Letter of Understanding	35
Letter of Understanding	38
Letter of Understanding	39
Action Plans	40
Appendix A	41
DEFINITIONS
1.	Full time employees are regularly scheduled 80 hours per pay period.
2.	Part time employees are regularly scheduled less than 80 hours per pay period.
3.	Casual employees have no regularly scheduled hours. In order to maintain this status casual employees will need to be available to work two shifts per month, to meet employer’s needs, one of which will have to be a weekend shift Casual employees who are students, must be available to work 2 shifts in 3 months while attending school.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into this first day of March 2003, by and between the undersigned Hospital, hereinafter referred to as either the "Employer” or as "Hospital," and its successors, and the SEIU, Local 113, AFL-CIO/CLC, hereinafter referred to as die "Union," and its successors.
ARTICLE 1 UNION REPRESENTATION RECOGNITION
The Union shall be the sole representative of all the nonprofessional employees of said Employer in the classifications set forth in Article 10 hereof and within the bargaining unit certified by the National Labor Relations Board or previously agreed upon by the parties.
(A)	NEW CLASSIFICATION OR TITLE - In the event that a new or different nonprofessional classification or title is established which is not set forth in Article 10 hereof and is not within the bargaining unit certified by the National Labor Relations Board or previously agreed upon by the parties, the issue shall be referred to the National Labor Relations Board. The Board shall determine whether the new or different classification is to be included in the bargaining unit by applying the standards established by the National Labor Relations Board.
(B)	CLASSIFICATION OR TITLE CHANGE - No classification or title shall be changed or new classification or title created to defeat the spirit of this Agreement. No classification or title shall be changed or created, and no employee transferred or promoted, either to positions covered by this Agreement or outside it, except upon at least ten (10) days written notice to the Union prior to the effective date of the same, the notice shall specify in detail the proposed change, establishment, transfer or promotion. The union shall receive updated job descriptions whenever substantial changes occur in any of the classifications represented by Local 113. Prior to implementing any substantial changes in the overall job duties of the employees the union will be notified and given an opportunity to discuss changes with the employer.
1
(C)	NO DISCRIMINATION - There shall be no discrimination by the Union or the Employer against any employee because of membership or nonmembership in the Union or because of the assertion of rights afforded by this Agreement.
(D)	NO CONTRADICTORY RULE - The Employer agrees not to enter into any agreement or contract with its employees (who are in classifications herein noted), either individually or collectively, which conflicts with any of the provisions of this Agreement. No statement or rule shall be made or established by the Employer or the Union that conflicts with or contradicts any of the provisions of this Agreement.
(E)	STEWARD - COMMITTEE - The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to elect or select from employees who are members of the Union, a job steward or job committee to handle such Union business during their routine at the Hospital where they are employed, as may from time-to-time be delegated to them by the Union in connection with this collective bargaining relationship. The name of such job steward or job committee shall be furnished, in writing, to the Employer, and any changes in steward or committee members shall be reported to the Employer in writing. At the time of new employee orientation the Employer will provide the steward with a list of names of those Local 113 employees scheduled to attend that orientation. Up to two (2) stewards will attend new employee orientation sessions to speak to new Local 113 members.
(F)	UNION SECURITY - All employees covered by this Agreement shall become and remain members of the Union or, alternatively, shall pay the portion of the standard initiation fee and standard monthly dues that are uniformly applied to all members covered by this Agreement that relate to the Union’s representational functions.
The provisions of this Section shall apply only to employees hired on and after March 12, 1973.
Employees hired prior to March 1, 1986 and who are regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours or less per two (2) week pay period shall not be required to make payments under this Article.
Payments required by this Section shall be made only after an employee has completed sixty (60) days of employment. The fee required by paragraph one shall be due and payable upon the sixty-first (61st) day of employment and must be paid within ten (10) days thereafter. Monthly payments required by paragraph two are due and payable the first (1 st) day of the month following the completion of sixty (60) days of employment and shall be paid by the tenth (1 Oth) day of each month.
Any Union member, and any employee electing to pay representational initiation and service fees, who is delinquent in making the payments required herein for more than thirty (30) days, shall be terminated by the Hospital without any notice to the delinquent employee. Termination shall occur within three (3) days after receipt of written notice
2
from the Union to the Hospital of such delinquency. The Union shall save the Hospital harmless from any claims of an employee so terminated.
The Union will also send copies to that Hospital of the various warnings sent to the members pursuant to its present practices so that the Hospital may take steps designed to keep the employees in good standing.
"STATEMENT TO NEW EMPLOYEE"
There is a contract between this Hospital and the SEIU, Local 113, AFL-CIO/CLC covering wages, hours and working conditions. The Contract provides that the Union is -------the sole representative for nonprofessional employees of the Hospital in the classification of work for which you are hired. The Contract also provides thatif youelectnotto--------
become a member of the Union, you must pay an enrollment fee and a monthly service fee to the Union. The Hospital takes no position as to whether or not you become a member of the Union.
It is your responsibility to insure that the payments to the Union are made at the times indicated. In the event any Union member, or employee electing to pay the enrollment and service fee, is delinquent in making the required payments for more than thirty (30) days, the employment of such employee will be terminated without any notice from the Union. It is important, therefore, that the contractual payments be made on time.
The Contract also provides that you may voluntarily elect to have Union fees and dues or enrollment and service fee payments deducted from your check and sent to the Union.
(G)	DUES/FEES DEDUCTIONS - The Hospital agrees to deduct Union dues and initiation fees, or comparable enrollment and service fees for employees electing not to become Union members, from the wages of employees who voluntarily provide the Hospital with a written authorization to make such deductions. The written authorization shall not be irrevocable fora period of more than one (1) year, or beyond the termination date of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner. Deductions shall be made from employees wages in the first (1st) pay period of the month in which the payment is due. Withheld amounts will be forwarded to the Union by the tenth (10th) day of the month following the actual withholding, together with a record of the amount and those for whom deductions have been made. The Union will hold the Hospital harmless from any dispute with an employee concerning deductions made.
(H)	NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT RIGHTS - In view of the recently enacted Section 19 of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), both management and the Union are desirous of complying with the terms thereof. Accordingly, Article 1, Section G. is amended to provide that any employee who is a member of, and adheres to, established and traditional tenets or teachings of a bona fide religion, body or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting labor organizations shall not be required to join or financially support the Union as a condition of employment; however, any such employee who qualifies for such an exception and
3
elects to be exempt from the provision of joining the Union or financially supporting it, is required, as a condition of continued employment, to pay to either the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, Inc. or United Cerebral Palsy in lieu of periodic dues and initiation fees, the sum equal to such dues and initiation fees, at the same timely requirements as applies to employees who join, and become members, of the Union. Failure to abide by these time limits and furnishing proof thereof to the Union shall subject the employee to be terminated from employment.
Any employee who holds conscientious objections pursuant to this provision and requests the Union to use the grievance-arbitration procedure on the employee's behalf will be charged by the Union for the reasonable costs of using such procedure.
(I)	EMPLOYEE LISTS - The employer shall provide the following information on a monthly basis:
New hires- name, hire date, address, classification, rate of pay, social security number and their FTE
Transferring employees (employees transferring witbiu the bargaining unit or transferring into or out of a bargaining unit position) - name, social security number, date of transfer, position transferring into and new hire information for those new to the bargaining unit
Terminated employees- name, termination date, classification, and social security number
Employees on Leaves of absence- name, social security number, date leave begins, return date and social security number
The employer shall notify the union when they become aware of employee changes of name, address, and FTE status. The employer shall also provide monthly reports detailing actual hours worked by each employee.
(J)	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS - Except as specifically limited by the express provisions of this Agreement, the management of the Hospital, including but not limited to, has the right to hire, lay off, promote, demote, transfer, discharge or discipline for just cause, require observance of reasonable Hospital rules and regulations direct the working forces and to determine the materials, means and the type of service provided, shall be deemed the sole and exclusive functions of management.
(K.) BULLETIN BOARDS - Bulletin boards in the Hospital shall be made available to the Union for the purpose of posting business notices. The business agent for the Union or the employee designate shall have access at all reasonable times to such bulletin boards and to such other nonpatient nonpublic areas to be designated by the Hospital to discharge the employee's duties as representative of the Union.
4
(L)----PROBATIONARY PERIOD - The first sixty (60) days of employment of any new fulltime employee and the first ninety (90) days of employment of any part-time employee shall be a probationary period, during which the employment of such employee may be terminated with or without cause. The probationary period maybe extended for an additional thirty (30) calendar days on the following basis: The Hospital shall advise the Union in writing of the name or names of employees for whom such extension is desired. The extension request must be received by die Union no later than the fiftieth (50th) calendar day (eightieth (80th) for part-time employees) of the probationary period of the employee involved. The Union may object to such extension by giving written notice to the Hospital within five (5) calendar days following receipt of the notice from the Hospital. If no such written objection is made, the probationary period shall be extended -------for the additional-thirty. (30)calcndar days.
(M)	LABOR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS - The parties are in agreement that full cooperation and understanding between the parties and a harmonious relationship will promote efficient performance which is in the interest of both the employees and die Employer. To this end, it is recognized that matters other than formal grievances may arise which may be appropriate to discuss in a labor/management meeting.
ARTICLE 2 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
(A)	Any claim of an employee arising out of the interpretation of or adherence to the terms or
provisions of the Contract shall first be taken up with the department manager for adjustment.
If not satisfactorily settled, it will become a grievance and shall be submitted in writing in three (3) identical letters, all dated and addressed to the department manager, Human Resources and the Union Steward.
With respect to any such grievance and with respect to any other dispute arising of the interpretation of or adherence to the terms and provisions of this Contract, the aggrieved party shah promptly give written notice of his/her grievance to the other party, setting forth the grievance in detail and requesting submission of the grievance for immediate settlement.
(B)	In no case shall there be any consideration given to a grievance unless such notice is submitted by the employee to the Employer within twenty (20) days after the occurrence of the grievance (except that as to grievances over wages, hours, vacations and days-off provisions of this Agreement, such notice shall be timely if given within thirty (30) days after the regular payday for the period in which the violation occurred). Failure to give such notice shall be a permanent waiver of the rights to pursue such grievance.
If such grievance cannot be settled promptly between the Employer and the Union within ten (10) calendar days after such notice of the grievance, the matter shall be referred to a Board of Arbitration. This committee will consist of one (1) member selected by the
5
Employer and one (1) member selected by the Union. In the event this arbitration committee cannot agree to a resolution of such dispute or grievance within five (5) working days after their first meeting the two (2) arbitrators shall select a third member, who shall serve as impartial chairperson. If said arbitrators are unable to agree upon the selection of an impartial chairperson within three (3) working days, then either arbitrator may request the Director of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to appoint a panel of seven (7) neutral arbitrators. The arbitrators shall alternately delete names and the last name shall be the impartial chairperson.
The decision or award by the arbitrators or a majority of them shall be final and binding. The expenses of the Board of Arbitration shall be shared by the Employer and the Union equally.
(C)	In the event that the Employer deliberately violates the provisions of this Agreement relating to wages, hours of work, seniority rights, job classifications or titles, overtime differentials and vacations, any back pay owed to the employees because of such violation shall be paid by the Employer at the rate of two (2) times the standard straight-time rate or overtime rates. The Board shall calculate any cost violations and render the double penalty decision when it is definitely and conclusively shown that the violation was deliberate. Reasonable evidence of clerical errors or honest mistakes in interpretation shall exempt the Employer from the double penalty provisions. In such case the Employer will be required to pay only the actual amount of back pay involved. This paragraph shall be subject to the above provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 3 UNIFORM ALLOWANCE - WORKING CONDITIONS
(A) UNIFORM ALLOWANCE - If the Hospital requires, suggests or in any way indicates the desirability or requirement of wearing apparel of a particular color, pattern, design, or material, then the Employer shall furnish the same without cost to the employee or pay to such employee a uniform allowance as follows:
(1)	Initial Uniform Allowance upon Hire - Al] new employees hired in job
classifications in which uniforms are required and who are regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) or more hours per week shall receive an initial uniform allowance according to this schedule:
•	hired during March, April, or May =	S120.00
•	hired during June, July, or August =	$	93.75
•	hired during September, October, or November =	$	67.50
•	hired during December, January, or February -	S	41.25
Effective March 1,2004 the uniform allowance amounts listed shall be as follows:
•	hired during March, April, or May =
$130.00
6
•	hired during June, July, or August11	S101.25
•	hired during September, October, or November * * 3 * * * * (B)	S 72.50
•	hired during December, January, or February 3	S 43.75
(2)	Annual Uniform Allowance - On March 1 following the initial date of employment, employees shall receive uniform allowances as follows:
•	full time employees =	$120.00
•	part time employees scheduled to work twenty (20) or more hours per week -	$ 93.75
Effective March 1,2004, the Annual uniform allowance shall be as follows:
• full time employees 3	$130.00
• part time employees scheduled to work twenty (20)
or more hours per week 3	$100.00
(3) For employees regularly scheduled to work less than twenty (20) hours per week, the Hospital shall furnish one (1) uniform each contract year. The employee shall return the uniform to the Hospital upon termination of employment.
Wearing apparel furnished by the Hospital shall remain the property of the Hospital. If the Hospital furnished wearing apparel of any nature as of March 1,1963, the Hospital
shall continue to so furnish without cost to the employee.
Each employee who is required to change clothing on premises into hospital owned apparel has up to seven (7) minutes with pay after the start of the shift to change and report to his or her work area; and may leave his or her work area seven (7) minutes with pay before the shift ends to change out of hospital owned apparel. When the employee records time by badging or clocking in on a time recording system, that employee is expected to record their time at the beginning of the shift before changing into hospital owned apparel and at the end of the shift that employee is expected to record their time after changing out of hospital owned apparel.
If the Hospital requires the employee to wear an identifying device of any nature, such device shall be famished initially by the Hospital without cost to the employee. The responsibility for repair or replacement thereof shall be without cost to the employee.
(B) DINING LOCKER FACILITIES - Where employees bring their lunch, a dining room and locker facilities shall be available for their convenience.
(C) ACCIDENTAL BREAKAGE - Employees shall not be held liable for accidental breaking of dishes during the course of their duties. However, this shall not apply to an employee who continuously breaks dishes due to carelessness or negligence.
7
(D)	RELIEF PERIODS - All employees shall be allowed, without reduction in pay, fifteen (15) minutes relief in each four (4) hour period. The above fifteen (15) minute rest period shall be included in the regular workday.
(E)	MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS - Where wages, hours and other conditions specifically covered by this Agreement arc lower than those now received by an individual employee, such employee shall not have such conditions reduced by the execution of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
(A)	WORKWEEK AND OVERTIME -The regular pay period shall be eighty (80) hours. Eight (8) hours shall constitute a day's work to be completed within nine (9) consecutive hours. If an employee works in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or in excess of eighty (80) hours in a two-week pay period, overtime at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employees regular straight-time hourly rate shall be paid for such hours. Overtime payments shall not be duplicated. Paid sick leave, holiday and vacation hours shall be considered as hours of work for overtime purposes. An employee who works in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours shall receive double time the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate for such excess hours.
If an employee is scheduled to work more than seven (7) consecutive days, such scheduled days will be paid at time and one-half (1-1/2). After the schedule is posted, an employee may request to work more than seven (7) consecutive days. Said employee shall be paid at regular straight time pay unless the extra shift is in addition to eight (8) hours worked in a day or eighty (80) hours worked in a two-week pay period. The Employer and employee may mutually agree to a schedule of more than seven (7) days without overtime when it meets the mutual interests of both parties.
If an employee volunteers to work on his/her scheduled day off, the employee will be paid at his/her regular rale of pay unless the extra shift is over eighty (80) hours in a two-week pay period. If an employee is mandated to work on his or her day off, the employee will be paid at time and one-half (1-1/2).
Scheduling Pattern - The general partem of scheduling shall be such that all employees shall have at least two (2) Sundays off per calendar month, together with a day consecutive therewith, and two (2) consecutive days off during the alternate week. All employees shall have an absolute, unqualified right to elect to work pursuant to the general pattern of scheduling. Notwithstanding said right, an employee may, by mutual agreement with the Hospital, elect to work a scheduling pattern providing for nonconsecutive days off in the alternate week.
Where employees elect to work pursuant to the general pattern of scheduling, the Hospital may schedule the Sundays off for such employee on the basis of either a Saturday-Sunday or a Sunday-Monday combination. Where employees elect to work
8
pursuant to a scheduling pattern providing for nonconsecutive days off in the alternate week, such employees shall have two (2) weekends (Saturday and Sunday) off per calendar month.
The scheduled workweek need not correspond to the calendar week, and the pattern of scheduling may be such that more or fewer than five (5) days of work are scheduled in one (1) week, provided that not more than ten (10) days of work are scheduled in any two (2) consecutive workweeks.
The scheduling provisions contained in this section (Article 4, Section A) shall not apply to part-time employees regularly scheduled to work forty-eight (48) hours or less in a -------two-week pay period.---------------------------------------------------------------------
(B)	POSTING OF SCHEDULES - The hospital shall post work schedules at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of the workweek.
(C)	SCHEDULING GUARANTEE - Where any department as a whole is now working less than seven (7) consecutive days, the work schedule of such department shall not be changed except by mutual agreement between the Hospital and the Union, except that this sentence shall not apply to employees required for surgical emergencies.
(D)	WORKWEEK SCHEDULES TO CONFORM NOTICES - Workweek schedules in conformity with this Agreement shall be furnished to the Union within fifteen (15) days of the execution of this Agreement Any proposed workweek schedules shall likewise be in conformity with this Agreement and shall be furnished to the Union at least fifteen (15) days before the effective date of such proposed change.
If within such fifteen (15) day period the Union shall file written objections to such proposed change with the Hospital, the effective date of such change shall be postponed pending the submission of the objections to a Board of Arbitration consisting of one (1) member selected by the Employer, one (1) member selected by the Union, and a third member selected by the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Such third member shall serve as impartial chairman. The decision or award by said arbitrators, or a majority of them, shall be final and binding upon the parties. Provided, however, that the decision of the Arbitration Board to be final and binding must be served in writing upon the parties within thirty (30) days of the originally proposed effective date of the schedule change; otherwise, said decision shall be a nullity and of no legal effect, and the Hospital shall have the right to effectuate said proposed workweek schedule. The expense of the Board of Arbitration shall be bome by the parties equally.
(E)	NO SPLIT SHIFTS - There shall be no split shifts; provided, however, the Union agrees it will make exceptions in this respect on the basis of individual hospital negotiations. Employees who agree to work with less than 12 hours between shifts due to hospital need, including open shifts and available extra hours, shall be paid premium double back pay at the rate of time and one half for the hours worked between the time of
9
return and the end of the 12 hour period. This provision shall not apply due to employees trading hours or an employee initiated schedule change.
(F)	OVERTIME SCHEDULING - Employees shall not be required to take time off in lieu of overtime pay. To meet the above-scheduled hours, Sunday hours may be reduced. Work hours on Saturdays and Sundays shall not be increased by reason of anything contained in this Agreement.
(G)	SENIORITY PREFERENCE - In the establishment of workweek schedules, the Hospital shall give preference to employees in accordance with seniority as far as practicable and consistent with proper hospital management. Employees who have 20 calendar years of employment in the bargaining unit may have the opportunity for straight day shift and/or no weekend shifts when that becomes possible. The employee will submit a written request to his/her manager. When the opportunity to create such shifts occurs, the employee and the manager will confer to determine the feasibility and impact of the change on patient care, the work of the department, the effect on other employees, and whether to proceed with creating the opportunity. If more than one 20 year employee on the same unit submits a written request the opportunity will be offered according to seniority.
(H)	FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING - The Hospital and an individual employee may agree upon a pattern of work schedules providing for work in excess of eight (8) hours per day. Work schedules established pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1)	An employee shall have an opportunity to review the alternate work schedule or schedules being considered prior to volunteering for flexible work schedules. The employee may limit agreement to specific types of flexible schedules. The Hospital shall retain written documentation that an employee has agreed to a flexible work schedule and of the type of flexible schedule to which the employee has agreed. An employee electing to work schedules under this Section may revoke such election by giving the Hospital written notice of six (6) weeks or a period of time equal to the length of time normally covered by the Hospital's posted schedule of work hours, whichever is less.
(2)	The basic work period shall be forty (40) hours per week. An employee shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) for work in excess of forty (40) hours per week rather than the overtime provisions set forth in this Section. Further, even though the total hours worked during a week may not exceed forty (40) an employee working in excess of the employee's scheduled workday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for all excess time so worked, except that hours in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours in a workday be paid at the rate of double time.
(3)	Evening shift differential shall be paid for all hours of the shift where 50% or more of the hours are worked after 3:00 p.m. and before 11:00 p.m. Night shift
10
differential shall be paid for all hours of the shift where 50% or more of the hours are worked after 11:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m.
(4)	Sick leave shall be accrued at a rate proportionate to that specified in Article 6 for employees who are not working a flexible work schedule. Sick pay will be paid for the total scheduled hours lost and shall be deducted from accumulated sick leave at the same rate.
(5)--------------------Vacation shall accrue at the rate proportionate to that specified in Article 7 for employees not working a flexible schedule and shall be granted in a manner to provide an employee an equal amount of calendar time off as provided in Article -----------------------7.------------------------------------------------------------------------
(6)	Holiday pay shall be based on the number of hours regularly scheduled under the flexible schedule.
(I)	EXTRA HOURS - The Hospital shall post a sign-up sheet prior to the posting of the work schedule whereby employees may indicate availability for specific extra shifts within their classification. Extra shifts shall be granted on a seniority basis first to employees on a non-overtime basis and then to employees on an overtime basis. Extra shifts shall be granted as provided in this Section before using temporary employees of outside employment agencies. Individual hospitals shall meet with the Union to develop a policy that provides for the consistent application of this section.
(J)	GIVE AWAY SHIFTS - Employees may give away shifts without using vacation time as follows:
•	An employee may give away four (4) shifts per year
•	An employee must have a work agreement of .5 FTE or greater
•	The give away shift shall not create overtime for the employee accepting to work the shift
•	An employee accepting the shift must be qualified within the classification
•	An employee shall not give shifts to casual employees
(K)	INCREASES AND DECREASES IN WORK AGREEMENT - If a regularly scheduled employee works above his/her work agreement for a minimum of six (6) consecutive months, the employee may request a change in his/her work agreement. (The hours worked above do not include unscheduled absences, vacations, leaves of absence, give away shifts, and hours from posted but unfilled positions). These hours will be posted and awarded by seniority. If the employee works below his/her work agreement for a six (6) month consecutive period of time, management may reduce the work agreement after evaluation and consultation with the employee. Low need days do not apply.
(L)	DOCTOR’S APPOINTMENTS - With management approval, the employee will be able to adjust his/her schedule to accommodate a doctors appointment.
11
ARTICLE 5 HOLIDAYS
1.	All full-time employees sb all be paid for tbe following seven (7) named holidays if not worked:
New Year’s Day, Either Good Friday or Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas.
2.	A full-time employee required to work on Either Good Friday or Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, or Thanksgiving shall receive, at the employee’s option, straight pay for the hours worked on the holiday and eight (8) additional vacation hours to be taken at a later date or, shall be paid two times the employee’s regular rate of pay for all hours worked on the holiday. Full-time employees will be paid at the rate of two times their regular rate of pay for all hours worked on tbe holiday unless they submit their preference in writing to their manager for tbe option of receiving straight-pay for the hours worked on the holiday together with eight (8) additional vacation hours to be taken at the later date.
B.	Part-Time Employees.
1.	AH part-time employees regularly scheduled to work forty (40) hours or more per pay period shall be paid at the rate of two times their regular rate of pay for time worked on New Year’s Day, Either Good Friday or Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas.
2.	Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work less than forty hours per pay period shall be paid at the rate of two times their regular rate of pay for time worked on New Year’s Day, Either Good Friday or Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, but shall not be entitled to the personal floating holidays referred to in D, below.
3.	Casual employees shall be paid at the rate of two times their regular rate of pay for time worked on New Year’s Day, Either Good Friday or Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas, but shall not be entitled to the personal floating holidays referred to in D, below.
C.	New Year’s Day and Christmas Day.
For purposes of this Article, Christmas Day shall be deemed to extend over a forty (40) hour period from 7:00 a.m. on December 24 through 11:00 p.m. on December
12
25.	New Year’s Day shall be deemed to extend over a thirty-two (32) hour period from 3:00 p.m. on December 31 through 11:00 p.m. on January 1. All full-time employees and part-time employees regularly scheduled to work forty (40) hours or more per pay period shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked on Christmas Day and/or New Year’s Day. In addition, all such full-time and part-time employees working on Christmas Day and/or New Year’s Day will be given the option to be paid for one shift worked during the forty hour Christmas period and one shift worked during the thirty-two hour New Year’s Day period as follows:
(a)	Time and one-half (1-1/2) for all hours worked and eight additional vacation' hours'or
(b)	Two and one-half times (2-1/2) the employee’s regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
D.	Floating Holidays.
In addition to the named holidays identified above, all full-time employees and all part-time employees regularly scheduled to work forty (40) hours per pay period will also receive two (2) personal floating holidays to be taken at times mutually agreed upon between each individual employee and the Hospital. To be eligible to receive floating holidays, employees must have completed one year of employment
E.	General Provisions.
1.	If a full time employee is sick or disabled on a holiday, the employee shall be entitled to receive sick leave benefits consistent with Article 6 and shall also be entitled to an additional day off in lieu of the holiday.
2.	Each employee shall be given an opportunity, in order of seniority, to express a preference prior to posting of holiday work schedules as to whether the employee should work tbe holiday or be off on the holiday.
3,	Full-time and part-time employees who are absent from work without good cause on a regularly scheduled workday prior to or after the holiday shall not be eligible for holiday pay. If any full-time employee’s day off falls on a holiday, then the employee shall, at the employee’s option, receive holiday pay for such holidays or, in lieu thereof, an additional day off within a two week period.
4.	Employees who work both Good Friday and Easter Sunday shall be paid holiday pay for only one of the two days.
13
ARTICLE 6
SICK LEAVE/LEAVES OF ABSENCE
(A)	SICK LEAVE - Each employee shall accumulate paid sick leave on the basis of one (1) day per each month of service, up to a maximum of ninety (90) days. All sick leave to which an employee is entitled and which is not used shall be credited to the employee cumulatively during the employee's period of employment. Employees who do not use any sick leave during a full calendar year of employment (January - December) will at the employee’s option, take sixteen (16) hours of cash payout or have sixteen (16) hours added to their available vacation balance. The request for one of these options must be submitted by the employee for manager’s approval no later than February 1 st in order to receive this benefit. Employees who have more than sixty (60) days accrued sick leave as of March 1, 1986 may use the amount accumulated. Upon termination, an employee shall be paid a maximum of ten (10) days accumulated sick pay at the rate of one (1) day for each six (6) months employment for which no sick leave is used. Such six (6) month period shall be from the last date sick leave in used. Employees with twenty (20) or more calendar years of service upon voluntary termination will either be paid a maximum of 10 days accumulated sick pay at the rate of 1 day for each six (6) months of employment for which no sick leave was used or be able to cash out sick time hours over five hundred (500) hours whichever is greater.
New employees shall accumulate one (1) day of sick leave per month from the first (1st) day of employment. Eligibility for used sick leave shall not begin until after the completion of the sixty (60) day probationary period for full-time employees and ninety (90) day probationary period for part-time employees and shall apply to illness occurring after the first (1st) sixty (60) or ninety (90) days of employment whichever is applicable.
(B)	PART-TIME CREDIT - Part-time employees shall accumulate sick leave at the rate of eight (8) hours credit for each 173.3 hours actually worked up to a maximum of ninety (90) days. Sick leave shall be paid to the part-time employee only when the illness or disability falls on the employee's regularly scheduled workday and only for the number of hours regularly scheduled for the day on which the illness occurs.
To be allowed sick leave with pay, an employee must notify the employee's department head of illness or disability at least one (1) hour (two (2) hours for the night shift and three (3) hours for the relief shift) prior to the beginning of the employee's working day or as soon thereafter as possible and shall submit proof of sickness or disability to the Employer if requested. An employer request for a doctor’s slip will not be made at the time the employee calls in.
Sick leave benefits shall be based on length of service with the Hospital regardless of any change of classification.
(C)	ILLNESS/DISABILITY LEAVE - Upon completion of the probationary period as set forth in Article 1 (L) of this Agreement, an automatic leave of absence without pay shall be granted to an employee in the case of illness or physical disability, including
14
pregnancy, which exhausts accumulated sick leave. Such leave shall be for the period of illness or disability only. Such leave shall not exceed one (1) year in length. However, an employee who has been employed for less than twelve (12) months will only be eligible for an unpaid leave equal to the length of time from the employee's date of hire up to the date of the leave request. An employee shall be returned to the employee's regularly scheduled position with full seniority and without loss of benefits upon certification by a competent physician of recovery from such illness or disability. Sick leave payments as provided in this Article shall be made only during the period of actual illness or physical disability subject to the maximum payments provided herein. No employee shall be entitled to receive a second automatic leave of absence for illness or physical disability unless such employee has returned to active employment for three (3) months or more.
(D)	JURY DUTY - When an employee receives notice of jury duty, the employee shall notify the employee's supervisor at once. The employee will be given leave for such jury duty and will be made whole for loss of pay during that period. The employee will report for work whenever the employees jury duty does not conflict; provided, however the employee will not be required to work later than 7:00 p.m. on any day the employee was requested to report for jury duty. Any reasonable rearrangement of work hours including re-shifting of other employees for that purpose, will be made. In making the employee whole, the employee's wages will be computed as if the employee had worked on the first (1st) shift at straight time and be paid in full, therefore, minus the amount evidenced by the employee’s jury check. In no event shall jury allowance be made in any one (1) year to an employee for over two (2) weeks of such service. Whenever considered necessary by the Employer because of the needs of the business at a particular time or the difficulty of substitution for the particular employee, said employee will cooperate with the Employer in requesting and obtaining a postponement of said jury duty.
(E)	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE - A leave of absence of three (3) days without loss of pay shall be granted to employees in case of death in the family (parents, parents-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, sons, daughters, husbands and wives or domestic partners, step-parents, step-children, step-brothers and step-sisters) for the purpose of attending the funeral or memorial service of the deceased. Such leave shall be the day before, the day of, and the day after the funeral or memorial service, unless different days are agreed upon between the employee and the Hospital. Unpaid time off as a personal LOA may be requested by the employee if needed in addition to bereavement leave.
(F)	MILITARY LEAVE - Employees shall be granted an unpaid leave of absence for temporary military training. An employee shall not be required to use accumulated vacation or a personal holiday during such leave.
(G)	OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE - Requests for unpaid leaves of absence, one day or longer, for reasons other than illness, disability, pregnancy, or jury duty may be granted with supervisory approval.
15
(H)	REPLACEMENT FOR ON-LEAVE EMPLOYEES - With respect to all leaves of absence, the Hospital may hire an employee to replace the individual on leave of absence on a temporary basis. The employee so hired shall be terminated upon return of the regular employee from the leave of absence.
(I)	SENIORITY DURING LEAVES OF ABSENCE - There shall be no break in seniority during the period of a leave of absence. No credit for purposes of wage increments, vacation or sick leave shall be given during the period of a leave of absence, but an employee shall not lose service previously accrued.
(J)	PART-TIME SICK LEAVE ACCRUAL - This Article shall apply only to those part-time employees defined herein as scheduled to work twenty (20) or more hours per week and their maximum accumulation of benefits as set forth in this Article shall not be in excess of their scheduled number of hours in any two-week period bears in ratio to eighty (80) hours in the same two-week period.
ARTICLE 7 VACATION
(A)	ACCUMULATION - ONE YEAR TO TWENTY YEARS
Full time and part-time employees regularly scheduled .5 FTE or greater shall accrue vacation as follows:
Years Of service	Accrual Rate/Hour	Maximum Hours of Accrual Per Year based on 1600 hours
0-4	.050	80 hours
5-8	.075	120 hours
9-14	.100	160 hours
15	.105	168 hours
16	.110	176 hours
17	.115	184 hours
18	.120	192 hours
19	.125	200 hours
Additional vacation hours accrued as a result of reaching fifteen (15) or more years of employment shall not be taken between Memorial Day and Labor Day unless agreed upon between the employee and the Hospital.
Employees are allowed a maximum vacation available balance of three hundred forty (340) hours. Any vacation balance hours which exceed three hundred forty (340) hours will automatically be lost.
Employees with a vacation balance of one hundred and sixty (160) hours or more, one time each calendar year, may request a cash out of up to 40 hours of the
16
following year’s vacation accrual. Such request must be received by tbe Allina Human Resources Service Center by December 31”. The cash pay out request must indicate a date for tbe pay out between April 1“ and December lu the following year. The cash pay out cannot exceed the amount of vacation accrued as of the date indicated on the request for the pay out
(B)	VACATION ACCRUAL PROCESS
1.	Full Time - 1.0 FEE
_______,______■___The employee will accrue vacation from first day of employment
•	Accrued vacation moves into available after six (6) montEsof employment
•	After six (6) months of employment the employee will continue to accrue each pay period and is available for use
2.	Part Time .5 FTE and Greater
• Same as Full Time, except eight (8) month period before it appears as available
3.	Less than -5 FTE and Casual
• Employees accrue vacation only if they work 800 or more hours in an anniversary year, such hours will be made available on their anniversary date
(C)	MAY 1 ANNIVERSARY - Employees hired on or before November 1,1974 shall have an anniversary date of employment of May 1 for purposes of vacation eligibility.
(D)	VACATION PERIOD - SENIORITY - PAYMENTS - The vacation year shall be April 1 through March 31. Employees shall submit a request for vacation during the period of January 1 through February 15. The Hospital shall respond by March 15. Vacation shall be awarded by seniority and shall be posted in each department.
Employees not submitting a request by February 15 shall submit their request at least two (2) weeks prior to the requested vacation, and it shall be granted in the order requested recognizing seniority if more than one (1) employee makes a request on the same day. The Hospital shall respond within seven (7) calendar days from the time of a request made outside of the window period. Requests outside of the foregoing periods will be considered on an individual basis. All vacation shall be granted subject to staffing needs. Vacation pay shall be paid to employees before leaving for their vacation. Full-time employees who have completed six (6) months of employment shall be eligible to use up to one (1) week of paid vacation.
(E)	VACATION PAYOUT WHEN TRANSFERRING TO CASUAL POSITION - If an employee moves from a part time or full time position to a casual position they will be paid out any accrued vacation benefit
17
(F)	TERMINATION - PAID ACCRUAL - Employees who have completed at least one (1) year of service and have quit after giving the notice required by Article 9 hereof, or are discharged or laid off, shall be given pay in lieu of vacation time so earned at the time of termination or layoff.
(G)	HOLIDAY OCCURRENCE - If a holiday falls during an employee’s vacation, such employee will nevertheless be paid the holiday benefit to which the employee would otherwise be entitled. An additional day of vacation may be scheduled in lieu of the above payment.
(H)	ILLNESS OCCURRENCE - If an employee becomes ill or disabled during vacation, the employee shall be paid sick pay upon certification by a competent physician and shall receive the unused portion of such vacation during the vacation period specified in paragraph (C) of this Article.
(I)	LENGTH OF SERVICE - Vacation benefits shall be baaed on length of service with the Hospital regardless of any change of classification.
(J)	During the term of the contract the union and the hospitals will explore the existing PTO plan in an effort to compare it with the current benefit provisions of vacations, holidays and sick leave. The exploration process will include education on PTO for employees. If there is union interest in the PTO plan, a majority vote to approve PTO by each hospital is required to implement. The PTO plan will not be adopted at a single hospital.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
(A)	DEFINITION - Seniority for full time, part-time and casual employees shall be based on an Employee’s compensated hours accrued with the Hospital after the most recent date of employment Compensated hours shall exclude overtime for all hours on and after March 1, 1991. Employees voluntarily transferring from one classification to another will accrue compensated hours from the date of transfer to the new classification. Employees involuntarily transferring from one classification to another shall retain all previously accrued compensated hours. An employee who is transferred to another classification as a result of the elimination of the employee's job shall be deemed to be involuntarily transferred. The Hospital will indicate on its records whether a change of classification is voluntary or involuntary.
(B)	ESTABLISHMENT AND POSTING OF SENIORITY LIST - Seniority lists shall initially be established by crediting employees with all compensated hours accrued since their most recent date of hire. If the Hospital's records do not reflect compensated hours for past years, employees will be credited with compensated hours on the basis of two . thousand eighty (2,080) compensated hours for each year of full-time service and one thousand forty (1,040) hours for each year of part-time service. Parts of a year for either full-time or part-time service shall be prorated. There shall be no break in seniority during the period of a leave of absence.
18
On or before January 10 of each year, such seniority lists shall be revised and posted on 1	department and general Hospital bulletin boards and a copy furnished to the Union.
Within fifteen (15) days after posting, employees may file, with the Hospital, written objections to such lists and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Union. Twenty (20) days after posting, such lists shall become permanent unless objection, in writing, is given to the Hospital by the Union.
(C)--------------LAYOFF AND RECALL - In reducing the number of employees or in making a permanent reduction in hours, the Hospital will determine die number of positions and/or ----------------hours.to.be reduced within a classification. Subject to the preceding sentence, layoffs and permanent reductions in hours shall be made in reverse order of seniority,“except that special capabilities may be considered for positions requiring special skills. Employees shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice of layoff or pay in lieu thereof. Laid off employees shall be given the opportunity to return to work in a previous classification held by such employee on the basis of the seniority the employee earned in the previous classification.
Employees shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff. Employees shall retain recall rights for a period equal to their accrued seniority up to a maximum of one (1) year.
(D)	REDUCTION OTHER THAN LAYOFF - In the event the Employer determines a need to reduce the number of employees scheduled on a particular unit and/or shift because of changes in staffing needs, the following procedure will be utilized:
(1)	Voluntary absent days will be requested from employees on the affected unit and/or shift in accordance with staffing patterns established for that unit and/or shift by the Employer. Voluntary absent days shall be granted in seniority order of those employees signing the request sheet
(2)	If the needed reduction is not accomplished by (1) above, employees will be
required to take absent days on the basis of seniority within the unit on the scheduled shift, provided the more senior employees are qualified and properly oriented to perform the available work. A senior employee being reduced a full shift under this paragraph will be given the opportunity, to the extent practicable, to replace a less senior employee in the same classification on the same shift provided the more senior employee is qualified and properly oriented to perform the available work. Employees working extra shifts shall be required to take an absent day before any regularly scheduled full-time or part-time employee. If more than one (1) employee is working an extra shift, overtime shifts shall be canceled first.
(3)	All eligible employees shall continue to accrue the following benefits when requested to take voluntary or mandatory absent days or for hours lost while serving as a member of the Union Negotiating Committee:
19
(a)	Sick Leave
(b)	Vacation
(c)	Health Insurance
(d)	Life Insurance
(c)	Dental Insurance
(f)	Salary Increments
(g)	Seniority
(h)	Pension
In the event a full-time employee has the employee's hours involuntarily reduced under Article 8 (D) above, by more than a total of eight (8) shifts within four (4) consecutive pay periods* the Employer will review the staffing needs in the employee's department and determine if layoffs are appropriate. Employees shall be given one (1) hour notice of an absent day to be taken under the provisions of the Section. If the employee does not receive at least one (1) hour's notice* the employee will be given the opportunity to work a nunimum of four (4) hours or receive four (4) hour's pay in lieu thereof.
(E)	JOB VACANCIES - Vacancies or new positions shall be awarded to the senior employee applicant where the employee currently possesses die necessary capabilities to perform the work. Qualifications for the job shall be posted by the Employer, and the posting shall include the shift and number of hours for the position. No employee shall be eligible to bid on a job vacancy or new position until the employee has worked in the employee's existing job for a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days. The provisions of the preceding sentence shall not apply when employees bid on vacancies or new positions in the employee's same classification.
All vacancies shall be bulletined for a minimum of five (5) calendar days, and notice of the same furnished to the Union at the same time. Each Hospital shall develop a system to ensure that only applicants signing the posting during the five-calendar day posting period will be considered.
Temporary assignments may be made during such posting period only; provided assignments to a new classification maybe on a temporary basis for ten (10) days.
If a question arises as to the capability of an employee to perform the employee's duties after the above herein procedure has been used, that question, and any other question incidental thereto pertaining to the employee's classification and rate of pay, shall be settled by mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union. If such questions cannot be so settled, they shall be settled by arbitration as provided in Article 2.
In filling vacancies or new positions, senior employees in the classification where the vacancy or new position is located shall be given preference.
(F)	TEMPORARY VACANCIES - Notice of temporary vacancies shall be posted by the Hospital, Temporary postings will specify the approximate length of time that the position will be open. Employees in the same classification may apply for the vacancy if
20
it would result in an increase in hours. The position shall be awarded to the senior eligible employee making application. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to a vacancy created by an employee taking a temporary position under the provisions of this Section. An employee shall be returned to the employee's regularly scheduled position when the temporary job has been completed. When a temporary vacancy becomes a permanent position, the Hospital will re-post that position.
(G)	Negotiations may take place by mutual agreement between the Union and an individual Hospital interested in combining similar jobs (or job classifications) within the contract for the purposes of seniority accrual. This is to allow for employees under such job classifications.to.work in either classification without a loss of seniority.
ARTICLE 9
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
(A)	NO DISCHARGE WITHOUT JUST CAUSE - The Employer shall not discharge or suspend an employee without just cause. Drunkenness on the job, bringing intoxicating liquor on the premises, use of drugs or dishonesty or infraction of rules directly affecting patient comfort or safety shall be considered grounds for discharge.
(B)	NOTICE OF DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE - A written notice of any disciplinary action shall be given to the employee. Verbal warnings shall be confirmed in writing. A copy of any suspension or discharge notice shall be sent to the Union, and copies of verbal or written warnings shall be furnished to the Union upon request. The Union may file a written grievance relating to such disciplinary action. Such grievance must be received by the Employer within seven (7) calendar days of receipt by the Union of the notice of discharge or disciplinary suspension. If such written grievance is filed as provided herein, the parties shall promptly meet and attempt to resolve the matter. If the dispute is not resolved within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt by the Union of the notice of discharge or disciplinary suspension, the matter may be referred to arbitration pursuant to the procedure set forth in Article 2 of this Agreement. Any demand for arbitration must be in writing and must be received by the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt by the Union of the written notice of discharge or disciplinary suspension.
(C)	SUSPENSION - TIME LIMITS - Disciplinary suspensions shall not exceed fourteen (14) working days.
(D)	EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF QUIT - Any employee who wishes to quit shall give the Hospital fourteen (14) calendar days notice, in writing, of intention to terminate employment. The failure to give such notice shall result in the forfeiture of any terminal benefits that would otherwise be due the employee under the terms of this Agreement.
(E)	JUSTIFIED - UNJUSTIFIED SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE - An employee charged with an offense involving discharge may be suspended without pay pending the hearing and decision on the charge. If the specified grounds for discharge are found to be
21
justified, the arbiter may nevertheless suspend for a stated period of time without pay rather than uphold a final discharge. If the specified grounds for discharge are found to be unjustified, the employee shall be reinstated with full pay for the time of suspension and without loss of seniority or other rights and privileges.
(F)	DISCIPLINE FOR ABSENTEEISM - In the event an employee’s attendance becomes a concern, the employee and the manager will meet together to discuss the circumstances surrounding the employee’s attendance prior to the start of the disciplinary process, and after such discussion(s), they will develop an ongoing plan for improvement.
ARTICLE 10
WAGES
(A)	The minimum wage scale for the classifications of work covered in this Agreement shall be as outlined in Appendix A, attached at the end of the Agreement.
(1)	LEAD-PAY - If the Employer establishes a permanent lead person for any of the classifications listed in this Agreement, the rate of pay for such lead person classification shall be seventy-five cents (S.75) per hour above the rate of pay for the applicable classification. The decision as to whether a lead person classification will be utilized shall be made in the sole discretion of the Employer. Any lead position shall be posted and filled in accordance with Article 8(E). Qualifications and clearly defined duties for the job shall be posted by the Employer.
Individuals receiving lead pay shall not engage in duties that are deemed to be supervisory under the National Labor Relations Act. If the Employer requests an individual to assume a lead role on a temporary basis that employee shall receive lead pay.
(B)	WAGE INCREMENTS - FULL-TIME/PART-TIME - Wage increments for full-time employees shall be based on length of service with the Hospital. Wage increments for part-time employees shall be based on one (1) year’s credit for each two thousand eighty (2,080) compensated hours. In the event of a change of classification, the Employee shall receive a wage rate in the new classification based on said length of service, regardless of whether such new rate is greater or lest than the rate in the old classification. Provided, however, that in the event of a voluntary change in classification where the lowest rate of the new classification is equal to or exceeds the highest rate of the old classification, the employee shall be placed at the lowest increment scale of the new classification and will accrue further increments from the date the employee began work in said new classification.
(C)	LENGTH OF SERVICE INCREASES - Length of service increases shall be applicable to all regular employees in the classifications as listed in Appendix A, working four (4) or more hours per day.
22
(D)	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL -
Nights-third (3rd) shift:
The night shift differential shall be sixty cents ($.60) per hour.
Effective March 1,2005, the shift differential shall be seventy cents ($.70) per hour for the night shift
The night shift differential shall be paid for any full-time shift where 50% or more of the hours scheduled occur after 11 :00 p.m.
Evenings - second (2nd) shift:
The evening shift differential shall be fifty cents ($.50) per hour.
Effective March 1, 2004, the shift differentia) shall be sixty cents ($.60) per hour for the evening shift
The evening shift differential shall be paid for any full time shift where 50% or more of the hours scheduled occur after 3:00 p.m.
(E)	WEEKEND PREMIUM PAY - Full-time and part-time employees with a minimum of ten (10) years of employment since their most recent date of hire shall receive forty cents (400) per hour for six (6) consecutive weekend shifts starting with the Saturday morning day shift and ending with the Sunday night shift. Employees with a minimum of fifteen (15) years of service shall receive sixty-five cents ($.65) per hour for the six weekend shifts starting with the Saturday morning day shift and ending with the Sunday night shift.
(F)	TRANSLATOR PAY - At the Employer’s request employees may be asked to interpret for employee to employee interpretation for orientation, training, education, coaching and counseling. The employee will receive interpreter differential of one dollar ($1.00) per hour in hourly increments for the time spent performing interpretation services.
(G)	ADVANCE NOTICE - FOUR HOUR WORK GUARANTEE - Employees required to report for work will be guaranteed at least four (4) hours work. Any work over four (4) hours shall be paid for at the regular rate. The foregoing provision shall not apply to any employee who desires to, or prefers to, work less than four (4) hours.
(H)	ON-CALL EMPLOYEES - Employees who are notified or alerted to be “On-Call'1 shall receive one-fourth (1/4) pay for any hours awaiting such call.
Ou-call is a duty or assignment, which requires an employee to be available to work, be on-call, should they be needed. An employee may be scheduled to be on cal) or they may be assigned this duty as a result of low need. If an employee is called to
23
work while on call and works a total of 16 hours or more hours in any 24 hour period she or be shall have the option of being released from the scheduled work shift immediately following the scheduled work period of on call duty.
(I)	PAY DAYS - EMPLOYER COMPUTATIONS - Definite paydays shall be established, preferably semimonthly, if possible. An employee shall be permitted to know on what basis the employee's pay is arrived at and shall be given reasonable evidence of the accuracy of the computation of the employee's total take-home pay, if requested. An employee whose regular day off falls on a payday shall receive the employee's paycheck, if available, on the last scheduled workday before such payday. Five (5) working days shall be allowed the Employer to make up and distribute the payroll.
(K) ERROR IN PAY - When an error in pay occurs at no fault of the employee amounting to fifty dollar ($50.00) or more in gross pay the error shall be corrected within two (2) working days (Monday-Friday) from the time the employee requests a correction.
ARTICLE 11 HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
(A) HOSPITALIZATION/MEDICAL AND SURGICAL BENEFITS - Full-time and part-time employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours or more per week may elect to be covered under the Hospital’s noncontract hospitalization medical and surgical program as it may be amended from time-to-time by the Hospital.
(1)	Employee Coverage - The Hospital shall pay toward single employee coverage eighty percent (80%) of the monthly rate.
Effective March 1, 2004, the Hospital shall pay toward single employee coverage eighty five percent (85%) of the monthly rate.
(2)	Dependency Coverage - AU eligible employees may elect to be covered by the dependency provisions of the plan. The Hospital shall pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of dependency coverage up to a maximum of one hundred seventy dollars ($ 170.00) per month and with a minimum payment of one hundred thirty dollars ($130.00) per month. Effective June 1,2003, Allina shall pay seventy percent (70%) of the total cost of dependency coverage (employee and dependents). The amount to be paid by the Hospital shall be applied to any plan selected by the employee if more than one option is available.
(3)	HMO Coverage - The Hospital may offer employees any health maintenance organization (HMO) plan, and the dollar amount employees are eligible to have applied toward the noncontract plan may be applied to such HMO.
24
	(4) Eligibility for Coverage - Employees shall be eligible for the coverage provided in this Section after completing sixty (60) days of employment.
<B)	WEEKLY INDEMNITY - Employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) or more hours per week shall receive weekly indemnity in the amount of one hundred eighty dollars ($ 180.00) for full time employees, with part time employees receiving the benefit on a prorated basis according to their full time equivalent (FTE) status. The weekly indemnity shall commence on the twentieth (20th) day of a disability or after all allowable sick leave, has been utilized, whichever occurs first Disability payments shall be made for a maximum period of twenty-six (26) weeks.
(C)	LIFE INSURANCE - The Hospital shall provide and pay the cost of a group life insurance plan providing twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) in coverage to all full-time and part-time employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours or more per week. Employees must have completed at least sixty (60) days of employment.
(D)	DENTAL INSURANCE - The Hospital will pay the full cost of a single employee dental insurance program for full-time and part-time employees who are regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours or more per week. Eligible employees shall be covered after completing six (6) months of continuous service with the Hospital. The Hospital will make available to employees a family dental option to be paid by the employee.
(E)	ADOPTION ASSISTANCE - Employees are eligible for participation in the Allina Adoption Assistance Program as is available to Allina employees.
(F)	GENERAL - All health and welfare benefit, provided in this Article shall be subject to coordination of benefits. The Hospital shall fiimish to the Union a list of the employees for whom such benefits are provided and shall notify the Union when any employees are added to or dropped from the list. Application forms for such coverage and claim forms for such benefits shall be supplied to the Union by the Hospital. ARTICLE 12 PENSION BENEFITS
(A)	Pension contributions shall be provided to the existing Twin City Hospital Workers Pension Fund in the following manner: Effective March 1,2003	$.35 per hour Effective March 1,2004	$.40 per hour Effective March 1,2005	$.47 per hour
(B)	The Hospital shall pay from the employee's date of hire to said pension fund, the above amount foi each hour worked by each employee covered by the terms of this Agreement.
25
Payment shall be made periodically for periods not to exceed one (1) month, at such times as shall be agreed to between the parties. In computing and determining the number of hours worked by any employee under this Article, all time off from work on paid sick leave, paid Jury leave, paid funeral leave, paid holidays paid vacation or any other compensated hours shall be counted as hours worked by the employee.
The Hospital shall furnish the following information to said pension plan: Employee name, address, date of hire, birthrate, and social security number. The Hospital shall also furnish to the pension fund on a monthly basis a list of all hours worked by each compensated employee covered by this Agreement.
(C)	The payments made shall be used to provide pension benefits for covered employees and shall apply to employees retiring on or after January 1,1966. The amounts paid to the pension fund shall be held in trust for the exclusive benefit of all covered employees.
(D)	The pension fund shall be administered by a Board of Trustees initially consisting of six (6) members. Three (3) shall be designated by the Union and three (3) by the Hospitals' representative, Labor Relations Board of the Minnesota Hospitals and Healthcare Partnership (MHHP). In the event other hospitals, not members of Labor Relations Board of MHHP, become contributing employers to the pension fund and there is agreement that such hospitals shall be represented on the Board of Trustees, the number of trustees shall be modified to provide for such representation. Provided, however, that in all events the number of Union trustees shall equal those designated by the Hospitals. All action of the trustees shall be by unit vote with the Hospital trustees collectively casting one (1) vote and the Union trustees collectively casting one (1) vote. The parties shall forthwith amend the provisions of the existing Pension Trust Agreement and Pension Plan to incorporate the changes in the method of administration provided in this Section.
There shall be an annual meeting of the trustees and such other meetings as they may determine.
An annual audit of the pension fund shall be conducted by a certified public accountant, who shall be selected by mutual agreement of the Union and the Hospitals. If no such selection has been made within sixty (60) days of the date hereof, selection shall be made by this Board of Arbitration.
The trustees shall apply all funds received pursuant to this Article exclusively to provide pension funds, except such disbursements as are specifically provided for herein. They shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in connection with their duties as trustees. They may authorize payment of reasonable expenses of administration of the fund, including such fees and services as are directly related to the pension fund.
(E)	Employees covered by this Agreement shall automatically be members of the pension fund upon submission by the Employer to the pension fund of such information an may be necessary for pension purposes. The trustees thereupon shall certify the facts of such
26
membership to the Hospital and the covered employee. No application, enrollment or other kind of action shall be required of any such employee as a condition to coverage or membership within the pension fund.
(F)	Any unresolved dispute arising out of the action, or inaction, of the trustees, or the
operation of the pension fund, shall be submitted to arbitration upon prompt written notice by the parties. Such notice shall set forth the nature of the dispute and request submission thereof to a neutral arbitrator. The effect of any proposed action by die trustees, or any proposed operation of the pension fund shall be suspended, upon giving such notice, until determined by the neutral arbitrator. The neutral arbitrator shall be designated by agreement of the panics." If noagreement is reached,~the Chiefjudge of the-District Court of the Second Judicial District (Ramsey County) shall submit the names of five (5) qualified neutral arbitrators. The parties shall then alternately delete names from this list until one name remains. The remaining person shall then serve as the neutral
arbitrator.
The decision of the neutral arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties. The fees and expenses of the neutral arbitrator shall be paid as an expense of administration of the pension fund.
ARTICLE 13 SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT
The Hospital and the Union shall cooperate and perform all acts necessary to insure coverage of any employees eligible for benefits under the Federal Social Security Act of said benefits which may now or hereafter be applicable to any employee.
ARTICLE 14 HEALTH AND SAFETY
It shall be the policy of the Hospital that the safety of the employees, the protection of work areas, the adequate education and necessary safety practices, and the prevention of accidents are a continuing and integral part of its everyday responsibility. Further, the Hospital is committed to providing employees a work environment that is free from hostile, abusive and disrespectful behavior.
It shall also be the responsibility of all employees to cooperate in programs to promote safety to themselves and to the public, including participation on committees and compliance with rules to promote safety and a violence-free workplace. Employee responsibility also includes the proper use of all safety devices in accordance with recognized safety procedures.
The Hospital will make reasonable effort to provide employees with safe and adequate equipment, working environment, and facilities.
27
Bargaining unit employees designated by Local 113 in such numbers as agreed upon by the Union and Employer may participate as members of the Hospital's Health and Safety Committee (or a comparable committee addressing health and safety issues). The function of the Committee shall be to make recommendations on such health and safety matters as infectious diseases, chemical hazards, security and physical safety, radiation and education.
ARTICLE 15
NO STR1KE/NO LOCKOUT
There shall be no strikes or lockouts, of any kind whatsoever, during the term of this Agreement. The prohibition against strikes and lockouts shall be absolute and shall apply regardless of whether a dispute is subject to arbitration under the grievance arbitration provisions of Article II.
ARTICLE 16 EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(A)	The Hospital shall pay full-time employees and employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) or more hours per week, tuition and required fees and books up to two thousand ($2,000.00) per year for educational development under the following circumstances:
(1)	The employee must apply in advance in writing, specifying the course, institute, workshop, in-service training, or class the employee wishes to attend.
(2)	Such education must be health care related and approved by the Hospital.
(3)	Payment shall be made upon satisfactory completion of the approved educational unit.
(4)	An employee must be employed by the Hospital for a period of six (6) months before the Employee is eligible for such reimbursement and must remain in the employ of the Hospital for a period of six (6) months after the completion of the education.
. Provided, nevertheless, that employees shall repay the Hospital any reimbursement they have been paid thereunder to the extent that they do not continue to, or make themselves available to return to, work at the Hospital for at least six (6) months after the completion of the educational unit. Any amount due the Hospital under this Section may be deducted from the employee's final paycheck.
(B)	Any education required by the Hospital subsequent to employment shall be provided during hours compensated pursuant to the contract Agreement and with the expense thereof paid by the Hospital.
28
ARTICLE 17 SEIU (COPE) LANGUAGE
The Employer agrees to deduct and transmit to SEIU Local 113, COPE, $_per pay
period, from the wages of those employees who voluntarily authorized such contributions on the forms provided for that purpose by SEIU Local 113. These transmittals shall occur for each payroll period and shall be accompanied by a list of the names of those employees for whom such deductions have been made and the amount deducted for each such employee.
ARTICLE 18
-----------------DURATIONAND RENEWAL- OF AGREEMENT---------------------------
Except as otherwise provided, this Agreement shall be effective from March 1,2003, through and including February 28,2006. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from year to year thereafter, unless either party shall notify the other party, in writing, at least ninety (90) days prior to March 1,2006, or March 1 of any year thereafter of its intention to change, modify or terminate this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned have caused this Agreement to be executed the day and year first above written.
BY	1/ f Abbott Northwestern Hospital and Metropolitan Lin^n Services $ Date		 by		 Phillips Eye Institute Date		 BY		 United Hospital Date	(I!$3		BY SfelU, L<^di 113	tty Dale		
29
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This is to confirm this agreement reached during the 1991 negotiations which is to be included in a letter of understanding:
It is agreed that each Hospital reserves the right to establish and modify parking charges for the life of the current contract. The Union reserves its right to negotiate with respect to this issue in future contract negotiations.
This letter of understanding will be executed by both parties.
Executed this day of, 1999.
SIGNED	SIGNED
CHAIR, ALLINA LABOR POLICY	MINNESOTA'S HEALTH CARE
COMMITTEE	UNION SEIU, LOCAL 113 AFL/CIO
30
LOU 113 Service #2003-1
Effective Date: March I, 2003 Expiration Date: Ongoing
Letter of Understanding
Between
Abbott Northwestern Hospital, Phillips Eye Institute, Mercy Hospital, Community Laundry and United Hospital
And
SEIU Local 113
SUBJECT: Transfer of 113 Employees between Facilities - Original LOU dated December 9, 1999
Local 113 and Abbott Northwestern, Phillips Eye Institute, Mercy, Community Laundry, and United Hospital have reached agreement related to the transfer of 113 Service employees between facilities. This agreement recognizes the goals ofincreasingjob opportunities for employees, being able to manage performance issues, and consistency of transfer practices.
The following will apply related to transfers between facilities:
1.	Pay level (i.e. step level) remains the same in the new position.
2.	Benefit accrual rates for vacation and sick leave transfer with the employee, as do the existing vacation and sick leave balances.
3.	Benefits eligibility is not interrupted (e.g., waiting periods for insurance will not start over).
4.	Seniority freezes in the current job classification and starts over in a new classification or in the same classification.
5.	The employee personnel file transfers, including any existing disciplinary action.
6.	Employees are not able to transfer to a new facility for a minimum of six (6) months from the date of any disciplinary suspension.
7.	Employees who transfer to a new facility are not able to transfer to another facility for a minimum of twelve (12) months from the date of transfer.
8.	There is no probationary period that is in effect in transfer situations.
9.	Employees who are offered a new position can, prior to acceptance of the position, shadow an employee in the classification in the new department/facility in order to determine whether they want to accept the position. An employee can be paid up to a full shift of eight hours to participate in this job shadowing.
Signed this 9* day of December, 1999.
___________Signed__________________ ___________________________________Signed_______________
William MacNally	Joyce Gonier
Chair, Allina Labor Policy Committee	Service Employees International
Union, Local 113
31
LOU #113 - #2003-2
Effective Date: December 5,2000
Expiration Date: February 28, 2003 Revised Expiration Date: February 28,2006
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL, MERCY HOSPITAL, METROPOLITAN LINEN SERVICES, PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE, AND UNITED HOSPITAL
And SEIU Local 113
SUBJECT: EXPERIENCE CREDITS FOR SERVICE WORKERS
Background: Allina is experiencing difficulty in retaining and recruiting employees for selected Local 113 service worker positions. The local labor market is experiencing record low levels of unemployment (1.79%) at the same time the hospitals have been experiencing higher patient volumes. This has resulted in tremendous amounts of overtime, staff having to work double shifts, and the use of temporary or outside staff. Given this combination, Allina and Local 113 have a shared interest in having a process available for granting credits for past experience for positions that have a history of being difficult to keep staffed and positions in which cumulative years of experience add worth to the organization. Therefore, Allina and Local 113 through the AllinaZLocal 113 System LMC jointly developed the following procedure for applying experience credits for Local 113 members.
Agreement Parameters:
1.	A recommendation as to whether or not to offer experience credits for a specific position will be made on a business unit by business unit basis.
2.	Any proposal to grant experience credits first needs to be approved by the Allina/Local 113 System Labor Management Committee. Final approval rests with the business unit’s Sr. Management Team.
3.	If experience credits are approved for a position, they must apply for all current employees as well as new hires.
4.	Any pay rate changes due to experience credits being granted will be effective the first pay period after the approval of credits has been granted. No retro payments will be made.
Procedure:
1.	A proposal must be prepared that includes the following information about the position under consideration for providing experience credits:
♦	Justification as to why prior experience brings added worth to the organization
♦	Number of FTE’s of open positions compared to budget
♦	Average time to fill in the past three years
♦	Number of hours and cost associated with overtime, doubles, double backs, use of agency personnel, use of other higher paid staff
♦	Turnover rates for the past three years
32
♦	Proposed system for granting experience credits and the financial impact of doing so with both current employees and the filling of open but budgeted positions
2.	The completed proposal must be submitted to the business unit Human Resources Department. HR will review the proposal for completeness and accuracy, and then forward it for consideration to the Allina/Local 113 System Labor Management Committee.
3.	If the proposal is approved by the Allina/Local 113 System LMC, the proposal will then be forwarded to the business unit Sr. Management Team fortheir approval. If it is not approved by the Allina/Local 113 System LMC, the business unit making the proposal will be informed of that decision and the rationale for it.
4.	If the proposal is approved by the business unit Sr. Management Team, HR will work with the appropriate department to implement the agreed upon experience credit system, including:
♦	Developing a written description of the experience credit system for that position (# of years granted for what type of experience; any maximum for # of years granted, etc.)
♦	Implementing experience credits for current employees (informing them as well as making appropriate salary adjustments)
♦	Adjusting information on currently posted positions so that the impact of experience credits is reflected accurately within the postings
♦	Developing and implementing an evaluation system to determine if the granting of experience credits has had the desired effect on retention and recruitment
If the proposal is not approved by the business unit’s Sr. Management Team, the HR and Local 113 representatives making the proposal will be informed of that decision and the rationale for it.
Term of Agreement: This agreement shall remain in place from the date below on which it was signed, through the term of the current contract period, which is February 28th, 2003. It will then be re-evaluated as a part of the overall contract negotiations.
_________ SIGNED
Joyce Gonier, Local 113
1/15/01
Date
________________SIGNED
Bill MacNally, Co-chair
Allina Labor Policy Committee
1/9/2001
Date
33
LOU 113 Service - ANW #2003-3 Original Date: September 2000 Effective Date: March 1, 2003 Expiration Date: Ongoing
Letter of Understanding Between Abbott Northwestern Hospital And SEIU Local 113
SUBJECT: Central Processing Case Cart Technicians and Instrument Processors-Original Date September 2000
Local 113 and Abbott Northwestern Hospital have reached an agreement to create a new job classification for Central Processing Case Cart Technicians and Instrument Processors with certification in sterile instrumentation. It is the interest of both parties to further professional development for current employees and to improve our ability to attract and retain staff. For these reasons, the Central Processing ‘Case Cart Technicians with certification’ and ‘Instrument Processors with certification’ shall be paid $0.50 above the pay scale as listed in Appendix A of the cunent Service Contract. The employee must maintain current certification in older to receive the higher rate of pay. A lapse in certification will result in a return to the uncertified pay scale.
________SIGNED________________. Joyce Gonier
Date_______1/18/01_____________
SIGNED__________________
Al Johnson
Date__________9/11/00___________
34
LOU 113 Service - United #2003-4 Effective Date: March 1, 2003 Expiration Date: Ongoing
Letter of Understanding
Between United Hospital
And
SEIU Local 113
SUBJECT: Case Cart Aide - Original LOU effective December 16, 2000 - Modified
March 1,2003
This is to confinn the agreement reached on 12/8/2000 between United Hospital and Local 113 regarding the role of Case Cart Aide. Changes reflected below will be effective 12/16/2000.
The changes described below reflect the interest of both parties to reward the efforts and contributions of long-term skilled CCA's, to increase opportunities for growth of CCA’s, and to increase success of recruiting and retraining new Case Cart Aides.
The job title will be changed from Case Cart Aide to Surgical Support Technician. Seniority will not change with this change in job title.
The model of development of Surgical Support Technicians follows.
35
Surgical Support Technician Development Model
New employee
Approximate timeframe to arapiete # t - 10 weeks. J weeks on days, 5 weeks on shift hired far. Required far 1J[ SSTschs.
1 Orient to Supply (Case Carts, Sterile Storage)
1
OngnUB-Instruments
(Instrument Rooms up and down, Deqontam up and down)
to get from # 1 to# 2 ■ dvveeks. Required for all SSTechs.
2
Complete Basic Supply & Instrument Competencies
Optional: If desired, each individual may advance to #3.
Complete Advanced Supply & Instrument Competencies
Employees will be compensated for each level of their development, including obtaining certification by completing a course at a Technical school. See Appendix A for Compensation scales.
36
BY________________SIGNED__________ BY____________________________________
United Hospital Surgical Leader	SEIU, Ixcal 113
Date 12/20/00 Date
BY ___________SIGNED______________
William MacNally
Allina Heal th.System .Labor-Management--------------------------------------------
Date__________1/2/2001____________
37
LOU 113 Service - United #2003-5
Original Effective Date: 3/20/02 Expiration Date: Ongoing
Letter of Understanding
Between
SEIU Local 113
And
United Hospital
Regarding transferring seniority hours front the Nursing Assistant classification to the Patient Care Assistant classification.
This Letter of Understanding reflects the agreement reached between SEPT Tzical 113 and United Hospital regarding the combination of seniority hours of the Nursing Assistant (NA) and the Patient Care Assistant (PCA). Nursing Assistant training is a requirement of the Patient Care Assistant role. The PCA role will be viewed as a career step for the NA classification. If an NA transfers into an open PCA position, the NA seniority will also transfer into the new classification.
United Hospital will review the employment records of all current PCAs. If the records reflect PCAs with previous United Hospital NA seniority hours, those hours will be transferred and added to the PCA’s seniority hours.
This will result in one seniority list for all NAs and PCAs going forward.
BY_____________SIGNED____________
Joyce Gonier SEIU Local 113
Date_________5/16/02____________
BY___________SIGNED________________
United Hospital
Date________3/20/02_______________
38
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
It is in the interest of both the Hospital and the Employee to maintain consistency in work assignments within job classifications.
When Local 113 identifies a concern over consistency in work assignments the issue may be referred to the Local 113 Labor/Management Committee.
The Local LMC will develop and implement a written process for review and action.
By:
SLQned
Chair, Allina Labor Policy Committee
By:_________SIGNER
SEIU, Local 113
Date:
Date:
39
ACTION PLANS FROM 2003 NEGOTIATIONS
1.	Shoes
A.	United Hospital Only - The Hospital will continue the practice of supplying safety shoes for the ee's working in the maintenance department at United hospital in the classifications of Building Maintenance I and II.
B.	The Safety Committees at each site (with participation from Local 113 employees) will review OSHA standards, the rules as set by the MN State Department of Health and additional data to include accident & injury reports to provide recommendations. Labor and Management will meet to discuss the recommendations.
C.	Management agrees that union members will not be required to leave their shoes at work.
D.	The Safety Committees at each site (with participation from Local 113 employees) will review OSHA standards, the rules as set by the MN State Department of Health and additional data to include accident & injury reports to provide recommendations. Labor and Management will meet to discuss the recommendations.
2.	Casual and Student- Extra Hours
A.	AB employees including Casuals and students, will have to follow the extra hour article in the contract when granting extra hours.
B.	When a student returns to work from school and has maintained his/her casual status, seniority must be followed when granting hours on the schedule.
3.	Parking
A. The Employer is committed to continuing to provide a safe parking environment
40
APPENDIX A			
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL			
			
Parking Cashier			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1. 2004	March L2005
Start	$10.37	$10.78	$11.21
After 1 year	$11.19	$11.64	$12.10
After 2 years	$11.75	$12.22	$12.71
After 3 years	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23
After 4 years	$12.48	$12.98	$13.50
After 5 years	$12.85	$13.37	$13.90
After 6 years	$13.36	$13.90	$14.45
After 8 years	$13.48	$14.02	$14.58
After 12 years	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 15 years	$13.61	$14.44	$15.02
			
Dietarv/Aide/Housekeeping/Aide/Parking/AttendaDt/Linen/			
Aide/Courier/Y ardperson			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1.2005
Start	$11.14	$11.58	$12.05
After 1 year	$11.90	$12.37	$12.87
After 2 years	$12.52	$13.02	$13.54
After 3 years	$12.95	$13.47	$14.00
After 4 years	$13.24	$13.77	$14.32
After 5 years	$13.68	$14.22	$14.79
After 6 years	$14.10	$14.67	$15.25
After 8 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 12 years	$14.35	$14.93	$15.52
After 15 years	$14.35	$15.22	$15.83
41
|	ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL
[Nursing Assistant
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1. 2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$11.66	$12.12	$12.61
After 1 year	$12.43	$12.93	$13.44
After 2 years	$13.02	$13.54	$14.08
After 3 years	$13.51	$14.05	$14.61
After 4 years	$13.74	$14.29	$14.86
After 5 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 6 years	$14.67	$15.26	$15.87
After 8 years	$14.80	$15.39	$16.01
After 12 years	$14.94	$15.54	$16.16
After 15 years	$14.94	$15.85	$16.49
			
Transport Aide	1			
	Rate per Hour	|		
	March 1, 2003	March 1,2004	March 1,2005
Start	$11.25	$11.70	$12.17
After 1 year	$12.02	$12.50	$13.00
(After 2 years	$12.63	$13.13	$13.66
[After 3 years	$13.11	$13.64	$14.18
(After 4 years	$13.34	$13.88	$14.43
(After 5 years	$13.80	$14.35	$14.93
[After 6 years	$14.28	$14.85	$15.44
(After 8 years	$14.40	$14.98	$15.58
(After 12 years	$14.55	$15.13	$15.74
[After 15 years	$14.55	$15.43	$16.05
			
[Materials Handler			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1,2004	March 1, 2005
[Start	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82
[After 1 year	$12.59	$13.10	$13.62
(After 2 years	$13.32	$13.86	$14.41
[After 3 years	$13.73	$14.28	$14.85
[After 4 years	$14.05	$14.61	$15.20
[After 5 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 6 years	$14.92	[	$15.52	$16.14
After 8 years	$15.07	$15.67	$16.30
After 12 years	$15.22	$15.82	$16.46
After 15 years	$15.22	$16.14	$16.79
42
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL			
Yardperson Driver			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1, 20041 March 1. 2005	
			
Start	$11.87	$12.34	|	$12.83
After 1 year	$12.73	$13.24	1	$13.77
After 2 years	$13.33	$13.87	$14.42
After 3 years	$13.76	$14.31	|	$14.88
After 4 years	$14.07	$14.63 j $15.22	
After 5 years	$14.51	$15.09	$15.69
After 6 years	$14.98	$15.58	$16.20
After 8 years	$15.11	$15.72	$16.34
After 12 years	$15.26	$15.87	$16.50
After-15-years		$15r26			$16.-18		1	$16;83	
			
Nutrition Float Pool Aide			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$11.99	$12.47	$12.97
After I year	$12.76	$13.27	$13.80
After 2 years	$13.43	$13.96	$14.52
After 3 years	$13.93	$14.48	$15.06
After 4 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 5 years	$14.67	$15.26	$15.87
After 6 years	$15.12	$15.73	$16.36
After 8 years	$15.27	$15.88	$16.51
After 12 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 15 years	$15.42	$16.36	$17.02
			
Storekeeper/Materials Mgmt Aide			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1.2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$11.35	$11.80	$12.27
After 1 year	$12.08	$12.57	$13.07
After 2 years	$12.77	$13.28	$13.81
After 3 years	$13.21	$13.74	$14.29
After 4 years	$13.50	$14.04	$14.60
After 5 years	$13.92	$14.47	$15.05
After 6 years	$14.40	$14.98	$15.58
After 8 years	$14.51	$15.09	$15.69
After 12 years	$14.66	$15.25	$15.86
After 15 years	514.66	$15.56	$16.18
43
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL			
Equipment Processor			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1,2005
Start	$11.44	$11.90	$12.37
After 1 year	$12.22	$12.71	$13.22
After 2 years	$12.86	$13.38	$13.91
After 3 years	$13.35	$13.89	$14.44
After 4 years	$13.62	$14.17	$14.74
After 5 years	$14.08	$14.64	$15.23
After 6 years	$14.49	$15.07	$15.67
After 8 years	$14.62	$15.21	$15.82
After 12 years	$14.77	$15.36	$15.97
After 15 years	$14.77	$15.67	$16.29
			
Central Processing Case Cart Tech/Bldg Maint. Meeh I			
	Rate per Hour		
	March L 2003	March 1. 2004	March I. 2005
Start	$11.61	$12.07	$12.55
After 1 year	$12.36	$12.85	$13.36
After 2 years	$13.01	$13.53	$14.07
After 3 years	$13.44	$13.97	$14.53
After 4 years	$13.76	$14.31	$14.88
After 5 years	$14.18	$14.74	$15.33
After 6 years	$14.61	$15.20	$15.80
After 8 years	$14.77	$15.36	$15.97
After 12 years	$14.91	$15.51	$16.13
After 15 years	$14.91	$15.82	$16.45
			
Operating Room Instrument Processor			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1,2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$12.18	$12.67	$13.17
After 1 year	$12.97	$13.49	$14,03
After 2 years	$13.62	$14.17	$14.74
After 3 years	$14.12	$14.69	$15.28
After 4 years	$14.41	$14.99	$15.59
After 5 years	$14.88	$15.48	$16.10
After 6 years	$15.32	$15.93	$16.57
After 8 years	$15.46	$16.08	$16.73
After 12 years	$15.62	$16.25	$16.90
After 15 years	$15.62	$16.57	$17.23
44
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL
{Shuttle Bus Driver/Surgical Support Specialist/Anesthesia Aide/Floor			
Care Asst			
	Rate per Hour		
	March L 2003	March k 2004	March 1,2005
Start	$12.27	$12.76	$13.27
After 1 year	$13.05	$13.57	$14.12
After! years	$13.72	$14.27	$14.84
After 3 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 4 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 5 years	$14.97	$15.56	$16.19
After 6 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 8 years	$15.57	$16.19	$16.84
After 12 years	$15.74	$16.36	$17.02
		tic _74		—$16;69			C 1.7.1X	
Alter 13 years	J) 13, f"v		Jr/rjO
			
Warehouse H			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1, 2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$13.62	$14.17	$14.74
After 1 year	$14.41	$14.99	$15.59
After 2 years	$15.11	$15.72	$16.34
After 3 years	$15.68	$16.31	$16.96
After 4 years	$15.97	$16.61	$17.28
After 5 years	$16.44	$17.10	$17.78
After 6 years	$16.94	$17.62	$18.32
After 8 years	$17.12	$17.80	$18.52
After 12 years	$17.30	$17.99	$18.71
After 15 years	$17.30	$18.35	$19.08
			
Head Cook			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1,2005
Start	$13.17	$13.69	$14.24
After 1 year	$13.99	$14.55	$15.13
After 2 years	$14.75	$15.34	$15.95
After 3 years	$15.22	$15.82	$16.46
After 4 years	$15.53	$16.15	$16.79
After 5 years	$15.95	$16.59	$17.26
After 6 years	$16.46	$17.12	$17.81
After 8 years	$16.65	$17.32	$18.01
After 12 years	$16.82	$17.49	$18.19
After 15 years	$16.82	$17.84	$18.55
45
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL
iDriver-Light A/Courier
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1, 2004	March 1,2005
Start	$15.74	$16.36	$17.02
After 1 year	$16.55	$17.21	$17,90
After 2 years	$17.37	$18.06	$18.79
After 3 years	$17.93	$18.65	$19.39
After 4 years	$18.29	$19.03	$19.79
After 5 years	$18.84	$19.60	$20.38
After 6 years	$19.35	$20.13	$20.93
After 8 years	$19.56	$20.34	$21.16
After 12 years	$19.76	$20.55	$21.37
After 15 years	$19.76	$20.96	$21.80
			
Building Maintenance Mechanic II			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1, 2004;	March 1. 2005
Start	$18.29	$19.03	$19.79
After 1 year	$19.27	$20.04	$20.84
After 2 years	$20.12	$20.93	$21.77
After 3 years	$20.79	$21.62	• $22.49
After 4 years	$21.16	$22.01	$22.89
After 5 years	$21.79	$22.66	$23.57
After 6 years	$22.35	$23.24	$24.17
After 8 years	$22.56	$23.46	$24.40
After 12 years	$22.78	$23.69	$24.63
After 15 years	$22.78	$24.16	$25.13
			
First Cook	_ _ 				
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1, 2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$12.57	$13.08	$13.60
After 1 year	$13.34	$13.88	$14,43
After 2 years	$14.05	$14.61	$15.20
After 3 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 4 years	$14.84	$15.43	$16.05
After 5 years	$15.28	$15.89	$16.52
After 6 years	$15.76	$16.39	$17.04
After 8 years	$15.89	$16.53	$17.19
After 12 years	$16.05	$16.69	$17.36
After 15 years	$16.05	$17.02	$17,70
46
ABBOTT NORTHWESTERN HOSPITAL
(1)	Employees working as Department Aides will be classified as "(Department Name) Aide" and will receive pay rates equal to Nursing Assistants if the training and responsibility of the job is comparable to that of Nursing Assistants. AB other Department Aides will be paid at the same rate as the grouping of Dietary Aide, Housekeeping Aide, etc., as provided in this Agreement.
(2)	The Building Maintenance Mechanic I rate shall be applicable to those Building Maintenance Mechanics whose primary function is ihe performance of miscellaneous repair and maintenance functions of a handyman or utility nature which do not require specialized skills or training such as repair of doors, hinges, locks, repair of windows and glass and hanging of pictures, drapes, and shades.
(3)	The Building Maintenance Mechanic n rate shall be applicable to those Building Maintenance Mechanics whose primary function is the performance of a variety of skilled functions which require ability usually acquired over a prolonged period of training and experience including, but not limited to, such skills as those of a painter, carpenter, cabinetmaker, electrician, and plumber. Employees performing functions who have not acquired the necessary skills to perform as a fully--qualified Building Maintenance Mechanic II shall be paid a rate at lease equal to the Level I rate and shall be advanced to the Level II rate at such time as they are able to full perform the functions required of a Building Maintenance Mechanic II.
47
METROPOLITAN LINEN SERVICES
			
Laundry Aide/Seamstress			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1. 2004	March 1.2005
Start	$11.14	$11.58	$12.05
After 1 year	$11.90	$12.37	$12.87
After 2 years	$12.52	$13.02	$13.54
After 3 years	$12.95	$13.47	$14.00
After 4 years	$13.24	$13.77	$14.32
After 5 years	$13.68	$14.22	$14.79
After 6 years	$14.10	$14.67	$15.25
After 8 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 12 years	$14.35	$14.93	$15.52
After 15 years	$14.35	$15.22	$15.83
			
Washer-Extractor Operator			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1,2004	March 1,2005
Start	$11.67	$12.14	$12.62
After 1 year	$12.50	$13.00	$13.52
After 2 years	$13.08	$13.61	$14.15
After 3 years	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 4 years	$13.85	$14.41	$14.98
After 5 years	$14.33	$14.90	$15.50 .
After 6 years	$14.75	$15.34	$15.95
After 8 years	$14.88	$15.48	$16.10
After 12 years	$15.03	$15.63	$16.25
After 15 years	$15.03	$15.94	$16.58
			
Laundry Lead Person			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1,2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$12.42	$12.89	$13.37
After 1 year	$13.25	$13.75	$14.27
After 2 years	$13.83	$14.36	$14.90
After 3 years	$14.36	$14.91	$15.47
After 4 years	$14.60	$15.16	$15.73
After 5 years	$15.08	$15.65	$16.25
After 6 years	$15.50	$16.09	$16.70
After 8 years	$15.63 I	$16.23	$16.85
After 12 years	$15.78 i	$16.38	$17.00
After 15 years	$15.78	|	$16.69	$17.33
48
METROPOLITAN LINEN SERVICES
Wall Washer			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1. 2004	March 1.2005
Start	$12.27	$12.76	$13.27
After 1 year	$13.05	$13.57	$14.12
After 2 years	$13.72	$14.27	$14.84
After 3 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 4 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 5 years	$14.97	$15.56	$16.19
After 6 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 8 years	$15.57	$16.19	$16.84
After_12. years			$15.74			$16.36			$17.02	
After 15 years	$15.74	$16.69	$17.36
			
Driver Heavy			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1.2004	March 1.2005
Start	$15.31	$15.92	$16.56
After 1 year	$16.15	$16.80	$17.47
After 2 years	$16.89	$17.57	$18.27
After 3 years	$17.44	$18.14	$18.86
After 4 years	$17.80	$18.52	$19.26
After 5 years	r $18.30	$19.04	$19.80
After 6 years	$18.86	$19.61	$20.39
After 8 years	$19.02	$19.78	$20.57
After 12 years	$19.22	$19.99	$20.79
After 15 years	$19.22	$20.39	$21.20
49
PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE
Parking Cashier			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1,2004	March I, 2005
Start	$10,37	$10.78	$11.21
After 1 year	$11,19	$11.64	$12.10
After 2 years	$11.75	$12.22	$12.71
After 3 years	$12,23	$12.72	$13.23
After 4 years	$12,48	$12.98	$13.50
After 5 years	$12.85	$13.37	$13.90
After 6 years	$13.36	$13.90	$14.45
After 8 years	$13.48	$14.02	$14.58
After 12 years	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 15 years	$13.61	$14.44	$15.02
			
Dietary Aide/Patient Escort/Housekeeping Aide/Y ardperson			
	Rate per Hour		
	Match 1, 2003	March 1,2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$11.14	$11.58	$12.05
After 1 year	$11.90	$12.37	$12.87
After 2 years	$12,52	$13.02	$13.54
After 3 years	$12.95	$13.47	$14.00
After 4 years	$13.24	$13.77	$14.32
After 5 years	$13.68	$14.22	$14.79
After 6 years	$14.10	$14.67	$15.25
After 8 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 12 years	$14.35	$14.93	$15.52
After 15 years	$14.35	$15.22	$15.83
			
Transport Aide			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1.2004	March 1. 2005
Start	SI 1.25	$11.70	$12.17
After 1 year	St 2.02	$12.50	$13.00
After 2 years	$12.63	$13.13	$13.66
After 3 years	$13.11	$13.64	$14.18
After 4 years	$13.34	$13.88	$14.43
After 5 years	$13.80	$14.35	$14.93
After 6 years	$14.28	$14.85	|	$15.44
After 8 years	$14.40	$14.98 j	$15.58
|After 12 years	$14.55	$15.13	|	$15.74
^After 15 years	$14.55	$15.43	|	$16.05
50
PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE			
Building Maintenance Mechanic I			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$11.61	$12.07	$12.55
After 1 year	$12.36	$12.85	$13.36
After 2 years	$13.01	$13.53	$14.07
After 3 years	$13.44	$13.97	$14.53
After 4 years	$13.76	$14.31	$14.88
After 5 years	$14.18	$14.74	$15.33
After 6 years	$14.61	$15.20	$15.80
After 8 years	$14.77	$15.36	$15.97
After 12 years	$14.91	$15.51	$16.13
After 15 years	$14.91	$15.82	$16.45
			
Ward Secretary			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1. 2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$11.67	$12.14	$12.62
After 1 year	$12.50	$13.00	$13.52
After 2 years	$13.08	$13.61	$14.15
After 3 years	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 4 years	$13.85	$14.41	$14.98
After 5 years	$14.33	$14.90	$15.50
After 6 years	$14.75	$15.34	$15.95
After 8 years	$14.88	$15.48	$16.10
After 12 years	$15.03	$15.63	$16.25
After 15 years	$15.03	$15.94	$16.58
			
Materials Handler			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1. 2004	March 1.2005
Start	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82
After 1 year	$12.59	$13.10	$13.62
After 2 years	$13.32	$13.86	$14.41
After 3 years	$13.73	$14.28	$14.85
After 4 years	$14.05	$14.61	$15.20
After 5 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 6 years	$14.92	$15.52	$16.14
After 8 years	$15.07	$15.67	$16.30
After 12 years	$15.22	$15.82	$16.46
After 15 years	$15.22	$16.14	$16.79
51
PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE			
Patient Support Aide/Cook			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1.2004	March 1.2005
Start	$11.99	$12.47	$12.97
After 1 year	$12.76	$13.27	$13.80
After 2 years	$13.43	$13.96	$14.52
After 3 years	$13.93	$14.48	$15.06
After 4 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 5 years	$14.67	$15.26	$15.87
After 6 years	$15.12	$15.73	$16.36
After 8 years	$15.27	$15.88	$16.51
After 12 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 15 years	$15.42	r $16.36	$17.02
			
First Cook	1	1	!	
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	March 1,2004	Map?h 1,2005
Start	$12.57	$13.08	$13.60
After 1 year	$13.34	$13.88	$14.43
After 2 years	$14.05	$14.61	$15.20
After 3 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 4 years	$14.84	$15.43	$16.05
After 5 years	$15.28	$15.89	$16.52
After 6 years	$15.76	$16.39	$17.04
After 8 years	$15.89	$16.53	$17.19
After 12 years	$16.05	$16.69	$17.36
After 15 years	$16.05	$17.02	$17.70
52
PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE
;Head Cook
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1 ■ 2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$13.17	$13.69	$14.24
After 1 year	$13.99	$14.55	$15.13
After 2 years	$14.75	$15.34	$15.95
After 3 years	$15.22	$15.82	$16.46
After 4 years	$15.53	$16.15	$16.79
After 5 years	$15.95	$16.59	$17.26
After 6 years	$16.46	$17.12	$17.81
After 8 years	$16.65	$17.32	$18.01
After 12 years	$16.82	$17.49	$18.19
After 15 years	$16.82	$17.84	$18.55
			
			
Driver Heavy			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 1999	March 1.2000	March 1, 2001
Start	$15.31	$15.92	$16.56
After 1 year	$16.15	$16.80	$17.47
After 2 years	$16.89	$17.57	$18.27
After 3 years	$17.44	$18.14	$18.86
After 4 years	$17.80	$18.52	$19.26
After 5 years	$18.30	$19.04	$19.80
After 6 years	$18.86	$19.61	$20.39
After 8 years	$19.02	$19.78	$20.57
After 12 years	$19.22	$19.99	$20.79
After 15 years	$19.22	$20.39	$21.20
53
[	PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE			
f			
[Building Maintenance Meeh II			
[	|	Rate per Hour		
1 1	[March 1.2003	March 1. 2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$18.29	$19.03	$19.79
After 1 year	$19.27	$20.04	$20.84
After 2 years	$20.12	$20.93	$21.77
After 3 years	$20.79	$21.62	$22.49
After 4 years	$21.16	$22.01	$22.89
After 5 years	$21.79	$22.66	$23.57
After 6 years	$22.35	$23.24	$24.17
After 8 years	$22.56	$23.46	$24.40
After 12 years	$22.78	$23.69	$24.63
After 15 years	$22.78	$24.16	$25.13
			
Wall Washer			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1.2004	March 1,2005
Start	$12.27	$12.76	$13.27
After 1 year	$13.05	$13.57	$14.12
After 2 years	$13.72	$14.27	$14.84
After 3 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 4 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 5 years	$14.97	$15.56	$16.19
After 6 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 8 years	$15.57	$16.19	$16.84
[After 12 years	$15.74	$16.36	$17.02
After 15 years	$15.74	$16.69	$17.36
54
PHILLIPS EYE INSTITUTE			
Receiving Clerk			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$12.79	$13.30	$13.84
After 1 year	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 2 years	$14.33	$14.90	$15.50
After 3 years	$14.83	$15.42	$16.04
After 4 years	$15.09	$15.69	$16.32
After 5 years	$15.60	$16.22	$16.87
After 6 years	$16.05 .	$16.69	$17.36
After 8 years	$16.23	$16.88	$17.56
After 12 years	$16.39	$17.05	$17.73
After 15 years	$16.39	$17.39	$18.08
			
Nursing Assistant			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1.2004	March 1.2005
Start	$11.66	$12.12	$12.61
After 1 year	$12.43	$12.93	$13.44
After 2 years	$13.02	$13.54	$14.08
After 3 years	$13.51	$14.05	$14.61
After 4 years	$13.74	$14.29	$14.86
After 5 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 6 years	$14.67	$15.26	$15.87
After 8 years	$14.80	$15.39	$16.01
After 12 years	$14.94	$15.54	$16.16
After 15 years	$14.94	$15.85	$16.49
(1)	Employees working u Department Aides will be classified as "(Department Kame) Aide" and will receive pay rates equal to Nursing Assistants if tbe training and responsibility of the job is comparable to that of Nursing Assistants. All other Department Aides will be paid at the same rate as die grouping of Dietary Aide, Housekeeping Aide, etc., as provided in this Agreement.
(2)	The Building Maintenance Mechanic I rate shall be applicable to those Building Maintenance Mechanics whose ptitnary function is the performance of miscellaneous repair and maintenance functions of a handyman or utility nature Which do not require specialized skills or training such as repair of windows and glass and tanging of pictures, drapes, and shades.
(3)	Tbe Building Maintenance Mechanic H rate shall be applicable to those Building Maintenance Mechanics whose primary function is the performance of a variety of skilled functions which require ability usually acquired over ■ prolonged period of training and experience including, but not limited to, such skills as those of a painter, carpenter, cabinetmaker, electrician, and plunder. Employees performing functions who have not acquired tbe necessary skills to perform as a fully-qualified Building Maintenance Mechanic II shall be paid a rate at least equal to the Level I rate and shall be advanced to the Level II rate at such time as they are able to fully perform the functions required of a Building Maintenance Mechanic II.
55
|	UNITED HOSPITAL			
{Dietary Aide/Linen Aide/Environmental Service			
1	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1, 2004	March 1, 2005
Start	Sil.14	$11.58	$12.05
After 1 year	$11.90	$12.37	$12.87
After 2 years	$12.52	$13.02	$13.54
After 3 years	$12.95	$13.47	$14.00
After 4 years	$13.24	$13.77	$14.32
After 5 years	$13.68	$14.22	$14.79
After 6 years	$14.10	$14.67	$15.25
After 8 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 12 years	$14.35	$14.93	$15.52
After 15 years	$14.35	$15.22	$15.83
			
Nursing Assistant			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1.2004	March 1, 2005
Start	SI 1.66	$12,12	$12.61
After I year	$12.43	$12.93	$13.44
[After 2 years	$13.02	$13.54	$14.08
[After 3 years	$13.51	$14.05	$14.61
lAfter 4 years	$13.74	$14.29	$14.86
After 5 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 6 years	$14.67	$15.26	$15.87
After 8 years	$14.80	$15.39	$16.01
After 12 years	$14.94	$15.54	$16.16
After 15 years	$14.94	$15.85	$16.49
			
Transport Aide/PT Aide			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1, 2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$11.25	$11.70	$12.17
After 1 year	$12.02	$12.50	$13.00
After 2 years	$12.63	$13.13	$13.66
After 3 years	$13.11	$13.64	$14.18
After 4 years	$13.34	$13.88	$14.43
After 5 years	$13.80	$14.35	$14.93
After 6 years	$14.28	$14.85	$15.44
After 8 years	$14.40	$14.98	$15-58
After 12 years	$14.55	$15.13	$15.74
After 15 years	$14.55	[	$15.43	[	$16.05	[
56
|	UNITED HOSPITAL			
Storekeeper		 				
	Rate per Hour		
1	March 1,2003	March 1,2004	MarchX20Q5
(Start	JI 1.35	$11.80	$12.27
(After 1 year	$12.08	$12.57	$13.07
(After 2 years	$12.77	$13.28	$13.81
(After 3 years	$13.21	$13.74	$14.29
(After 4 years	$13.50	$14.04	$14.60
(After 5 years	$13.92	$14.47 ;	$15.05
(After 6 years	$14.40	$14.98	$15.58
(After 8 years	$14.51	$15.09	$15.69
(After 12 years	$14.66	$15.25	$15.86
(After 15 years	$14.66	$15.56	$16.18
			
			
(Surgical Support Tech I without TVI/SterjleProcessing Tech without			
(TVI/Telephone Operate	r/Building Maint Meeh I/POA		
|	Rate per Hour		
1	March 1.2003	March 1. 2004	March 1,2005
(Start	$11.61	$12.07	$12.55
(After 1 year		$12.36	$12.85	$13.36
[After 2 years	$13.01	$13.53	$14.07
(After 3 years		$13.44	$13.97	$14.53
(After 4 years		$13.76	$14.31	$14.88
(After 5 years		$14.18	$14.74	$15.33
(After 6 years	$14.61	$15.20	$15.80
(After 8 years	$14.77	$15.36	$15.97
(After 12 years	$14.91	$15.51	$16.13
(After 15 years	$14.91	$15.82	$16.45
1			
(Service Associate			
|	Rate per Hour		
|	March 1,2003	March 1. 2004	March 1.2005
[Start	$11.67	$12.14	$12,62
[After 1 year	$12.43	$12.93	$13.44
[After 2 years		$13.06	$13.58	$14.13
(After 3 years	$13.49	$14.03	$14.59
(After 4 years	$13.77	$14.32	$14.89
(After 5 years	$14.20	$14.76	$15.35
(After 6 years	$14.62	$15.21	$15.82
(After 8 years		$14.76	$15.35	$15.96
(After 12 years	$14.90	$15.50	$16.12
(After 15 years		$14.90	$15.81	|	$16.44
57
UNITED HOSPITAL			
Patient Care Associate			
	Rate per Hour		
	March I. 2003	March 1, 2004	March 1, 2005
Start	SI 1.92	$12.40	$12.89
After 1 year	$12.69	$13.20	$13.72
After 2 years	$13.27	$13.80	$14.35
After 3 years	$13.76	$14.31	$14.88
After 4 years	$14.01	$14.57	$15.15
After 5 years	$14.47	$15.05	$15.65
After 6 years	$14.93	$15.53	$16.15
After 8 years	$15.05	$15.65	$16.28
After 12 years	$15.19	$15.80	$16.43
After 15 years	$15.19	$16.12	$16.76
			
Yardperson/Deliverv Floor Care/Sterile Processing Tech with			
TVI/Surgical Support Tech Level I with TVI			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1,2004	March 1.2005
Start	$12.16	$12,64	$13.15
After 1 year	$12.98	$13.50	$14.04
After 2 years	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 3 years	$14.12	$14.69	$15.28
After 4 years	$14.36	$14.94	$15.53
After 5 years	$14.83	$15.42	$16.04
After 6 years	$15.28	$15.89	$16.52
After 8 years	$15.41	$16.03	$16.67
After 12 years	$15.57	$16.19	$16.84
After 15 years	$15.57	$16.52	$17.18
58
UNITED HOSPITAL			
Cook			
			Rate pct Hom		
	March 1.2Q03	March i. 2004	March 1. 2005
Start	SI 1.99	$12.47	$12.97
After 1 year	$12.76	$13.27	$13.80
After 2 years	$13.43	$13.96	$14.52
After 3 years	$13.93	$14.48	$15.06
After 4 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 5 years	$14.67	$15.26	$15.87
After 6 years	$15.12	$15.73	$1636
After 8 years	$15.27	$15,88	$16.51
After 12 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 15 years	$15.42	$16.36	$17.02
			
CV Associate			
		 Rate per Hour		
	March 1,2003	March 1,2004	March 1.2005
Start	$12.27	$12.76	$13.27
After 1 year	$13.07	$13.60	$14.14
After 2 years	$13.66	$14.20	$14.77
After 3 years	$14.13	$14.70	$15.29
After 4 years	$14.56	$15.14	$15.75
After 5 years	$15.00	$15.60	$16.22
After 6 years	$15.44	$16.06	$16.70
After 8 years	$15.91	$16.55	$17.21
After 12 years	$1639	$17.05	$17.73
After 15 years	$1639	$17.39	$18.08
			
Equipment Processor			
		 Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1.2004	March 1,2005
Start	$11.44	$11.90	$1237
After 1 year	$12.22	$12.71	$13.22
After 2 years	$12.86	$13.38	$13.91
After 3 years	$1335	$13.89	$14.44
After 4 years	$13.62	$14.17	$14.74
After 5 years	$14.08	$14.64	$15.23
After 6 years	$14.49	$15.07	$15.67
After 8 years	$14.62	$15.21	$15.82
[After 12 years	$14.77	$15.36	$15.97
[After 15 years	$14.77	$15.67	$16.29
59
|	UNITED HOSPITAL			
ISurgical Support Tech Level II without TVI			
J	Rate per Hour		
j	March 1.2003	| March 1. 2004	March 1.2005
j Start	Sil.87	$12.34	$12.83
After 1 year	$12.62	$13.12	$13.64
After 2 years	$13.27	$13.80	$14.35
After 3 years	$13.70	$14.24	$14.81
After 4 years	$14.02	$14.58	$15.16
After 5 years	$14.44	$15.01	$15.61
After 6 years	$14.87	$15.47	$16.09
After 8 years	$15.03	$15.63	$16.25
After 12 years	$15.17	$15.78	$16.41
After 15 years	$15.17	$16.10	$16.74
			
Surgical Support Tech Level II with TVI			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1, 2003	March 1, 2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$12.37	$12.86	$13.37
After 1 year	$13.11	$13.64	$14.18
After 2 years	$13.77	$14.32	$14.89
After 3 years	$14.20	$14.76	$15.35
After 4 years	$14.52	$15.10	$15.70
After 5 years	$14.93	$15.53	$16.15
After 6 years	$15.37	$15.99	$16.63
After 8 years	$15.53	$16.15	$16.79
After 12 years	$15.67	$16.30	$16.95
After 15 years	$15.67	$16.63	$17.29
			
Surgical Support Tech Level III without TVI			
	Rate of Pay		
	March 1. 2003	March 1,2004	March 1, 2005
Start	$12.27	$12.76	$13.27
After I year	$13.05	$13.57	$14.12
After 2 years	$13.72	$14.27	$14.84
After 3 years	$14.21	$14.77	$15.37
After 4 years	$14.50	$15.08	$15.68
After 5 years	$14.97	$15.56	$16.19
After 6 years	$15.42	$16.04	$16.68
After 8 years	$15.57	$16.19	$16.84
After 12 years	$15.74	$16.36	$17.02
After 15 years	$15.74	$16.69	$17.36
60
UNITED HOSPITAL			
Surgical Support Tech - Level HI with TVI			
	Kat? of pay		
	March 1,2003	March 1.2004	March 1. 2005
Start	$12.77	$13.28	$13.81
After 1 year	$13.55	$14.09	$14.66
After 2 years	$14.22	$14.79	' $15.38
After 3 years	$14.71	$15.29	$15.91
After 4 years	$15.00	$15.60	$16.22
After 5 years	$15.46	$16.08	$16.73
After 6 years	$15.92	$16.56	$17.22
After 8 years	$16.07	$16.71	$17.38
After 12 years	$16.23	$16.88	$17.56
After 15 years	$16.23	$17.22	$17.91
			
Materials Handlcr/Head Storekeeper			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1. 2003	Magt) 1,2004	March 1.2005
Start	$12.79	$13.30	$13.84
After 1 year	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72
After 2 years	$14.33	$14.90	$15.50
After 3 years	$14.83	$15.42	$16.04
After 4 years	$15.09	$15.69	$16.32
After 5 years	$15.60	$16.22	$16.87
After 6 years	$16.05	$16.69	$17.36
After 8 years	$16.23	$16.88	$17.56
After 12 years	$16.39	$17.05	$17.73
After 15 years	$16.39	$17.39	$18.08
			
Head Cook			
	Rate per Hour		
	March 1.2003	March 1, 2Q04	March 1.2005
Start	$13.17	$13.69	$14.24
After 1 year	$13.99	$14.55	$15.13 ■
After 2 years	$14.75	$15.34	$15.95
After 3 years	$15.22	$15.82	$16.46
After 4 years	$15.53	$16.15	$16.79
After 5 years	$15.95	$16.59	$17.26
After 6 years	$16.46	$17.12	$17.81
After 8 years	$16.65	$17.32	$18.01
After 12 years	$16.82	$17.49	$18.19
After 15 years	$16.82	$17.84	$18.55
61
MINNESOTA’S HEALTH CARE UNION SEIU LOCAL 113 675 Stinson Boulevard Suite 200 Minneapolis, MN 55413 (612) 331-4690