Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: National Football League Management Council and National Football League
Players Association (NFLPA) (1993)
K#: 7991
Employer Name: National Football League Management Council
Location: National
Union: National Football League Players Association (NFLPA)
Local:
SIC: 7941	NAICS: 711211
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1300
Effective Date: 03/29/93	Expiration Date: 03/01/08
Number of Pages: 220	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/

CBA Extension Features
Some Important Features of the CBA Extension
1.	Extended Years
The CBA is extended through 2007. The 2004-2006 League Years will be Capped Years, and the 2007 League Year will be an Uncapped Year. Existing signing bonus proration rules will continue to apply with maximum proration as follows:
2.
2002	2003 7	7	2004 6	2005 5	2006 4	2007 U
Salary Cap Percentages The Salary Cap percentage shall be as follows:			•	
	old		new	
2oozh- -				4				
2003			64%				64.25%
2004/ ;				J:			
2005			NA				65.5%
							
Minimum Salaries
3.
Minimum salaries will no longer be increased each year by the percentage increase in DGR to a maximum of 10%. Instead, Paragraph 5 Minimum Salaries are set at the following specific amounts for the years indicated ($ in 000’s):
Credited Seasons	2002	2003	2004	2005	2006	2007
0	.	■	■. |	225 '|	| • 225: •	| 230	230	• 235/|	235
1	300	300	305	305	310	310
2; :	^ 375,?	375	I 380 ,|| 380		, '385	385 :|
3	450	450	455	455	460	460
4-6	.■■■	:	■	|	y 525	1 530 |	535	1 540	. 545 ,|	545
7-9	650	655	660	665	670	670
10+	■/ :7 '■	:	750	755 j	760	765	| 770	: ; 770 1
viinimum Salaries for the lesser part of split contracts shall be revised as follows:						
Credited Seasons	2002	2003	2004	2005	2006	2007
o	'	'■	■ 130 |	130 |	135 j		140	140 |
1	145	145	150	150	155	155
2	:	. ISO	; -401		165 |	<170	170
3	200	200	205	205	210	210
i4-y?;y	225 f	■? <225y,		230	235	■:J-235:A
1
7-9	250	250	255	255	260	260
10+	..28Q~^|/1280
4, Minimum Salary Benefits
Operation of Benefit
We are implementing a new system to make it less costly to retain older veterans at the minimum salary. Under this new system, the Salary Cap count for a player with four or more Credited Seasons who signs a qualifying contract (collectively, "qualifying players") will be the same as the count for a player with 3 Credited Seasons.
The difference between the Salary Cap count for a qualifying contract and the stated minimum for the qualifying player's years of service will be counted as a Player Benefit. For example, in the 2002 League Year, a qualifying player with 5 Credited Seasons will receive a Minimum Salary of $525,000; however, only $450,000 will count against his dub's Team Salary, The difference of $75,000 will be counted as a Player Benefit and be paid out of the League-wide benefit pool. Similarly, a qualifying player with 12 Credited Seasons will receive a Minimum Salary of $750,000; however, only $450,000 will count against his club's Team Salary. The difference of $300,000 will be counted as a Player Benefit and be paid out of the League-wide benefit pool. As a result, the 10-year veteran making $750,000 will cost the club the same as the three-year veteran making $450,000.
For players with 4 or more Credited Seasons, split contracts, if they otherwise qualify, may be qualifying contracts. For such contracts, the reduced Cap count will equal either the difference between the player’s minimum salary and the full minimum salary for players with 3 Credited Seasons (if the player is on an Actlve/Inactlve List) or the difference between the player’s split minimum salary and the split minimum for players with 3 Credited Seasons (if the player is not on an Active/Inactive List).
Method of Payment
Player to be paid 1/17 of specified Minimum Salary on weekly basis (e.g., 1/17 of $750,000 per week).
Qualifying Contracts (defined)
Player must have at least four credited seasons and must have either:
(a)	A new, one-year contract at the minimum signed after previous contract had either expired or been terminated; or
(b)	A continuing, multi-year contract signed before December 1, 2001 that calls for payment of the applicable minimum in 2002.
Additional compensation in either contract described in (a) or (b) above is limited to a maximum per year total of $25,000, Including allocated signing bonus, roster bonus, reporting bonus, and incentive bonuses (whether or not likely to be earned). If the player's prior contract was terminated, any amounts earned for a year under the terminated contract are included in the total for that year.
Salary guarantee and/or salary advance, if any, is limited to the minimum salary for a player with three credited seasons (for example, $450,000 in 2002),
A qualifying player who is terminated and thereafter re-signs with his old team does not qualify if, during the year the contract was terminated or the prior calendar year, the player negotiated a contract in which he has received or will receive any of the following from that team in any League Year:
(a)	Any increase in salary, or any guarantee, or any conversion of non-guaranteed money to signing bonus, adding up to a total of more than $25,000 in a renegotiation or extension; or
(b)	More than the applicable minimum plus $25,000 in additional compensation (including any allocated signing bonus) in a new multi-year contract.
Also, if the player is terminated in the same calendar year the terminated contract was signed, any accelerated signing bonus allocation, any allocation that counts that year after June 1, and other additional compensation the player has received or will receive under the terminated contract, may not exceed $25,000.
5.	Entering Player Pool
We are no longer increasing the rookie pool each year by the percentage increase in DGR to a maximum of 10%. Instead, we are keeping it the same for 2002 and 2003, and increasing it by the DGR percentage to a maximum of 5% in 2004 through 2007 as follows: 2002 - flat 2003 - flat 2004 - 5% maximum 2005 - 5% maximum 2006 - 5% maximum 2007 - 5% maximum
As with minimum salaries, we are putting the projected savings from this into a leaguewide incentive pool to be divided among rookies on a downs played basis (see paragraph 6 below).
6.	Performance-Based Pay Pools
Beginning in the 2002 League Year and continuing through 2007, a fund will be created with a) the difference in newly negotiated Minimum Salaries vs. Minimum Salaries calculated under the method previously In place (which was based upon the % growth in Projected DGR vs. prior year DGR, subject to 10% maximum increase) and b) the difference in the Entering Player Pool vs. Entering Player Pool calculated under the method previously in place (which was based upon the % growth in Projected DGR vs. prior year DGR, subject to 10% maximum increase).
Administration of Pool;
•	Prior to each League Year, the Pool will be projected on a League-wide basis and deducted from the calculation of the Salary Cap in the same manner as any other player benefit.
•	Mandatory distribution to players of the entire fund each year.
•	Players who qualify - to be agreed upon by NFLPA and NFLMC,
•	Method of determining payments: calculate total downs played, and award the players money based upon each individual's downs played in relation to the team's total downs (%) or such other rules as agreed.
7.	Franchise Players
Beginning in the 2002 League Year, teams will have a window beginning the day after the last day of the Franchise Player designation period and ending at 4:00 p.m. New York ' time on the fourteenth day following the start of the League Year during which, if the team signs its Franchise Player to a multi-year contract, the team may nonetheless retain its Franchise Player designation rights the following year. (By way of clarification, if the League Year begins on March 1, the window will end at 4:00 p.m. New York time on March 15.) If a multi-year contract is not signed during the window period, the current rules continue to apply without prejudice or inference being drawn from this modification in the CBA.
8.	Minimum Team Salary
In the 2002 League Year and thereafter, the Minimum Team Salary will be 56%, meaning that each team must spend at least 56% of league-wide DGR divided by the 32 teams.
I
I
THE NFL MANAGEMENT COUNCIL AND THE NFL PLAYERS ASSOCIATION
As Amended February 25, 1998
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction
Preamble
Article I	Definitions
Article II	Governing Agreement
Article III	Scope of Agreement
Article IV	No Strike/Lockout/Suit
Article V	Union Security
Article VI	NFLPA Agent Certification
Article VII	Player Security
Article VIII	Club Discipline
Article IX	Non-Injury Grievance
Article X	Injury Grievance
Article XI	Commissioner Discipline
Article XII	Injury Protection
Article XIII	Committees
Article XIV	NFL Player Contract
Article XV	Option Clause
Article XVI	College Draft
Article XVII	Entering Player Pool
Article XVIII	Veterans with less than 3 accrued seasons
Article XIX	Veteran Free Agency
Article XX	Franchise and Transition Players
Article XXI	Final Eight Plan
Article XXII	Waiver System
Article XXIII	Termination Pay
Article XXIV	Guaranteed League-wide Salary,
Salary Cap & minimum Team Salary
Article XXV	Enforcement of the Salary Cap and entering Player Pool
Article XXVI	Special Master
Article XXVII	Impartial Arbitrator
Article XXVIII	Anti-Collusion
Article XXIX	Certifications
Article XXX	Consultation and information sharing
Article XXXI	Expansion
Article XXXII	Other Provisions
Article XXXIII	Squad size
Article XXXIV	Practice Squads
Article XXXV	Off-season workouts
Article XXXVI	Minicamps
Article XXXVII	Pre-season training camps
Article XXXVIII	Salaries
Article XXXIX	Meal allowance
Article XL	Days off
Article XLl	Moving and travel expenses
Article XLI1	Post-season pay J Article XLIII Pro Bowl game
Article XLIV Players’ rights to medical care & treatment Article XLV Access to personnel & medical records Article XLV1 Player Benefit costs
Article XLVII Retirement Plan
Article XLV1I1 Second career savings plan
Article XLVIII-A Player annuity program
Article XLIX Group insurance
Article L	Severance pay
Article LI	Supplemental disability benefits
Article LII	Benefit Arbitrator
Article LIII Retention of benefits
Article LIV Workers* Compensation
Article LV	Miscellaneous
Article LVI Final league year
Article LVI1 Mutual reservation of rights:
Labor exemption
Article LVIII Duration of agreement
Article LIX Governing Law
Article LX Notices
Article LXI Extension of agreement
Appendix A
Appendix B
Appendix C
Appendix D
Appendix E
Appendix F
Appendix G
Appendix H
Appendix I
Appendix J
Appendix K
I	Appendix L
I	Appendix M
Appendix N
I '
I
Page 1
I	INTRODUCTION
On February 25, 1998, the National Football League Management Council (“NFLMC”) and the National Football League Players Association (“NFLPA”) agreed to extend, with certain modifications, the 1993 NFL Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”), which was previously amended June 6, 1996.
This booklet incorporates the 1998 extension agreement into the text of the CBA. The 1998 extension language to the amended 1993 CBA is set forth in italic copy with applicable notations to the extension agreement.
In addition, side letter agreements between the NFLMC and the NFLPA setting forth the parties’ interpretation of various provisions of the CBA are reprinted and indented within the appropriate articles. Side letters that were agreed to after the 1996 extension are added to this booklet, and are set forth in italics.
Page 2~blank
Page 3
PREAMBLE
This Agreement, which is the product of bona fide, arm’s length collective bargaining, is made and entered into on the 6th day of May, 1993, in accordance with the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, by and between the National Football League Management Council (“Management Council” or “NFLMC”), which is recognized as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of present and future employer member Clubs of the National Football League (“NFL” or “League”), and the National Football League Players Association (“NFLPA”), which is recognized as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of present and future employee players in the NFL in a bargaining unit described as follows:
1.	All professional football players employed by a member club of the National Football League;
2.	All professional football players who have been previously employed by a member club of the
National Football League who are seeking employment with an NFL Club;
3.	All rookie players once they are selected in the current year’s NFL College Draft; and
4.	All undrafted rookie players once they commence negotiation with an NFL Club concerning
employment as a player.	■
Page 4
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Section I.	General Definitions:
(a)	“Agreement” means this Collective Bargaining Agreement, dated May 6, 1993.
(b)	“Class Counsel” means the law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153, and the law firm of Lindquist & Vennum, 4200 IDS Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402.
(c)	“Club” or “Team” or “Member,” used interchangeably herein, means any entity that is a member of the NFL or operates a franchise in the NFL at any time during the term of this Agreement.
(d)	“Club Affiliate” or “Team Affiliate” means any entity or person owned by (wholly or partly), controlled by, affiliated with, or related to a Club or any owner of a Club.
(e)	“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the NFL.
(f)	“Impartial Arbitrator” means the person authorized by this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement to hear and resolve specified disputes as provided in this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement.	•
(g)	“League Year” means the period from February 20 of one year through and including February 19 of the following year, or such other one year period to which the NFL and the NFLPA may agree. For 1993, the League Year shall begin on March 1 and end on the date on which all 1993 League Year contracts terminate, as agreed between the NFL and the NFLPA.
(h)	“NFL Player Contract” means the form of Player Contract utilized in the NFL.
(i)	“NFL Rules” means the Constitution and By □ Laws, rules, and regulations of the NFL and/or Ure Management Council.
G) “Player Affiliate” means any entity or person owned by (wholly or partly), controlled by, affiliated with, or related to a player,
(k)	“Salary” means any compensation of money, property, investments, loans, or anything else of value that a Club pays to, or is obligated to pay to, a player or Player Affiliate, or is paid to a third party at the request of and for the benefit of a player or Player Affiliate, during a League Year, as calculated in accordance with the rules set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary).
(1)	“Settlement Agreement” means the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement, dated February 26, 1993.
(m)	“Special Master” means the special master appointed and authorized by this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement to hear and resolve specified disputes as provided in this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement.
Page 5
Section 2.	Free Agency Definitions:
(n)	“Accrued Season” means any playing season for which a player received credit with respect to his qualifications for Unrestricted Free Agency or Restricted Free Agency, as described in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency).
(o)	“Compensatory Draft Selection” means an additional Draft choice awarded to a Club as described in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency) and Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players).
(p)	“Draft” or “College Draft” means the NFL’s annual draft of Rookie football players as described in Article XVI (College Draft).
(q)	“Draft Choice Compensation” means the right of any Club, as described in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency) and Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), to receive draft pick(s) from any other Club.
(r)	“Drafted Rookie” means a person who is selected in the current League Year’s Draft or whose Draft rights are held, or continue to be held, consistent with this Agreement, by an NFL Club that selected the Rookie in a prior Draft.
(s)	“Final Eight Plan” means the rules whereby signings of Unrestricted Free Agents are limited in Uncapped Years for the final eight playoff Clubs, under the limited circumstances described in Article XXI (Final Eight Plan).
(t)	“Free Agent” means a player who is not under contract and is free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any NFL Club, without Draft Choice Compensation or any Right of First Refusal.
(u)	“Minimum Salary” means the minimum annual Paragraph 5 Salary which shall be paid to an NFL player not on any Active list, and not on the Inactive list, pursuant to this Agreement.
(v)	“Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary” means the minimum annual Paragraph 5 Salary which shall be paid to an NFL player on any Active list, or on the Inactive list, pursuant to this Agreement.
(w)	“Negotiate” means, with respect to a player or his representatives on the one hand, and an NFL Club or its representatives on the other hand, to engage in any written or oral communication relating to efforts to reach agreement on employment and/or terms of employment between such player and such Club.
(x)	“New Club” means any Club except the Prior Club (as defined below).
(y) “Player Contract” means a written agreement or series of such agreements executed at or about the same time between a person and an NFL Club pursuant to which such person is employed hy such Club as a professional football player.
(z) “Prior Club” means the Club that contracted with or otherwise held (he NFL playing rights for the player for the previous NFL League Year.
(aa) “Prior Year Salary” means the total of the Paragraph 5 Salary, roster and reporting bonuses, prorata portion of signing bonus, and other
Page 6
payments to a player in compensation for the playing of professional football for the last League Year of the player’s most recently negotiated Player Contract, except for performance bonuses other than roster and reporting bonuses. Beginning with the 1994 League Year, Prior Year Salary shall also include any unrepaid loans made, guaranteed or collateralized by a Team or its Team Affiliate to a player or Player Affiliate during or after the 1993 League Year.	’
(ab) “Renegotiate” means any change in Salary or the terms under which such Salary is earned or paid, or any change regarding the Club’s right to trade the player, during the term of a Player Contract.
(ac) “Required Tender” means a Player Contract tender that a Club is required to make to a player pursuant to this Agreement, either as a matter of right with respect to the player, or to receive Rights of First Refusal, Draft Choice Compensation and/or other rights with respect to the player, as specified in this Agreement
(ad) “Restricted Free Agent” means a Veteran who has three or more Accrued Seasons and who completes performance of his Player Contract, but who is still subject to a Right of First Refusal and/or Draft Choice Compensation in favor of his Prior Club.
(ae) “Right of First Refusal” means the right of an NFL Club, as described in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency) and Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players) to retain the services of certain Veteran players by matching offers made to those players.
(af) “Rookie” means a person who has never signed a Player Contract with an NFL Club.
(ag) “Undrafted Rookie” means a Rookie who was eligible for but not selected in a College Draft.
(ah) “Unrestricted Free Agent” means a Veteran who completes performance of his Player Contract, and who is no longer subject to any exclusive negotiating rights, Right of First Refusal, or Draft Choice Compensation in favor of his Prior Club.
(ai) “Veteran” means a player who has signed at least one Player Contract with an NFL Club.
Section 3.	Salary Cap Definitions;
(aj) “Benefits” or “Player Benefit Costs” means the specific benefits paid to players set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary).
(ak) “Capped Year” means any League Year for which a Salary Cap is in effect.
(al) “Defined Gross Revenues” or “DGR” means all of the League and Team revenues that are included within the definition of Defined Gross Revenues, as set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary).
(am) “Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary” means the minimum amount
Page 7
that the Teams in the NFL must pay in Player Costs during a League Year, if applicable, as set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary).
(an) “Minimum Team Salary” means the minimum amount that each Team must pay in Salaries during a League Year, if applicable, as set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), Section 5.
(ao) “Paragraph 5 Salary” means the compensation set forth in paragraph 5 of the NFL Player Contract, or in any amendments thereto.
(ap) “Player Costs” means the total Salaries and Benefits attributable to a League Year for all NFL Teams under all of the rules set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), but not including loans, loan guarantees, unpaid grievances attributions, and unearned incentives.
(aq) “Projected Benefits” means the amount of Benefits projected in accordance with the rules set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary).
(ar) “Projected Defined Gross Revenues” means the amount of Defined Gross Revenues projected in accordance with the rules set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary).
(as) “Room” means the extent to which a Team's thenDcurrent Team Salary is less than either the Salary Cap or Entering Player Pool, as applicable.
(at) “Salary Cap" means the absolute maximum amount of Salary that each Club may pay or be obligated to pay or provide to players or Player Affiliates, or may pay or be obligated to pay to third parties
at the request of and for the benefit of Players or Player Affiliates, at any time during a particular League Year, in accordance with the rules set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), if applicable.
(au) “Team Salary” means the Team’s aggregate Salary for Salary Cap purposes, as calculated in accordance with the rules set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary). •
(av) “Uncapped Year” means any League Year for which a Salary Cap is not in effect.
Section 4.F	urther Definitions:
(aw) “Final League Year” means the League Year which is scheduled prior to its commencement to be the final League Year of this Agreement. As of the date hereof, the Final League Year is the 2004 League Year. If eitherparty hereto has by December 1, 2000 canceled the extension of this Agreement as set forth in Article LX I (Extension of Agreement), then, beginning
Page 8
on the date of such cancellation, the Final League Year will be the 2003 League Year. The Final League Year shall always be an Uncapped Year.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98	■
(ax) “Final Capped Year” means the League Year immediately prior to the Final League Year. The Final Capped Year shall be Capped unless the Salary Cap is removed pursuant to Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), Section 4(b)(iiX4).
Page 9
ARTICLE II
GOVERNING AGREEMENT
Section 1.	Conflicts: The provisions of this Agreement supersede any conflicting provisions in the NFL Player Contract, the NFL Constitution and Bylaws, or any other document affecting terms and conditions of employment of NFL players, and all players, Clubs, the NFLPA, the NFL, and the Management Council will be bound hereby. The provisions of the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement, as amended, in White v. NFL, No. 4 0 92 n 906 (D. Minn.) (“Settlement Agreement”), shall supersede any conflicting provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Implementation: The NFLPA and the Management Council will use their best efforts to faithfully carry out the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to see that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are carried out in full by players and Clubs. The NFLPA will use its best efforts to see that the terms and conditions of all NFL Player Contracts are carried out in full by players.
Section 3.	Management Rights: The NFL Clubs maintain and reserve the right to manage and direct their operations in any manner whatsoever, except as specifically limited by the provisions of this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement.
Section 4.	Rounding: For the purposes of any amounts to be calculated or used pursuant to this Agreement with respect to Required Tenders, Qualifying Offers, Minimum Salaries, Minimum Active/Inactive List Salaries, Team Salary, DGR, Excluded DGR, Benefits, Player Costs, Projected DGR, Projected Benefits, or Salary, such amounts shall be rounded to the nearest $ 1,000.
I
Page 10
. ARTICLE III
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Section 1. Scope; This Agreement represents the complete understanding of the parties on all subjects covered herein, and there will be no change in the terms and conditions of this Agreement without mutual consent. Except as otherwise provided in Article V (Union Security), Section 6, on Union Security, and on Article LIV (Workers’ Compensation), Section 7, on Workers’ Compensation, the NFLPA and the Management Council waive all rights to bargain with one another concerning any subject covered or not covered in this Agreement for the duration of this Agreement, including the provisions of the NFL Constitution and Bylaws; provided, however, that if any proposed change in the NFL Constitution and Bylaws during the term of this Agreement could significantly affect the terms and conditions of employment of NFL players, then the Management Council will give the NFLPA notice of and negotiate the proposed change in good faith.
Section 2. Arbitration: The question of whether the parties engaged in good faith negotiations, or whether any proposed change in the NFL Constitution and Bylaws would violate or render meaningless any provision of this Agreement, may be the subject of a nonDinjury grievance under Article IX (Non □ Injury Grievance), which shall be the exclusive method for resolving disputes arising out of this Section 2. If the arbitrator finds that either party did not engage in good faith negotiations, or that the proposed change would violate or render meaningless any provision of this Agreement, he may enter an appropriate order, including to cease and desist from implementing or continuing the practice or proposal in question; provided, however, that the arbitrator may not compel either party to this Agreement to agree to anything or require the making of a concession by either party in negotiations.
Page 11	.
ARTICLE IV
NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT/SU1T
Section 1. No Strike/Lockout: Except as otherwise provided in Article V (Union Security), Section 6, or Article LIV (Workers’ Compensation), Section 7, neither the NFLPA nor any of its members will engage in any strike, work stoppage, or other concerted action interfering with the operations of the NFL or any Club for the duration of this Agreement, and no Clubs, either individually or in concert with other Clubs, will engage in any lockout for the duration of this Agreement. Any claim by the Management Council that the NFLPA has violated this Section 1 will not be subject to the grievance procedure or the arbitration provisions of this Agreement and the Management Council will have the right to submit such claim directly to the courts.
Section 2. No Suit: The NFLPA agrees that neither it nor any of its members, nor agents acting on its behalf, nor any member of its bargaining unit, will sue, or support financially or administratively, or voluntarily provide testimony or affidavit in, any suit against, the NFL or any Club with respect to any claim relating to any conduct permitted by this Agreement, the Settlement Agreement, or any term of this Agreement or the Settlement Agreement, including, without limitation, the Articles concerning the College Draft, the Compensatory Draft, the Option Clause, the Entering Player Pool, Veterans With Less Than Three Accrued Seasons, Veteran Free Agency, Franchise and Transition Players, the Final Eight Plan, Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap and Minimum Team Salary, and the Waiver System, and provisions applicable to the trading of players; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section 2
will prevent the NFLPA or any player from asserting that any Club, acting individually or in concert with other Clubs, or the Management Council, has: (1) breached the terms of this Agreement, the NFL Player Contract, the revised NFL Player Contract, or the NFL Constitution and Bylaws, and from processing such asserted breach as a nonDinjury grievance under Article IX (NondInjury Grievance) or asserting any claim before the Special Master or the Impartial Arbitrator as provided in this Agreement; or (2) breached the terms of the Settlement Agreement and from asserting such a claim before the Special Master, Impartial Arbitrator, or the Federal District Court, as provided for in the Settlement Agreement. In addition, neither the NFLPA nor any of its members, agents acting on its behalf, nor any members of its bargaining unit will sue, or support financially or administratively any suit against, the NFL or any Club relating to the presently existing provisions of the Constitution and Bylaws of the NFL as they are currently operative and administered (except any provisions relating to the 1982 CBA, which have been superseded by this Agreement); provided, however, that nothing herein shall prevent the NFLPA, its members, agents or bargaining unit members from asserting any
Page 12	.
rights they may have under the federal labor laws or under this Agreement or the Settlement Agreement.
Section 3.	Releases; The releases and covenants not to sue contained in Article XIX (Releases and Covenants Not to Sue) of the Settlement Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference.
Page 13
ARTICLE V
UNION SECURITY
Section 1. Union Security: Every NFL player has the option of joining or not joining the NFLPA; provided, however, that as a condition of employment commencing with the execution of this Agreement and for the duration of this Agreement and wherever and whenever legal: (a) any active player who is or later becomes a member in good standing of the NFLPA must maintain his membership in good standing in the NFLPA; and (b) any active player (including a player in the future) who is not a member in good standing of the NFLPA must, on the 30th day following the beginning of his employment or the execution of this Agreement, whichever is later, pay, pursuant to Section 2 below or otherwise to the NFLPA, an annual service fee in the same amount as any initiation fee and annual dues required of members of the NFLPA.
Section 2. Check □off: Commencing with the execution of this Agreement, each Club will checkOoff the initiation fee and annual dues or service charge, as the case may be, in equal weekly or biweekly installments from each preDseason and regular season pay check, beginning with the first pay check after the date of the first preDseason squad cutdown, for each player for whom a current checkDoff authorization (copy attached hereto as Appendix A and made a part of this Agreement) has been provided to the Club. The Club will forward the checkDoff moneys to the NFLPA within seven days of the checkDoff.	,
Section 3. NFLPA Meetings: The NFLPA will have the right to conduct three meetings on Club property each year, including one at the time of a Club’s minicamp, provided that the player representative or NFLPA office has given the Club reasonable notice of its desire to hold such a meeting by the close of business on Friday of the week before the week in which the meeting is to take place, or by the close of business Thursday if the meeting is scheduled for the following Monday. No meeting will be held at a time which would disrupt a coach’s team schedule.
Section 4.	NFLPA Player Group Licensing Program: The NFL recognizes that players have authorized the NFLPA to act as their agent in a Group Player Licensing program (defined below) for their benefit. The NFL hereby agrees that neither it, any Club, nor any affiliate of the NFL and/or any Club shall acquire,
seek to acquire, induce others to acquire, or assist others in acquiring Group Player Licensing rights, or interfere in any manner with any player’s conveyance of such rights pursuant to the NFLPA Group Player Licensing program, except as otherwise explicitly agreed to between the NFLPA and the NFL. Any disputes that arise regarding the NFL’s conduct in this regard shall be submitted for expedited arbitration pursuant to
Page 14
Article IX (NonD Injury Grievance). For the purposes of this Section 4, Group Player Licensing shall be defined as the use of a total of six or more NFL players’ names, signatures facsimiles, voices, pictures, photographs, likenesses and/or biographical information on: (a) products in any one product category, as defined by industry standards; or (b) products in different categories if a total of six or more players are used and (i) the products all use similar or derivative design or artwork or (ii) one such player product is used to promote another player product. For the purposes of this Section 4, Group Player Licensing includes, without limitation, products sold at retail and products that are used as promotional or premium items.
Section 5.	Disputes: Any dispute over compliance with, or the interpretation, application or administration of this Article, except any dispute concerning Section 4 of this Article, will be processed pursuant to Article IX (NonDinjury Grievance). Any decision of an outside arbitrator pursuant thereto will constitute full, final and complete disposition of the dispute, and will be binding on die playerfs) and Club(s) involved and the parties to this Agreement.
Section 6.	Procedure for Enforcement:
(a)	Upon written notification to the Management Council by the NFLPA that a player has not paid any initiation fee, dues or the equivalent service fee in violation of Section 1 of this Article V (Union Security), the Management Council will within seven days consider the matter. If there is no resolution of the matter within seven days, then the Club will, upon notification of the NFLPA, suspend the player without pay. Such suspension will continue until the NFLPA has notified the Club in writing that die suspended player has satisfied his obligation as contained in Section 1 of this Article V (Union Security). The parties hereby agree that suspension without pay is adopted as a substitute for and in lieu of discharge as the penalty for a violation of the union security clause of the Agreement and that no player will be discharged for a violation of that clause. The player’s contract will be tolled during the period of any such suspension. A copy of all notices required by this “Procedure for the Enforcement of the Union Security Agreement Between the NFL Management Council and the NFLPA” will be simultaneously mailed to the player involved and the Management Council.
(b)	It is further agreed that the term “member in good standing” as used in this Article V (Union Security) applies only to payment of dues or initiation fee and not any other factors involved in union discipline.
(c)	It is further agreed that notwithstanding Article III (Scope of Agreement), Article IV (No Strike/Lockout/Suit), and Article LVIII (Duration of Agreement), that if at any time in the term of the Agreement, any court or agency shall wholly or partially invalidate the provisions of Article V (Union Security) relating to Union Security, then the NFLPA may reopen
Page 15
this Agreement upon the giving of 10 days’ written notice, with reference solely to the issue of Union Security, and both parties will have an obligation to resume negotiations limited to the issue of Union Security, and both parties will be free to engage in whatever concerted or other action may be permitted by law in support of their positions.
Section 7.	NFLPA Responsibility: It is agreed that neither the NFL nor any Club shall be liable for any salary, bonus, or other monetary claims of any player suspended pursuant to the terms of Section 6 above.
Collection of initiation fees, annual dues, service charges or other check0 off amounts missed because of inadvertent errors shall be the responsibility of the NFLPA. The NFLPA shall be solely responsible for refunds to players in the case of any sums deducted not in conformity with the provisions of the NFLPA Constitution and Bylaws or applicable law.
Section 8. Orientations: During the annual Timing and Testing Sessions of the Scouting Combines, the NFL will use best efforts to ensure that the NFLPA will be permitted to present one□ hour orientations for all of the college players attending the session. The orientation will include only information on the Career Planning Program, the Chemical Dependency Program, the NFLPA Agent Certification System, and other information contained in this Agreement and will encourage the players to participate fully in all activities of the Scouting Combine. The NFLPA will also have the right to space in the public area of the players' hotel, staffed by NFLPA employees, to provide information requested by players during their free time at the Combine. The NFLPA and the NFL will also sponsor an orientation with an agreednupon agenda for all rookies on a Club □ by □ Club basis during the first half of the NFL regular season, which meetings may take place on the players’ day off if no other mutually acceptable day is agreed upon.
* This confirms our agreement that attendance at the annual Rookie Symposium shall be mandatory for all Rookies invited to the Symposium. A material failure to attend the entire Symposium (e.g., missing more than one presentation) that is unexcused by the NFLMC will result in a fine of $10,000. The NFLPA and the NFLMC shall each use its best efforts to encourage players to participate fully in all symposium activities and to abide by all symposium rules (e.g., dress code, curfew, etc.). Being late for or missing curfew will result in a fine at the then applicable amount under Article VIII of the CBA. Other lateness for meetings or similar Article VIII violations will be disciplined at the applicable fine amounts. Discipline shall be imposed, if appropriate, by the NFLMC, not by any Club.
•Side Letter 1/25/99
Page 16
ARTICLE VI
NFLPA AGENT CERTIFICATION
Section 1.	Exclusive Representation: The NFLMC and the Clubs recognize that the NFLPA regulates the conduct of agents who represent players in individual contract negotiations with Clubs. The NFLMC and the Clubs agree that the Clubs are prohibited from engaging in individual contract negotiations with any agent who is not listed by the NFLPA as being duly certified by the NFLPA in accordance with its role as exclusive bargaining agent for NFL players. The NFLPA shall provide and publish a list of agents who are currently certified in accordance with its agent regulation system, and shall notify the NFLMC and the Clubs of any deletions or additions to the list pursuant to its procedures. The NFLPA agrees that it shall not delete any agent from its list until that agent has exhausted the opportunity to appeal die deletion to a neutral arbitrator pursuant to its agent regulation system. The NFLPA shall have sole and exclusive authority to determine the number of agents to be certified, and the grounds for withdrawing or denying certification of an agent. The NFLPA agrees that it will not discipline, dismiss or decertify agents based upon the results they achieve or do not achieve in negotiating terms or conditions of employment with NFL Clubs.
Section 2.	Enforcement: Under procedures to be established by agreement between the NFL and the NFLPA, the Commissioner shall disapprove any NFL Player Contracts) between a player and a Club unless such player: (a) is represented in the negotiations with respect to such NFL Player Contracts) by an agent or representative duly certified by the NFLPA in accordance with the NFLPA agent regulation system and authorized to represent him; or (b) acts on his own behalf in negotiating such NFL Player Contract(s).
Section 3.	Penalty; Under procedures to be established by agreement between the NFL and the NFLPA, the NFL shall impose a fine of $10,000 upon any Club that negotiates any NFL Player Contract(s) with an agent or representative not certified by the NFLPA in accordance with the NFLPA agent regulation system if, at the time of such negotiations, such Club either (a) knows that such agent or representative has not been so certified or (b) fails to make reasonable inquiry of the NFLPA as to whether such agent or representative has been so certified. Such fine shall not apply, however, if the negotiation in question is the first violation of this Article by the Club during the term of this Agreement. It shall not be a violation of this Article for a Club to negotiate with any person named on (or not deleted from) the most recently published list of agents certified by the NFLPA to represent players.
Page 17
ARTICLE VII
PLAYER SECURITY
Section 1.	No Discrimination; There will be no discrimination in any form against any player by the Management Council, any Club or by the NFLPA because of race, religion, national origin or activity or lack of activity on behalf of the NFLPA.
Section 2.	Personal Appearance: Clubs may make and enforce reasonable rules governing players’ appearance on the field and in public places while representing the Clubs; provided, however, that no player will be disciplined because of hair length or facial hair.
Page 18
ARTICLE VIII
CLUB DISCIPLINE
Section 1.	Maximum Discipline;
(a)	For the 1993 League Year, the following maximum discipline schedule will be applicable:
Overweight—maximum fine of $50 per Ib./per day.
Unexcused late reporting for mandatory offQseason training camp, team meeting, practice, transportation, curfew, scheduled appointment with Club physician or trainer, or scheduled promotional activity—-maximum fine of $200.
Failure to promptly report injury to Club physician or trainer—maximum fine of $200.
Losing, damaging or altering ClubDprovided equipment—maximum fine of $£00 and replacement cost, if any.
Throwing football into stands—maximum fine of $200.
Unexcused late reporting for or absence from preDseason training camp by a player under contract except those signed as an Unrestricted Free Agent pursuant to Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency)— maximum fine of $4,000 per day for the 1993 D95 League Years and $5,000 per day for the 199602004 League Years.
Unexcused late reporting for or absence from pre □ season training camp by a player under contract signed as an Unrestricted Free Agent pursuant to Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency)—maximum fine of $4,000 per day for the 1993 □ 95 League Years and $5,000 per day for the 1996IZI2004 League Years, plus one week’s regular season salary for each preDseason game missed.
Unexcused missed mandatory offij season training camp, team meeting, practice, curfew, bed check, scheduled appointment with Club physician or trainer, material failure to follow Club rehabilitation directions, or scheduled promotional activity—maximum fine of $ i ,000.
Material failure to follow rehabilitation program prescribed by Club physician or trainer—maximum fine of $1,000.
Unexcused missed team transportation—maximum fine of $ 1,000 and transportation expense, if any.
Loss of all or part of playbook, scouting report or game plan—maximum fine of $ 1,000.
Ejection from game—maximum fine of $2,000,
Conduct detrimental to Club—maximum fine of an amount equal to one week's salary and/or suspension without pay for a period not to exceed four (4) weeks.
The Club will promptly notify the player of any discipline; notice of any Club fine in the $4,000/55,000 maximum category and of any “conduct detrimental” fine or suspension will be sent to the NFLPA.
(b)	The amounts set forth in Section 1 (a) above shall be in effect for
Page 19
the 1993,1994 and 1995 League Years. Such fines shall be increased by 25% each for the 1996 League Year and each year thereafter during the term of this Agreement, except for those fines for which the specific increase is set forth in Section 1(a) above.
Section 2.	Published Lists: All Clubs must publish and make available to all players at the commencement of preLIseason training camp a complete list of the discipline which can be imposed for designated offenses within the limits set by the maximum schedule referred to in Section 1 above.
Section 3. Unifonnity: Discipline will be imposed uniformly within a Club on all players for the same offense; however, the Club may specify the events which create an escalation of the discipline, provided the formula for escalation is uniform in its application. Any disciplinary action imposed upon a player by the Commissioner pursuant to Article XI (Commissioner Discipline) will preclude or supersede disciplinary action by the Club for the same act or conduct.
Section 4. Disputes: Any dispute involved in Club discipline may be made the subject of a nonO injury grievance under Article IX (NonO Injury Grievance).
Section 5. Deduction: Any Club fine will be deducted at the rate of no more than $ 1,000 from each pay period, if sufficient pay periods remain; or, if less than sufficient pay periods remain, the fine will be deducted in equal installments over the number of remaining pay periods. This will not apply to a suspension.
Page 20
ARTICLE IX
NON-INJURY GRIEVANCE
Section I. Definition: Any dispute (hereinafter referred to as a “grievance") arising after the execution of this Agreement and involving the interpretation of, application of, or compliance with, any provision of this Agreement, the NFL Player Contract, or any applicable provision of the NFL Constitution and Bylaws pertaining to terms and conditions of employment of NFL players, will be resolved exclusively in accordance with the procedure set forth in this Article, except wherever another method of dispute resolution is set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, and except wherever the Settlement Agreement provides that the Special Master, Impartial Arbitrator, the Federal District Court or the Accountants shall resolve a dispute.
Section 2. Initiation: A grievance may be initiated by a player, a Club, the Management Council, or the NFLPA. A grievance must be initiated within forty 0 five (45) days from the date of the occurrence or nonD occurrence upon which the grievance is based, or within fortyQfive (45) days from the date on which the facts of the matter became known or reasonably should have been known to the party initiating the grievance, whichever is later, A player need not be under contract to a Club at the time a grievance relating to him arises or at the time such grievance is initiated or processed.
Section 3.	Filing: Subject to the provisions of Section 2 above, a player or the NFLPA may initiate a grievance by filing a written notice by certified mail or fax with the Management Council and furnishing a copy of such notice to the Club(s) involved; a Club or the Management Council may initiate a grievance by filing written notice by certified mail or fax with the NFLPA and furnishing a copy of such notice to the playerfs) involved. The notice will set forth the specifics of the alleged action or inaction giving rise to the grievance. If a grievance is filed by a player without the involvement of the NFLPA, the Management Council will promptly send copies of the grievance and the answer to the NFLPA, The party to whom a nonQinjury grievance has been presented will answer in writing by certified mail or fax within seven (7) days of receipt of the grievance. The answer will set forth admissions or denials as to the facts alleged in the grievance. If the answer denies the grievance, the specific grounds for denial will be set forth. The answering party will provide a copy of the answer to the player(s) or Club(s) involved and the NFLPA or the Management Council as maybe applicable.
Section 4.	Appeal: If a grievance is not resolved after it has been filed and answered, either the player(s) or Club(s) involved, or the NFLPA, or the Management Council may appeal such grievance by filing a written notice of appeal with the Notice Arbitrator and mailing copies thereof to the party or parties against whom such appeal is taken, and either the NFLPA or
Page 21
the Management Council as may be appropriate. If the grievance involves a suspension of a player by a Club, the player or NFLPA will have the option to appeal it immediately upon filing to the Notice Arbitrator and a hearing will be held by an arbitrator designated by the Notice Arbitrator within seven (7) days of the filing of the grievance. In addition, the NFLPA and the Management Council will each have the right of immediate appeal and hearing within seven (7) days with respect to four (4) grievances of their respective choice each calendar year. The arbitrators) designated to hear such grievances will issue their decisions) within five (5) days of the completion of the hearing. Prehearing briefs may be filed by either party and, if filed, will be exchanged prior to hearing.
Section 5. Discovery: No later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, each party will submit to the other copies of all documents, reports and records relevant to the dispute. Failure to submit such documents, reports and records no later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing will preclude the nonQcomplying party from submitting such documents, reports and records into evidence at the hearing, but the other party will have the opportunity to examine such documents, reports and records at the hearing and to introduce those it desires into evidence, except that relevant documents submitted to the opposing party less than ten (10) days before the hearing will be admissible provided that the proffering party and the custodian(s) of the documents made a good faith effort to obtain (or discover the existence of) said documents or that the document’s relevance was not discovered until the hearing date. In the case of an expedited grievance
pursuant to Section 4, such documentary evidence shall be exchanged on or before two (2) days prior to the hearing unless the arbitrator indicates otherwise.
Section 6. Arbitration Panel: There will be a panel of four (4) arbitrators, whose appointment must be accepted in writing by the NFLPA and the Management Council. The parties will designate the Notice Arbitrator within ten (10) days of the execution of this Agreement. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Notice Arbitrator, the senior arbitrator in terms of affiliation with this Agreement will succeed to the position of Notice Arbitrator, and the resultant vacancy on the panel will be filled according to the procedures of this Section. Either party to this Agreement may discharge a member of the arbitration panel by serving written notice upon the arbitrator and the other party to this Agreement between December 1 and 10 of each year, but at no time shall such discharges result in no arbitrators remaining on the panel. If either party discharges an arbitrator, the other party shall have two (2) business days to discharge any other arbitrator. If the parties are unable to agree on a new arbitrator within thirty (30) days of any vacancy, the Notice Arbitrator shall submit a list of ten (10) qualified and experienced arbitrators to the NFLPA and the Management Council. Within
Page 22
fourteen (14) days of the receipt of the list, the NFLPA and the Management Council shall select one arbitrator from the list by alternately striking names until only one remains, with a coin flip determining the first strike. The next vacancy occurring will be filled in similar fashion, with the party who initially struck first then striking second. The parties will alternate striking first for future vacancies occurring thereafter during the term of this Agreement. If either party fails to cooperate in the striking process, the other party may select one of the nominees on the list and the other party will be bound by such selection.
Section 7. Hearing: Each arbitrator will designate a minimum of twelve (12) hearing dates per year, exclusive of the period July 15 through September 10 for non □expedited cases, for use by the parties to this Agreement. Upon being appointed, each arbitrator will, after consultation with the Notice Arbitrator, provide to the NFLPA and the Management Council specified hearing dates for such ensuing period, which process will be repeated on an annual basis thereafter. The parties will notify each arbitrator thirty (30) days in advance of which dates the following month are going to be used by the parties. The designated arbitrator will set the hearing on his next reserved date in the Club city unless the parties agree otherwise. If a grievance is set for hearing and the hearing date is then postponed by a party within thirty (30) days of the hearing date, the postponement fee of the arbitrator will be borne by the postponing party unless the arbitrator determines that the postponement was for good cause. Should good cause be found, the parties will share any postponement costs equally. If the arbitrator in question cannot reschedule the hearing within thirty (30) days of the postponed date, the case may be reassigned by the Notice Arbitrator to another panel member who has a hearing date available within the thirty (30) day period. At the hearing, the parties to the grievance and the NFLPA and Management Council will have the right to present, by testimony or otherwise, and subject to Section 5, any evidence relevant to the grievance. All hearings will be transcribed.
If a witness is unable to attend the hearing, the party offering the testimony shall inform the other party of the identity and unavailability of the witness to attend the hearing. At the hearing or within fourteen (14) days thereafter, the party offering the testimony of the unavailable witness must offer the other party two possible dates within the next fortyD five (45) days to take the witness’ testimony. The other party shall have the opportunity to choose the date. The record should be closed sixty (60) days after the hearing date unless mutually extended notwithstanding any party’s failure to present postD hearing testimony within the aboveO mentioned time period. If a witness is unavailable to come to the hearing, the witness’ testimony may be taken by telephone conference call if the parties agree. In cases where the amount claimed is less than $25,000, the parties may agree to hold the hearing by telephone conference call. If either party requests
Page 23
post □hearing briefs, the parties shall prepare and simultaneously submit briefs except in grievances involving ndnDsuspension Club discipline where less than $25,000 is at issue, in which cases briefs will
not be submitted. Briefs must be submitted to the arbitrator postmarked no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the last transcript.
Section 8. Arbitrator’s Decision and Award: The arbitrator will issue a written decision within thirty (30) days of the submission of briefs, but in no event shall he consider briefs filed by either party more than sixty (60) days after receipt of the last transcript, unless the parties agree otherwise. The decision of the arbitrator will constitute full, final and complete disposition of the grievance, and will be binding upon the player(s) and Club(s) involved and the parties to this Agreement; provided, however, that the arbitrator will not have the jurisdiction or authority: (a) to add to, subtract from, or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement or any other applicable document; or (b) to grant any remedy other than a money award, an order of reinstatement, suspension without pay, a stay of suspension pending decision, a cease and desist order, a credit or benefit award under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan, or an order of compliance, with a specific term of this Agreement or any other applicable document, or an advisory opinion pursuant to Article XIII (Committees), Section 1(c). In the event the arbitrator finds liability on the part of the Club, he shall award interest beginning one year from the date of the last regular season game of the season of the grievance. The interest shall be calculated at the one □ year Treasury Bill rate published in the Wall Street Journal as of March 1 (or the next date published) of each year, and such rate shall apply to any interest awarded during each such subsequent twelve (12) month period.
Section 9.	Time Limits: Each of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties involved. If any grievance is not processed or resolved in accordance with the prescribed time limits within any step, unless an extension of time has been mutually agreed upon in writing, either the player, the NFLPA, the Club or the Management Council, as the case may be, after notifying the other party of its intent in writing, may proceed to the next step.
Section 10.	Representation: In any hearing provided for in this Article, a player may be accompanied by counsel of his choice and/or a representative of the NFLPA. In any such hearing, a Club representative may be accompanied by counsel of his choice and/or a representative of the Management Council.
Section 11.	Costs: All costs of arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the arbitrator and the transcript costs, will be borne equally between the
Page 24
parties. Notwithstanding the above, if the hearing occurs in the Club city and if the arbitrator finds liability on the part of the Club, the arbitrator shall award the player reasonable expenses incurred in traveling to and from his residence to the Club city and one night’s lodging.
Section 12.	Payment: If an award is made by the arbitrator, payment will be made within thirty (30) days of the receipt of fire award to the player or jointly to the player and the NFLPA provided the player has given written authorization for such joint payment. The time limit for payment may be extended by mutual consent of the parties or by a finding of good cause for the extension by the arbitrator. Where payment is unduly delayed beyond thirty (30) days, interest will be assessed against the Club from the date of the decision. Interest shall be calculated at double the one□ year Treasury Bill rate published in the Wall Street Journal as of March 1 (or next date published) of each year, and such rate shall apply to the interest awarded during each subsequent twelve (12) month period in lieu of continuation of any pre-award interest. The arbitrator shall retain jurisdiction of the case for the purpose of awarding post-hearing interest pursuant to this Section.
Section 13.	Grievance Settlement Committee: A grievance settlement committee consisting of the Executive Director of the NFLPA and the Executive Vice President for Labor Relations of the NFL shall have the authority to resolve any grievance filed under this Article. This committee shall meet periodically to discuss and consider pending grievances. No evidence will be taken at such meetings, except parties involved in the grievance may be contacted to obtain information about their dispute. If the committee resolves any grievance by mutual agreement of the two members, such resolution will be made in writing and will constitute full, final and complete disposition of the grievance and will be binding upon the
player(s) and the Club(s) involved and the parties to this Agreement. Consideration of any grievance by this committee shall not in any way delay its processing through the non □ injury grievance procedure described in this Article, and no grievance may be resolved pursuant to this Section once an arbitration hearing has been convened pursuant to Section 7 hereof.
Page 25
ARTICLE X
INJURY GRIEVANCE	.
Section 1. Definition: An “injury grievance” is a claim or complaint that, at the time a player’s NFL Player Contract was terminated by a Club, the player was physically unable to perform the services required of him by that contract because of an injury incurred in the performance of his services under that contract. All time limitations in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
Section 2. Filing: Any player and/or the NFLPA must present an injury grievance in writing to a Club, with a copy to the Management Council, within twenty □ five (25) days from the date it became known or should have become known to the player that his contract had been terminated. The grievance will set forth the approximate date of the alleged injury and its general nature. If a grievance is fded by a player without the involvement of the NFLPA, the Management Council will promptly send copies of the grievance and the answer to the NFLPA.
Section 3.	Answer: The Club to which an injury grievance has been presented will answer in writing within seven (7) days. If the answer contains a denial of the claim, the general grounds for such denial will be set forth. The answer may raise any special defense, including but not limited to the following:
(a)	That the player did not pass the physical examination administered by the Club physician at the beginning of the pre □ season training camp for the year in question. This defense will not be available if the player participated in any team drills following his physical examination or in any preseason or regular season game; provided, however, that the Club physician may require the player to undergo certain exercises or activities, not team drills, to determine whether the player will pass the physical examination;
(b)	That the player failed to make full and complete disclosure of his known physical or mental condition when questioned during the physical examination;
(c)	That the player’s injury occurred prior to the physical examination and the player knowingly executed a waiver or release prior to the physical examination or his commencement of practice for the season in question which specifically pertained to such prior injury;
(d)	That the player’s injury arose solely from a none football-related cause subsequent to the physical examination;
(e)	That subsequent to the physical examination the player suffered no new football □ related injury;
(f)	That subsequent to the physical examination the player suffered no football □ related aggravation of a prior injury reducing his physical capacity below the level existing at the time of his physical examination as contemporaneously recorded by the Club physician.
Page 26
Section 4.	Neutral Physician: The player must present himself for examination by a neutral physician in the Club city or the Club city closest to the player’s residence within twenty (20) days from the date of the grievance. This time period may be extended by mutual consent if the neutral physician is not available.
Neither Club nor player may submit any medical records to the neutral physician, nor may the Club physician or player’s physician communicate with the neutral physician. The player will notify the Club of the identity of the neutral physician by whom he is to be examined as soon as possible subsequent to a selection by the player. The neutral physician will not become the treating physician nor will the neutral physician examination involve more than one office visit without the prior approval of both the NFLPA and Management Council. The neutral physician may review any objective medical tests which all parties mutually agree to provide. The neutral physician is further authorized to perform any necessary diagnostic tests after consultation with the parties. The neutral physician is required to submit to the parties a detailed typewritten medical report of his examination. In order to facilitate settlement of grievances, the parties periodically will consult with neutral physicians by telephone conference call to obtain preliminary opinions as to the length of time, if any, after their examinations before players would be physically able to perform contract services. The NFLPA will use its best efforts to make the neutral physicians in each Club city equally available to the players who file injury grievances.	.
Section 5.	Neutral Physician List: The NFLPA and the Management Council will maintain a jointly approved list of neutral physicians, including at least two orthopedic physicians in each city in which a Club is located. This list will be subject to review and modification between February I and April 15 of each year, at which time either party may eliminate any two neutral physicians from the list by written notice to the other party. When vacancies occur, the NFLPA and the Management Council will each submit a list of three (3) orthopedic physicians to the other party within thirty (30) days for each NFL city where a vacancy exists. If the parties are unable to agree on a replacement, within ten (10) days they will select a neutral physician for each city by alternately striking names. The party to strike a name first will be determined by a flip of a coin. If either party fails to cooperate in the striking process the other party may select one of the nominees on its list, and the other party will be bound by such selection. The next vacancy occurring will be filled in similar fashion with the party who initially struck first then striking second. The parties will alternate striking first for future vacancies occurring thereafter during the term of this Agreement.
Section 6.	Appeal; A grievance may be appealed to an arbitrator by filing of written notice of appeal with the chairman of the arbitration panel within
Page 27
thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the neutral physician’s written report.
Section 7. Arbitration Panel: There will be a panel of five (5) arbitrators, whose appointment must be accepted in writing by the NFLPA and the Management Council. The parties have designated Arthur Stark as the Chairman of the panel. In the event of a vacancy in the position of the Chairman of the panel, the senior arbitrator in terms of affiliation with this Agreement will succeed to the position of Chairman of the panel, and the resultant vacancy on the panel will be filled according to the procedures of this Section. Either party to this Agreement may discharge a member of the arbitration panel by serving written notice upon the arbitrator and the other party to this Agreement between December 1 and 10 of each year, but at no time shall such discharges result in no arbitrators remaining on the panel. If either party discharges an arbitrator, the other party shall have two (2) business days to discharge any other arbitrator. Any vacancies occurring on the arbitration panel will be filled as follows: If the parties are unable to agree to a new arbitrator within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the vacancy, the Chairman of the panel shall submit a list of ten (10) qualified and experienced arbitrators to the NFLPA and the Management Council. Within fourteen (14) days of the receipt of the list, the NFLPA and the Management Council shall select one arbitrator from the list by alternately striking names until only one remains, with a coin flip determining the first strike. The next vacancy occurring will be filled in similar fashion, with the party who initially struck first then striking second. The parties will alternate striking first for future vacancies occurring thereafter during the term of this Agreement. If either party fails to cooperate in the striking process, the other party may select one of the nominees on the list and the other party will be bound by such selection.
Section 8. Hearing: Each arbitrator shall designate a minimum of twelve hearing dates per year, exclusive of the period July 15 through September 10, for use by the parties to this Agreement. Upon being
appointed, each arbitrator will, after consultation with the Chairman, provide to the NFLPA and the Management Council specified hearing dates for each of the ensuing six months, which process will be repeated on a semiannual basis thereafter. The parties will notify each arbitrator thirty (30) days in advance of which dates the following month are going to be used by the parties. The designated arbitrator will set the hearing on his or her next reserved date in the Club city, unless the parties agree otherwise. If a grievance is set for hearing and the hearing date is then postponed by a party within thirty (30) days of the hearing date, the postponement fee of the arbitrator will be borne by the postponing party unless the arbitrator determines that the postponement was for good cause. Should good cause be found, the parties will share any postponement costs equally. If the arbitrator in question
Page 28	■
cannot reschedule the hearing within thirty (30) days of the postponed date, the case may be reassigned by the Chairman to another panel member who has a hearing date available within the thirty (30) day period. At the hearing, the parties to the grievance and the NFLPA and Management Council will have the right to present, by testimony or otherwise, any evidence relevant to the grievance. The NFLPA and the Management Council have the right to attend all grievance hearings. All hearings shall be transcribed.
If a witness is unable to attend the hearing, the party offering the testimony shall inform the other party of the identity and unavailability of the witness to attend the hearing. At the hearing or within fourteen (14) days thereafter, the party offering the testimony of the unavailable witness must offer the other party two possible dates within the next fortyDfive (45) days to take the witness' testimony. The other party shall have the opportunity to choose the date. The record should be closed sixty (60) days after the hearing date unless mutually extended notwithstanding any party’s failure to present postOhearing testimony within the above□ mentioned time period. If a witness is unavailable to come to the hearing, the witness’ testimony may be taken by telephone conference call if the parties agree. In cases where the amount claimed is less than $25,000, the parties may agree to hold the hearing by telephone conference call.
Post □hearing briefs must be submitted to the arbitrator postmarked no later than sixty Drive (65) days after receipt of the last transcript. The arbitrator will issue a written decision within thirty (30) days of the submission of briefs but shall not consider briefs fded by either party more than sixty-five (65) days after receipt of the last transcript, unless the parties agree otherwise. The arbitrator’s decision will be final and binding; provided, however, that no arbitrator will have the authority to add to, subtract from, or alter in any way any provision of this Agreement or any other applicable document. In the event the arbitrator finds liability on the part of the Club, he shall award interest beginning one year from the date of the last regular season game ofthe season of injury. The interest shall be calculated at the oneDyear Treasury Bill rate published in The Wall Street Journal as of March 1 (or the next date published) of each year, and such rate shall apply to any interest awarded during each such subsequent twelve (12) month period.
Section 9. Miscellaneous: The arbitrator will consider the neutral physician’s findings conclusive with regard to the physical condition of the player and the extent of an injury at the time of his examination by the neutral physician. The arbitrator will decide the dispute in light of this finding and such other issues or defenses which may have been properly submitted to him The Club or the Management Council must advise the grievant and the NFLPA in writing no later than seven (7) days before the hearing of any special defense to be raised at the hearing. The arbitrator may award the player payments for medical expenses incurred or which will be incurred in connection with an injury.
Page 29
Section 10. Expenses: Expenses charged by a neutral physician will be shared equally by the Club and the player. All travel expenses incurred by the player in connection with his examination by a neutral physician of his choice will be borne by the player. The parties will share equally in the expenses of any arbitration engaged in pursuant to this Article; provided, however, the respective parties will bear the expenses of attendance of their own witnesses. Notwithstanding the above, if the hearing is held in the Club city and if the arbitrator finds liability on the part of the Club, the arbitrator shall award the player reasonable expenses incurred in traveling to and from his residence to the Club city and one night’s lodging.
Section 11.	Pension Credit: Any player who receives payment for three or more regular season games during any year as a result of filing an injury grievance or settlement of a potential injury grievance will be credited with one year of Credited Service for the year in which injured under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan as determined by the Retirement Board.
Section 12.	Payment: If an award is made by the arbitrator, payment will be made within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the award to the player or jointly to die player and the NFLPA, provided the player has given written authorization for such joint payment. The time limit for payment may be extended by mutual consent of the parties or by a finding of good cause for the extension by the arbitrator. Where payment is unduly delayed beyond thirty (30) days, interest will be assessed against the Club from the date of the decision. Interest shall be calculated at double the one □year Treasury Bill rate published in The Wail Street Journal as of March 1 (or next date published) of each year, and such rate shall apply to the interest awarded during each such subsequent twelve (12) month period in lieu of continuation of pre-award interest. The arbitrator shall retain jurisdiction of the case for the purpose of awarding post □hearing interest pursuant to this Section.
Section 13.	Presumption of Fitness: If the player passes the physical examination of the Club prior to the preDseason training camp for the year in question, having made full and complete disclosure of his known physical and mental condition when questioned by the Club physician during the physical examination, it will be presumed that such player was physically fit to play football on the date of such examination.
Section 14.	Playoff Money: If the arbitrator finds that an injured player remained physically unable to perform the services required of him by his contract during the NFL postOseason playoffs and if the Club in question participated in the playoffs that season, the player will be entitled to and the arbitrator shall award, such playoff money as though he had been on	.
Page 30	■
the Injured Reserve list at the time of the playoff games in question, should he otherwise qualify fbr such pay pursuant to Article XLIl (PostDSeasonPay).
Section 15.	Information Exchange: The NFLPA and the Management Council must confer on a regular basis concerning the status of pending injury grievances and the attribution of any injury grievance exposure to Team Salary under Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary). Any communications pursuant to this Section are inadmissible in any grievance hearing.
Section 16. Discovery: No later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, each party will submit to the other copies of all documents, reports and records relevant to the injury grievance hearing. Failure to submit such documents, reports and records no later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing will preclude the non □ complying party from submitting such documents, reports and records into evidence at the hearing, but the other party will have the opportunity to examine such documents, reports and records at the hearing and to introduce those it so desires into evidence, except that relevant documents submitted to the opposing party less than ten (10) days before the hearing shall be admissible provided the offering party and the custodian(s) of the documents made good faith effort to obtain (or discover the existence of) such documents or that the documents’ relevance was not discovered until the hearing.
Page 31
ARTICLE XI
COMMISSIONER DISCIPLINE
Section 1.	League Discipline: Notwithstanding anything stated in Article IX (NonDinjury Grievance):
(a)	All disputes involving a fine or suspension imposed upon a player for conduct on the playing field other than as described in subsection (b) below, or involving action taken against a player by the Commissioner for conduct detrimental to the integrity of, or public confidence in, the game of professional football, will be processed exclusively as follows: the Commissioner will promptly send written notice of his action to the player, with a copy to the NFLPA. Within twenty (20) days following such written notification, the player affected thereby, or the NFLPA with the player’s approval, may appeal in writing to the Commissioner.
(b)	Fines or suspensions imposed upon players for unnecessary roughness or unsportsmanlike conduct on the playing field with respect to an opposing player or players shall be determined initially by a person appointed by the Commissioner after consultation concerning the person being appointed with the Executive Director of the NFLPA, as promptly as possible after the event(s) in question. Such person will send written notice of his action to the player, with a copy to the NFLPA. Within ten (10) days following such notification, the player, or the NFLPA with his approval, may appeal in writing to the Commissioner.
(c)	On receipt of a notice of appeal under subsection (a) or (b) above, the Commissioner will designate a time and place for a hearing to be commenced within ten (10) days thereafter, at which he or his designee (other than the person appointed in (b) above) will preside. The hearing may be by telephone conference call, if the player so requests. As soon as practicable following the conclusion of such hearing, the Commissioner will render a written decision which will constitute full, final and complete disposition of the dispute and will be binding upon the playerfs) and Club(s) involved and the parties to this Agreement with respect to that dispute. Any discipline imposed pursuant to subparagraph (b) above may only be affirmed, reduced, or vacated by the Commissioner in such decision, and may not be increased.
Section 2.	Time Limits: Each of the time limits set forth in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the Commissioner and the player(s) and the Club(s) involved.
Section 3.	Representation; In any hearing provided for in this Article, a player may be accompanied by counsel of his choice. A representative of the NFLPA may also participate in such hearing and represent the player. In any such hearing, a Club representative may be accompanied by counsel of his choice. A representative of the Management Council may also
Page 32
participate in such hearing and represent the Club. The NFLPA and Management Council have the right to attend alt hearings provided for in this Article. At the hearing, the player, the NFLPA and the Management Council will have die right to present, by testimony or otherwise, any evidence relevant to the hearing. All hearings shall be transcribed.
Section 4.	Costs: Unless the Commissioner determines otherwise, each party will bear the cost of its own witnesses, counsel and the like.	.
Section 5.	One Penalty: The Commissioner and a Club will not discipline a player for the same act or conduct. The Commissioner’s disciplinary action will preclude or supersede disciplinary action by any Club for the same act or conduct.
Section 6.	Fine Money: Any fine money collected pursuant to this Article will be contributed to the Brian Piccolo Cancer Fund, the Vincent T. Lombardi Cancer Research Center, ALS Neuromuscular Research Foundation, and the NFLPA Players Assistance Trust (“P.A.T.”). Any such fine money shall be allocated equally among the four (4) organizations mentioned in the preceding sentence.
Page 33
ARTICLE XII
INJURY PROTECTION
Section I, Qualification: A player qualifying under the following criteria will receive an injury protection benefit in accordance with Section 2 below:
(a)	The player must have been physically unable, because of a severe football injury in an NFL game or practice, to participate in all or part of his Club’s last game of the season of injury, as certified by the Club physician following a physical examination after the last game; or the player must have undergone Club □ authorized surgery in the off-season following the season of injury; and
(b)	The player must have undergone whatever reasonable and customary rehabilitation treatment his Club required of him during the offDseason following the season of injury; and
(c)	The player must have failed the preDseason physical examination given by the Club physician for the season following the season of injury because of such injury and as a result his Club must have terminated his contract for the season following the season of injury. This preDseason physical may be given by the Club physician prior to the beginning of preOseason camp, so long as such fact is clearly communicated to die player at the time of the physical exam. The past understanding of the parties concerning a Club releasing a player who otherwise qualifies under (a) and (b) above prior to the preDseason physical examination will apply during the term of this Agreement (see Appendix B).
Section 2. Benefit: Effective after the execution of this Agreement, a player qualifying under Section 1 above will receive an amount equal to 50% of his contract salary for the season following the season of injury, up to a maximum payment of $150,000 for players released pursuant to Section 1(c) above in League Year 1993, unless he has individually negotiated more injury protection or a larger guaranteed salary into that contract. This amount shall be increased to $175,000 in the 1994-96 League Years, to $200,000 for the 1997-99 League Years, to $225,000 for the 2000-02 LeagueYears, and to $250,000 for the 2003-04 League Years. A player will receive no amount of any contract covering any season subsequent to the season following the season of injury, except if he has individually negotiated injury protection into that contract. The benefit will be paid to the player in equal weekly installments commencing no later than the date of the first regular season game, which benefit payments will cease if the player sighs a contract for that season with another Club. A player will not be entitled to such benefit more than once during his playing career in the NFL, and such benefit shall be reduced by any salary guaranteed to the player for the season following the season of injury.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 34	’
Section 3. Disputes: Any dispute under this Article will be processed under Article IX (NonC Injury Grievance).In any grievance in which the NFLPA or a player is claiming an injury protection benefit, the NFLPA or the player may contend that the player should not have passed the pre-season physical examination given by a Club following the season of a player’s injury. In any such grievance, the NFLPA or the player may introduce evidence from a physician selected by and paid for by the player regarding the player’s physical condition at the time of the Club’s pre-season physical exam, provided that such physician conducted his examination of the player within fourteen days of the player’s contract termination, but no later than the date of the first pre-season cutdown. Any such evidence will be considered with the evidence from the Club physician, and the arbitrator shall give no special deference to the evidence presented by either physician. If the NFLPA prevails in such a grievance, then the requirements of Section 1 (c) above shall be deemed to have been satisfied.
- Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 35	.
ARTICLE XIII
COMMITTEES
Section 1. Joint Committee:
■ (a) A Joint Committee on Player Safety and Welfare (hereinafter the “Joint Committee”) will be established for the purpose of discussing the player safety and welfare aspects of playing equipment, playing surfaces, stadium facilities, playing rules, playerDcoach relationships, and any other relevant subjects. The Joint Committee will consist of six members: three Club representatives (plus advisors) and three NFLPA representatives (plus advisors). The Joint Committee will hold two regular meetings each year on dates and at sites selected by the Committee. Special meetings may be held at any time and place mutually agreeable to the Committee. The Joint Committee will not have the power to commit or bind either the NFLPA or the Management Council on any issue. The Joint Committee may discuss and examine any subject related to player safety and welfare it desires, and any member of the Committee may present for discussion any such subject. Any Committee recommendation will be made only to the NFLPA, the Management Council, the Commissioner, or any appropriate committee of the NFL; such recommendation will be given serious and thorough consideration.
(b)	The Joint Committee may employ consultants to assist it in the performance of its functions; the compensation and expenses of any such consultants will be paid in such manner as the Committee decides. The respective members of the Joint Committee will be selected and the length of their terms fixed under such rules as the NFLPA and the Management Council separately establish; the original appointees on the Committee will be selected within thirty (30) days following the execution of this Agreement. The NFLPA and the Management Council agree that a task for the Joint Committee to undertake promptly upon the execution of this Agreement is a review of all current materials on the player safety aspects of player equipment, playing surfaces, including artificial turf and other safety matters.
(c)	Immediately following the NFL annual meeting, the NFLPA will be given notice of all proposed playing rule changes, either tentatively adopted by the Clubs or put over for further consideration at a later league meeting. If the NFLPA believes that the adoption of a playing rule change would adversely affect player safety, then within seven (7) days of receiving such notice the NFLPA may call a meeting of the Joint Committee to be held within one (1) week to discuss such proposed rule change. Within five (5) days after such meeting, if the NFLPA continues to believe that the adoption of a playing rule change would adversely affect player safety, the NFLPA may request an advisory decision by one of the arbitrators designated in Article IX (Non □ Injury Grievance). A hearing before such arbitrator must be held within seven (7) days of the Joint Committee meeting and
Page 36
the arbitrator must render his decision within one (1) week of the hearing. No such playing rule change will be made by the Clubs until after the arbitrator’s advisory decision unless the arbitrator has not rendered his decision within one (1) week of the hearing. The arbitrator’s decision will be advisory only, not final and binding. Except as so limited, nothing in this section will impair or limit in any way the right of the Clubs to make any playing rule change whatsoever.
Section 2.	Competition Committee: The NFLPA will have the right to appoint two persons to attend those portions of the annual meeting of the NFL Competition Committee dealing with playing rules to represent the players’ viewpoint on rules. One of the appointees shall have a vote on all matters considered at the meeting which relate to playing rules. The NFLPA appointees will receive in advance copies of all agenda and other written materials relating to playing rules provided to other Committee members.
Section 3.	Player/Club Operations Committee:
(a)	A Player/Club Operations Committee (hereinafter the “Operations Committee”) shall be established for the purpose of examining issues arising with respect to the implementation of this Agreement. The Operations Committee may discuss and examine, and jointly decide, any such issues; provided, however, that any consideration by the Operations Committee shall not delay any grievance or other procedure under this Agreement, unless the Committee jointly decides otherwise.
(b)	The Operations Committee will consist of up to six (6) members: the Executive Vice President for Labor Relations of the NFL and a maximum of two (2) Club representatives (plus advisors), and the Executive Director of the NFLPA and a maximum of two (2) NFLPA representatives (plus advisors). The respective additional members of the Operations Committee will be selected and the length of their terms fixed under such rules as the NFLPA and the Management Council separately establish; the original additional members on the Operations Committee will be selected within thirty (30) days following the execution of this Agreement. An equal number on each side shall sit on all matters, and the Committee shall jointly decide whether the Committee shall sit with two (2), four (4) or six (6) members on any given matter. The Operations Committee will hold meetings on dates and at sites mutually agreeable to the Committee members.
Page 37
ARTICLE XIV
NFL PLAYER CONTRACT
Section 1.	Form: The NFL Player Contract form attached hereto as Appendix C will be used for all player signings. This form cannot be amended without the approval of the Management Council and the NFLPA.
* [U]se [of] one contract form for a multi-year deal between a player and a club (as opposed to using a series of one-year contract forms as in the past) does not expand the period of time for which a club is obligated to provide an injured player with medical and hospital care...[W]e agree that Paragraph 9 of the new NFL Player Contract gives the same coverage in this respect as Paragraph 9 of the old form.
*Side Letter 8/4/93
Section 2.	Term; The NFL Player Contract shall be modified to expire on the last day of the last League Year subject to such Contract.
Section 3.	Changes:
(a)	Notwithstanding Section 1 above, changes may be agreed to between a Club and a player in a player's contract or contracts consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement.
(b)	The NFL Player Contract shall be modified to provide that, other than any rights the player may have as a member of the class in White v. NFL, No. 40920906 (D. Minn.) to object to the Settlement Agreement during its review by the District Court, the player waives and releases any claims: (i) arising out of, related to, or asserted in that action; and (it) for conduct engaged in pursuant to the Settlement Agreement during the express term of the Settlement Agreement.
(c)	Any waiver and release included in the NFL Player Contract pursuant to this Article does not supersede and is subject to the provisions set forth in Article XXVI (Termination Prior to Expiration Date) of the Settlement Agreement, and Article LVIII (Duration of Agreement) of this Agreement. Specifically,
in the event that the Settlement Agreement is terminated, not approved or invalidated on appeal, pursuant to Article XXVI (Termination Prior to Expiration Date) of the Settlement Agreement, any such waiver and release shall remain or not remain in effect to the extent that the releases and covenants not to sue set forth in Article XIX (Releases and Covenants Not to Sue) of the Settlement Agreement remain or do not remain in effect. Except in the circumstances described in the preceding sentence, this subparagraph shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any release and waiver contained in a Player Contract executed on or after March 1,1993.
Page 38
Section 4.	Conformity; All Player Contracts signed prior to the execution of this Agreement and in effect during the term of this Agreement shall be deemed amended in such a manner to require the parties to comply with the mandatory terms of this Agreement and the Settlement Agreement	.
Section 5.	General:
(a) Any agreement between any player and any Club concerning terms and conditions of employment shall be set forth in writing in a Player Contract as soon as practicable. The League shall provide to the NFLPA a copy of each executed Player Contract it receives from a Club within two business days of its receipt of such Player Contract The League shall provide to the NFLPA any salary information received from a Club which is relevant to whether such Player Contract complies with Article XVII (Entering Player Pool) and/or Article XXIV (Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), within two business days following the NFL’s receipt of such information.
* In order to assist the efficient operation of the Salary Cap, with respect to each Player Contract executed after the date of this letter: (i) each Club shall provide to the NFL Management Council (,INFLMC”) a copy of each such Player Contract within two days of the execution of such contract by the player and the Club;
(ii)	notwithstanding Article XIV, Section 5(a) of the CBA, the NFLMC shall provide a copy of each such Player Contract to the NFLPA within two days of its receipt by the NFLMC; and (tii) the NFLMC shall provide to the NFLPA as soon as reasonably practicable a copy of any page of each such Player Contract that has on it the signature of the player’s representative if such copy has not already been provided to the NFLPA by the NFLMC. It is anticipated that each Club will send a copy of each such Player Contract to the NFLMC by overnight mail the day it is so executed, and the NFLMC will send a copy of such copy to the NFLPA by overnight mail the day it [is] so received.
•Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 13
* In the event that an Unrestricted Free Agent signs a Player Contract with a Club other than his prior Club between July 5 and July 15, the Player or his Agent shall promptly notify the Players Association, which will promptly notify the NFL Management Council in writing, and the New Club shall promptly notify the NFL Management Council, in writing, of such signing. If neither
Page 39
the NFL Management Council nor the Players Association has received any such written notice prior to midnight on July 15, such Player Contract shall be deemed not to have been signed within the signing period prescribed by Article XIX, Section 1 (b)(i) of the CBA.
•Side Letter 3/3/97: Sec. 2
(b)	Any agreement between any player or Player Affiliate and any Club or Club Affiliate providing for the player to be compensated by the Club or Club Affiliate for nond football-related services shall be set forth in writing and disclosed and provided to the League within five business days of the execution or making of the agreement. The NFL shall provide such information to the NFLPA within two business days of the receipt of such information.
(c)	No Club shall pay or be obligated to pay any player or Player Affiliate (not including retired players) other than pursuant to the terms of a signed NFL Player Contract or a contract for non □ football related services as described in Section 5(b) above. Nothing contained in the immediately preceding sentence shall interfere with a Club’s obligation to pay a player deferred compensation earned under a prior Player Contract
(d)	During the period any Salary Cap is in effect, in addition to any rights a Club may presently have under the NFL Player Contract, any Player Contract may be terminated if, in the Club’s opinion, the player being terminated is anticipated to make less of a contribution to the Club’s ability to compete on the playing field than another player or players whom the Club intends to sign or attempt to sign, or another player or players who is or are already on the roster of such Club, and for whom the Chib needs Room. This paragraph shall not affect any Club or Club Affiliate’s obligation to pay a player any guaranteed consideration.
Section 6.	Commissioner Disapproval; If the Commissioner disapproves a Player Contract for any reason, he must inform the NFLPA in writing of the reasons therefore by noon on the date following such disapproval.
*[I]n the event the Commissioner disapproves any Player Contract as being in violation of the Salary Cap or Entering Player Pool, or any other provision of the Settlement Agreement or corresponding provision of the CBA, the filing of an appeal of such disapproval pursuant to Article XV, Paragraph 5 or Article XXII, Paragraph 1 of the Settlement Agreement, or Article XXV, Section 5 or Article XXVI, Section 1 of the CBA, shall automatically stay the Commissioner’s disapproval, and the player shall continue to be free to practice and play for the Club, until
Page 40
the Special Master (or the District Court acting in lieu of the Special Master) issues its ruling. Provided, however, that in the event such Special Master appeal is filed within one week of or after the first scheduled regular season game of the Club: (i) the appeal shall be conducted in an expedited manner and shall be concluded within five days of the filing date of such appeal; and (ii) the Special Master shall issue his ruling by the end of such five day period. Provided, further, that, in the event the appeal is filed after the Club’s first pre-season game, but before the date one week before the Club’s first scheduled regular season game: (i) the appeal shall be conducted in an expedited manner and shall be concluded within ten days of the filing date of such appeal; and (ii) the Special Master shall issue his ruling by the end of such ten day period. If there is no ruling by the end of the periods prescribed in the preceding two sentences, or, for earlier filed appeals, by the day following the Club’s third pre-season game, the automatic stay shall be dissolved. If the Commissioner disapproves a Player Contract for any of the reasons stated above on a second occasion for the same player during a given League Year, and determines that such player should not be able to play, there shall be no stay of such disapproval pursuant to this agreement, unless it is determined that the Commissioner’s second disapproval is arbitrary or capricious. This agreement shall not prejudice or affect in any way, or constitute a waiver with respect to, any rights of class members to seek a stay or injunctive relief before the District Court, pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; nor shall it prejudice or affect in any way the rights of the NFL to oppose, or the arguments of the NFL in opposition, to such a stay.
*Side Letter 1/18/94: Sec. 2
Section 7.	NFLPA Group Licensing Program: The NFL Player Contract shall include, solely for the administrative convenience and benefit of the player and the NFLPA, the provision set forth in paragraph 4a of Appendix C, regarding the NFLPA Group Licensing Program. Neither the League nor any Club is a party to, or a beneficiary of, the terms of that provision.
Section 8.	Good Faith Negotiation: In addition to complying with specific provisions in this Agreement, any Club or player engaged in negotiations for a Player Contract (including any Club extending, and any player receiving, a Required Tender) is under an obligation to negotiate in good faith.
Page 41
* The parties hereby agree that pursuant to Article 14, Section 8 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, a Club extending a Required Tender must, for so long as that Tender is extended, have a good faith intention to employ the player receiving the Tender at the Tender compensation level during the upcoming season. It shall be deemed to be a violation of this provision if, while the tender is outstanding, a Club insists that such a player agree to a Player Contract at a compensation level during the upcoming season below that of the Required Tender amount. The foregoing shall not affect any rights that a Club may have under the Player Contract, under the CBA, or under the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement, including but not limited to the right to terminate the contract, renegotiate the contract, or to trade the player if such termination, renegotiation, or trade is otherwise permitted by the Player Contract, CBA, or Stipulation and Settlement Agreement.	•
*Side Letter 3/3/97: Sec. 1
Page 42
ARTICLE XV
OPTION CLAUSE
Section 1.	Prohibition: Commencing with the execution of this Agreement, the option clause contained in the NFL Player Contract shall be discontinued. Any option clause must be negotiated as a separate addendum to the revised NFL Player Contract form. Any negotiated option clause must state the dollar amount(s) to be paid to the player during the option year.
Section 2.	Existing Option Clauses: If any option clause contained in an NFL Player Contract in existence at the time of the execution of this Agreement is exercised by the Club, it shall be at the rate of salary specified. The player will also receive 100% of performance bonus provisions where the bonus is earned in the option year.
Page 43
ARTICLE XVI
COLLEGE DRAFT
Section 1. Time of Draft: Commencing with the 1993 Annual Selection Meeting (the “College Draft” or “Draft”), and with respect to the Draft to be held each League Year thereafter during the term of this Agreement, as well as the Draft to be held in the League Year immediately following the expiration or termination of this Agreement (which Draft shall be held between February 14 and May 2, 2005, unless the extension of this Agreement is canceled by either of the parties hereto as set forth in Article LXI (Extension of Agreement), in which case such draft shall be held between February 14 and May 2, 2004), and the subsequent implementation of each such Draft during the applicable League Year, the following rules shall apply:
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 2, Number of Choices: With the exception of the 1993 Draft, the Draft shall consist of seven rounds, with each round consisting of the same number of selection choices as there will be Clubs in the NFL the following League Year, plus a maximum number of additional Compensatory Draft Selections equal to the number of Clubs then in the League, with such Compensatory Draft Selections reserved for Clubs losing certain Unrestricted Free Agents. For the 1993 League Year only, the Draft shall consist of eight rounds without any additional Compensatory Draft Selections, except any additional selections as provided in Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), Section 13. To the extent that the Compensatory Draft Selections referred to in Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), Section 13 are not all awarded for use in the 1993 League Year Draft, such remaining selections are reserved for the Drafts in subsequent League Years under this Agreement in addition to the maximum number of selections set forth in the first sentence of this Section 2. Each Draft to be held after the 1996 League Year shall be held between February 14 and May 2, on a date which shall be determined by the Commissioner.
Section 3.	Required Tender: A Club that drafts a player shall be deemed to have automatically tendered the player a one year NFL Player Contract for the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary then applicable to the player pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The NFL or the Club shall provide the player with notice of such Required Tender before or immediately following the Draft.
Section 4.	Signing of Drafted Rookies:
(a)	A drafted player may accept the Required Tender at any time up to and including the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season immediately following the Draft, at 4:00 p.m. New York time. In the event the exclusive negotiating rights to the drafted player are assigned to
Page 44
another dub through the NFL waiver system, the acquiring Club must immediately extend the Required Tender following assignment. If released through waivers, the player shall be treated as an Undrafted Rookie Free Agent, with the right to sign an NFL Player Contract with any Club. If the Club that drafted the player signs the player after he is waived and becomes a Rookie Free Agent, the player’s entire salary shall be counted against the Entering Player Pool, in the manner described in Article XVII (Entering Player Pool).
(b)	If a Drafted Rookie has not signed a Player Contract during the period from the date of such Draft to the thirtieth day prior to the beginning of the regular season: (i) the Club that drafted the player may not thereafter trade to another Club either its exclusive negotiating rights to such player or any Player Contract that it signs with such player for the player’s initial League Year; and (ii) the Club that drafted the player is the only Club with which the player may sign a Player Contract until the day of the Draft in the subsequent League Year, at which time such player is eligible to be drafted in the subsequent League Year’s Draft by any Club except the Club that drafted him in the initial Draft. (After the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, the player and the Club may only sign a Player Contract for future League Year(s)).
(c)	If a Drafted Rookie has not signed a Player Contract by the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time, the player shall be prohibited from playing football in the NFL for the remainder of that League Year, absent a showing to the Impartial Arbitrator of extreme Club or extreme personal hardship. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be made within five days of the application, and shall be based upon all information relating to such hardship submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Section 5.	Other Professional Teams:
(a)	Notwithstanding Section 4(b) above, if a player is drafted by a Club and, during the period between the Draft and the next annual Draft, signs a contract with, plays for or is employed by a professional football team not in the NFL during all or any part of the 12 month period following the initial Draft, then the drafting Club (or any assignee Club) shall retain the exclusive NFL rights to negotiate for and sign a contract with the player until the day of the Draft three League Years after the initial Draft, and shall
thereafter have a Right of First Refusal as described herein, and the player may receive offers from any Club at any time thereafter. The player shall notify the NFLPA and the NFL of his desire to sign a contract with an NFL Club, and of the date on which the player will be free of his other contractual obligations of employment, if any. Within thirty days of receipt of such notice by the NFL or the date of the availability of such player, whichever is later, the NFL Club that drafted the player must tender a one
Page 45
year written Player Contract to the player in order to retain its rights to that player, as detailed below.
(b)	For a player to whom the drafting Club retains the exclusive NFL rights to negotiate pursuant to Section 4(a) above, the Club must tender a one year Player Contract with salary of at least the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for players with less than one credited season, as defined in Article XVIII (Veterans With Less Than Three Accrued Seasons), Section 3, within the thirty day period specified in subsection (a) above. The amount of such tender and/or any Player Contract entered into with the player shall be subject to the Entering Player Pool, as set forth in Article XVII (Entering Player Pool). If the player is released through waivers, the player immediately becomes a Free Agent, with the right to sign an NFL Player Contract with any Club, and any Club is then free to negotiate for and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
(c)	For players with respect to whom the drafting Club retains a Right of First Refusal pursuant to this Section 5, during each League Year the player shall be treated as if he were a Restricted Free Agent not subject to Draft Choice Compensation, as described in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), Section 2, except as otherwise set forth in this Section 5. For such players subject to a Right of First Refusal, the Club must tender a one year Player Contract with at least the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for players with two or more Credited Seasons, as defined in Article XVIII (Veterans With Less Than Three Accrued Seasons), Section 3, within the thirty day period specified in subsection (a) above. The amount of such tender and/or any Player Contract entered into with the player shall not be subject to the Entering Player Pool. If the Club does not make or withdraws the Required Tender, the player immediately becomes a Rookie Free Agent, with the right to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club is then free to negotiate for and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
(d)	This Section 5 shall apply to any player drafted in the 1990 League Year or thereafter, except that tenders to and Player Contracts entered into with players drafted in the 1990, 1991 and 1992 League Years shall not be subject to the Entering Player Pool. Any player drafted prior to the 1990 League Year shall be governed by rules identical to the provisions set forth in Article XIII of the 1982 Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Section 6. Return to College: If any college football player who becomes eligible for the Draft prior to exhausting his college football eligibility through participation is drafted by an NFL Club, and returns to college, the drafting Club’s exclusive right to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player shall continue through the date of the Draft that follows the last season in which the player was eligible to participate in college football, and
Page 46	.
thereafter the player shall be treated and the Club shall have such exclusive rights as if he were drafted in such Draft by such Club (or assignee Club).
Section 7.	Assignment of Draft Rights: In the event that the exclusive right to negotiate for a Drafted Rookie under Sections 4,5 or 6 above is assigned from one Club to another Club, the Club to which such right has been assigned shall have the same, but no greater, right to such player, including the Right of First Refusal described in Section 5, as would the Club assigning such right, and such player shall have the
same, but no greater, obligation to the NFL Club to which such right has been assigned as he had to the Club assigning such right.
Section 8.	Subsequent Draft: A Club that, in a subsequent Draft, drafts a player who (a) was selected in an initial Draft, and (b) did not sign a contract with the NFL Club that drafted him or with any assignee Club during the signing period set forth in Sections 4 through 6 above, shall, during the period from the date of the subsequent Draft to the date of the Draft held the subsequent League Year, be the only NFL Club that may negotiate with or sign a Player Contract with such player. If such player has not signed a Player Contract within the period beginning on the date of the subsequent Draft and ending on the thirtieth day prior to the beginning of the regular season, the Club loses all rights to trade its exclusive negotiating rights to such player or any Player Contract that it signs with such player for the player’s initial League Year. After the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, the player and the Club may only sign a Player Contract for future League Yeaifs), except as provided in Section 4(c) above. If the player has not signed a Player Contract by the day of the next annual College Draft following the subsequent Draft, the player immediately becomes a Rookie Free Agent, with the right to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club is then free to negotiate for and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
Section 9.	No Subsequent Draft: If a player is drafted by a Club in an initial Draft and (a) does not sign a contract with a Club during the signing period set forth in Sections 4 through 6 above, and (b) is not drafted by any Club in the subsequent Draft, the player immediately becomes an Undrafted Rookie, with the right to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club is then free to negotiate for and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
Section 10,	Compensatory Draft Selections: The rules and procedures regarding Compensatory Draft Selections set forth in Section 2 above shall be as agreed upon by the NFL and the NFLPA.
Page 47
Section 11.	Undrafted Rookies: Any person who has not been selected by a Club in a College Draft shall be free, after the completion of a College Draft for which he is eligible, to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any such person after such date, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind.
Section 12.	Notice of Signing: Promptly following but no later than two business days after receipt of notice of the signing of any Drafted or Undrafted Rookie, the NFL shall notify the NFLPA of such signing.
Section 13.	Workouts of Draft-Eligible Players: In order to encourage fair competition among all Draft-eligible players who were invited to the NFL Scouting Combine, and to discourage any unfair advantages from individual workouts of such players, Clubs are prohibited from attending or conducting, directly or indirectly, any workouts of any Draft-eligible player(s) who were invited to, and were not excused from (because of medical or other reasons) attending or participating fully in workouts at, the NFL Scouting Combine.
Page 48
ARTICLE XVII
ENTERING PLAYER POOL
Section 1. Definition; For purposes of this Article XVII of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(a)	“Entering Player Pool” means the League-wide limit on the total amount of Salary to which all of the NFL Clubs may contract for in signing Drafted Rookies (and certain amounts contracted to be paid to Undrafted Rookies as described below) during each League Year of this Agreement, as set forth below.
(b)	Salary shall be defined and calculated in the same manner as set forth in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary). In the event a Rookie who is subject to the Entering Player Pool signs a Player Contract after the commencement of the regular season, the Club must have Room under its Rookie Allocation for the entire Paragraph 5 amount of the contract.
Section 2. Covered League Years: The Entering Player Pool will be in effect in the 1993 League Year and in all subsequent League Years, except as set forth below. Beginning with the 1994 League Year, the NFL may remove the Entering Player Pool at its option in any Uncapped Year, by notice to the NFLPA at least 60 days prior to the scheduled date of the Draft that League Year. Further, in any Capped Year, the NFL may remove the Pool, by notice to the NFLPA at least 60 days prior to the scheduled date of the Draft that League Year, but to the extent that any Club spends more than its Rookie Allocation in that League Year, the Club will pay an equivalent number of dollars to its Veteran players pursuant to reasonable allocation instructions by the NFLPA.
Section 3.	Calculation:
(a)	For the 1993 League Year, the Entering Player Pool shall be $56 million, i.e., an average of $2 million per Club. For the 1994-97 League Years, the Entering Player Pool shall consist on a League-wide basis of the greater of: (i) $2 million multiplied by the number of Clubs in the NFL at the time of the Draft; (ii) 3.5% of Projected DGR; or (iii) the aggregate amount, in actual dollars, of the Entering Player Pool in the previous League Year. For the 1998League Year, the Entering Player Pool shaft consist, on a Leaguewide basis, of 107.8% of the dollar amount of the Entering Player Pool for the 1997 League Year (excluding any formula allotments attributable to any Compensatory Draft Selections). For the 1999 League Year and each applicable succeeding League Year of this Agreement, the Entering Player Pool shall consist on a League-wide basis of the amount of the Entering Player Pool for the immediately preceding League Year (excluding any formula allotments attributable to any Compensatory Draft Selections), increased by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR for that League Year over the prior year’s DGR (as defined in Article
Page 49
XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary)), up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) per season, but shall not in any event decrease in actual amount from League Year to League Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent there are Compensatory Draft Selections as a result of Article XVI (College Draft), Section 2 and/or Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), Section 13, the Entering Player Pool shall be increased in accordance with subsection (c) below and as otherwise agreed upon by the NFL and the NFLPA.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	For each League Year of this Agreement, each Club shall have a Rookie Allocation, which shall be its proportional share of the Entering Player Pool, calculated based on the number, round, and position of the Club’s selection choices in the Draft. The Rookie Allocation formula shall be agreed upon by the NFL and the NFLPA and shall remain in effect for the duration of the Agreement, unless the NFL and the NFLPA otherwise agree.
(c)	If, pursuant to Article XVI (College Draft), Section 2 and/or Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), Section 13, a Club has one or more Compensatory Draft Selections, an amount shall be added to that Club’s Rookie Allocation, and to the Entering Player Pool (notwithstanding subsection (b) above),
based upon the amount allotted to selection choices of that round and position in calculating the Rookie Allocation (the “Formula Allotment”). In the event that a Club signs a Player Contract with a Drafted Rookie who was drafted in a prior League Year, an additional amount shall be added to that Club's Rookie Allocation, and to the Entering Player Pool (notwithstanding subsection (b) above), equal to the lower of the Club's original Formula Allotment for such draft choice or the amount of unused Room under the Club's Rookie Allocation during the League Year in which the player was originally drafted.
■•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(d)	Notwithstanding the above, nothing shall prevent the Club from signing a player for an amount in excess of the player’s Formula Allotment, if the Club has Room available under its Rookie Allocation.
(e)	In the event that the NFL holds a supplemental draft in addition to its annual Draft in advance of die next League Year’s Draft, adjustments shall be made to the Entering Player Pool and Rookie Allocation in a manner to be agreed upon by the NFL and the NFLPA.
*In the event the NFL holds a supplemental draft in addition to its annual College Draft in advance of the following League Year’s College Draft, there shall be added to each selecting Club’s Rookie Allocation, and (cumulatively, if more than one selecting Club) to the Entering Player Pool for that League Year, an amount equal to the Formula Allotment for the corresponding choice(s) in
Page 50
that League Year’s College Draft. In the subsequent League Year, after Formula Allotments have been established for each selection position in the College Draft, the amount of the Formula Allotments) for the selections used in the prior year’s supplemental draft shall be deducted from the Club’s Rookie Allocation. See Article XVII, Sec. 3 (e) of the CBA.
Example: If Team A selects a player in a supplemental draft with the first choice in the third round, Team A’s Rookie Allocation for that League Year shall be increased by an amount equal to the Formula Allotment for the first choice in the third round of that year’s College Draft. An amount equal to the Formula Allotment for the first choice in the third round of the prior League Year’s Draft shall be eliminated from the subsequent League Year’s Entering Player Pool, in that Club’s Rookie Allocation, but all other Rookie Allocations remain the same.
*Side Letter 5/24/95
Section 4,	Operation:
(a)	No Club may enter into Player Contracts with Drafted Rookies that, standing alone or in the aggregate, provide for Salaries in the first League Year of such Player contracts that would exceed the Club’s Rookie Allocation for that year,
(b)	For the purposes of this Article XVII, the Salary of any Undrafted Rookie shall count toward the Club’s Rookie Allocation only to the extent that it exceeds the then-applicable Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for that player.
(c)	In the event that a Draft selection is assigned to another Club prior to completion of the Draft, the amount of the Formula Allotment for such selection shall be assigned to the Club receiving the selection under the assignment. A Club may not assign the exclusive negotiating rights to a Drafted Player to another Club if such New Club does not have Room under its Rookie Allocation equal to at least the original Formula Allotment for the player, unless the player consents to such assignment.
(d)	(i)lf a Drafted Player is placed on waivers, the player’s Formula Allotment remains with the Club ■ that requested waivers on him, and the assignee Club must have Room or make Room under its Rookie Allocation to make the Required Tender to the player.	’
(ii) If a Club requests waivers on a Drafted Rookie and that player is released via waivers, the requesting Club can sign that player to a Player Contract during that League Year only if the Club has Room under its Rookie Allocation equal to die full Salary contracted for in that League Year.
(e)	No Player Contract signed by a Rookie may provide for an annual increase in Salary of more than 25% of the contract’s first League Year
Page 51
Salary, unless such Player Contract provides for Salary which is equal to the then-applicable Minimum Salary for each League Year of the contract. For the purposes of the calculation in this section only, any amount of a signing bonus attributed to the player's Salary shall not be counted.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
*	If a Rookie contracts with a Club for the minimum workout payments set forth in Article XXXV, for his second or subsequent season, such payments shall not be included for the purposes of the 25% calculation under Article XVII, Section 4(e). If a Rookie contracts with a Club for a workout payment in excess of the minimum, such excess amount shall be included for the purposes of the 25% calculation under Article XVII, Section 4(e). In all cases, a workout payment shall count toward Team Salary and a Team’s Rookie Allocation.
•Side Letter 6/23/93: Sec. 1
*	Any amount which a Club may pay to a player to buy out a right the player has or may have to terminate one or more contract years shall be treated as signing bonus at the time the buy-out is exercised by the Club, and pro-rated at that time over the remaining term of the contract, including the current League Year, if the right to terminate and/or the right to buy-out is based upon one or more incentives that are not “likely to be earned.” Such a buy-out amount shall not be included in any calculation for purposes of the 25% Rule for Rookies, set forth in Article XVII, Section 4(e) of the CBA, and/or the 30% Rule, set forth in Article XXIV, Section 8 of the CBA.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96; Sec. 3(a)
*	The parties acknowledge that Class Counsel together with the NFLPA, and the NFL Management Council, disagree as to the treatment of allocated signing bonus and buy-out payments when a player’s right to terminate one or more contract years and/or the Club’s right to buy-out is based upon one or more incentives that are “likely to be earned,” and not upon any incentives that are not “likely to be earned.” These issues are expressly left open. Except to enforce the terms of this paragraph [and the one preceding], the terms of [both these] paragraph[s]...may not be referred to or used by any of the parties in any proceeding, or otherwise, and the parties otherwise reserve all of their rights with respect to the
Page 52
subject of this paragraph.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 3(b)
•	Any amount specified to be paid for the exercise of an option by a Club to extend the term of a Player Contract shall be treated as signing bonus, pro-rated over the remaining term of the contract commencing in the League Year in which it is exercised or the last League Year in which the option may be exercised,
whichever comes first. Such an option amount shall, immediately upon execution of the contract, renegotiation or extension, be included in any calculation for purposes of the 25% Rule for Rookies, set forth in Article XVII, Section 4(e) of the CBA, and/or the 30% Rule, set forth in Article XXIV, Section 8 of the CBA, pro-rated over the remaining term of the contract commencing in the last League Year in which the option may be exercised. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) if a Club renounces its right to exercise the option, the option amount shall not be included in Team Salary as of the date of such renunciation; and (ii) if the club does not renounce, but nonetheless does not exercise the option, the full amount of the option amount previously counted against Team Salary shall be credited to the Club’s Salary Cap in the next League Year.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 4
(f)	The Player Contract of a Drafted Rookie or Undrafted Rookie may not be renegotiated for a one (1) year period following the date of the initial signing of such Player Contract, or until August 1 of the following League Year, whichever is later.
(g)	Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or shall be construed to mean that any Rookie’s Salary is predetermined by any Allocation or Formula Allotment.
(h)	The list of each Formula Allotment attributed to each draft selection shall be agreed to by the NFL and the NFLPA, and shall not be disclosed to Clubs, Players, Player Agents or the public.
*	For purposes of the Entering Player Pool and a Team’s Rookie Allocation, amounts contracted to be paid to Drafted Rookies, and amounts in excess of the applicable Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary contracted to be paid to Undrafted Rookies pursuant to Article XVII, Section 4, shall be counted against the Entering Player Pool and a Team’s Rookie Allocation, whether or not the
Page 53
amounts are actually paid, in the manner otherwise specified in the CBA.
*Side Letter 6/23/93: Sec. 7
I
!
*	[I]n League Years for which no Salary Cap is in effect, 85% of any amount contracted by a Team to be paid from the Team’s Rookie Allocation to a Rookie, but not actually paid by the Team to that player, either as a rookie, or as a re-signed first year player or practice squad player, which amount was not paid because that player was released, will be distributed to all rookies on such Team promptly after the end of the season on a pro rata basis based upon the number of downs played.
♦Side Letter 6/23/93
*	[I]f a Club has a Rookie Orientation Program apart from its allowable mini campfs) and prior to its training camp, the following categories of per player reimbursements or payments will not be counted against the Entering Player Pool:
(1)	One Round Trip Airline Ticket or its cash equivalent from the player’s place of residence to the Club city and back, not to exceed $750.
(2)	Room and Board of up to $ 100 per day or its equivalent, up to a maximum of 60 days.
(3)	Ground transportation to and from the player’s place of residence in the club’s city to the club’s facility.
Any amounts in excess of the above reimbursements or payments will count against the Entering Player Pool.
*Side Letter 8/4/93: Sec. 1
as amended, Side Letter 5/13/99
*	The above reimbursements or payments for Rookie Orientation Programs will not be considered Player Costs during the term of this Agreement. The parties reserve their respective rights and arguments with respect to whether any amounts in excess of the above reimbursements or payments do or do not qualify as Player Costs under the Agreement.
*Side Letter 8/4/93: Sec. 2
Page 54
*	Costs associated with the Rookie Orientation Programs will be evaluated by the NFLPA, Class Counsel, and the NFLMC each year to determine if adjustment, with respect to the Entering Player Pool, is appropriate.
*	Side Letter 8/4/93: Sec. 3
**See Pages 110-130 for Rookie “Likely To Be Earned” Incentives. Article XXIV, Section 7(c).
Page 55
ARTICLE XVIII
VETERANS WITH LESS THAN THREE
ACCRUED SEASONS
Section 1.	Accrued Seasons Calculation:
(a)	For the purposes of calculating Accrued Seasons under this Agreement, a player shall receive one Accrued Season for each season during which he was on, or should have been on, full pay status for a total of six or more regular season games, but which, irrespective of the player’s pay status, shall not include games for which the player was on: (i) the Exempt Commissioner Permission List, (ii) the Reserve PUP List as a result of a nonfootball injury, or (iii) a Club's Practice or Development Squad.
(b)	For the purposes of calculating Accrued Seasons under this Agreement, for any League Year during the term of this Agreement beginning with the 1993 League Year, a player shall not receive an Accrued Season for any League Year in which th? player is under contract to a Club and in which he failed to report to such Club at least thirty days prior to the first regular season game of that season, or in which the player thereafter failed to perform his contract services for the Club for a material period of time, unless he demonstrates to the Impartial Arbitrator extreme personal hardship causing such failure to report or perform, such as severe illness or death in the family. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be made within thirty days of the application by the player, and shall be based upon all information relating to such hardship submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Section 2.	Negotiating Rights of Players with Less Than Three Accrued Seasons; Any Veteran with less than three Accrued Seasons whose contract has expired may negotiate or sign a Player Contract only with his Prior Club, if on or before March 1 his Prior Club tenders the player a one year Player Contract with a Paragraph 5 Salary of at least the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary applicable to that player. If the
Prior Club has not by that date made the Required Tender or later withdraws such tender, the player shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
Section 3.	Notice of Signing: Promptly upon but no later than two business days after the signing of any Veteran with less than three Accrued Seasons to a Player Contract, the signing Club shall notify the NFL, which shall notify the NFLPA of such signing.
Page 56
**	See Pages 38-39 - Article XIV, Section 5(a) for Side Letter of 5/24/95, Section 13 and Side Letter of 3/3/97, Section 2 re: Notice of Signing.	.
**	See Pages 40-41 - Article XIV, Section 8 for Side Letter of 3/3/97, Section 1 re: Good Faith of Required Tender.
♦*	Prior Section 3 (Minimum Salaries) omitted under 2/25/98 Extension Agreement; See Pages 171-174-Article XXXVIII, Sections 1-5 re; Minimum Salaries.
Page 57
ARTICLE XIX
VETERAN FREE AGENCY
Section 1.	Unrestricted Free Agents:
(a)	Subject to the provisions of Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), any player with five or more Accrued Seasons, or with four or more Accrued Seasons in any Capped Year, shall, at the expiration of his Player Contract, become an Unrestricted Free Agent. Such player shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, subject to the signing period set forth below.
(b)	Signing Period.
(i)	In the event that an Unrestricted Free Agent has not signed a Player Contract with a Club by July 15 or the first scheduled day of the first NFL training camp, whichever is later, in the League Year following the expiration of his last Player Contract, he may negotiate or sign a Player Contract from July 15 until the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time, only with his Prior Club, provided that the Prior Club by June 1 has tendered to the player a one year Player Contract of at least 110% of either (a) his Prior Year Salary (if his expiring Player Contract is not a Player Contract he entered into as a Rookie), or (b) his Paragraph 5 Salary (if his expiring Player Contract is a Player Contract he entered into as a Rookie, without renegotiation), in each case with all other terms of his contract identical to his prior year’s contract. For the purposes of this subsection, “Prior Year Salary” means the total of the Paragraph 5 Salary, roster and reporting bonuses, prorata portion of signing bonus, and other payments to players in compensation for the playing of professional football for the last year of the player’s most recently negotiated Player Contract, except for performance bonuses other than roster and reporting bonuses. Beginning with the 1994 League Year, Prior Year Salary shall also include any un-repaid loans made, guaranteed or collateralized by a Team or its Team Affiliate to a player or Player Affiliate during or after the 1993 League Year,
(ii)	If an Unrestricted Free Agent described in subparagraph (b)(1) above has not signed a Player Contract by the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time, the player shall be prohibited from playing football in the NFL for the remainder of that League Year, absent a showing to the Impartial Arbitrator of extreme Club or extreme personal hardship. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be made within five days of the application and shall be based upon all information relating to such hardship submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Page 58
(iii)	If an Unrestricted Free Agent does not play in the NFL for the remainder of a League Year pursuant to subparagraph (b)(ii) above, commencing the first day of the following League Year, the player shall be free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
(c)	In the event that an Unrestricted Free Agent has not signed a Player Contract with a Club by June 1 of the League Year following the expiration of his last Player Contract, and if his Prior Club has not by that date tendered to the player a one year Player Contract in accordance with the requirements of subparagraph (b)(i) above, or has withdrawn the tender, the player shall continue to be an Unrestricted Free Agent and shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
(d)	An Unrestricted Free Agent shall not be subject to any limitations on the period of time before which he may qualify as an Unrestricted Free Agent again, or to any limitations on the number of times he may be an Unrestricted Free Agent.
(e)	Promptly upon but no later than two business days after the signing of any Unrestricted Free Agent to a Player Contract, the signing Club shall notify the NFL, which shall notify the NFLPA of such signing.
**See Pages 38-39 • Article XIV, Section 5(a) for Side Letter of 5/24/95, Section 13 and Side Letter of 3/3/97, Section 2 re: Notice of Signing.
**See Pages 40-41 - Article XIV, Section 8 for Side Letter of 3/3/97, Section 1 re: Good Faith of Required Tender.
Section 2.	Restricted Free Agents:
(a)	Any Veteran player with three or more Accrued Seasons, but less than five Accrued Seasons (or less than four Accrued Seasons in any Capped Year), shall, at the expiration of his last Player Contract during such period, become a Restricted Free Agent. Any such player shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any such player, subject to the restrictions set forth in this Article.
(b)	In order to receive the following specified Rights of First Refusal and/or Draft Choice Compensation with respect to a Restricted Free Agent, the Prior Club of a Restricted Free Agent must tender the player a Qualifying
Page 59
Offer on or before the first date of the Restricted Free Agent Signing Period, as follows:
i
1
I
I
(i)	For Restricted Free Agents with three Accrued Seasons:
(1)	Right of First Refusal: one year Player Contract with Paragraph 5 Salary of at least $275,000;
(2)	Right of First Refusal and Draft Selection at Player’s Original Draft Round: one year Player Contract with a Paragraph 5 Salary of at least (a) $275,000, or (b) 110% of the player’s prior year’s Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater; in addition, if option (b) applies, all other terms of die player’s prior year contract are carried forward unchanged (this subsection is subject to the rules of subsection (c) below);
(3)	Right of First Refusal and One First Round Draft Selection: one year Player Contract with a Paragraph 5 Salary of at least (a) $600,000, or (b) 110% of the player’s prior year's Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater; in addition, if option (b) applies, all other terms of the player’s prior year contract are carried forward unchanged;
(4)	Right of First Refusal, One First Round Draft Selection, and One Third Round Draft Selection: one year Player Contract with a Paragraph 5 Salary of at least (a) $800,000, or (b) i 10% of the player’s prior year’s Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater; in addition, if option (b) applies, all other terms of the player’s prior year contract are carried forward unchanged;	.
(ii)	For Restricted Free Agents with four Accrued Seasons (in Uncapped Years):
(1)	Right of First Refusal: one year Player Contract with Paragraph 5 Salary of at least $325,000;
(2)	Right of First Refusal and Draft Selection at Player’s Original Draft Round: one year Player
Contract with a Paragraph 5 Salary of at least (a) $325,000, or (b) 110% of the player’s prior year’s Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater; in addition, if option (b) applies, all other terms of the player's prior year contract are carried forward unchanged (this subsection is subject to the rules of subsection (c) below);
(3)	Right of First Refusal and One First Round Draft Selection: one year Player Contract with a Paragraph 5 Salary of at least (a) $700,000, or (b) 110% of the player’s prior year’s Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater; in addition, if option (b) applies, ail other terms of the player’s prior year contract are carried forward unchanged; and
(4)	Right of First Refusal, One First Round Draft Selection, and One Third Round Draft Selection: one year Player Contract with Paragraph 5 Salary of at least (a) $900,000, or (b) 110% of the player’s prior year’s Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater; in addition, if option (b) applies, all other terms of the player’s prior year contract are carried forward unchanged.
(c)	Notwithstanding subparagraphs 2(b)(i) and 2(b)(ii) above, in the event that a Prior Club tenders any of its Restricted Free Agents originally
Page 60
selected in a draft round lower than the first round a Qualifying Offer that requires Draft Choice Compensation of one first round selection (the "Upgraded Tender”), the Prior Club shall only be eligible to receive Draft Choice Compensation of one second round selection for any of its Restricted Free Agents originally selected in the first round of the Draft, unless such Restricted Free Agents have each received a Qualifying Offer of at least the amount of the Upgraded Tender,
(d)	Notwithstanding subsections 2(b)(i) and 2(b)(ii) above, in the event that the player was originally selected in a draft round after the seventh round (or, for the 1993 League Year only, after the eighth round), a Qualifying Offer in the amount required to obtain a Right of First Refusal and Draft Choice	'
Compensation at the Player’s original Draft Round shall entitle a Club only to a Right of First Refusal for such player.
(e)	The amounts of the Qualifying Offers specified in this paragraph ($275,000, $325,000, $600,000, $700,000, $800,000 and $900,000) shall increase each League Year following the 1993 League Year by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR over the prior League Year’s DGR (as defined in Article XXIV), up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) per League Year, but shall not in any event decrease in actual amount from League Year to League Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall Qualifying Offer amounts increase if the projected DGR for the League Year in question is not greater than the highest DGR of any previous League Year.
(f)	A Restricted Free Agent shall have the option of accepting a one year NFL Player Contract for 110% of his Prior Year Paragraph 5 Salary (with all other terms of his prior year contract carried forward unchanged) in lieu of a Player Contract for the applicable alternative amount specified in this paragraph, if he so wishes, regardless of which Player Contract is for a greater amount.
(g)	In the event a Prior Club withdraws its Qualifying Offer, the Restricted Free Agent shall immediately become an Unrestricted Free Agent and shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any such player, without being subject to First Refusal, Draft Choice Compensation, Signing Period, or any other limitation of any kind.
** See Pages 40-41 - Article XIV, Section 8 for Side Letter of 3/3/97, Section 1 re: Good Faith of Required T cnder.
(h)	Signing Period. Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement, in the 1993 League Year, Restricted Free Agents shall be free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club during the period commencing on March 1, 1993, and ending at 11:59 p.m. New York time on April 23, 1993 (the “Signing Period”). In future League Years, the dates of
Page 61
such Signing Period shall be agreed upon by the NFL and the NFLPA by the previous September 1, but in no event may such Signing Period be less than a period of sixty days.
(i)	(i) In the event that a Restricted Free Agent has not signed a Player Contract with a Club within the Signing Period in the League Year following the expiration of his last Player Contract, and if the Prior Club by June 1 tenders to the Restricted Free Agent a one year Player Contract of at least 110% of his Paragraph 5 Salary (with all other terms of his prior year contract carried forward unchanged) or extends the player’s Qualifying Offer, whichever is greater (the “June 1 Tender”), the Prior Club shall be the only Club with which the player may negotiate or sign a Player Contract during the period from June 1 until the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time. If the player’s Qualifying Offer is greater than 110% of the player’s Paragraph 5 Salary (with all other terms of his prior year contract carried forward unchanged), the Club may withdraw the Qualifying Offer on June 15 and retain its rights under the preceding sentence, so long as the Club immediately tenders the player a one year Player Contract of at least 110% of his Paragraph 5 Salary (with all other terms of his prior year contract carried forward unchanged) (the “June 15 Tender”).
(ii	) If a Restricted Free Agent described in subsection (i)(i) above has not signed a Player Contract by the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time, the player shall not play football in the NFL for the remainder of that League Year, absent a showing to the Impartial Arbitrator of extreme Club or extreme personal hardship. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall he made within five days of the application, and shall consider all information relating to such hardship submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
(ii	i) If a Restricted Free Agent does not play in the NFL in a League Year, his Prior Team shall have the right to tender such player any Qualifying Offer consistent with Section 2(b) prior to the next League
Year’s Restricted Free Agent Signing Period. In the event such a Qualifying Offer is tendered, the Prior Team shall have the applicable rights regarding such player according to such tender, and such player shall have the same rights regarding negotiations with other Clubs as he had the previous League Year.
(j)	In the event that a Restricted Free Agent has not signed a Player Contract with a Club by June I in the League Year following the expiration of his last Player Contract, and if his Prior Club has not by that date made the applicable June 1 Tender to such player, or withdraws the tender, or in the event the Club has withdrawn the applicable June 15 Tender, the player shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club may negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to,	'
Page 62
Draft Choice Condensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
(k)	Promptly upon but no later than two business days after the signing of any Restricted Free Agent to a Player Contract, or the extending to any Restricted Free Agent of a Qualifying Offer, the signing or extending Club shall notify the NFL, which shall notify the NFLPA of such signing or offer.
** See Pages 38-39 - Article XIV, Section 5(a) for Side Letter of 5/24/95, Section 13 and Side Letter 3/3/97, Section 2 re: Notice of Signing.
(1)	Draft Choice Compensation under this Article shall be due in that League Year’s Draft unless the Offer Sheet is received by the Prior Club later than two days before that League Year’s Draft, in which case Draft Choice Compensation shall be due in the following League Year’s Draft.
(m)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Prior Club of a Restricted Free Agent has tendered the player a Qualifying Offer pursuant to this Article XIX, Section 2(m) in an amount at least $500,000 greater than that specified by Sections 2(b)(i)(4) or 2(b)(ii)(4) above, as applicable depending upon whether the League Year is a Capped Year or an Uncapped Year, or by Article LVI, Section 2(b), if applicable, then the Club shall have a Right of First Refusal and Draft Choice Compensation of only One First Round Selection, but any provision in an Offer Sheet to such player waiving or limiting the New Club’s ability to designate the player as a Franchise Player or Transition Player in the future shall not be a Principal Term, and therefore need not be included in a contract formed with the Prior Club as a result of matching such an Offer Sheet (but shall be included in a contract formed with the New Club as a result of the Prior Club not matching such an Offer Sheet).
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 3.	Offer Sheet and First Refusal Procedures:
(a)	Offer Sheets. When a Restricted Free Agent receives an offer to sign a Player Contract from any Club (the “New Club”) other than the Prior Club, which offer the player desires to accept, he shall give to the Prior Club a completed certificate substantially in the form of Appendix D, attached hereto (the “Offer Sheet”), signed by the Restricted Free Agent and the New Club, which shall contain the “Principal Terms” (as defined below) of the New Club’s offer. The Prior Club, within seven days from the date it receives the Offer Sheet, may exercise or not exercise its Right of First Refusal, which shall have the legal consequences set forth below.
(b)	First Refusal Exercise Notice. If the Prior Club gives the Restricted Free Agent a “First Refusal Exercise Notice” substantially in the form of Appendix E, attached hereto, within seven days from the date the Prior Club receives an Offer Sheet, but not later than four days before the Draft (or until 11:59 p.m. New York time on April 24,1993 in the 1993
Page 63
I
League Year), such Restricted Free Agent and the Prior Club shall be deemed to have entered into a binding agreement, which they shall promptly formalize in a Player Contract, containing (i) all the Principal Terms (subject to subsection (e) below); (ii) those terms of the NFL Player Contract not modified by the Principal Terms; and (iii) such additional terms, not less favorable to the player than those contained in the Offer Sheet, as may be agreed upon between the Restricted Free Agent and the Prior Club.
(c)	No First Refusal Exercise Notice. If the Prior Club does not give the Restricted Free Agent the First
Refusal Exercise Notice within the applicable period, the player and the New Club shall be deemed to have entered into a binding agreement, which they shall promptly formalize in a Player Contract, containing (i) all the Principal Terms; (ii) those terms of the NFL Player Contract not modified by the Principal Terms; and (iii) such additional terms, not less favorable to the Restricted Free Agent than those contained in the Offer Sheet, as may be agreed upon between the Restricted Free Agent and the New Club (subject to Section 5 below), and the Restricted Free Agent’s Prior Club shall receive from the New Club the Draft Choice Compensation, if any, specified in Section 2 above of this Article. Any Club that does not have available, in the upcoming Draft, the selection choice or choices (its own or better choices in the applicable rounds) needed to provide Draft Choice Compensation in the event of a timely First Refusal Exercise Notice may not sign an Offer Sheet in such circumstances. The player and the New Club may not renegotiate such Player Contract to reduce the Salary in such contract until the date after the trading deadline in that League Year.
* Neither the Player nor the New Club may exercise an option in such Player Contract that reduces Salary in the first League Year of such contract until the date after the trading deadline in that League Year.
*Side Letter 4/16/98
(d)	One Offer Sheet. There may be only one Offer Sheet signed by a Restricted Free Agent outstanding at any one time, provided that the Offer Sheet has also been signed by a Club. An Offer Sheet, before or after it is given to the Prior Club, may be revoked or withdrawn only by the Clubs upon the written consent of the Restricted Free Agent In either of such events, the Restricted Free Agent shall again be free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall again be free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such Restricted Free Agent, subject to the Prior Club’s continued Right of First Refusal and/or Draft Choice Compensation as described in this section.
(e)	Principal Terms. For the purposes of this section, the Principal Terms of an Offer Sheet are only:
Page 64
(i)	Salary, which shall consist only of: (a) the fixed and specified dollar amounts the New Club will pay, guarantee or lend to the Restricted Free Agent and/or his designees (currently and/or as deferred compensation in specified installments on specified dates) in consideration for his services as a football player under the Player Contract (i.e., signing bonus, Paragraph 5 Salary, and reporting and roster bonuses); and (b) Salary that is variable and/or is subject to calculation only upon the following bases: (i) based upon performance of the Club extending the Offer Sheet (only those incentives which are “likely to be earned” by the player if he enters into a Player Contract with the New Club, pursuant to subsection (c) above, must be matched by the Prior Club for the purpose of exercising a Right of First Refusal, and such incentives may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the Salary in the Offer Sheet); and (ii) generally recognized league honors to be agreed upon by the parties; and
(ii)	Any modifications of and additions to the terms contained in the NFL Player Contract requested by the Restricted Free Agent and acceptable to the New Club, that relate to nonOcompensation terms (including guarantees, noQcut, and no-trade provisions) of the Restricted Free Agent’s employment as a football player (which shall be evidenced either by a copy of the NFL Player Contract, marked to show changes, or by a brief written summary contained in or attached to the Offer Sheet).
(f)	No Property or Investments. A Club may not offer any item of property or investments other than Salary as part of the Principal Terms contained in an Offer Sheet.
I
(g)	Incentives. For those incentives which are based on Club performance, only those incentives which are “likely to be earned” by the player if he enters into a Player Contract with the New Club, pursuant to subsection (c) above, must be matched by the Old Club for the purpose of exercising a Right of First Refusal.
(h)	No Consideration Between Clubs. There may be no consideration of any kind given by one Club to another Club in exchange for a Club’s decision to exercise or not to exercise its Right of First Refusal, or in exchange for a Club’s decision to submit or not to submit an Offer Sheet to a Restricted Free Agent or to make or not to make an offer to enter into a Player Contract with a Restricted Free Agent. If a Club exercises its Right of First Refusal and matches an Offer Sheet, that Club may not trade that player to the Club that submitted the Offer Sheet for at least one calendar year, unless the player consents to such trade.
(i)	NFL Only. No Right of First Refusal rule, practice, policy, regulation, or agreement, including any Right of First Refusal applicable to any Restricted Free Agent or Transition Player pursuant to Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players) below, may apply to the signing of a Player Contract with, or the playing with, any club in any professional football league other than die NFL by any Restricted Free Agent (except as agreed by the player in the circumstances set forth in Section 5 below). This prohibition applies
Page 65	’
to any Right of First Refusal described in this Agreement (except as described in Section 5 below).
(j)	No Assignment. No Right of First Refusal may be assigned to any other Club (except as provided in Article XVI (College Draft), Section 7 or as agreed by the player in the circumstances set forth in Section 5 below). This prohibition applies to any Right of First Refusal described in this Agreement (except as described in Section 5 below), including any Right of First Refusal with respect to Restricted Free Agents, Transition Players, or Drafted Rookies described in Article XVI (College Draft), Section 5.
(k)	Copies. Promptly upon but no later than two business days after the giving of an Offer Sheet to the Prior Club, the Restricted Free Agent shall cause a copy thereof to be given to the NFL, which shall notify the NFLPA, Promptly upon but no later than two business days after the giving of a First Refusal Exercise Notice to the Restricted Free Agent, the Prior Club shall cause a copy thereof to be given to the NFL, which shall notify the NFLPA. At any time after the giving of an Offer Sheet to a Prior Club, the NFL may require the New Club to cause a copy thereof to be given to the NFL and the NFLPA by telecopy.
Section 4. Expedited Arbitration: An expedited arbitration before the Inpartial Arbitrator, whose decision shall be final and binding upon all parties, shall be the exclusive method for resolving the disputes set forth in this Section. If a dispute arises between the player and either the Prior Club or the New Club, as the case may be, relating to their respective obligations to formalize their binding agreements created under sections 3(b) or (c) above, or as to whether the binding agreement is between the Restricted Free Agent and the New Club or the Restricted Free Agent and the Prior Club, such dispute shall immediately be submitted to the Impartial Arbitrator, who shall resolve such dispute within ten days but in no event later than two (2) days before the Draft. The Impartial Arbitrator shall not have the power to terminate any such binding agreement; he shall have the power only to direct the parties to formalize such binding agreement into a Player Contract in accordance with the Principal Terms of the applicable Offer Sheet, as interpreted by the Impartial Arbitrator.
Section 5.	Individually Negotiated Limitations on Player Movement:
(a)	All individually negotiated limitations on player movement are prohibited, except as specifically provided as follows:
(i)	If a Restricted Free Agent has been tendered a Qualifying Offer of (a) Paragraph 5 Salary of at least $275,000 for a player with three Accrued Seasons, or (b) at least $325,000 for a player with four Accrued Seasons, or (c) at least 110% of his prioryear’s Paragraph 5 Salary, whichever is greater (in each
i
case with all other terms of his prior year contract carried forward), and the Qualifying Offer is fully guaranteed for skill and injury, the Restricted Free Agent and his Prior Club may negotiate and contract for
Page 66
an individual Right of First Refusal with respect to the services of such player.
fii) Any Unrestricted Free Agent shall be permitted to negotiate and contract for an individual Right of First Refusal with any Club with respect to the services of such player so long as the player is not a Franchise Player or Transition Player at the time of such negotiation and contract.
(b)	Any player (other than a Free Agent) with less than three Accrued Seasons is prohibited from negotiating any individual limitations on his movement in his Player Contract or otherwise, and all Clubs are prohibited from negotiating any such limitations with such players.
(c)	Any individual Right of First Refusal that is negotiated and contracted for pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) above shall be void and unenforceable unless it is specified in a separate document signed by such player in the form annexed hereto as Appendix F, acknowledging such player’s waiver of the express right that Unrestricted Free Agents have under this Agreement to be free of any Right of First Refusal restriction on their freedom of movement.
(d)	Any individually negotiated Rights of First Refusal in any Player Contract existing at the time of the execution of this Agreement shall remain in effect only if written to supersede any litigation settlement agreement or any collective bargaining agreement (“CBA”). Existing individually negotiated Rights of First Refusal that provide that a CBA will govern shall be deemed to be superseded by this Agreement to the extent of any conflict.
(e)	The amounts specified in this section ($275,000 and $325,000) shall increase each League Year following the 1993 League Year by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR over the prior League Year’s DGR as defined in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) per League Year, but shall not in any event decrease in actual amount from League Year to League Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall such tender amounts increase if the Projected DGR for the League Year in question is not greater than the highest DGR of any previous League Year.
(f)	Rights of First Refusal negotiated pursuant to this Section 5 may be traded or assigned as part of a player’s contract.	.
Section 6.	Notices, Etc.:
(a) Any Offer Sheet, First Refusal Exercise Notice, or other writing required or permitted to be given under this Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), shall be sent either by personal delivery or by overnight mail, or by telecopy (in each case a confirmation copy shall also be sent by certified or registered mail), addressed as follows:
Page 67
* The confirmation copy described in Article XIX, Section 6 (a) of the CBA may sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, instead of certified or registered mail.
*Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 12	’
(i)	To any NFL Club; addressed to that Club at the principal address of such Club as then listed on the records of the NFL or at the Club’s principal office, to the attention of the Club’s president or general manager;
(ii)	To the NFL, 280 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, to the attention of Executive Vice President □ Labor Relations;	,
(iii)	To a Restricted Free Agent: to his address listed on the Offer Sheet and, if the Restricted Free Agent designates a representative on the Offer Sheet and lists such representative’s address thereon, a copy shall be sent to such representative at such address; and
(iv)	To the NFLPA, 2021 L Street, N.W., Suite 600, Washington, D.C. 20036.
(b)	An Offer Sheet shall be deemed given only when received by the Prior Club. A First Refusal Exercise Notice, a Qualifying Offer and any other writing required or permitted under Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency) shall be deemed given when sent by the Prior Club.
(c)	Subject to Article XXVIII (Anti-Collusion), Section 1, below, the NFL shall have the right to prepare and circulate to all Clubs two lists containing, respectively, no more than the name, address, Social Security number, telephone number, college, position, Team, Right of First Refusal and/or any Draft Choice Compensation of each and every player who shall or has become (i) an Unrestricted Free Agent; or (ii) a Restricted Free Agent, as of March 1, or as of the first date of the Signing Period, respectively (“Free Agent Lists”), and no other list relating to free agents. Information shall not be selectively withheld for some players but not others. If one or more Free Agent Lists are so circulated, copies thereof shall be sent to the NFLPA.
Page 68
ARTICLE XX
FRANCHISE AND TRANSITION PLAYERS
Section 1.	Franchise Player Designations: Except as set forth in Sections 3 and 9 below, each Club shall be permitted to designate one of its players who would otherwise be an Unrestricted Free Agent as a Franchise Player each season during the term of this Agreement. Beginning in the 1999 League Year, the player so designated may be one who would otherwise be a Restricted Free Agent. Any Club that designates a Franchise Player shall be the only Club with which such Franchise Player may negotiate or sign a Player Contract, during the period the player is so designated, notwithstanding the number of his Accrued Seasons (except as provided in Sections 2(b) and 2(c) below). In the 1993 League Year, any such designation must be made no later than February 25. Thereafter, any such designation must be made between February 1 and February 15 of each League Year or during such other period as may be agreed on by the NFL and the NFLPA, with the period ending at 4:00 p.m. New York time.
Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 2.	Required Tender for Franchise Players:
(a)	For the 1993 League Year, any Club that designates a Franchise Player shall be deemed on the first day following the expiration of his contract to have automatically tendered the player a one year NFL Player Contract for the average of the five largest Prior Year Salaries for players at the position at which he played the most games during the prior League Year, or 120% of his Prior Year Salary, whichever is greater.
(b)	For the 1993 League Year, any Club that designated a Franchise Player who has not signed a Player Contract by 4:00 p.m. New York time on June 14, and which has not withdrawn its required tender, shall exercise on that date one of the following options with respect to the player:
(i)	The Club shall (1) tender the player a one year NFL Player Contract for the average of the five largest Salaries in Player Contracts signed for the 1993 League Year as of May 6, 1993 for players at the position at which he played the most games during the prior League Year, or (2) continue the amount of the required tender pursuant to subsection (a) above, whichever is greater; or
(ii)	The Club shall continue its tender to the player pursuant to subsection (a) above at no less than its original level, but then, until 4:00 p.m. New York time on July 15, 1993, the player shall be permitted to negotiate a Player Contract with any Club as if he were a player subject to Section 5 below, except that Draft Choice Compensation of two (2) first round draft selections shall be made with respect to such player in the event he signs with the New Club, and the Signing Period for such player shall be determined under Section 17 below.
(c)	After the 1993 League Year, any Club that designates a Franchise
Page 69
Player shall on the date the designation is made notify the player and the NFLPA which one of the following two potential required tenders the Club has selected:
(i)	A one year NFL Player Contract for the average of the five largest Prior Year Salaries for players
at the position at which the Franchise Player played the most games during the prior League Year, or 120% of his Prior Year Salary, whichever is greater; if the Club extends the tender pursuant to this Subsection (c)(t), the player shall be permitted to negotiate a Player Contract with any Club as if he were a player subject to Section 5 below, except that Draft Choice Compensation of two first round draft selections shall be made with respect to such player in the event he signs with the New Club, and the Signing Period for such player shall be determined under Section 17 below; or
(ii)	A one year NFL Player Contract for (1) the average of the five largest Salaries in Player Contracts for that League Year as of the end of the Restricted Free Agent Signing Period that League Year, as set forth in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), Section 2(h), for players at the position at which he played the most games during the prior League Year, or (2) the amount of the required tender under subsection (c)(i) above, whichever is greater.
(iii)	Beginning in the 1999 League Year, if a player subject to a Franchise Player designation accepts the Required Tender, the resulting Player Contract shall be frilly guaranteed if the player’s contract is terminated because of lack of comparative skill; as a result of an injury sustained in the performance of his services under his Player Contract; and/or due to a Club’s determination to create Room for Salary Cap purposes. For purposes of this paragraph only, any contract termination due to the failure of the player to establish or maintain his excellent physical condition will be subject to review of a neutral physician appointed by the parties under Article X (Injury Grievance), whose physical findings will be conclusive in any arbitration proceeding relating to the physical condition of the player at the time of the exam, providing such exam takes place within twenty (20) days of the contract termination.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(d)	Any of the required tenders set forth in this Section 2 may be withdrawn at any time, but if such tender is withdrawn, the player immediately becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent and thereafter is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any such player, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
** See Pages 40-41 - Article XIV, Section 8 for Side Letter of 3/3/97, Section 1 re: Good Faith of Required Tender.
Page 70
(e)	For the purpose of this Article, “Salary” means the total of the Paragraph 5 Salary, roster and reporting bonuses, prorata portion of signing bonus, and other payments to players in compensation for the playing of professional football for the applicable year of the player’s most recently negotiated Player Contract, except for performance bonuses other than roster and reporting bonuses. Beginning with the 1994 League Year, Salary shall also include any un-repaid loans made, guaranteed or collateralized by a Team or its Team Affiliate to a player or Player Affiliate during or after the 1993 League Year.
(f)	The calculation of any five largest Salaries pursuant to this Article shall not include: (i) any Player Contract resulting from an acceptance of a tender extended pursuant to subsection (b)(i)(l) or (c)(ii) above, without any increase in Salary above the tender; or (ii) any Player Contract amount resulting from a renegotiation of an existing Player Contract between the time of the designation and any applicable later date; provided, however, that Player Contract amounts in existence prior to such renegotiations shall be used if otherwise appropriate.	-
(g)	If a Franchise Player receives a required tender pursuant to Section 2(c)(i) above, any provision in an Offer Sheet to such player waiving or limiting the New Club’s ability to designate the player as a Franchise Player or Transition Player in the future shall not be a Principal Tenn, and therefore need not be included in a contract formed with the Prior Club as a result of matching such an Offer Sheet (but shall be included in a contract formed with the New Club as a result of the Prior Club not matching such an Offer Sheet). This subsection (g) shall not apply to a player who was designated as a Transition Player in lieu of being designated as a Franchise Player, pursuant to Section 3(a) below, or to any other Transition Player.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98	.
*	[T]he definition of a “Signing Bonus” for purposes of the top 5 and top 10 minimum tenders is the same under the Salary Cap, that the prorata portion of such Signing Bonuses includes pro-rated amounts from prior Player Contracts, and that the Salary Cap acceleration rules for unamortized Signing Bonus amounts do not apply to the calculation of the top 5 and top 10 minimum tenders.
♦Side Letter 2/14/96
*	For purposes of calculating the minimum tenders to Franchise and Transition players under Article XX, if the present value of any deferred Paragraph 5 amount (as defined in Article XXIV, Section 7, Paragraph (a)(ii)) is at least $100,000 less than the initial Paragraph 5 amount (before being present valued), then the present value amount shall be used.
♦Side Letter 6/23/93: Sec. 5
Page 71
Section 3.	Transition Player Designations:
(a)	Each Club shall be permitted to designate two Unrestricted Free Agents as Transition Players by February 25,1993; one Unrestricted Free Agent as a Transition Player between February 1 and February 15, 1994; and one Unrestricted Free Agent as a Transition Player between February 1 and February 15 in the Final League Year, with the period ending at 4:00p.m. New York time. In addition, in each League Year during the term of this Agreement, each Club shall be permitted to designate one Unrestricted Free Agent or Restricted Free Agent as a Transition Player in lieu of designating a Franchise Player, if such Franchise Player designation is available to such Club, in addition to the Transition Player designations permitted by the immediately preceding sentence, during the same designation period as the Franchise Player designation period.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	Any Club that designates a Transition Player shall receive the Rights of First Refusal specified in this Article notwithstanding the number of his Accrued Seasons. Any Transition Player shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club during the period from the first day of the League Year following the expiration of his last player contract to July 15, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs of any kind, subject only to the Prior Club’s Right of First Refusal described in this Article.
Section 4.	Required Tender for Transition Players:
(a)	Any Club that designates a Transition Player shall be deemed on the first day of the League Year following the expiration of the player's last contract to have automatically tendered the player a one year NFL Player Contract for the average of the ten largest Prior Year Salaries for players at the position at which he played the most games during the prior League Year, or 120% of his Prior Year Salary, whichever is greater. The tender may be withdrawn at any time, but if such tender is withdrawn, the player immediately becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent and thereafter is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
** See Page 70 - Article XX. Section 2(g) for Side Letter 6/23/93. Sec. 5 re: Calculation of Minimum Tender to Franchise and Transition Players.
Page 72
(b)	For the 1993 League Year, any Club that designated a Transition Player who has not signed a Player Contract by 4:00 p.m. New York time on June 14, and which has not withdrawn its required tender, • shall tender such player a one year NFL Player Contract for (i) the average of the ten largest Salaries in
Player Contracts signed for the 1993 League Year as of May 6,1993 for players at the position at which he played the most games during the prior League Year, or (ii) the amount of the required tender pursuant to . subsection (a) above, whichever is greater. This tender may be withdrawn at any time, but if such tender is withdrawn, the player immediately becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent and thereafter is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any such player, without any penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
(c)	The calculation of any ten largest Salaries pursuant to this Article shall not include: (i) any Player Contract amount resulting from an acceptance of a tender pursuant to subsection (b)(i) above, without any increase in Salary above the tender; or (ii) any Player Contract amount resulting from a renegotiation of an existing Player Contract between the time of the designation and any applicable later date; provided, however, that Player Contract amounts in existence prior to such renegotiations shall be used if otherwise appropriate.
Section 5.	Right of First Refusal for Transition Players: Any player designated as a Transition Player shall, at the expiration of his prior year Player Contract, be permitted to negotiate a Player Contract with any Club. When the Transition Player negotiates such an offer with a New Club, which the player desires to accept, he shall give to the Prior Club a completed Offer Sheet, signed by the player and the New Club, which shall contain the Principal Terms (as defined in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency)) of the New Club’s offer. The Prior Club, within seven days from the date it receives the Offer Sheet, may exercise or not exercise its Right of First Refusal, which shall have the legal consequences set forth in Sections 3(b)D (h), 4 and 6 of Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency) above, except that no Draft Choice Compensation shall be made with respect to such player, and, for the purposes of those provisions, the player and each Club shall otherwise have the same rights and obligations as for a Restricted Free Agent set forth in those provisions, notwithstanding the number of his Accrued Seasons.
Section 6.	Lists; On each date following the dates set forth in Sections I and 3 above, the NFL shall provide to the NFLPA a list of each Unrestricted Free Agent designated as a Franchise Player or a Transition Player.
Page 73
Section 7.	Salary Information:
(a)	No later than February 1 of each League Year during the term of this Agreement, the NFL shall compile and disclose to the NFLPA a list of each of the ten largest Prior Year Salaries for players at the following positions which shall be utilized for calculating the average Prior Year Salaries of players at the positions of Franchise Players and Transition Players: Quarterback, Running Back, Wide Receiver, Tight End, Offensive Line, Defensive End, Interior Defensive Line, Linebacker, Cornerback, Safety, and Kicker/Punter. For the 1993 League Year, such list shall be provided to the NFLPA by February 15.
(b)	No later than ten days after the last day of the Restricted Free Agent Signing Period in each League Year during the term of this Agreement, the NFL shall compile and disclose to the NFLPA a list of each of the ten and five largest Salaries for players at the positions set forth in subparagraph (a) above which shall be utilized for calculating the applicable average Salaries of players at such positions as of the last day of the Restricted Free Agent Signing Period (including the amount of Salary in any executed Offer Sheets). For the 1993 League Year, such supplemental list shall be provided to the NFLPA no later than May 18, 1993 with respect to such Salaries as of May 6, 1993.
(c)	Any dispute concerning the identity and Salaries of players included within each player position category, or any other matter regarding these figures, shall be submitted to and resolved by the Impartial Arbitrator during the period from February I to February 15, or within twenty-five days after the last day of the Restricted Free Agent Signing Period, respectively; for the 1993 League Year, any such dispute shall be submitted to and resolved by the Impartial Arbitrator prior to March 1 or May 31, respectively. The Impartial Arbitrator shall make an independent determination in writing. In arriving at his determination, the Impartial Arbitrator shall consider any relevant information furnished to him, and shall be provided access to all relevant Player Contracts. The Impartial Arbitrator’s determination shall be final and binding upon all parties.	.
Section 8.	No Assignment: No Club may assign or otherwise transfer to any other Club the exclusive negotiating rights or any Right of First Refusal it may have for any Franchise Player, nor any Right of First Refusal it may have for any Transition Player, nor any designation rights it may have.
Section 9.	Duration of Designation: Each Club that signs a player it designated as a Franchise Player to a Player Contract shall be deemed each League Year thereafter to have utilized its Franchise Player designation for each League Year for which such player entered into a Player Contract with such Club at the time when such player was subject to such designation (unless the Club exercised a Right of First Refusal with respect to a Franchise Player tendered a Player Contract pursuant to Sections 2(b)(ii) or
Page 74
2(c)(1) above, in which case the Club shall be deemed to have utilized its Franchise Player designation only in the League Year of the designation). For example, without limitation on any other applicable example, a Franchise Player who signs a Player Contract for two League Years at a time when the player was subject to the designation shall be deemed to be the Club’s Franchise Player for both such League Years. However, in the event that the designated player retires or suffers a career-ending injury (or an injury that prevents or will prevent the player from playing in 32 consecutive regular season games) which prevents him from playing a contract year entered into while under such designation (or is unavailable for the season due to non-injury circumstances beyond the control of the Club), such Club shall be permitted to designate another player in lieu of such injured, retired or unavailable player for each remaining League Year covered by the Club’s prior designation for such player, provided that the Club designates a new Franchise Player during the designation period prior to the first League Year to be covered by the re-designation. Any
dispute as to whether an injury is career-ending or prevents or will prevent a player from playing in 32 consecutive games shall be decided by the Impartial Arbitrator. If a Club and a player agree to extend (either separately or as part of a renegotiation) a Player Contract prior to July 15 in the League Year for which the Club designated the player as a Franchise Player, such Club shall also be deemed to have utilized its Franchise Player designation pursuant to this Section 9 for the full period of that extension. If a Club and a player agree to extend (either separately or as part of a renegotiation) a Player Contract on or after July 15 in the League Year for which the Club designated the player as a Franchise Player, such Club shall not be deemed to have utilized its Franchise Player designation pursuant to this Section 9 for the period of the extension, unless there has been a violation of the provisions of Article XXV (Enforcement of The Salary Cap And Entering Player Pool), Sections 1 or 2, with respect to such contract extension.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
*	Beginning with the 1994 League Year, if a Club withdraws a Franchise Player designation after the last date of the signing period for Unrestricted Free Agents (i.e., July 15 or the first scheduled day of the first NFL training camp, whichever is later), and the Club subsequently signs a Player Contract for that season with the player who was subject to the designation, and does so before the later of (i) 15 days after the withdrawal of the designation, or (ii) the day after the next scheduled NFL pre-season game for the Club (not including any game played outside the U.S.), the Club shall be deemed to have signed the player while he was subject to the designation, and, pursuant to Article VIII, Paragraph 9 of the Settlement Agreement, and Article XX, Section 9 of
Page 75
the CBA, the Club shall have utilized its Franchise Player designation for each League Year for which such Player Contract was signed.
Also, beginning with the 1994 League Year, if a Club withdraws a Franchise Player designation after the date of its final cutdown to the Active List limit for that season, and the Club subsequently signs a Player Contract for that season with the player who was subject to the designation, and does so before the day after the Club’s second regular season game after the withdrawal of the designation, the Club shall be deemed to have signed the player while he was subject to the designation, and, pursuant to Article VIII, Paragraph 9 of the Settlement Agreement, and Article XX, Section 9 of the CBA, the Club shall have utilized its Franchise Player designation for each League Year for which such Player Contract was signed.
♦Side Letter 1/18/94; Sec. 1
*	If a club executes a multi-year agreement with a player designated as a Franchise Player and trades the player the same day to another NFL club, the assignor club will be deemed to have used its franchise designation for only the League Year in which the contract was executed.
♦Side Letter 4/21/95
*	If a Club and a player whom the Club had designated as a Franchise Player in a prior League Year agree to extend a Player Contract that was agreed to when the player was subject to the Franchise Player designation, such Club shall not thereby be deemed to have utilized its Franchise Player designation pursuant to Article XX, Section 9 of the CBA for the period of the extension.	.
*	Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 10
Section 10. Franchise Player Designation Period: A Club may designate a Franchise Player only during the periods and in the numbers specified in Section I above; otherwise, the Club’s right to such designation expires. However, a Club may designate a player to whom the Club has rights as a Franchise Player with respect to any first future League Year during the term of this Agreement for which such player is anticipated to be an Unrestricted Free Agent. For any such players, the Club shall be deemed on the first day of the first future League Year in which the designation takes effect to have automatically tendered the
player a one year NFL Player Contract for the applicable average of the five largest Prior Year Salaries for players at the
Page 76
position category at which he played the most games during the prior League Year, or 120% of the player’s Prior-Year Salary, whichever is greater. If a player designated to become the Franchise Player in the future retires, suffers a career-ending injury (or an injury that prevents the player from participating in 32 consecutive regular season games), is unavailable for the season due to non-injury circumstances beyond the control of the Club, or is assigned to another Club (other than through the waiver system) before such designation is exercised, the Club shall be entitled to designate a new Franchise Player for that League Year. Any dispute as to whether an injury is career-ending or prevents or will prevent a player from playing in 32 consecutive games shall be decided by the Impartial Arbitrator.
Section 11. Transition Player Designation Period: A Club may designate a Transition Player (or players) only during the periods and in the numbers specified in Section 3 above; otherwise, the Club’s right to such designation expires. However, a Club may designate a player to whom the Club has rights as a Transition Player with respect to any first future League Year during the term of this Agreement for which such player becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent; any such future designation exhausts the Club’s designation right (and does not move to any other Club) even if the player moves to another Club, as a Restricted Free Agent or via waivers, before he would have become an Unrestricted Free Agent with the designated Club. For any such players, the Club shall be deemed on the first day of the first future League Year in which the designation takes effect to have automatically tendered the player a one year NFL Player Contract for the applicable average of the ten largest Prior Year Salaries for players at the position that he played the most games during the prior League Year, or 120% of the player’s Prior Year Salary, whichever is greater. If a player designated to become a Transition Player in the fiiture retires, suffers a career-ending injury (or an injury that prevents the player from participating in 32 consecutive regular season games), is unavailable for the season due to non-injury circumstances beyond the control of the Club, or is assigned to another Club (other than through the waiver system) before such designation is exercised, the Prior Club shall be entitled to designate a new Transition Player for that League Year.
* If a Prior Club becomes entitled to designate a new Transition Player pursuant to Article XX, Section 11 (penultimate sentence) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the prior Club may designate the new Transition Player for that League Year between February 1 and February 15 of any League Year prior to the League Year in which the player initially designated would have become a Transition Player.
♦Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 15
Page 77
Any dispute as to whether an injury is career-ending or prevents or will prevent a player from playing in 32 consecutive games shall be decided by the Impartial Arbitrator.
Section 12. Prospective Designation: Notwithstanding Sections 10 and 11 above, if in the 1993 League Year (or in the 1994 League Year, if no Salary Cap is in effect during the 1994 League Year), a Club designates a Franchise Player or Transition Player to apply to the first League Year a designated player is expected to be eligible to be an Unrestricted Free Agent under Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), but that player turns out not to be an Unrestricted Free Agent because of the failure of the Salary Cap to be in effect that League Year, such designation shall apply to such player the next League Year in which the player becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent.
Section 13. Right to Decline: Each plaintiff who was a named plaintiff prior to February 26, 1993, in the following actions shall be permitted to decline any designation as a Franchise Player or Transition Player during the term of this Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, by notice to his prior Club within ten days of
such designation for current year designations and within ten days of February 15 (or such other date as may be agreed upon by the NFL and the NFLPA) in the future League Year such designation becomes effective for future year designations: White v. NFL, Civ. No. 4□ 92□ 906 (D. Minn.); Lewis v. NFL, Civ. No. 3093087 (D. Minn.); McNeil v. NFL, Civ. No. 4D90D476 (D. Minn.); Allen v. Chargers Football Co., Civ. No. 91D4322 (C.D. Cal.); Joyner v. NFL, Civ. No. 9202876 (E.D. Pa.); and Hebert v. NFL, Civ. No. S023546 (Sup. Cl Cal.). In the event that a Club designates any such player as a Franchise Player or Transition Player, and such player declines such designation and signs with another Club, such designating Club shall be awarded Compensatory Draft Selection(s) in lieu of such designation. In the case of a Franchise Player, only one year’s designation shall be exhausted in the latter situation. Such additional Compensatory Draft Selections shall not exceed a total of twenty during the term of this Agreement.
Section 14. Other Terms: For the purposes of this Article, the Required Tenders of a one year Player Contract for at least 120% of the Franchise Player’s or Transition Player’s Prior Year Salaries shall in addition to the 120% Salary also include all other terms of the player’s Prior Year contract, including any guarantees and any provisions providing for incentives or performance bonuses. In addition, a player who is designated as a Franchise Player or a Transition Player shall have the option of accepting a one year NFL Player Contract for 120% of the player’s Prior Year Salary in lieu of a Player Contract for the average of the five (or ten, as applicable) largest applicable Salaries for players at his position, if he so wishes, regardless of which Player Contract is for a greater amount
Page 78
Section 15.	Compensatory Draft Selection: The procedures for awarding Compensatory Draft Selections shall be determined as agreed by the NFL and the NFLPA.
Section 16.	Signing Period for Transition Players:
(a)	In the event that a player who is designated and tendered as a Transition Player has not signed a Player Contract with a Clubby July 15 in the League Year following the expiration of his last Player Contract, the Prior Club shall he the only Club with which the player may negotiate or sign a Player Contract during the period from such date until the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time.
(b)	If a Transition Player described in subsection (a) above has not signed a Player Contract by the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time, the player shall be prohibited from playing football in the NFL for the remainder of that League Year, absent a showing to the Impartial Arbitrator of extreme Club or extreme personal hardship. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be made within five days of the application, and shall be based upon all information relating to such hardship submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
(c)	If a Transition Player does not play in the NFL in a League Year, he shall continue to be treated as a Transition Player the following League Year and the Team shall be deemed on the first day of the following League Year to have automatically tendered the player a one year NFL Player Contract for the average of the ten largest Salaries for the prior League Year for players at the player’s specified position, or 120% of his Prior Year Salary, whichever is greater. The tender may be withdrawn at any time, but if such tender is withdrawn, the player immediately becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent and is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
Section 17.	Signing Period for Franchise Players:
(a)	If a Franchise Player has not signed a Player Contract by the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season, at 4:00 p.m. New York time, the player shall be prohibited from playing football in the NFL for the remainder of that League Year, absent a showing to the Impartial Arbitrator of extreme Club or
extreme personal hardship. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be made within five days of the application, and shall consider all information relating to such hardship submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Page 79
(b)	If a Franchise Player does not play in the NFL in a League Year, his Prior Team shall have the right to designate such player as a Franchise Player or a Transition Player the following League Year, if such designation is otherwise available to the Team, except that the applicable tender must be made and any 120% tender shall be measured from the Player’s prior year salary. If such a player is re-designated as a Franchise Player for the League Year following the League Year in which he does not play, the player may be designated only under Section 2(c)(i) above, except that Draft Choice Compensation of only one first round draft selection and one third round draft selection shall be made with respect to such player in the event he signs with the New Club. If a Franchise Player who has sufficient Accrued Seasons to become an Unrestricted Free Agent is not designated as a Franchise Player or Transition Player for any League Year immediately following a League Year in which he does not play, then on the first day of that League Year, the player becomes an Unrestricted Free Agent and is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club is completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 80
ARTICLE XXI
FINAL EIGHT PLAN
Section 1.	Application: The provisions of this Article shall apply only in any League Year during the term of this Agreement in which no Salary Cap is in effect.
Section 2.	Top Four Teams: Each of the four Clubs that participated in the NFC and AFC Championship games the Prior League Year shall not be permitted to negotiate and sign any Unrestricted Free Agent to a Player Contract, except: (a) any Unrestricted Free Agent who acquired that status as a result of the NFL waiver system; (b) any Unrestricted Free Agent who was under contract to such Club on the last date of the last League Year of the player’s most recent Player Contract; and (c) any Unrestricted Free Agent signed pursuant to Section 4 below.
Section 3.	Next Four Teams: Each of the four playoff Clubs that lost in the immediately preceding playoff games to the four Clubs that participated in the NFC and AFC Championship games the Prior League Year shall not be permitted to negotiate and sign any Unrestricted Free Agent to a Player contract, except: (a) any Unrestricted Free Agent who acquired that status as a result of the NFL waiver system; (b) any Unrestricted Free Agent who was under contract to such Club on the last date of the last League Year of the player’s most recent Player contract; (c) any Unrestricted Free Agent signed pursuant to Section 4 below; and (d) any Unrestricted Free Agent as follows;
(i)	One such player for a Player Contract that has a first year Salary of $1,500,000 or more; and
(ii)	Any number of such players for a Player Contract that has a first year Salary of no more than $ 1,000,000 and an annual increase in any future contract years of no more than 30% of the first contract year Salary, not including any amount attributed to any signing bonus. In addition, each such Club and each such player entering into a Player Contract pursuant to this subsection may not renegotiate to increase the
amount of Salary to be paid during the term of the Player Contract for a period of one year after the signing date of such contract. •
Section 4.	Replacement of Free Agents Signed by Other Club: Each of the eight Clubs subject to the provisions of this Article shall be permitted to negotiate and sign one Unrestricted Free Agent to a Player Contract (“New Player”) for each Unrestricted Free Agent who was under contract to such Club on the last date of the prior League Year, who has signed with another Club (“Previous Player”), so long as the Player Contract for the New Player shall have a first year Salary of no more than the first year Salary of the Player Contract signed by the Previous Player with the New
Page 81
Club, and an annual increase in any future contract years of no more than 30% of the first contract year Salary, excluding any amounts attributable to any signing bonus. In addition, each such Club and each such player entering into a Player Contract pursuant to this subsection may not renegotiate to increase die amount of Salary to be paid during the term of the Player Contract for a period of one year after the signing date of such contract.
Section 5. Increases: The amounts specified in this Article ($1,500,000 and $1,000,000) shall increase each League Year following the 1993 League Year by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR over the prior League Year’s DGR (as defined in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary)). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the amounts specified in this Article increase if the Projected DGR for the League Year in question is not greater than the highest DGR of any previous League Year.
Section 6.	Salary Definition: For purposes of this Article, “Salary” means Paragraph 5 Salary, roster and reporting bonuses, prorata portions of signing bonuses, likely to be earned incentive bonuses, and other payments in compensation for the playing of professional football, as defined in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary) below.
Section 7.	Trade Limitation: No Club subject to the provisions of this Article may, for one League Year, trade for a player it otherwise would not be permitted to sign as an Unrestricted Free Agent as a result of the provisions in this Article.
• [Regarding whether Clubs subject to the Final Eight Plan are permitted to negotiate with and sign Transition Players, and Franchise Players who otherwise are permitted to negotiate and sign with other Clubs.,. Final Eight Plan Clubs are permitted under the CBA to negotiate with and .sign such players, since these players are not Unrestricted Free Agents.
*Side Letter 8/4/93
* For purposes of the Final Eight Plan provisions, each of the eight teams subject to the provisions of Article IX of the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement and Article XXI of the Collective Bargaining Agreement may, after the later of July 15 or the first scheduled day of the first NFL training camp, in any League Year in which the Final Eight Plan is in effect, sign any Unrestricted Free
Page 82
Agent whose team did not make the June 1 Tender or whose team subsequently withdrew that Tender.
*Side Letter9/21/93: Sec. 20
Page 83
ARTICLE XXII
WAIVER SYSTEM
Section I. Release:
(a)	Whenever a player who has finished the season in which his fourth year of credited service has been earned under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan is placed on waivers between February 1 and the trading deadline, his contract will be considered terminated and the player will be completely free at any time thereafter to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, and any Club shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period. If the waivers occur after that time, the player’s Player Contract will be subject to the waiver system and may be awarded to a claiming Club. However, if such player is claimed and awarded, he shall have the option to declare himself an Unrestricted Free Agent at the end of the League Year in question if he has a no-trade clause in his Player Contract. If such player does not have a no-trade clause and the Player Contract being awarded through waivers covers more than one additional season, the player shall have the right to declare himself an Unrestricted Free Agent as set forth above at the end of the League Year following the League Year in which he is waived and awarded.
(b)	Whenever a player who has finished less than the season in which his fourth year of credited service has been earned under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan is placed on waivers, the player’s Player Contract will be subject to the waiver system and may be awarded to a claiming Club.
Section 2, Contact: Coaches or any other persons connected with another NFL Club are prohibited from * contacting any player placed on waivers until such time as the player is released by the waiving Club.
Section 3.	Ineligibility: Any NFL player who is declared ineligible to compete in a pre-season, regular season or post-season game because of a breach by any NFL Club by whom he is employed of waiver procedures and regulations, or any other provision of the NFL Constitution and Bylaws, will be paid the salary or other compensation which he would have received if he had not been declared ineligible, which, in any event, will be a minimum of one week’s salary and, when applicable, expense payments.
Section 4.	Notice of Termination; The Notice of Termination form attached hereto as Appendix G will be used by all Clubs. If possible, the Notice of Termination will be personally delivered to the player prior to his departure from the team. If the Notice of Termination has not been personally delivered to the player prior to his departure from the team, the Notice of Termination will be sent to him by certified mail at his last address on file with the Club.
Page 84
Section 5.	NFLPA’s Right to Personnel Information: The NFL shall inform the NFLPA of player personnel transactions communicated in the Personnel Notice between the NFL and its member Clubs concerning the termination or trading of players including awards on waivers, termination through waivers, confirmation of trades or any change in the status of players (e.g., placed on Reserve Injured, etc.). The NFL will make best efforts to communicate the information referred to tn this Article to the NFLPA on the same day, but in no event later than noon on the next day. A player who is terminated shall, upon request at or around the time of termination, be informed by the terminating Club of any claims made upon him by NFL Clubs during that League Year. The same information will be provided to the NFLPA if requested.
Section 6.	Rosters: The NFLMC shall supply the NFLPA with an opening day and final roster for each Club. Rosters shall consist of the following categories of players: Active; Inactive; Reserve Injured; Reserve Physically Unable to Perform; Exempt Commissioner Permission; Non Football Illness/Injury; Practice Squad.
Page 85
ARTICLE XXIII
TERMINATION PAY
Section 1.	Eligibility: Any player who has completed the season in which his fourth year or more of credited service under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Retirement Plan has been earned shall be eligible for termination pay under this Article if:
(1)	He is released after his Club’s first regular season game; and
(2)	He has made the Inactive or Active List of his Club on or after the date of his Club’s first regular season game.	.
Subject to Section 3 below, the amount of termination pay payable to such player shall be the unpaid balance of his Paragraph 5 Salary for that League Year. Termination pay under this Article shall be claimed and payable no sooner than one day after the end of the regular season schedule, and no later than February 1. A player will net be entitled to termination pay more than once during his playing career in the NFL.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 2.	Regular Season Signings: The termination pay under this Article of any player who is terminated from a contract which was signed after the beginning of the regular season in which he is terminated shall be limited to an amount equal to the unpaid balance of the initial 25% of such player’s Paragraph 5 Salary. If such player is released after the eighth regular season game, his termination pay shall be one week’s salary, up to a maximum of $20,000.
Section 3.	Ineligibility For Termination Pay: An otherwise qualified player will not be entitled to termination pay under this Article if the Club can demonstrate that, after receipt of a written warning from his Club in the form attached hereto as Appendix N, the player failed to exhibit the level of good faith effort which can be reasonably expected from NFL players on that Club.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
• A player shall not be eligible for Termination Pay if, without missing a game check at the Paragraph 5 rate stated in his terminated contract, he signs a Player Contract with the same Club that terminated his contract, which new contract provides for Paragraph 5 salary at a rate equal to or greater than that of his terminated contract. If the player’s new contract is subsequently terminated, however, he shall be eligible for Termination Pay for such subsequent termination. This paragraph may not be used or referred to in any pending case that was filed prior to the date of this letter, except to enforce the terms of this sentence.
’Side Letter 3/3/97: Sec. 3
Page 86
ARTICLE XXIV
GUARANTEED LEAGUE-WIDE SALARY,
SALARY CAP, & MINIMUM TEAM SALARY
Section 1. Definitions: For purposes of this Article, and anywhere else specifically stated in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:	‘
(a) Defined Gross Revenues.
(i)	“Defined Gross Revenues” (also referred to as “DGR”) means the aggregate revenues received or to be received on an accrual basis, for or with respect to a League Year during the term of this Agreement, by the NFL and all NFL Teams (and their designees), from all sources, whether known or unknown, derived from, relating to or arising out of the performance of players in NFL football games, with only the specific exceptions set forth below. The NFL and each NFL Team shall in good faith act and use their best efforts, consistent with sound business judgment, so as to maximize Defined Gross Revenues for each playing season during the term of this Agreement. Defined Gross Revenues shall include, without limitation:
(1)	Regular season, pre-season, and post-season gate receipts (net of admission taxes, and surcharges paid to stadium or municipal authorities which are deducted for purposes of calculating gate receipts subject to revenue sharing), including ticket revenue from “luxury boxes,” suites and premium seating subject to gate receipt sharing among NFL Teams; and
(2)	Proceeds including Copyright Royalty Tribunal and extended market payments from the sale, license or other conveyance of the right to broadcast or exhibit NFL pre-season, regular season and play-off games on radio and television including, without limitation, network, local, cable, pay television, satellite encryption, international broadcasts, delayed broadcasts (which shall not include any broadcast of an NFL pre-season, regular season or play-off game occurring more than 72 hours after the live exhibition of the game, unless the broadcast is the first broadcast in the market), and all other means of distribution, net of any reasonable and customary NFL expenses related to the project; and
(3)	Proceeds from the sale or conveyance of any right to receive any of the revenues described above.
(ii	) The following is a nonexclusive list of examples of revenues received by the NFL and/or NFL Teams which are not derived from, and do not relate to or arise out of the performance of players in NFL football games (and are therefore not “DGR”): proceeds from the assignment, sale or trade of Player Contracts, proceeds from the sale of any existing NFL franchise (or any interest therein) or the grant of NFL expansion franchises, dues or capital contributions received by the NFL, fines, “revenue sharing” among NFL Teams, interest income, insurance recoveries, and sales of interests in real estate and other property.
Page 87
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, revenues derived from NFL Attractions (a joint venture that formerly included the NFL and St. Joe Corporation) from the operation of indoor NFL entertainment facilities, with entry rights separate from the stadium, which facilities do not permit the users thereof to view the live performance of players in NFL football games except by media available outside the stadium, shall not be included in DGR or Excluded DGR (except to the extent that revenues derived from NFL Attractions are addressed in the second sentence of Section l(a)(iii) below). This exclusion shall apply so long as the business of NFL Attractions is conducted with a non-NFL third party that holds a non-de minimus interest and participates in the business of NFL Attractions. Each of the parties hereto reserves any positions it may have regarding whether any similar revenues derived from other sources are DGR, non-DGR or Excluded DGR.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the NFLPA and Class Counsel may agree, on a case-by-case basis, with no limitation on their exercise of discretion, not to include in DGR network television revenue to the extent that such revenue is used to fund the construction or renovation of a stadium that results in an increase of DGR and/or Excluded DGR.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(iii	) Notwithstanding subsection 1 (a)(i) above, the following shall be considered “Excluded DGR” and not included in Defined Gross Revenues: revenues derived from concessions, parking, local advertising and promotion, signage, magazine advertising, local sponsorship agreements, stadium clubs, luxury box income other than that included in subsection l(a)(iX 1) above, sales of programs and novelties, and any categories of revenue (other than those listed in subsections 1 (a)(i)(l)Q(3) above) currently included under NFL Films and NFL Properties, Inc, and its subsidiaries.To the extent that revenues of the NFL, NFL Properties, NFL Films, NFL Enterprises, any other NFL affiliate (other than NFL Attractions), any Club, or any Club affiliate result from any licenses to or other provision of intellectual property or other products or services to NFL Attractions, such revenues will be included in DGR or Excluded DGR, as appropriate, at no less than fair market value (eg., to the extent that film, video, NFL logos or other intellectual properties or other products or services of such NFL and/or Club entities are utilized by NFL Attractions without the payment of any licensing fees, the fair market value amount shall be imputed). Any dispute over the fair market value shall be resolved in the first instance by the Accountants after consulting and meeting with representatives of both parties. In the event such dispute involves a disputed amount of $10 million or more, each party shall have a right to appeal such resolution to the Special Master, who shall review the dispute de novo, and whose decision shall be subject to appeal pursuant to Article XXVI, Section 2.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 88
(iv)	In calculating Defined Gross Revenues, the amount of Excluded DGR divided by the sum of Excluded DGR plus DGR from all sources except network television revenues shall not exceed the percentage resulting from dividing 1992 Excluded DGR by the sum of 1992 Excluded DGR plus 1992 DGR from all sources except network television revenues. In the event Excluded DGR for any season exceeds the percentage resulting from the above calculation, any excess Excluded DGR shall be included in DGR. For purposes of the calculations described in this subsection (iv), Excluded DGR shall not include any revenues referred to in subsection l(a)(ii).
(v)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 1 (a)(i)(2) above, for the purposes of calculating Defined Gross Revenues for the 1993 League Year only, revenues derived from national network television shall be deemed to be $35 million per NFL Team. Any actual amounts received in excess of that amount shall be included pro rata in DGR for the 1994 and 1995 seasons.
(vi)	It is acknowledged by the parties hereto that for purposes of determining Defined Gross Revenues:
(1)	NFL Teams may, during the term of this Agreement, be owned and controlled by persons or entities that will receive revenues for a grant of rights encompassing both (a) rights from the NFL Team so owned or controlled (the revenue from which is includable in Defined Gross Revenues) and (b) other rights owned or controlled by such persons or entities (the revenue from such other rights not being includable in Defined Gross Revenues), and that, in such circumstances, allocations would therefore have to be made among the rights and revenues described in this Section 1(a); and
(2)	NFL Teams may, during the term of this Agreement, receive revenue for the grant of rights to third parties which are owned or controlled by the persons or entities owning or controlling such NFL Teams (hereinafter “Related Entities”).
(vi	i) The reasonableness and includability in DGR of such allocations and transactions between Related Entities shall be determined by the nationally recognized accounting firm jointly retained by the parties, in accordance with the procedures described in Section 10 below.
(vii	i) For the purposes of any amounts to be calculated or used pursuant to this Agreement with respect to DGR, Excluded DGR, Benefits, Player Costs, Projected DGR, Projected Benefits, Required Tenders,
I
Qualifying Offers, Minimum Salaries, Minimum Active/Inactive List Salaries, Team Salary, or Salary, such amounts shall be rounded to the nearest $1,000.
(ix)	In calculating Defined Gross Revenues, each League Year up to $5 million per year shall be deducted from DGR to the extent that such sums are received Ihat League Year by the NFLPA pursuant to Paragraphs 5, 12,29 and 30 of the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement in NFLPA v. NFL Properties, Inc., No. 90DCVD4244 (MJL) (S.D.N.Y.).
Page 89
(xXl)Without limiting the foregoing, except as specified in subsections (x)(2) through (x)(7) below, DGR shall include all revenues from Personal Seat Licenses (“PSLs”) received by, or received by a third party and used, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of, the NFL or any Team or Team Affiliate, without any deduction for taxes or other expenses. Such revenues shall be allocated in equal portions, commencing in the League Year in which they are received, over the remaining life of the PSL, subject to a maximum allocation period of fifteen years; provided, however, that interest from the League Year the revenues are received until the League Years the revenues are allocated into DGR shall be imputed and included in DGR, in equal portions over such periods, calculated on an annual compounded basis using the Treasury Bill rate published in The Wall Street Journal of February 1 during the League Year in which the revenues are received. Each equal portion of PSL revenues allocated into DGR, plus an equal portion of the imputed interest specified above, shall be referred to as the “Maximum Annual Allocation Amount.”
(x)(2)To the extent that PSL revenues are used to pay for the construction of a new stadium or for stadium renovation(s) that increase DGR (regardless of whether the stadium is owned by a public authority or a private entity (including, but not limited to, the NFL, any Team or any Team Affiliate)), and if such PSL revenues have received a waiver of any League requirement of sharing of “gross receipts,” then such PSL revenues will not be included in a particular League Year in DGR or in Excluded DGR. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum exclusion of PSL revenues each League Year from DGR shall be equal to any increase in DGR that directly results from such stadium construction or renovation (including through any spillover from Excluded DGR) as calculated in subsections (x)(3) through (x)(7) below.
(x)(3)Until the first full League Year the new stadium or the renovated facilities are put into service, the amount of PSL revenues excluded each League Year shall be equal to the Maximum Annual Allocation Amount. If the actual increase in DGR directly resulting from such stadium construction or renovations during the fust full League Year in which such stadium or renovations are put into service (the “First Year PSL Increases”) is less than any Maximum Annual Allocation Amount for that League Year or any prior League Year (the “PSL Difference”), then the aggregate PSL Difference for every such League Year (assuming for purposes of calculating such PSL Difference, that the First Year PSL Increase had been received in each such League Year) shall be credited to DGR in the immediately following League Year.
(x)(4)Commencing with the first full League Year the new stadium or the renovated facilities are put into service, the jointly retained Accountants (set forth in Article XXIV, Section 10(a)(ii) below) shall determine the increase in DGR that directly results each League Year from a stadium construction or renovation funded, in whole or in part, by PSL revenues. In the
Page 90
case of a new stadium, such calculation shall be made by comparing the DGR directly generated by the old stadium during the last full League Year in which the old stadium was in service with the DGR directly generated by the new stadium during the League Year in question. In the case of stadium renovations, such calculation shall be made by comparing the DGR directly generated by those specific stadium facilities which are renovated, with the DGR directly generated by those facilities prior to their renovation (where new facilities, such as completely new luxury suites or premium seats, are constructed, the DGR directly generated by the facilities prior to their renovation would equal either zero, or the amount of DGR directly generated by any facilities that were replaced by the renovation). If the NFL or the NFLPA agree that a
renovation is substantial enough to increase revenues throughout the stadium (e.g., significant renovations throughout the stadium which enable the Club to attract more fans and/or increase ticket prices) then the Accountants shall consider any increase in DGR throughout the stadium (e.g., increased concession, parking or novelty revenues spilling into DGR) as being directly generated by the renovation.
(xX5)If the calculations set forth in (x)(4) above result in an exclusion of PSL revenues from DGR that is less than the Maximum Annual Allocation Amount, the Accountants shall report the amount not excluded from DGR as a "Carryover PSL Credit.” Such Carryover PSL Credits, if any, shall be deducted from a Team’s DGR in the first future League Year in which the amount of DGR directly generated by the new stadium or the renovated facilities exceeds the Maximum Annual Allocation Amount (the “PSL Excess”), but only up to the amount of the PSL Excess. Each dollar of Carryover PSL Credit may be deducted from a Team’s DGR only once, and only to the extent of any PSL Excess existing at the time of such deduction.
(x)(6)Any applicable deduction from DGR or Excluded DGR for any expenses (i.e., interest, rent, taxes or depreciation) that are attributable to premium seats or luxuty suites included in any new stadium or stadium renovation project funded, in whole or in part, by PSL revenues excluded from DGR and Excluded DGR pursuant to subsection (x)(2) above shall be reduced, in any League Year, by an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying (a) the gross deduction for such expenses that would otherwise be available under this Agreement in respect of such League Year, by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is (1) the total PSL revenues described in the first sentence of subsection (x)(2), and the denominator of which is (2) the total costs for construction of the new stadium or renovations.
(xX7)For purposes of this paragraph, the term “PSL” shall include any and all instruments of any nature, whether of temporary or permanent duration, that give the purchaser the right to acquire or retain tickets to NFL games and shall include, without limitation, seat options and bonds giving purchasers the right to acquire NFL tickets. PSL revenues shall also include revenues from any other device (e.g., periodic payments such as surcharges,
Page 91	■
loge maintenance fees, etc.) that the NFL and the NFLPA agree constitutes a PSL.
(xiX 1)	Notwithstanding Section 1 (a)(i)-(iv), above, premium seat revenues that otherwise would
be included in Excluded DGR shall not be so included in a particular League Year to the extent that such revenues are used to pay for, or to pay financing costs for, the construction of a new stadium or for stadium renovation(s) that increase DGR (regardless of whether the stadium is owned by a public authority or a private entity (including, but not limited to, the NFL, any Team or any Team Affiliate)), and if such revenues have received a waiver of any League requirement of sharing of “gross receipts.” The maximum exclusion of premium seat revenue from Excluded DGR each League Year shall be equal to any increase in DGR that directly results from such stadium construction or renovation (including through any spillover from Excluded DGR) as calculated in subsections (xi)(2) through (xi)(6) below.
(xi)(2) Until the first full League Year the new stadium or the renovated facilities are put into service, the amount of premium seat revenues excluded each League Year shall be equal to the amount that receives a waiver of any League requirement of sharing of gross receipts (the “Non-Shared Amount”). If the actual increase in DGR during the first full League Year in which the new stadium or the renovated facilities are put into service (the “First Year Premium Seat Increase”) is less than any Non-Shared Amount for that League Year or any prior League Year (the “Premium Seat Difference”), then the aggregate Premium Seat Difference for every such League Year (assuming for purposes of calculating such Premium Seat Difference that the First Year Premium Seat Increase had been received in each such League Year) shall be credited to Excluded DGR in the immediately following League Year.
(xi)(3) Commencing with the first full League Year the new stadium or the renovated facilities are put into service, the jointly retained Accountants (set forth in Article XXIV, Section 10(a)(ii) below) shall determine the increase in DGR that directly results each League Year from the stadium construction or renovation funded, in whole or in part, with premium seat revenues. In the case of a new stadium, such
calculation shall be made by comparing the DGR directly generated by the old stadium during the last full League Year in which the old stadium was in service with the DGR directly generated by the new stadium during the League Year in question. In the case of stadium renovations, such calculation shall be made by comparing the DGR directly generated by those specific stadium facilities which are renovated, with the DGR directly generated by those facilities prior to their renovation (where new facilities, such as completely new luxury suites or premium seats, are constructed, the DGR directly generated by the facilities prior to their renovation would equal either zero, or the amount of DGR directly generated by any facilities that were replaced by the renovation). If the NFL and the NFLPA agree that a renovation is substantial enough to
Page 92
increase revenues throughout the stadium (e.g., significant renovations throughout the stadium which enable the Club to attract more fans and/or increase ticket prices) then the Accountants shall consider any increase in DGR throughout the stadium (e.g., increased concession, parking or novelty revenues spilling into DGR) as being directly generated by the renovation.
(xi)(4)If the calculations set forth in (xi)(3) above result in an exclusion of premium seat revenues from Excluded DGR that is less than the Non-Shared Amount, the Accountants shall report die amount not excluded from Excluded DGR as a “Carryover Premium Seat Credit.” Such Carryover Premium Seat Credits, if any, shall be deducted from a Team’s Excluded DGR in the first future League Year in which the amount of DGR directly generated by the new stadium or the renovated facilities exceeds the NonShared Amount (the “Premium Seat Excess”), but only up to the amount of the Premium Seat Excess. Each Carryover Premium Seat Credit may be deducted from a Team’s DGR only once, and only to the extent of any Premium Seat Excess existing at the time of such deduction.
(xi)(5)Any applicable deduction from DGR or Excluded DGR for any expenses (i.e., interest, rent, taxes or depreciation) that are attributable to premium seats or luxury suites included in any new stadium or stadium renovation project funded, in whole or in part, by premium seat revenues excluded from Excluded DGR pursuant to subsection (xi)( 1) above shall be reduced, in any League Year, by an amount equal to the result obtained by multiplying (a) the gross deduction for such expenses that would otherwise be available under this Agreement in respect of such League Year, by (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is (1) the total premium seat Non-Shared Amount dedicated to funding the project during the allocation period, and (2) the denominator of which is the total costs for construction of the new stadium or renovations.
(xiX6)For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Premium Seat Revenue” shall include revenue from any periodic charge in excess of the ticket price that is required to be paid to acquire or retain any ticket to NFL games (other than PSL revenues and charges for purchase or rental of luxury suites), including charges in respect of any amenities required to be purchased in connection with any ticket.
(xii)	An amount equal to the lesser of the following amounts shall be deducted from the calculation of Excluded DGR each League Year: (a) 56 million, or (b) the amount contributed to or deposited with NFL Charities that League Year by or on behalf of NFL Properties or NFL Films, or any of their subsidiaries.
(xiii)	Up to the following additional amounts, if committed to youth football programs and contributed by the NFL, its Teams, or their affiliates, in a qualified not-for-profit fund administered by a board jointly appointed by the NFL and the NFLPA, shall also be deducted from the calculation of DGR:
Page 93
1998 League Year: $10.0 million
1999 League Year: $12.5 million
2000 League Year: $15.0 million
2001 League Year: $20.0 million
2002 League Year: $20.0 million
2003 League Year: $22.5 million
(xiv)	The parties may agree to allocate DGR received or to be received on an accrual basis in a particular League Year over one or more other League Years.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	Benefits. “Benefits” and “Player Benefit Costs” mean the aggregate for a League Year of all sums paid (or to be paid on a proper accrual basis for a League Year) by the NFL and all NFL Teams for, to, or on behalf of present or former NFL players, but only for:
(i)	Pension funding, including the Bert Bell NFL Player Retirement Plan (as described in Article XLVII), the Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (as described in Article XLVII), the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (as described in Article XLVII), the National Football League Pre-59er Special Benefit Program, and the Second Career Savings Plan (as described in Article XLVIII);
(ii)	Group insurance programs, including, life, medical, and dental coverage (as described in Article XLIX or as required by law), and the Supplemental Disability Plan (as described in Article LI):
(iii)	Injury protection (as described in Article XII);
(iv)	Workers’ compensation, payroll, unemployment compensation, and social security taxes;
(v)	Pre-season per diem amounts (as described in Sections 3 and 4 of Article XXXVII) and regular season meal allowances (as described in Article XXXIX);
(vi)	Moving and travel expenses (as described in Sections 2, 3, and 4 of Article XLI, and Section 8 of Article XXXVII);	'
(vii)	Post-season pay (as described in Article XLII and Article XLIII); and salary paid to practice squad players pursuant to a practice squad contract during the post-season, unless the practice squad player contract is executed or renegotiated after December 1 for more than the minimum practice squad salary, in which case all salary paid to such a practice squad player during the post-season will be counted as Salary.
(viii)	Player medical costs (i.e., fees to doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers, and the drugs and other medical cost of supplies, for the treatment of player injuries), but not including salaries of trainers or other Team personnel, or the cost of Team medical or training equipment (in addition, the amount of player medical costs included in Benefits may not increase by more than ten percent (10%) each League Year beginning with the 1993 League Year, which may not increase more than ten percent (10%) over the 1992 League Year); and
Page 94
(ix)	Severance pay (as described in Article L); and
(x)	The Player Annuity Program (as described in Article XLVIII-A).	.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Benefits will not include salary reduction contributions elected by a player to the Second Career Savings Plan described in Article XLVIII. Benefits also will not include any tax imposed on the NFL or NFL Clubs pursuant to section 4972 of the Internal Revenue Code for the Bert Bell NFL Player Retirement Plan, the
Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan, and/or Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan. Benefits for a League Year will be determined by adding together all payments made and amounts properly accrued by or on behalf of the NFL and all NFL Clubs for the above purposes during that League Year, except that Benefits for pension funding and the Second Career Savings Plan will be deemed to be made in a League Year for purposes of this Article if made in the Plan Year beginning in the same calendar year as the beginning of such League Year.
(c)	Salary.
(i)	“Salary” means the compensation in money, property, investments, loans or anything else of value to which an NFL player (including Rookie and Veteran players and players whose contracts have been
I	terminated) or his Player Affiliate is entitled in accordance with a Player Contract, but not including
I	Benefits. Salary with respect to any period shall include all Salary actually payable with respect to such
period under the terms of a Player Contract and all Salary attributable to such period under the terms of this |	Agreement.
(ii)	A player’s Salary shall also include any and all consideration received by the player or his Player | .	Affiliate, even if such consideration is ostensibly paid to the player for services other than football playing
services, if the NFL can demonstrate before the Impartial Arbitrator that the consideration paid to the player or Player Affiliate for such non-football services does not represent a reasonable approximation of |	the fair market value of such services as performed by such player. The Impartial Arbitrator’s
'	determination may take into account, among other things: (1) any actual dollar amounts the player or Player
।	Affiliate received for similar non-football playing services from an independent third party; and (2) the
I	percentage of total compensation for non-football services received from third parties versus the Team or
Team Affiliate.
'	(iii) For purposes of this Article, Salary shall be computed pursuant to the additional rules below.
।	Section 2. Trigger for Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap, and Minimum Tearn Salary: There
shall be no Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap, or Minimum Team Salary for NFL Teams during the 1993 League Year. If in the 1993 League Year or any subsequent League Year the
i
Page 95
1	-	total Player Costs for all NFL Teams equals or exceeds 67% of actual Defined Gross Revenues, there shall
be a Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap, and Minimum Team Salary in the amounts set forth below for the next League Year and all subsequent League Years, unless the Salary Cap is removed
I	pursuant to Section 4(b)(ii)(4) below. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, there will be
no Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap or Minimum Team Salary in the Final League Year.
■	Section 3. Guaranteed League-wide Salary: In any League Year in which a Salary Cap is in effect there
shall be a Guaranteed League-wide Salary of 58% of actual Defined Gross Revenues. In the event that the Player Costs for all NFL Teams during any League Year in which a Salary Cap is in effect are less than
I	58% of actual Defined Gross Revenues for such season, then, on or before April 15 of the next League
Year, the NFL shall pay an amount equal to such deficiency directly to players who played on NFL Teams ।	during such season pursuant to the reasonable allocation instructions of the NFLPA.
Section 4. Salary Cap Amounts:
1	(a) Subject to the adjustments set forth below, the amount of the Salary Cap for each NFL Team in
years that it is in effect shall be (1) in the first League Year, 64% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues,
|	less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the number of Tearns playing in the NFL during such year;
(2) in the 1995 and 1996 League Years, 63% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the number of Teams playing in the NFL during such year; (3) in the 1997
|	League Year, 62% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided
by the number of Teams playing in the NFL during such year; (4) in the 1998-2001 League Years, 63% of
I
I
the Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the number of Teams playing in the NFL during such year; (5) in the 2002 League Year, 63.5% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the number of Teams playing in the NFL during such year (unless any of the parties hereto has provided notice canceling the extension as set forth in Article LXI (Extension of Agreement), in which case the Salary Cap for the 2002 League Year shall be 64% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the number of Teams playing in the NFL during such year); (6) in the 2003 League Year, 64% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the number of Teams playing in the NFL during such year (unless any of the parties hereto has provided notice canceling the extension as set forth in Article LXI (Extension of Agreement), in which case the 2003 League Year shall be an Uncapped Year). Notwithstanding the above, in the 1998 League Year: (i) the amount of the Salary Cap for each NFL Team shall be $52,388 million per Team; (ii) to the extent that the Salary Cap for the 1998 League Year would have been greater than this .
Page 96
amount as a result of the issuance of the Final Special Purpose Letter (including the Salary Cap Bank calculation), any DGR that would have caused such excess shall be used for increased Benefits in the 1998 League Year, up to a maximum of $50 million in such increased League-wide Benefits; and (iii) to the extent that the Salary Cap for the 1998 League Year would have been greater than $52,388 million per Team as a result of the issuance of the Final Special Purpose Letter (including the Salary Cap Bank calculation), without the DGR utilized for the $50 million in maximum increased League-wide Benefits for that League Year, the difference between that Salary Cap amount and $52,388 million shall be credited to the Salary Cap in the 1999 League Year or, if specified by the NFLPA and Class Counsel, be used for additional increases in the Player Annuity Program described in Article XLVIII-A (Player Annuity Program).
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b) The foregoing Salary Cap amounts shall be adjusted as follows:
(i)	The actual dollar amount of the Salary Cap shall not be less than the actual dollar amount of any Salary Cap in effect during the preceding League Year; provided, however, that at no time shall the Projected Benefits, plus the amount of the Salary Cap multiplied by the number of Teams in the NFL, exceed 70% of the Projected Defined Gross Revenues.
(ii)	If the total Player Costs of the NFL Teams during any League Year in which the Salary Cap is in effect falls below:	.
(1)	59% of actual Defined Gross Revenues, then the Salary Cap percentage for the next League Year shall be increased by 1% of Projected Defined Gross Revenues;
(2)	58% of actual Defined Gross Revenues, then the Salary Cap percentage for the next League Year shall be increased by 2% of Projected Defined Gross Revenues;
(3)	57% of actual Defined Gross Revenues, then the Salary Cap percentage for the next League Year shall be increased by 3% of Projected Defined Gross Revenues;
(4)	56% of actual Defined Gross Revenues, then there shall be no Salary Cap for the next League Year or any succeeding League Year unless and until the Salary Cap again becomes effective in accordance with Section 2 of this Article.
Section 5.	Minimum Team Salary:
(a)	For the 1993-97 League Years, with respect to each League Year for which a Salary Cap is in effect, .there shall be a guaranteed Minimum Team Salary for each Team of 50% of Projected Defined Gross
I I
I
I
Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the then current number of Teams in the NFL. Beginning tn the 1998 League Year, with respect to each League Year for which a Salary Cap is in effect, there shall be a guaranteed Minimum Team Salary for each Team of 54% of Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less League-wide Projected Benefits, divided by the then current nurriber of Teams in
Page 97
the NFL. Each Team shall be required to have a Team Salary of at least the Minimum Team Salary at the end of each League Year.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	Nothing contained herein shall preclude a Team from having a Team Salary in excess of the Minimum Team Salary, provided it does not exceed the Salary Cap.
(c)	Any shortfall in the Minimum Team Salary at the end of a League Year shall be paid, on or before April 15 of the next League Year, by the Teams having such shortfall, directly to the players who were on such Teams’ roster at any time during the season, pursuant to reasonable allocation instructions of the NFLPA.
(d)	If the NFL agrees, or a judgment or award is entered by the Special Master, that a Team has failed by the end of the then current League Year to make the payments required to satisfy a Team’s obligations to pay the Minimum Team Salary required by this Agreement, then, in the event file Tearn fails promptly to comply with such agreement, judgment or award, the NFL shall make such payment on behalf of that Team (such funds to be paid as salary directly to the players on such Team at the direction of and pursuant to the reasonable allocation instructions of the NFLPA).
Section 6.	Computation of Team Salary: During any League year in which the Salary Cap is in effect, all of the following amounts shall be included every day in determining a Team’s Team Salary:
(a)	Player Contracts. Subject to the rules below in Section 7 of this Article, all amounts the Team has paid or is obligated to pay as set forth in all Player Contracts of current and former players covering a particular League Year, including exercised, options, shall be included in Team Salary.
(b)	Tenders.	.
(i)	Drafted Rookies’ Salaries shall be tendered automatically at the Rookie Minimum Active List Salary as of the day of the Draft and shall be included in Team Salary until (1) the player is signed, (2) the Team’s rights are relinquished through waivers, or (3) the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season (if the player is unsigned).
(ii)	For players with less than three Accrued Seasons whose contracts have expired, the Minimum Active List Salary will be included in Team Salary when tendered until the player is signed, or the Team’s rights are relinquished.
(iii)	For players who are Restricted Free Agents, the Qualifying Offer will be included in Team Salary when tendered until the player is signed, the Qualifying Offer is withdrawn, or a “June 1 tender” (which may be made on or before June 1) is made. If the player is unsigned and the Team makes a June 1 tender or June 15 tender, such tender will be included until the player is signed, the Team’s rights are relinquished, or the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season (if the player is unsigned).
Page 98
(iv)	For players who are Unrestricted Free Agents, the June 1 tender, if made, will be included in Team Salary as of July 15 and thereafter until the player is signed, the tender is withdrawn, the Team’s rights are
relinquished or extinguished, or the Tuesday following the tenth week of the regular season (if the player is unsigned).
(v)	For Transition Players and Franchise Players, the tender will be included in Team Salary when made until the player is signed, the tender is withdrawn, the Team’s rights are relinquished, or the Tuesday following the tenth game of the regular season (if the player is unsigned).
(vi)	All Offer Sheets will be included in Team Salary when tendered until the player is signed to a Player Contract by any NFL Team, or the Offer Sheet is withdrawn.
(c)	Practice Squad Contracts. Any Practice Squad contract Salaries shall be included in Team Salary.
(d)	Termination Pay. Any type of .Termination Pay liability will be included in Team Salary at the time the player is released, except to the extent the Team is relieved of any such liability.
(e)	Grievances, When a player salary grievance is filed against a Team, 50% of the amount claimed will be counted in Team Salary until the grievance is resolved or until the end of the League Year, whichever comes first; at the end of the League Year, if any grievances have been settled or awards have been made, if the net total grievance amounts paid by the Team are more than the original 50% attributions and put the Team over the Salary Cap, the excess will be deducted from the Team’s Salary Cap in the following League Year; if the net total grievance amounts paid are less than the original 50% attributions and the Team finishes the season a: die Salary Cap or below the Salary Cap by less than the amount of the unawarded attributions, the difference will be added to the Team’s Salary Cap for the following League Year. If an award or settlement is made for a grievance in a League Year after the grievance was filed, and the grievance amount paid is more than the original 50% attribution, the excess shall be included in Team Salary when paid; if the grievance amount is less than the original 50% attribution, the difference shall be deducted from Team Salary when the award is made.
(f)	Expansion Bonuses. Except as set forth in Article XXXI (Expansion), any expansion bonuses paid to players shall be included in Team Salary.	'
(g)	Other Amounts. Any other Salary not listed above paid to players shall be included in Team Salary.
Section 7.	Valuation of Player Contracts; Notwithstanding any provision in a Player Contract to the contrary or when such payments are actually made, the following rules shall apply in determining the amount of a player’s Salary that is to be included in Team Salary in a particular League Year for purposes of the Salary Cap:
Page 99	,
(a)	Paragraph 5.
(i)	The highest applicable Salary set forth in Paragraph 5 of the NFL Player Contract shall be included in Team Salary in the year earned, except that, between March 1 and the first day of the regular playing season, only the following amounts from Paragraph 5 shall be included for players whose Player Contracts are not among the Team’s 51 highest valued Player Contracts, tenders and Offer Sheets (as determined under this Section 7):
(1)	Any amount that exceeds the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for Undrafted Rookie Free Agents; and
(2)	Any amount that exceeds twice the applicable Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for all other players.
(ii)	Deferred Salary, Any Paragraph 5 Salary to be earned in a particular year but not to be paid until after the next League Year shall be considered “Deferred Salary” and will be included in Team Salary during the League Year earned at its present value based on the Treasury Bill rate published in The Wall Street Journal on March 1 in the year earned. Salary to be paid any time before the end of the League Year after it is earned shall not be considered Deferred Salary and will be included fully in the Team’s Salary during the year earned.	.
(b)	Signing Bonuses.	■
(i)	Proration. The total amount of any signing bonus shall be prorated over the term of the Player Contract in determining Team and Player Salary, except that:
(1)	Signing bonuses agreed to in a Capped Year may not be prorated more than three years beyond the Final Capped Year (notwithstanding the foregoing, signing bonuses agreed to in Player Contracts approved by the Commissioner on or after agreement by the parties with respect to transition rules for proration in the 1998 League Year, but prior to court approval, and in no event earlier than June 30, 1998, may not be prorated more than six years, and signing bonuses agreed to in the 1999 or 2000 League Years may not be prorated more than seven years).
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(2)	Any contract year in which the player has the right to terminate based upon events within his sole control shall not be counted as a contract year for purposes of proration. In the event the NFL and the NFLPA cannot agree upon whether an option is within the player’s sole control, such issue shall be resolved by the Impartial Arbitrator.
* With respect to the proration of signing bonuses for Player Contracts entered into by Rookie players in which the player has the right to terminate based solely upon reporting, making the roster and/or playtime, such conduct shall automatically be deemed “within his sole control,” as set forth in Article X, Paragraph G.2.(a)(ii) of the Stipulation
I
I	Page 100
I
I	and Settlement Agreement and tn Article XXIV, Section 7(b)(iX2) of the Collective Bargaining
I	Agreement, unless the exercise of the right to terminate is also conditioned upon the following playtime
I	requirements: (1) for players drafted in the first round, at least 35% of the plays if the triggering condition
I	occurs in the first year of the Player Contract, and at least 45% of the plays if in any subsequent year; (2)
I	for all other Rookie players, at least 15% of the plays if the condition occurs in the first year of the Player
I	Contract, and at least 30% of the plays if in any subsequent year. The playtime requirements set forth above
I	do not affect the signing bonus allocation for any contract entered into by players other than Rookies.
I
1	“Side Utter 9/21/93: Sec. 15
I
I
I
!	* [A]ny multi-year Player Contract not unconditionally approved by the Commissioner as of the date
!	hereof, other than any multi-year Player Contract executed in the last Capped Year of this Agreement, that
1	extends from a Capped Year into any Uncapped Year (hereinafter “Subject Contract”). For purposes of
1	determining Team Salary, if (i) the sum of the player’s Paragraph 5 Salary, roster bonuses that are based
1	upon the player making any of the Club’s roster categories without limitation, and reporting bonuses during
1	all Capped Years of the Subject Contract (but, if there are fewer than three remaining Capped Years, during
'	the first three years of the Subject Contract) in the aggregate less than (ii) the portion of the Subject
Contract’s signing bonus that would be allocated to those League Years if the signing bonus were prorated
1	equally over the term of the Subject Contract, then: the difference between the amounts calculated pursuant
■	to (ii) and (i) of this sentence, up to 50% of the portion of the signing bonus that would otherwise be
'	allocated to the Uncapped Years (the “Difference”), shall be deducted in equal portions from those
Uncapped Years and reallocated! in equal portions over the Capped Years of the Subject Contract (or, if there are fewer than three Capped Years within the term of the Subject Contract, over the first three years of the Subject Contract). For purposes of this Paragraph, a renegotiation shall be treated as if it is an entirely new Player Contract. Notwithstanding the above, any Subject Contract executed prior to November 15, 1995 for which there is a Difference as a result of the calculation set forth above	'
Page 101
shall have the 1995 portion of such Difference allocated to 1995 Team Salary to the extent of the Club’s cunent and any future Room during the 1995 regular season (except such Room that results from the termination or renegotiation of a 1995 Player Contract after October 30, 1995), with the balance to be allocated to the 1996 League Year. Further, any Subject Contract executed between November 15,1995 and the end of the 1995 League Year shall have the 1995 portion of any Difference allocated to the 1996 League Year.
•Side Letter 11/1/95: Sec. I
(3)	If a Player Contract provides for an increase in Salary upon the assignment of such contract to another NFL Team, such increase shall be included in the player’s Salary upon such assignment and be attributable to the Team paying the bonus.
* For the purposes of the Salary Cap, any signing bonus given in connection with a contract extension entered into before the expiration of the player’s existing contract will be prorated over the remaining years of the unexpired contract together with its extension. The parties agree that, pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the player shall always have the right to receive such a signing bonus at the time that the extension is executed, unless the player expressly agrees in the contract to defer payment of the extension bonus, in which case only the present value of the deferred payment, calculated in accordance with the method set forth in Article X, Paragraph G. I. (b) of the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement and Article XXIV, Section 7(a) (ii) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be prorated (unless the extension is executed within one year of the execution of the contract being extended, in which case the gross amount of the extension bonus shall be prorated).
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 17
(4)	If either party hereto has canceled the extension of this Agreement as set forth in Article LXI (Extension of Agreement), then signing bonuses agreed to after the date of such cancellation shall be prorated using the 2002 League Year as the Final Capped Year.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 102
(ii) Acceleration.
(1)	For any player removed from the Team’s roster on or before June 1, any unamortized signing bonus amounts will be included in Team Salary for such League Year. If such acceleration puts a Team over the Salary Cap, the Team will have seven days to conform with the Salary Cap, but may not sign any players until there is Room to do so under the Salary Cap.
(2)	For any player removed from the Team’s roster after June 1, any unamortized signing bonus amounts for future years will be included fully in Team Salary at the start of the next League Year.
* During any League Year immediately preceding an Uncapped Year, the provisions relating to acceleration of unamortized signing bonuses applicable on or before June 1 of that League Year shall apply during that League Year after June 1.
•Side Letter 11/1/95: Sec. 2
(3)	In the event that a player who has had a signing bonus allocated over the years of his Player Contract is traded, or whose Contract is assigned to another team pursuant to the NFL’s waiver procedure, then such signing bonus shall be accelerated as in subsection (iiXI) above and the assignee Team’s Team Salary will not include any portion of the signing bonus.
(4)	Any contract year that the player has the right to terminate based upon a contingency shall count as a contract year for purposes of proration until the contingency is fulfilled, at which time any amounts attributed to such year shall be accelerated and included immediately in Team Salary. To the extent that such acceleration puts the Team over its Salary Cap, the difference shall be deducted from its Salary Cap for the following year.	•
* With respect to a Player Contract in which the player has one or more rights to terminate based upon one or more not “likely to be earned” incentives and the player also being on the raster at a subsequent time, no acceleration shall occur pursuant to Article XXIV, Section 7(bXii)(4) of the CBA until both the incentive(s) and the roster precondition! s) have been satisfied.
•Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 5
(5)	The unamortized portion of any signing bonus contained in an NFL Player Contract that is renegotiated to reduce the number of years of such Player Contract shall be included, to the extent attributable to such reduced year or years, in Team Salary at the time of the renegotiation.
(iii)	Prior Signing Bonuses. All signing bonuses from League Years prior to 1993 will be prorated over the term of the original Player Contracts
Page 103	'
and included in Team Salary in the 1993 League Year and thereafter.
(iv)	Amounts Treated as Signing Bonuses. For purposes of determining Team Salary under the foregoing, the term “signing bonus” shall include:
(1)	Any amount specifically described in a Player Contract as a signing bonus;
(2)	Any guaranteed reporting bonus;
(3)	Any consideration, when paid, or guaranteed, for option years, contract extensions, contract modifications, or individually negotiated rights of first refusal;
(4)	Any option buyout amount, when paid or guaranteed; and
(5)	In the event that a Player Contract calls for a Salary in the second year of such Contract that is less than half the Salary called for in the first year of such Contract, the difference between the Salary in the second contract year and the first contract year shall be treated as a signing bonus.
*	In a contract signed after the start of training camp, a reporting bonus for that season will be counted as a signing bonus. In a contract signed after the last pre-season game, a roster bonus for that season will be counted as a signing bonus,
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 18
•	Any salary advance paid on a guaranteed basis will be counted as a signing bonus.
•Side Letter 9/21/93; Sec. 19
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any guaranteed bonus tied to -workouts shall be treated as a Signing Bonus.
“Side Letter 6/23/93: Sec. 3
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any salary advance which a player is not obligated to re-pay shall be treated as a Signing Bonus.
“Side Letter 6/23/93: Sec. 4
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any roster or reporting bonus which is earned or paid before the start of the Club’s pre-season training camp shall be treated as a signing bonus.
“Side Letter 6/23/93: Sec. 6	’	,
*	Except as set forth in [the] Paragraph [to follow], the full non-guaranteed amount of any Salary advance, off-season
Page 104	'
work-out bonus, off-season roster bonus, or off-season reporting bonus shall be included in Team Salary only in the League Year in which it is earned by the player, without any pro-ration. For purposes of this paragraph only, “guaranteed” means Salary that is fully guaranteed, prior to being earned, for skill, for injury, and regardless of any termination of the contract by the Club. The definition of “guaranteed” set forth above shall not affect Salary Cap accounting for any other purpose.
“Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 1
*	With respect to any Player Contract, or any renegotiation or.extension of a Player Contract, that is executed in the Final Capped Year, each of the following shall be treated as a signing bonus, at the time of execution, if it is to be earned or paid to the player in the Final League Year (which is an Uncapped Year): (a) any Salary advance which the player is not and cannot be obligated to repay; (b) any off-season workout bonus that is contingent upon the player’s participation in less than 32 days of the Club’s off-season workout program; (c) any off-season roster bonus; and (d) any off-season reporting bonus.
“Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 2
*	[A]ny bonus to be paid to a player solely for fulfilling his obligations to play under his Player Contract without seeking to renegotiate and/or “holding out” (i.e., a “completion bonus”), and which bonus is otherwise guaranteed for skill and injury, shall be considered to be a “signing bonus” under Article X of the Settlement Agreement and Article XXIV of the CBA, except that the amount of any such completion bonus shall be calculated at its present value, computed at the Treasury Bill rate published in The Wall Street Journal on March 1 of the League Year in which the Player Contract is executed. Further, if any event occurs which extinguishes the player’s right to receive such completion bonus, any amount of the bonus that has previously been included in Team Salary shall be immediately added to the Team’s Salary Cap for the current League Year, if such event occurs prior to June 1, or for the next League Year, if such event occurs after such date, with the remainder of the bonus that has been allocated to Team Salary for future League Years immediately extinguished.
“Side Letter 1/18/94; Sec. 3
Page 105
* Any relocation bonus which is individually negotiated between a player and a Club shall be treated as a signing bonus.
*Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 9
* For each League Year prior to the Final Capped Year, if a Club and a player renegotiate or extend a contract and increase the player’s Salary for the current League Year, the increase will be counted as Salary for that League Year if the NFL Management Council receives, prior to 4:00 p.m. (New York Time) on the Monday of the tenth week of the regular season, notice of the salary terms of such an executed extended or renegotiated contract. In any other circumstance prior to the Final Capped Year, the increase in Salary will be treated as a signing bonus that is allocated over the remaining years of the Player Contract (including the “current” year of that contract) to the extent that such allocation is permitted by the Settlement Agreement and the CBA. The then-existing provisions of the CBA will govern the Salary Cap valuation of such a renegotiation or extension in the Final Capped Year. The parties have reserved their respective positions regarding the CBA’s requirements for any such renegotiation or extension in the Final Capped Year.
*Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 14
as amended Side Letter 5/13/99	.
(v) Credit for Signing Bonuses Refunded. In the event that a Team receives a refund from the player of any previously paid portion of a signing bonus, or the Team fails to pay any previously allocated portion of a signing bonus, such amount as has previously been included in Team Salary shall be added to the Team’s Salary Cap for the next League Year.
(c) Incentives.	•
(i)	Any and all incentive amounts, including but not limited to performance bonuses, shall be inchided in Team Salary if they are “likely to be earned” during such League Year based upon the player’s and/or Team’s performance during the prior year. In the case of a Rookie, or a Veteran who did not play during the prior season, in the event that the NFL and the NFLPA cannot agree as to whether such performance bonus is “likely to be earned,” such disputes shall be referred to the Impartial Arbitrator. Any incentive within the sole control of the player (e.g., nonDguaranteed reporting bonuses, offE) season workout and weight bonuses) shall be deemed “likely to be earned.”
(ii)	At the end of a season, if performance bonuses actually earned resulted in a Team’s paying Salary in excess of the Salary Cap, then the
Page 106
amount by which the Team exceeded the Salary Cap as a result of such actually paid performance bonuses shall be subtracted from the Team’s Salary Cap for the next League Year.
(Hi) At the end of a season, if performance bonuses previously included in a Team’s Team Salary but not actually earned exceed performance bonuses actually earned but not previously included in Team Salary, an amount shall be added to the Team’s Salary Cap for the next League Year equaling the amount, if any, by which such overage exceeds the Team’s Room under the Salary Cap at the end of a season.
I I
I I I
I
I
I
* Any team performance will be automatically deemed to be “Likely to be earned” if the Team met or exceeded the specified performance during the prior League Year, and will be automatically deemed to be “not likely to be earned” if the Team did not meet the specified performance during the prior League Year.
•Side Letter 2/22/96: Sec. 1
*	Any incentive bonus that depends on team performance in any category not identified in Exhibit A hereto automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned,”
*Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec, 8
*	Any incentive bonus that depends on a player’s individual performance in any category not identified in Exhibit B hereto automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” Any incentive bonus that depends on a player’s individual performance in categories other than those used to assess performance at the player's primary position automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.”
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. Il
Page 107
(EXHIBIT A)
TEAM INCENTIVES
OFFENSE
DEFENSE
SPECIAL TEAMS
Points scored by
Points allowed by
Own punt return
offense
defense
average
Touchdowns scored
Touchdowns allowed
Own kickoff return
by offense
by defense
average
Total offense
Total defense
Opposition punt
(net yards)
(net yards)
return average
Opposition kickoff
return average
Average net yards
Average het yards
gained per rushing play given up per rushing play
Average net yards
Average net yards
gained per passing
given up per passing
play
play
Sacks allowed
Sacks
Passing % completed
Interceptions
ALL
Wins
Playoffs
Conference Championship
Super Bowl
Touchdowns on returns
and recoveries
Net difference takeaways/giveaways
•Side Letter 9/21/93: Exhibit A
Page 108
(EXHIBIT B)
INDIVIDUAL INCENTIVES
RUSHING
Total yards
Average yards
(100 attempts)
Touchdowns
PASSING
Passer rating
(224 attempts)
Completion percentage
(224 attempts)
Interception percent
(224 attempts)
Total yards
Yards per pass
(224 attempts)
Touchdown passes
RECEIVING
Total receptions
Total yards
Average yards (32 receptions)
Touchdowns
DEFENSE
Interceptions
Interception return yards
Touchdowns on interception returns
Opponent fumble recoveries
Opponent fumble return yards
Touchdowns on opponent
fumble returns
Sacks
PUNT RETURNS
Total yards
Average (20 returns)
Touchdowns
Page 109
(EXHIBITS)
INDIVIDUAL INCENTIVES
I
I	KICKOFF RETURNS
I
|	Total yards
I
[	Average (20 returns)
I
I	Touchdowns
I
i
I	PUNTING
I
[	Gross average (40 punts)
i	.
!	Net average (40 punts)
I
!	Inside 20-yard.line
PLACE KICKING
Total points
Field goals
Field goal percentage (16 attempts)
Field goal percentage 0-19 yards (4 attempts)
Field goal percentage 20-29 yards (4 attempts)
Field goal percentage 30-39 yards (4 attempts)
Field goal percentage 40-49 yards (4 attempts)
Field goal percentage
50 yards or longer (3 attempts)
OTHERS
Roster bonuses
Reporting bonuses
Playtime bonuses (excluding special teams)
Special teams playtime
*Side Letter 9/21/93: Exhibit B
Page 110
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
CATEGORY
ROSTER BONUSES
(regular season)
All Drafted
Undrafted
ROSTER BONUSES
(pre-season)
All Players
PERCENT COUNTED
100%
30%
100%
PLAYING TIME ROUNDS 1-3
Up to 33%	100%
34% - 75%	75%
76% - 90%	50%
91%-100%	25%
ROUNDS 4-8	
Up to 25%	100%
26% - 33%	75%
34% - 50%	50%
51%-75%	25%
■	76%-100%	10%
UNDRAFTED
Upto 15%	100%
16%-25%	75%
26% - 50%	50%
51%-75%	25%
76% -100%	10%
All percentages will round to the nearest whole
I	■
।	percentage (e.g., .05 is rounded to 1.0)
1	SPECIAL TEAMS	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
I
I	PARTICIPATION	ROUNDS4-8	66%
I
!	.	UNDRAFTED	50%
1	HONORS	ROUNDS 1 - 2
i
!	(First or Second Team)*	All-Rookie	100%
'	All NFL, Pro Bowl	5%
All Conference	10%
.	ALL OTHERS
*See Media List on All-Rookie	15%
pages 122-123
All Conference	5%
Page 111	■
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
(REVISED SCHEDULE B)
RUSHING
Total Yards
ROUNDS 1 - 3
Rushing	Up to 150 yards	100%
	151 - 350 yards	75%
	351 - 500 yards	66%
	501 - 700 yards	33%
	701 yards or more ALL OTHERS	0%
	Up to 100 yards	100%
	101 - 350 yards	66%
	351 - 650 yards	25%
	651 yards or more	0%
Average Yards	ROUNDS 1 -3	
(100 attempts)	Up to 3.74	100%
	3.75 - 4.0	66%
	4.01 - 4.49	33%
	4.5 or more ALL OTHERS	0%
	Up to 3.74	100%
	3.75 - 4.0	50%
	4,01 - 4.49	25%
	4.5 or more	0%
Touchdowns	ROUNDS 1 - 3	
	Up to 4	100%
	5-7	66%
	8-11	33%
	12 or more ALL OTHERS	0%
	Up to 4	100%
5-7
50%
8-11
25%
12 or more	0%
Page 112
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES (REVISED SCHEDULE B)
PASSING
Passer Rating ROUNDS 1 - 3
(224 attempts) 50 rating or less 100%
51.00-75.00	66%
76.00 - 90.00	50%
90.00- 100.00	33%
100.01 or more	0%
ALL OTHERS
50.00 or less	100%
51.00 - 75.00	66%
76.00-90.00	25%
90.01 or more	0%
Completion Percentage	ROUNDS 1-3
	(224 attempts)	Up to 52%	100%
		52.1 -56%	66%
-		56.1 -59%	33%
		59.01% or more	0%
		ALL OTHERS	
		Up to 52%	100%
		52.1 - 56%	50%
		56.1 - 59%	25%
		59,01% or more	0%
	Interception Percentage		ROUNDS 1 -
	(224 attempts)	3.0% or more	100%
2.7 - 2.9%	66%
2.1 -2.6%	33%
2.0% or less	0%
ALL OTHERS	
3.0% or more	100%
2.7 - 2.9%	50%
2.1 -2.6%	25%
2.0% or Jess	0%
Page J13
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
(REVISED SCHEDULE B)
Total Yards	ROUNDS 1 - 3	
Passing	Up to 500 yards	100%
	501 - 700 yards	75%
• -	701 - 900 yards	50%
	901 - 1,600 yards	25%
	1,601 yards or more	0%
	ALL OTHERS	
	Up to 400 yards	100%
	401 - 600 yards	75%
	601 - 800 yards	50%
	801 - 1,200 yards	25%
	1,201 yards or more	0%
Yards Per Pass	ROUNDS I - 3	
(224 attempts)	Under 6	100%
	6.0-7	66%
	7.1-8	33%
8.1-9
10%
9.1 or more	0%
ALL OTHERS	
Under 6	100%
6.0-7	50%
7.1-8	25%
8.1-9	10%
9.1 or more	0%
Touchdown Passes ROUNDS 1-3	
Under 11	100%
12-16	66%
17-23	33%
24-29	10%
30 or more	0%
ALL OTHERS	
Under 11	100%
12- 16	50%
17-23	25%
24-29	10%
30 or more	0%
Page 114
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
(REVISED SCHEDULE B)
RECEIVING
Total Receptions ROUNDS 1-3
Up to 20 catches 100%
21-30 catches 75%
31-35 catches	50%
36 - 40 catches	25%
	41 catches or more	0%
	ALL OTHERS Up to 10 catches	100%
	11-35 catches	50%
	36 - 40 catches	25%
-	41 catches or more	0%
Total Yards Receiving ROUNDS 1 - 3		
	Up to 200 yards	100%
	201 - 300 yards	75%
	301 - 400 yards	50%
	401 - 800 yards	25%
	801 yards or more	0%
	ALL OTHERS Up to 150 yards	100%
	151 - 250 yards	75%
	251 - 350 yards	50%
	351 - 700 yards	25%
	701 yards or more	0%
Average Yards	ROUNDS 1 - 3	
(32 receptions)	Up to 11.5	100%
	11.6- 14.5	75%
	14.6-16.5	50%
	16.6- 18.5	25%
	18.6 or more	0%
	ALL OTHERS	
	Up to 11.5	100%
	11.6-14.5	66%
	14.6-16.5	' 33%
16.6- 18.5
10%
18.6 or more	0%
Page 115
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES (REVISED SCHEDULE B)
Receiving Touchdowns ROUNDS 1 - 3
Up to 4	100%
5 - 7	66%
8-11	33%
12 or more	0%
ALL OTHERS
Up to 4	100%
5 - 7	50%
8-11	25%
12 or more	0%
TOTAL OFFENSE
Total Yards	ROUNDS 1 - 3
Up to 500 yards	100%
501-700 yards	75%
701-900 yards	50%
901 - 1,600 yards	25%
1,601 yards or more	0%
ALL OTHERS
Up to 400 yards	100%
401 -600 yards	75%
601 -800 yards	50%
801 - 1,200 yards	10%
1,201 yardsormore 0%
Scoring
ROUNDS 1 - 3
	2-28 points	100%
	29 - 65 points	50%
	66 - 75 points	25%
	76 points or more	0%
	ALL OTHERS	
	2-28 points	100%
	29 - 55 points	50%
	56 - 75 points	10%
	76 points or more	0%
Page 116		
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” (REVISED SCHEDULE B)		INCENTIVES
DEFENSE		
Interceptions	ROUNDS 1 - 3	
	1-5	100%
	6- 10	50%
	11 or more	0%
	ALL OTHERS	
	1-3	100%
	4-6	33%
	7 or more	0%
Interception	ROUNDS 1 - 3	
Return Yards	0-85	100%
	86-150	66%
	151 -190	33%
	191 or more	0%
ALL OTHERS
0 * 65	100%
66 - 85	50%
86- 110	25%
111 or more	0%
Touchdowns on ALL Interception Returns 1	100%
2	50%
3 or more	0%
Opponent Fumble ALL
Recoveries	1-2	100%
3 - 4	50%
5 or more	0%
Opponent Fumble ROUNDS 1-3 Return Yards	0-40	100%
41 -65	66%
66 - 80	33%
81 or more	0%
ALL OTHERS 0 - 30	100%
31 - 55	50%
56 - 75	25%
76 or more	0%
Page 117 ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES (REVISED SCHEDULE B) Touchdowns on	ALL
Opponent Fumble	1	100%
Returns	2	50%
3 or more
0%
Sacks
ROUNDS 1 - 3
	.5-4 sacks	100%
	4.5 - 6 sacks	50%
	6.5 - 8 sacks	25%
	8.5 sacks or more ALL OTHERS	0%
	.5-3 sacks	100%
	3.5 - 6 sacks	50%
	6.5 - 8 sacks	25%
PUNT RETURNS	8.5 sacks or more	0%
Total Yards	ROUNDS 1 - 3 ALL OTHERS	100%
	0-224	100%
	225 - 349	33%
	350 or more	0%
Average (20 returns) ROUNDS 1-3 ALL OTHERS		100%
	0-7.9	100%
	8.0 - 10.9	33%
	11.0 or more	0%
Touchdowns	ROUNDS 1 - 3 ALL OTHERS	100%
	1	33%
	2 or more	0%
Page 118
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
(REVISED SCHEDULE B)
KICKOFF RETURNS
Total Yards	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
	ALL OTHERS 0-599	100%
	600 - 649	33%
	650 or more	0%
Average	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
(20 returns)	ALL OTHERS	
	0 -19.9	100%
	20.0-21.9	33%
	22.0 or more	0%
Touchdowns	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
	ALL OTHERS 1	33%
	2 or more	0%
PUNTING Gross Average	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
(40 punts)	ALL OTHERS	
	0 - 42.4	100%
	42.5 - 43.9	33%
	44.0 or more	0%
Net Average	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
(40 punts)	ALL OTHERS	
	0 - 35.9	100%
	36.0 - 37.9	33%
	38.0 or more	0%
Inside 20-yard line	ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
ALL OTHERS
0-19
100%
20-23	33%
24 or more	0%
Page 119
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
(REVISED SCHEDULE B)
PLACE KICKING
Total Points ROUNDS 1-3
Up to 86 points	100%
87 - 95 points	75%
96 - 104 points	50%
105-113 points	10%
114 points or more	0%
ALL OTHERS
Up to 75 points	100%
76 - 90 points	66%
91 - 99 points	33%
100 -109 points	10%
110 points or more	0%
Field Goals ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
ALL OTHERS
0 -19	100%
20 - 26	33%
27 or more	0%
Field Goal Percentage ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
(16 attempts) ALL OTHERS
0 - 75%	100%
75.1 -80%
33%
80.1 -100%	0%
Field Goal Percentage ALL	100%
0-19 yards (4 attempts)
Field Goal Percentage ROUNDS 1-3	100%
20 - 29 yards ALL OTHERS
(4 attempts) 0 - 85%	100%
85.1 -95%	33%
95.1 - 100%	0%
Field Goal Percentage ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
30 - 39 yards ALL OTHERS
(4 attempts) 0 - 70%	’	100%
70.1 - 90%	33%
90.1 -100%	0%
Page 120
ROOKIE “LIKELY TO BE EARNED” INCENTIVES
(REVISED SCHEDULE B)
Field Goal Percentage ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
40 - 49 yards ALL OTHER
(4 attempts) 0 - 55%	100%
55.1 - 70%	33%
70.1 - 100%	0%
Field Goal Percentage ROUNDS 1 -3	100%
50 yards or longer ALL OTHERS
(3 attempts) 0 - 45%	100%
45.1 - 60%	33%
60.1 - 100%	0%
*Side Letters 4/27/93 & 4/27/94
Page 121
I
ENTERING PLAYER POOL INCENTIVES
* Team Leaders
a)	If the incentive is written for leading the Club in any official League statistical category [assuming it is on Exhibit A or B], 0% will be counted.
b)	If the incentive is written for any ranking other than first on the Club in any official League statistical category, 100% will be counted.
*Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 7
c)	If the incentive is written for leading the team in kick returns or punt returns, and the player qualifies under the minimum standard established by the League for those statistical categories, the following percentages shall be counted;
ROUNDS 1 - 3	100%
ROUNDS 4 - 5	33%
ROUNDS6-8	10%
ALL OTHERS	0%
*Side Letter 6/30/93: Sec. 16
*	Each component of non-cumulative incentives is calculated individually, and only the highest component amount is counted. For example, an incentive clause for a 1 st-round running back that provides for $ 10,000 for up to 150 yards or 520,000 for 151-350 yards is counted as $15,000. (This amount is arrived at by taking the greater of 100% of $10,000 or 75% of $20,000, which equals $15,000. Only the higher component amount of $15,000 is counted),
•Side Letter 4/27/93; Sec. 8
The following shall count at 100%:
*	Any team statistic or team unit statistic, if the statistic was achieved in the prior season (based on prior season’s performance).
•Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 9
*	Incentives within the sole control of the player (e.g., non-guaranteed reporting bonuses, workouts, weight clauses, etc.).
•Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 10
Page 122
•Any relocation or completion bonus.
♦Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 11
♦Any incentive not measured by official NFL statistics (i.e., hurries, tackles and assists) or incentives based on subjective standards.
*Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 12
*	Any guaranteed salary or bonus.	'
♦Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 13
*	Any pre-season or off-season statistics.
♦Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 14
*	Any incentive based upon another player’s performance.
♦	Side Letter 4/27/93: Sec. 15
* Incentives based on leading the team in punting/kicking will be counted at 100%.
♦Side Letter 6/30/93: Sec. 18
♦ If a rookie player has an incentive bonus for touchdowns, we will apply the rushing and receiving touchdowns likely to be earned rule and if a rookie non-kicker has a Total Points incentive, we will apply the total points likely to be earned levels for a rookie kicker to value the incentives.
♦Side Letter 7/26/94
♦HONORS AND RECOGNIZED MEDIA
VETERAN HONORS
PRO BOWL
1ST&2ND ALL NFL
1	ST & 2ND ALL CONFERENCE
SUPER BOWL MVP (ROZELLE TROPHY)
MVP-NFL
OFFENSIVE PLAYER OF YEAR — NFL OR CONF
DEFENSIVE PLAYER OF YEAR — NFL OR CONF
PLAYER OF YEAR — NFL OR CONF
VETERAN MEDIA
ASSOCIATED PRESS
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL
Page 123
PRO FOOTBALL WEEKLY
PRO FOOTBALL WRITERS OF AMERICA
SPORTING NEWS
FOOTBALL NEWS
NEWSPAPER ENTERPRISE ASSOCIATION
FOOTBALL DIGEST
USA TODAY
COLLEGE & PRO FOOTBALL WEEKLY
ROOKIE HONORS (FIRST OR SECOND TEAM)
ROUNDS 1-2
ALL ROOKIE	100%
ALL NFL, PRO BOWL	5%
ALL CONFERENCE	10%
ALL OTHERS
ALL-ROOKIE	‘	15%
ALL CONFERENCE	5%
ALL
ROOKIE OF YEAR—NFL OR CONF	0%
ROOKIE OF YEAR — OFFENSE — NFL 0%
ROOKIE OF YEAR — DEFENSE — NFL	0%
ROOKIE MEDIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL
PRO FOOTBALL WEEKLY
PRO FOOTBALL WRITERS OF AMERICA
NEWSPAPER ENTERPRISE ASSOCIATION
SPORTING NEWS
♦Side Utter 9/25/95 & 4/27/93
ADDITIONAL INCENTIVE RULES FOR
VETERANS, ROOKIES, INDIVIDUALS AND TEAMS
*	In determining the Salary of a Player Contract for purposes of the Salary Cap, any team performance-related incentive will be re-valued under the “likely to be earned” rules if the contract is assigned to a new team through trade or waiver.
♦Side Utter 9/21/93: Sec. 1
*	In determining the Salary of a Player Contract for purposes of the Salary Cap, any renegotiated contract will be re-valued at the time of the renegotiation. Thus, if at
Page 124
the time of the renegotiation, the conditions for an incentive bonus have already been satisfied, that bonus will be deemed “likely to be earned." Any new or altered incentive bonuses renegotiated in a pre-existing contract after the start of the regular season in which they may be earned automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” during that season.
♦Side Utter 9/21/93: Sec. 2
♦ Other than as set forth in [the paragraph immediately following,] for purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any incentive bonus to an offensive player that is based upon the defensive team’s or special team’s performance automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” Conversely, any incentive bonus to a defensive player that is based upon the offensive team’s or special team’s performance automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” Any incentive bonus based upon another player’s performance automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.”
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 3
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any incentive bonus in a contract signed by a Rookie that is based upon special team performance automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned,” except for an incentive bonus to a Rookie kicker or Rookie punter that is based upon improvement in the performance of the kicking or punting team. Any incentive bonus to a player who is not a Rookie that is based upon special team performance automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” unless the player played in at least 50% of his team’s special team plays in the previous season.
♦Side Utter 9/21/93: Sec. 4
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any incentive bonus based on the team’s performance automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” if it sets a minimum level of statistical performance that is equal to or lower than that achieved by the team finishing fifth from the bottom in the League in the applicable category during the previous season. For example, an incentive bonus based on a team winning at least a specified number of games will be evaluated by determining
Page 125
whether this number of wins was equal to or lower than that achieved by the team that was fifth from the bottom of the League in wins during the previous season. Conversely, any incentive bonus based on the team’s performance automatically will be deemed “not likely to be earned” if it sets a minimum level of statistical performance that is equal to or higher than that achieved by the team finishing fifth from the top of the League in the applicable category during the previous season.
•Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 5
*	Any incentive bonus that is based upon the team achieving a particular ranking in its performance relative either to other teams in the League, or to other teams in its Conference, automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” if it sets a ranking level equal to or lower than fifth from the bottom of the League or third from the bottom of the Conference, respectively. For example, an incentive bonus that is based on a team finishing 24th in the League in total offense will be deemed “likely to be earned” in a League consisting of 28 teams; similarly, an incentive bonus based on a team finishing 12th in its Conference will be deemed “likely to be earned” in a Conference consisting of 14 teams. Conversely, any incentive bonus that is based upon the team achieving a particular ranking in its performance relative either to other teams in the League, or to other teams in its Conference, automatically will be deemed “not likely to be earned” if it sets a ranking level equal to or higher than fifth from the top of the League or third from the top of the Conference, respectively.
•Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 6
•Any incentive bonus based on the team’s ranking in its Division automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned."
•Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 7
•In any Player Contract signed by a Rookie, if more than three different team performance categories arc included as incentives, all but the three incentives with the lowest dollar value automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” For Player Contracts signed by Rookies selected in rounds one and two of the NFL draft, any team	.	'
. Page 126
performance bonus automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” unless coupled with a playtime requirement of at least 35% of the plays for any team incentives that apply in the first year of any Rookie contract, and at least 45% of the plays for any team incentives that apply in any subsequent year of such a contract. For Player Contracts signed by all other Rookies, a team performance bonus automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” unless coupled with a playtime requirement of at least 15% of the plays for any team incentives that apply in the first year of any Rookie contract, and at least 30% of the plays for any team incentives that apply in any subsequent year of such a contract. The provisions of this paragraph supplement and do not override [Paragraph 9] of the parties’ letter of agreement of April 27, 1993. The calculation of these playtime requirements shall exclude special teams plays.
•Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 9
•	In any Player Contract signed by a player other than a Rookie, if more than three different team performance categories are included as incentives, covering the Final Capped Year or thereafter, all but the three incentives with the lowest dollar value automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” In addition, any team performance bonus for a player other than a Rookie covering the Final Capped Year or thereafter automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” unless coupled with a playtime requirement equal to or greater than the player’s actual playtime during the year prior to the execution of the new Player Contract. If the latter requirement is satisfied, a determination of whether the incentive is “likely to be earned” will be made pursuant to Article X, Paragraph G.3.(a) of the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement and Article XXIV, Section 7(c)(i) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The calculation of these playtime requirements shall exclude special teams plays.
•Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 10	-
•	Any incentive bonus that is stated in terms of a per play or per game occurrence automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” to the extent the specified performance was achieved by the player (if an
individual incentive) or by the team (if a team incentive) in the previous year. For Rookies, it will be based on 75% of the
Page 127
team leader on the Rookie’s team in the specified performance category in the previous year. If not initially counted as “likely to be earned,” such incentives shall be counted immediately towards the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool when they are earned.
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 12
*	Any incentive bonus to a kicker or punter for leading his team in any kicking or punting category automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” In a Player Contract signed by a Rookie quarterback who was drafted in the first round, any incentive bonus for leading his team in any quarterback category in his third NFL season or thereafter automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” In a Player Contract signed by a Rookie running back who was drafted in the first round, any incentive bonus for leading his team in any running back category automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” The provisions of this paragraph shall apply notwithstanding [Paragraph 7] of the parties’ letter agreement of April 27, 1993.
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 13
♦	For purposes of the Salary Cap, any portion of an incentive bonus that is earned, but which had not been deemed likely to be earned at 100 percent of its value, will be deemed earned at the end of the season and not immediately upon attainment of the required performance level, except (1) as provided [two paragraphs] above [in regards to per play or per game occurrences,] (2) if the incentive bonus is actually paid before the end of the season, in which case it will count when paid, (3) if a player leaves the team’s roster prior to the end of the season and the conditions of the incentive clause are satisfied prior to leaving, in which case the entire value of the earned bonus will count immediately, or (4) if the contract is renegotiated and the incentive has been earned prior to such renegotiation.
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 14
♦	Any incentive bonus which a player and a Club agreed to prior to the 1993 League Year that depends upon performance in any category not identified in Exhibit A or Exhibit B will be determined to be likely or unlikely to be earned based upon the player’s and/or team’s performance
Page 128
in such category during the League Year prior to the League Year in which the incentive may be earned. Any incentive bonus which a player and a Club agreed to in the 1993 League Year or thereafter that depends upon performance in any category not identified in Exhibit A or Exhibit B automatically will be deemed “Likely to be earned.”
♦Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 6
♦	Any incentive bonus which a player and a Club agree to in the 1994 League Year, or in any future League Year during the term of the CBA, that: (i) depends upon performance in any category not identified in Exhibit A or Exhibit B; and (ii) is stated in terms of per play, per event or per game, or for leading or any ranking on the Club in any such category; shall be prohibited.
♦Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 7
♦	Any roster bonus which is deemed not “likely to be earned” based upon the player’s performance during the prior year shall immediately be included in Team Salary when earned. Pre-season roster bonuses are automatically deemed “likely to be earned.”
Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 8
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap, any incentive bonus (or portion thereof) that is earned during the [Final Capped] Year, but which had not been deemed likely to be earned at 100 percent of its value during that League Year, will be deemed earned and counted against the Salary Cap immediately upon attainment of the required performance level. Conversely, any incentive bonus (or.portion thereof) that had been deemed likely to be earned during the [Final Capped] Year will be immediately credited toward the Salary Cap if the required performance level should, during the course of the [Final Capped] Year, become impossible for the player to attain.
♦Side Letter 11/11/93: Sec. 1
*	To determine the value of an incentive clause for Salary Cap purposes, either under the specific circumstances set forth in the paragraph above, or under the specific circumstances set forth in paragraph 14 of the letter from Jeffrey L. Kessler to Harold R. Henderson dated
Page 129
September 21, 1993, such incentive clauses will be valued using the Club’s performance in the prior season in lieu of the Club’s current season performance. Thus, for example, if a Club had 1,000 offensive plays “last season,” and an incentive clause were tied to a player’s participating in 50 percent of the Club’s offensive plays “this season,” the incentive would be deemed earned, for Salary' Cap purposes only, as of the time the player participated in 500 offensive plays. Similarly, such an incentive would be deemed not earned, for Salary Cap purposes only, as of the time the player had not participated in a sufficient number of offensive plays so that the player could not achieve the incentive based on last year’s performance (e.g., had participated in only one of the Club’s 502 offensive plays). Nothing herein, however, shall affect the player's contractual right to receive or not receive the specified incentive, based upon the performance level actually achieved during that year.
♦Side Letter 1 l/l 1/93: Sec. 2
*	If more than eight different team performance categories are included in a Player Contract signed by a Veteran as incentives, all but the eight incentives with the lowest dollar value automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned.” For purposes of this paragraph, each conjunctive combination of performance categories shall be counted as one performance category (e.g., an incentive clause reading, “if A and B and C, then player will receive $X,” shall be counted as one performance category), and each disjunctive combination of performance categories shall be counted by the number of disjunctive performance categories in the combination (e.g., an incentive clause reading, “if A or B or C, then player will receive $X”, shall be counted as three performance categories). In addition, any of the disjunctive performance categories may itself be a conjunctive combination of performance categories (e.g., the “A" in the immediately preceding example may be a conjunctive combination of numerous performance categories, and would be counted as being one category because of its conjunctive nature).
♦Side Letter 2/22/96; Sec. 2
*	[The above paragraph] does not supersede the terms of any other letter agreement between the parties that
Page 130 ■
automatically deem certain performance incentives to be “likely to be earned” or “not likely to be earned” depending upon whether the incentive fulfills other specified criteria (e.g., Paragraphs 3-10 of the September 21, 1993 letter agreement).
•Side Letter 2/22/96: Sec. 3
* [The two preceding paragraphs do] not apply and the parties reserve their rights with respect to multi-year contracts containing team performance incentives.
♦Side Letter 2/22/96: Sec. 4
(d) Guaranteed Contracts. Any portion of Salary for which a Team fully guarantees payment for skill or injury shall be included in Team Salary during the year earned, except that:
(i) In a Player Contract entered into in a Capped Year, Salary fully guaranteed for League Years after the Final Capped Year will be included in Team Salary for the preceding League Years in which the Salary Cap is in effect, in any manner the Team chooses, if payment of the player’s entire Salary for the Final Capped Year is not fully guaranteed. For example, without limitation on any other applicable example, if neither party exercises any right to cancel the extension of this Agreement, and if the Salary Cap is in effect during the 2002 and 2003 League Years, and the player enters into a four □year contract which is not fully guaranteed for the 2002 and 2003 League Years, but is fully guaranteed for the 2004 and 2005 League Years, the full amount of the guaranteed Salary for the 2004 and 2005 League Years will be included in Team Salary for the 2002 and 2003 League Years in a proportion determined by the Team.
* Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(ii)	In a Player Contract entered into in a Capped Year, 50% of the Salary fully guaranteed for any League Year beyond three years after the Final Capped Year will be included in Team Salary during the League Year or Years of the Contract in which the Salary Cap is in effect in a proportion to be determined by the Team.
(iii)	Any portion of Salary fully guaranteed for any period after a player is released shall be immediately included in Team Salary at the time of his release at the present value rate determined in accordance with the Treasury Bill rate published in The Wall Street Journal of March 1 of the League Year of the player’s release. In such event, the player shall have the option of being paid such guaranteed amount immediately at the present value rate or under the original schedule provided in the contract. To the extent that such payment puts the Team over its Salary Cap, the rule set forth in Section 7(b)(ii)( 1) above, shall apply.
(iv)	If any Player Contract entered into in a Capped Year provides
Page 131
for yearly Salary in a sequence that, in the Final Capped Year or later, is fully guaranteed, unguaranteed, and then fully guaranteed, the amount fully guaranteed after the first such unguaranteed year will be allocated over the Capped Years in any manner the Team desires.
* For the purposes of valuing the Salary of a player under the Salary Cap, any portion of such Salary for which a Team guarantees payment shall immediately be included in Team Salary during the year earned, subject only to the exceptions contained in Article XXIV, Section 7(d)(i)-(iv).
♦Side Letter 6/23/93; Sec. 2
(e) Other Amounts.
(i)	Loans. The principal amount of any loan made, guaranteed, or collateralized by a Team or its Team Affiliate to a player shall be included in Team Salary. However, when a player pays back any portion of the principal amount of any such loan, such amount will be added to the Team’s Salary Cap to the extent previously included in Team Salary.
* For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, in the event that a player and Club enter into a fraudulent agreement pursuant to which the player and the Club claim that the player has received a “loan” from the Club, when in fact there is no bona fide loan and the player is merely holding the money for the Club so that he can purport to “repay” the Club during a subsequent Capped Year (and thereby transfer a credit to the Club’s Salary Cap for that year), the parties agree that such a fraudulent agreement would constitute an improper circumvention of the Salary Cap and/or Entering Player Pool, in violation of die Stipulation and Settlement Agreement, Article X, Part G, Paragraph 5 (a), and the Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article XXIV, Section 7(e)(i).
♦Side Letter 11/11/93: Sec. 3
(ii)	Salary Advances. The full amount of any Salary advance paid to a player will be included immediately in Salary and Team Salary.
♦For purposes of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, any salary advance which a player is not obligated to re-pay shall be treated as a Signing Bonus.
♦Side Letter 6/23/94: Sec. 4
Page 132
(iii)	Non □ Cash Provisions. The fair market value of all non deash provisions (e.g., automobiles, houses, insurance policies) shall be included in Team Salary during the year in which such provision is made. If the parties cannot agree on the fair market value of such provisions, such dispute will be submitted to the Impartial Arbitrator.
♦	Reasonable travel cost, lodging and entertainment, incurred in connection with recruiting an unsigned player (or his affiliate) at a Club facility or Club geographic area will not be included in Team Salary or Benefits.
♦Side Letter 5/24/95; Sec. 5
*	Expenses for travel, board and lodging for a player participating in an off-season workout program or classroom instruction shall not be included in Salary or Team Salary, so long as such expenses are reasonable and customary and generally offered to all players by that club. Any such expenses in excess of reasonable and customary levels, or not generally offered to all players by that Club, shall immediately be included in Salary and Team Salary.
♦Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 1
*	Except as set forth in the two preceding paragraphs, in Issue No. 30, and in the letter agreement between us dated August 4, 1993 regarding Rookie Orientation Camps, if any money or tangible item of value is provided by any Club to any player (or his affiliate) not pursuant to the CBA or a Player Contract, the value of the money or item shall immediately be included in Salary and the Team Salary of the Club making such provision. This paragraph does not apply to consideration paid to a player (or his affiliate) for non-football playing services, which continues to be subject to Article XXIV, Section 1 (c)(ii) of the CBA.
♦Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 4
♦	Compensation to players for participation in the off-season workout programs or classroom instruction sessions of a Club at the minimum amount set forth in Article XXXV of the CBA shall be included in Team Salary on the first day of such program, calculated by multiplying: (i) the minimum amount set forth in Article XXXV, Section 3; (ii) the number of players scheduled to participate in such program at said minimum amount; (iii)
Page 133
the number of days per week scheduled for such program; and (iv) the number of weeks scheduled for such program. For example, without limitation upon any other example, a Club having a nine-week workout program in the 1994 League Year for sixty players to be paid at the minimum amount will include $108,000 in its Team Salary on the first day of such program ($50 per day x four workout days per week x nine weeks x sixty players). At the conclusion of a club’s off-season workout program, any such minimum amounts which are unearned and unpaid shall be subtracted from Salary and Team Salary.
*Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 3
* If a Club provides one or more gifts to a player during the term of the player’s Player Contract to commemorate the player’s retirement, and the player has been under contract with the Club in three or more seasons, the fair market value of such gifts upto $10,000 shall not be counted as Salary, and any excess fair market value above $15,000 shall be counted as Salary. If such gifts have a value between $10,000 and $15,000, the parties reserve their rights with respect to the treatment of the excess fair market value above $ 10,000; in the absence of agreement between the parties on such treatment, the Impartial Arbitrator shall decide. If the player has been under contract with the Club in less than three seasons, the entire fair market value of any such gifts shall be counted as Salary.
•Side Letter 4/16/96
(iv) Annuities. The cost to the Team of any annuity provided to any player (but not including any annuity provided pursuant to the player annuity program described in Article XL VIII-A),computed at the Treasury Bill rate on March 1 of the applicable League Year, shall be included immediately in Team Salary.	'
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(f) Traded Contracts. In the event that a Player Contract is assigned to another NFL Team, either by trade or pursuant to the NFL’s waiver procedure, the assignee Team will count as part of its Team Salary only that portion of the player’s Salary which remains unpaid and for which the Team may be obligated. The assignor Team will continue to count as part of its Team Salary only that portion of the player’s Salary which has already been paid by the Team and/or any Salary for which the Team remains obligated.
Page 134
*	In determining the Salary of a Player Contract for purposes of the Salary Cap, any team performance-related incentive will be re-valued under the “likely to be earned” rules if the contract is assigned to a new team through trade or waiver.
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 1
*	A Club is not required to have Room to execute a Player Contract with a player to whom the Club has exclusive negotiating rights if the player is assigned to another Club via a trade on the same business day as the execution of the contract, and the assignee Club has or makes Room for such Player Contract.
•Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 11
(g) Mid □ Season Contracts. In the event that a player enters into a Player Contract after the first scheduled game of the regular season, a Team will only count as part of Team Salary that portion of the player’s Salary which it might actually pay or might be obligated to pay that season.
Section 8.	30% Rules:
(	a) No NFL Player Contract entered into in an Uncapped Year prior to the Final League Year may provide for an annual decrease in Salary, excluding any amount attributable to a signing bonus as defined in Section 7(b)(iv) above, of more than 30% of the Salary of the first League Year of the Contract per year. For example, a four□ year Player Contract commencing in the 1993 League Year may not provide for an annual decrease of more than 30% of the Salary, excluding amounts treated as a signing bonus, in the 1993 League Year for each of the four years covered by the contract.
(	b) No NFL Player Contract entered into in a Capped Year and extending into the Final League Year or beyond may provide for an annua) increase in Salary, excluding any amount attributable to a signing bonus as defined in Section 7(bXiv) above, of more than 30% of the Salary provided for in the Final Capped Year, per year, either in the Final League Year or in any subsequent League Year covered by the Player Contract. For example, without limitation on any other applicable example, if neither party exercises any right to cancel the extension of this Agreement, a four-year Player Contract signed in the 2003 League Year (assuming it is a Capped Year) may not provide for annual increase of more than 30% of the 2003 League Year Salary, excluding amounts treated as a signing bonus, in each of the three additional League Years covered by the Contract.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
*	Any amount which a Club may pay to a player to buy out a right the player has or may have to terminate one
Page 135
or more contract years shall be treated as signing bonus at the time the buy-out is exercised by the Club, and pro-rated at that time over the remaining term of the contract, including the current League Year, if the right to terminate and/or the right to buy-out is based upon one or more incentives that are not “likely to be earned.” Such a buy-out amount shall not be included in any calculation for purposes of the 25% Rule for Rookies, set forth in Article XVII, Section 4(e) of die CBA, and/or the 30% Rule, set forth in Article XXIV, Section 8 of the CBA.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 3(a)
*	The parties acknowledge that Class Counsel together with the NFLPA, and the NFL Management Council, disagree as to the treatment of allocated signing bonus and buy-out payments when a player’s right to terminate one or more contract years and/or the Club’s right to buy-out is based upon one or more incentives that are “likely to be earned,” and not upon any incentives that are not “likely to be earned.” These issues are expressly left open. Except to enforce the terms of this paragraph [and the one preceding], the terms of [both these paragraphs] may not be referred to or used by any of the parties in any proceeding, or otherwise, and the parties otherwise reserve all their rights with respect to the subject of this paragraph.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 3(b)
*	Any amount specified to be paid for the exercise of an option by a Club to extend the term of a Player Contract shall be treated as signing bonus, pro-rated over the remaining term of the contract commencing in the League Year in which it is exercised or the last League Year in which the option may be exercised, whichever comes first. Such an option amount shall, immediately upon execution of the contract, renegotiation or extension, be included in any calculation for purposes of the 25% Rule for Rookies, set forth in Article XVII, Section 4(e) of the CBA, and/or the 30% Rule, set forth in Article XXIV, Section 8 of the CBA, pro-rated over the remaining term of the contract commencing in the last League Year in which the option may be exercised. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) if a Club renounces its right to exercise the option, die option amount shall not be included in Team Salary as of the date of such renunciation; and (ii)
Page 136
if the club does not renounce, but nonetheless does not exercise the option, the full amount of the option amount previously counted against Team Salary shall be credited to the Club's Salary Cap in the next League Year.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 4
Section 9.	Renegotiations and Extensions: Provided that all Salary Cap requirements are met, Player Contracts for current and future years may be renegotiated and/or extended except as follows:
(a)	The contract of a Veteran Player may not be renegotiated to increase the Salary to be paid to the player during the original terms of the contract for a period of twelve months after the player’s most recent contract renegotiation. The first renegotiation of a Veteran Player Contract, however, may take place at any time.
(b)	No Team and player may agree to renegotiate any term of a previously signed Player Contract for a prior League Year.
(c)	No contract renegotiations may be done for a current season after the last regular season game of that season.
(d)	A Player Contract signed by a Rookie may not be renegotiated except as provided in Article XVII (Entering Player Pool), Section 4(f).
(e)	As provided in Article XXI (Final Eight Plan), Sections 3 and 4.
*	No Player Contract, and no contract renegotiation or extension, may be agreed to between a Player and a Club for any term that expires prior to the last day of a League Year. All rights by a player to terminate a Player Contract must be exercised prior to the first day of any League Year to be terminated.
♦Side Letter 10/21/96: Sec. 6
*	In determining the Salary of a Player Contract for purposes of the Salary Cap, any renegotiated contract will be re-valued at the time of the renegotiation. Thus, if at the time of the renegotiation, the conditions for an incentive bonus have already been satisfied, that bonus will be deemed “likely to be earned.” Any new or altered incentive bonuses renegotiated in a pre-existing contract after the start of the regular season in which they may be earned automatically will be deemed “likely to be earned” during that season.
♦Side Letter 9/21/93: Sec. 2
*	For purposes of the Salary Cap, any signing bonus given in connection with a contract extension entered into
Page 137
before the expiration of the player’s existing contract will be prorated over the remaining years of the unexpired contract together with its extension. The parties agree that, pursuant to the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the player shall always have the right to receive such a signing bonus at the time that the extension is executed, unless the player expressly agrees in the contract to defer payment of the extension bonus, in which case only the present value of the deferred payment, calculated in accordance with the method set forth in Article X, Paragraph G. I .(b) of the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement and Article XXIV, Section 7(a)(ii) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall be prorated (unless the extension is executed within one year of the execution of the contract being extended, in which case the gross amount of the extension bonus shall be prorated).
♦Side Letter 9/21/93; Sec. 17
* Any agreement to compensate a player at the minimum amount set forth in Article XXXV of the CBA for participation in an off-season workout program or classroom instruction shall not be treated as a renegotiation of a Player Contract. Any agreement to compensate a player for such participation above such amount shall be treated as a renegotiation. All such agreements shall be set forth in writing and promptly filed with the League Office.
♦Side Letter 5/24/95: Sec. 2
♦ [A]ny salary deferral agreed to by club and player which does not affect the player’s Salary for purpose of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool shall not be treated as a renegotiation.
♦Side Letter 11/7/97
* We have discussed whether an amendment to a Player Contract that changes the terms under which Signing Bonus is paid is or is not a “renegotiation” of the contract under the terms of Article I, Section 2(ab) and Article XXIV, Section 9 of the CBA (and corresponding provisions of the White Settlement Agreement).... We have agreed that any such agreement is a “renegotiation” under the terms of these provisions...
♦Side Letter 5/13/99
Page 138
Section 10. Accounting Procedures:
(a)	Special Purpose Letters and DGR Reporting.
(i)(A) At least three days prior to the beginning of each League Year, the parties will be provided with an “Initial Special Purpose Letter” by an independent auditor (hereinafter “the Accountants”) which compiles the preliminary reporting of the Defined Gross Revenues, Excluded DGR, Team Salary, Player Costs and Benefits of each Club and the NFL for the League Year about to be concluded,utilizing information reported byindependent Club and League auditors. The Accountants shall be a nationally recognized accounting firm jointly appointed by the NFL and the NFLPA. The parties agree to share equally the cost of the Accountants. The Reporting Package to be used by the Clubs and the League in providing information to the Accountants (“DGR Reports”) in each of the NFL playing seasons covered by this Agreement shall be agreed to by the parties. The engagement of the Accountants shall be deemed to be renewed annually unless die Accountants are discharged by either party during the period from May 1 to July 1 of that year.
(B)	The amount of any Salary Cap and Minimum Team Salary that may apply in a League Year, and the extent to which Required Tenders and Qualifying Offers must be increased in a League Year, shall be determined utilizing: (i) the information contained in the Initial Special Purpose Letter for the immediately preceding League Year, and (ii) any adjustments resulting from prior League Years.
(ii)	On or before the May 1 following the conclusion of each of the Capped Years hereunder, the parties will be provided with a “Final Special Purpose Letter” by the Accountants reporting the Defined Gross Revenues, Excluded DGR, Team Salary, Pla yer. Costs and Benefits of each NFL Team and the NFL for the League Year just concluded. The review procedures to be performed by the Accountants are set forth in Appendix H attached hereto, or as otherwise agreed between the parties. To the extent that the amounts set forth in the Final Special Purpose Letter are different from those in the Initial Special Purpose Letter, such that the amount of any Salary Cap and/or Minimum Team Salary that League Year would have been different than that utilized as a result of the issuance of the Initial Special Purpose Letter, any such difference in the Salary Cap and/or Minimum Team Salary shall be credited or deducted, as the case may be, to any next Salary Cap and/or Minimuni Team Salary (but subject in any case to Section 4(b)(i) above), with interest (using the one year Treasury Bill rate as published in The Wall Street Journal on March 1 of each applicable League Year), or maybe utilized for the Player Annuity Program described in Article
XLVIII-A (Player Annuity Program), if specified by the NFLPA. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the Final Capped Year, the Final Special Purpose Letter shall be issued no later than March 1, and any such difference shall immediately be credited or deducted, as the case may be, to the Salary Cap and/or Minimum Team Salary for the Final Capped Year (but subject in any case to Section 4(b)(i) above), or may be utilized for the Player Annuity Program described in Article XLVIII-A (Player Annuity Program) if specified by the NFLPA.	.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 139
(iii)	The Accountants shall review the reasonableness of any estimates of revenues or expenses included in any Club’s DGR Reports in the League Years covered by this Agreement and may make such adjustments in such estimates as they deem appropriate. To the extent that the actual amounts of revenues received or expenses incurred differ from such estimates, adjustments shall be made: (ajpursuant to Section 10(a)(ii) above for estimates corrected prior to the issuance of the FinalSpecial Purpose Letter, and (b) in DGR for the following League Year, without interest, for estimates corrected thereafter.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(iv)	With respect to expenses deducted by the NFL or the Clubs from television, cable and radio broadcast revenues or any other revenues, the NFL and the Clubs shall report in the DGR Reports only those expenses that are reasonable and customary in accordance with the provisions of Section l(a)(i). All categories of expenses deducted from such revenues by the NFL or a Club in a DGR Report completed by the NFL or that Club shall be reviewed by the Accountants, who shall determine whether they are reasonable and customary.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(v)	Reasonably prior to the issuance of the Final Special Purpose Letter, the Accountants shall, as set forth in Appendix H attached hereto, notify designated representatives of the NFL and the NFLPA: (1) if the Accountants have any questions concerning the amounts of revenues or expenses reported by the Clubs or any other information contained in the DGR Reports submitted by the Clubs; and (2) if the Accountants propose that any adjustments be made to any revenue or expense item or any other information contained in the DGR Reports submitted by the Clubs.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(vi)	In the event of any dispute concerning the amounts (as opposed to includability or the interpretation, validity or application of this Agreement) of any revenues, expenses, or Player Costs to be included in the DGR Reports, including any dispute concerning any findings or determinations concerning expenses made by the Accountants pursuant to the provisions of subsection (iv), that cannot be resolved among the parties (hereinafter referred to as “Disputed Adjustments”), such dispute shall be resolved by the Accountants after consulting and meeting with representatives of both parties.
(vii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party shall have the right to contest, by commencing a Special Master Proceeding pursuant to this Agreement, any Disputed Adjustments made by the Accountants, whenever such Disputed Adjustments for all Clubs are adverse to the party commencing the proceeding in an aggregate amount of $5 million or more in
Page 140
any League Year covered by this Agreement. If the Disputed Adjustments for all Clubs are adverse to the party commencing the proceeding in an aggregate amount of $5 million or more but less than S10 million,
the parties agree that; (1) the hearing will take place on an expedited basis and will not last longer than one full day, provided, however, that if, despite the reasonable efforts of the parties, the hearing cannot be completed in one day, the hearing shall continue, unless the parties otherwise agree, dayOto-day until concluded; and (2) if the party that brings the proceeding does not substantially prevail after the hearing, then that party shall pay the reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, of the other party for its defense of the proceeding. The immediately preceding sentence shall have no application to Special Master Proceedings in which the Disputed Adjustments for all Clubs adverse to the party bringing the proceeding equal or exceed $10 million. All other disputes among the parties as to the interpretation, validity, or application of this Agreement, or with respect to any Salary or Benefits amount included in a DGR. Report, shall be resolved by the Special Master appointed by the Court pursuant to this Agreement, as set forth in Article XXVI (Special Master).
* Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(viii)	After receiving the Final Special Purpose Letter, the NFLPA shall have the right, upon reasonable notice and at its own expense, to conduct an audit of the League and any of its Clubs to further verify the accuracy of the information in the Final Special Purpose Letter.	.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	Projected Defined Gross Revenues.
(i)	For purposes of computing the Salary Cap and Minimum Team Salary to be applied in an upcoming League Year in accordance with Sections 4-5 and 10(a) above, and for any other purpose specifically stated in this Agreement, Defined Gross Revenues shall be projected (“Projected Defined Gross Revenues”) utilizing one or more agreed-upon methods for the projection process so that the anticipated growth of Projected DGR (based upon factors such as anticipated new stadiums, expansion Clubs, and revenue provisions in the NFL’s television and other contracts) over the course of League Years which are anticipated to be Capped Years shall be as accurate as practicable, subject to any agreement between the parties to allocate DGR over particular League Years pursuant to Section l(a)(xiv) above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any difference between Projected DGR and DGR for the prior League Year shall be credited or deducted, as the case maybe, in the calculation of the Salary Cap and/or Minimum Team Salaryfor the next League Year using the method set forth in Sections 10(b)(ii) and (iii) below, subject in any case to Section 4(bX>)above. Moreover, if on March 1 of the year, one or more League□ wide television or local television and radio contracts are in effect for the next League Year, the actual revenues expected from such source under such contract shall be used in the
Page 141
determination of Projected Defined Gross Revenues, unless another allocation has been or is agreed to by the parties. If, after the initial calculation of Projected DGR for a League Year, a new League □ wide television contract is entered into for that League Year, such amounts shall be substituted for the amount for League□ wide television revenues previously included in Projected DGR, and the Salary Cap and Minimum Team Salary shall immediately be adjusted accordingly. In addition, if one or more new Clubs are scheduled to be added to the NFL during the next League Year as one or more expansion Clubs, Projected DGR will include an additional projection of DGR determined in a manner agreed to by the parties. In addition, if, after the initial calculation of Projected DGR for a League Year, the number of scheduled regular season games per Club is increased above the standard of sixteen (16), Projected DGR will include an additional projection of DGR to account for such additional games as agreed upon by the NFLPA and the Management Council.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(ii)	In the event that actual Defined Gross Revenues for any League Year are less than Projected Defined Gross Revenues (as calculated in accordance with Section 10(b)(i) above) for that League Year, then the difference shall be deducted from Projected Defined Gross Revenues for the next League Year.
(tii)	In the event that actual Defined Gross Revenues for any League Year exceeded Projected Defined
Gross Revenues (as calculated in accordance with Section 10(b)(1) above) for that League Year, then the amount of such deficiency shall be added to Projected Defined Gross Revenues for the next League Year.
(iv)	Any adjustments pursuant to Section 10(a)(iii) above will be subtracted from or added to Projected DGR as appropriate.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(c)	Projected Benefits.	■
(i)	For purposes of computing the Salary Cap and Minimum Team Salary to be applied in any upcoming League Year in accordance with Sections 4-5 and 10(a) above, and for any other purpose specifically stated in this Agreement, Benefits shall be projected (“Projected Benefits”) to be any Benefits to be paid (or properly accrued) in the upcoming League Year pursuant to this Agreement. If the amounts to be paid for any Benefit during the next League Year are not reasonably calculable, then, for the purposes of calculating Projected Benefits, the projected amount to be paid for the Benefit shall be the amounts expended by NFL Teams for the same Benefit in the prior League Year.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 142	■
(ii)	In the event that actual Benefits for any League Year are less than Projected Benefits (as calculated in accordance with Section 10(cXi) above) for that League Year, then the difference shall be deducted from Projected Benefits for the next League Year.
(iii)	In the event that actual Benefits for any League Year exceed Projected Benefits (as calculated in accordance with Section 10(c)(i) above) for that League Year, then the difference shall be added to Projected Benefits for the next League Year.	'
(iv)	In the event the NFLPA exercises any right to reduce or freeze or increase certain Benefits pursuant to Article XLVI (Player Benefit Costs), Projected Benefits shall be adjusted immediately to reflect such changes.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(v)	In the event the amount of Projected Benefits is adjusted pursuant to (1) subsection (c)(iv) above; (2) the dispute resolution procedures of Article XL VI (Player Benefit Costs), Section 4; (3) agreement of the parties; or (4) as otherwise permitted by this Agreement, the Salary Cap amounts, Minimum Team Salary amounts, and any other amounts calculated using Projected Benefits, shall be immediately recalculated to reflect the adjustment in Projected Benefits.
Page 143	,
ARTICLE XXV
ENFORCEMENT OF THE SALARY
CAP AND ENTERING PLAYER POOL	.
Section 1.	Undisclosed Terms: At the time a Club and a player enter into any Player Contract, or any renegotiation, extension or amendment of a Player Contract, there shall be no undisclosed agreements of
any kind, express or implied, oral or written, or promises, undertakings, representations, commitments, inducements, assurances of intent, or understandings of any kind, between such player and any Club involving consideration of any kind to be paid, furnished or made available or guaranteed to the player, or Player Affiliate, by the Club or Club Affiliate either during the term of the Player Contract or thereafter.
Section 2.	Circumvention: Neither the parties hereto, nor any Club or player shall enter into any agreement, Player Contract, Offer Sheet or other transaction which includes any terms that arc designed to serve the purpose of defeating or circumventing the intention of the parties as reflected by (a) the provisions of this Agreement with respect to Defined Gross Revenues, Salary Cap, Entering Player Pool, and Minimum Team Salary, and (b) any other term and provision of this Agreement. However, any conduct permitted by this Agreement shall not be considered to be a violation of this provision.
Section 3. Special Master Action: Any individual player or the NFLPA acting on that player’s or any number of players’ behalf, the NFL, and any Club may bring an action before the Special Master alleging a violation of Article XVII (Entering Player Pool) and/or Article XXIV (Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary) of this Agreement. Issues of relief and liability shall be determined in the same proceeding. The complaining party shall bear the burden of demonstrating by a clear preponderance of the evidence that the challenged conduct was in violation of Article XVII (Entering Player Pool) and/or Article XXIV (Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary, Salary Cap Minimum Team Salary).
Section 4. Commissioner Disapproval: In the event the Commissioner disapproves any Player Contract as being in violation of Article XVII (Entering Player Pool) and/or Article XXIV (Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), he shall at the time of such disapproval notify the NFLPA, all affected Clubs, and all affected players of such disapproval in writing and the reasons therefor. Except .as required by the terms of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement is intended to affect (i) any authority of the Commissioner to approve or disapprove Player Contracts and (if) the effect of the Commissioner’s approval or disapproval on the validity of such Player Contracts.	•
Page 144
Section 5.	Special Master Review: In the event that the Commissioner disapproves a Player Contract pursuant to Section 4 above, the NFLPA, any affected Club, and any affected player shall have the right within thirty (30) days of such person’s notice of such disapproval to initiate a proceeding before the Special Master to determine whether such contract is in violation of Article XVII (Entering Player Pool) and/or Article XXIV (Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), The Special Master shall review the dispute de novo, and shall have the authority to approve such Player Contracts in lieu of the Commissioner’s approval, or confirm the Commissioner’s disapproval. In the event the Commissioner’s disapproval is upheld, the player and the Club shall have ten (10) days to attempt to renegotiate such Player Contract notwithstanding any other time period set forth in this Agreement. The Special Master does not have the authority to impose any revisions to such Player Contract on the player or the Club.
Section 6.	Sanctions: In the event that the Special Master finds a violation of this Section 1 of this Article, the Commissioner shall be authorized to impose a fine of up to $2,000,000 payable to the NFL, upon any Club found to have committed such violation, and shall be authorized to void any Player Contract(s) that was (or were) the direct cause of such violation.
Section 7.	Prior Conference: Prior to the initiation of a proceeding under this Article by the NFLPA, the parties shall confer in person or by telephone to attempt to negotiate a resolution of the dispute.
Section 8.	DGR Circumvention: In the event that a Club or anyone acting on its behalf materially fails to report, or materially misreports, Defined Gross Revenues, Excluded DGR, or non-DGR in a manner designed to serve the purpose of defeating or circumventing the intention of the parties as reflected by the provisions of this Agreement with respect to Defined Gross Revenues, the NFLPA and/or the Management Council shall have the right to initiate a proceeding before the Special Master to determine whether such conduct is in violation of this Section 8 of this Article. In the event that the Special Master finds a violation
of this Section 8, the Special Master may impose a fine upon the Club of up to $2 million, which shall be donated as additional contributions to the youth football programs fund described in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap, & Minimum Team Salary), Section l(aXxiii) above.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 145
ARTICLE XXVI
SPECIAL MASTER
Section 1.	Appointment: The parties agree that the Special Master appointed by the Court pursuant to the Final Consent Judgment in White v. NFL shall have exclusive jurisdiction to enforce the terms of Articles I, XIV, XVIDXXI, XXIVDXXX, and LVinLVIII of this Agreement that specifically provide for resolution by the Special Master (except as provided in those Articles with respect to disputes determined by the Impartial Arbitrator), and shall hold hearings on alleged violations thereof, subject to review by the Court in the manner set forth below.
Section 2.	Scope of Authority: The powers of the Court and the Special Master and the rights of the parties in any enforcement proceeding shall be as set forth in Rules 53(a), (c), (d) and (e) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; provided, however, that:
(a)	The Special Master shall make findings of fact and recommendations of relief including, without limitation, damages (including damages referred to in Article XXVIII (Anti-Collusion), Section 9), contempt and specific performance;
(b)	The Court shall accept the Special Master’s findings of fact unless clearly erroneous and the Special Master’s recommendations of relief unless based upon clearly erroneous findings of fact, incorrect application of the law, or abuse of discretion; except that, as to any finding concerning Article XXVm (Antin Collusion), any imposition of a fine of $1 million or more, or any finding that would permit termination of this Agreement, review shall be de novo;
(c)	Subject to subsections (a) and (b) above, the Court shall determine all points of law and finally make the award of all relief including, without limitation, contract damages, contempt and specific performance;
(d)	Except for any matters for which the Court has de novo review of the Special Master’s determinations (e.g., collusion, termination, or fines of $1 million or more), and except for fines for false certifications (as provided in Article XXIX (Certifications), Section 3), rulings of the Special Master shall upon their issuance be binding upon and followed by the parties unless stayed, reversed, or modified by the Court or by an appellate court. In such other matters, the determination of the Special Master shall not take effect until reviewed and acted upon by the Court. In entertaining a request for a stay of a ruling of the Special Master, the Court shall apply the standard that an appellate court would apply to a request for a stay of a ruling of the Court. If and when a recommendation of the Special Master is reversed or modified by the Court or by an appellate court, and is no longer subject to further appeal, the effect of such reversal or modification shall be deemed by the parties to be retroactive to the time of issuance of the recommendation of the Special Master. The parties may seek appropriate relief
Page 146
to effectuate and enforce this provision.
(e)	The Special Master’s authority shall be limited to those items specifically set forth in Articles I, XIV, XVI □ XXI, XXI VO XXX, and LV1DLV1II of this Agreement for Special Master review.
Section 3.	Discovery: In any of the disputes described in this Agreement over which the Special Master has authority, the Special Master shall grant reasonable and expedited discovery upon the application of any party where, and to the extent, he determines it is reasonable to do so. Such discovery may include the production of documents and the taking of depositions. Subject to rules to be agreed to by the parties, in any proceeding to review any alleged violation of Article XXIV (Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap and Minimum Team Salary) of this Agreement regarding any DGR issue, the Special Master shall have the authority, upon good cause shown, to direct any Club to produce any tax materials disclosing any income figures for such Club or Club Affiliate (nonO income figures may be redacted) which in his or her judgment relates to any such alleged violation, including but not limited to portions of any tax returns or other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service. Subject to rules to be agreed to by the parties, in any proceeding to review any alleged violation of Article XXIV (Guaranteed Leagued wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary) and/or Article XVII (Entering Player Pool) of this Agreement regarding any Salary paid to any player(s), the Special Master shall have the authority, upon good cause shown, to direct any such players) to produce any tax materials disclosing any income figures for any such player or Player Affiliate (non □ income figures may be redacted) which in his or her judgment relates to any such alleged violation, including but not limited to portions of any tax returns or other documents submitted to the Internal Revenue Service. In each case the Special Master shall not release such tax materials to the general public, and any such tax materials shall be treated as strictly confidential under an appropriate protective order.
Section 4.	Compensation: The compensation and costs of retaining the Special Master shall be equally borne by the NFL and the NFLPA. In no event shall any party be liable for the attorneys’ fees incurred in any such enforcement proceeding by any other party, except as set forth in Article XXVIII (AntiCollusion).
Section 5.	Procedures: All matters in enforcement proceedings before the Special Master shall be heard and determined in an expedited manner. An enforcement proceeding may be commenced upon 72 hours written notice (or upon shorter notice if ordered by the Special Master) served upon the party against whom the enforcement proceeding is brought and riled with the Special Master. All such notices and all orders and notices issued and directed by the Special Master shall be served upon the NFL and the
Page 147
NFLPA, in addition to any counsel appearing for individual NFL players or individual NFL Clubs. The NFL and the NFLPA shall have the right to participate in all such enforcement proceedings, and the NFLPA may appear in any enforcement proceedings on behalf of any NFL player who has given authority for such appearance.
Section 6. Selection of Special Master: In the event that the NFL and NFLPA cannot agree on the identity of a Special Master to be appointed by the Court, the parties agree to submit the issue to the President of the American Bar Association (“ABA”) who shall submit to the parties a list of eleven attorneys (none of whom shall have nor whose firm shall have represented within the past five years players, player representatives, clubs or owners in any professional sport). If the parties cannot within thirty days of receipt of such list agree to the identity of the Special Master from among the names on such list, they shall alternately strike names from said list, until only one name remains, and that person shall be the Special Master. The first strike shall be determined by a coin flip. Upon approval by the Court, the Special Master shall serve for an initial twodyear term commencing on the date of entry of the order of appointment. Thereafter, the Special Master shall continue to serve for successive three Dyear terms unless notice to the contrary is given either by the NFL or the NFLPA. Such notice shall be given to the other party, the Court and the Special Master within the ninety days preceding the end of any term, but no later than thirty days prior to the end of such term. Following the giving of such notice, a new Special Master shall be selected in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6. The NFL and the NFLPA may dismiss the Special Master at any time and for any reason upon their mutual consent.
Section 7. Penalties; Any monetary penalty assessed by the Special Master may be assessed only against a Club or Clubs or the League, as applicable, found to have violated this Agreement. In no event may the Special Master order relief, or assess any monetary penalty, against an individual Club owner, officer, or nonOplayer employee.
Page 148
ARTICLE XXVII
IMPARTIAL ARBITRATOR
Section 1.	Selection: The parties shall agree upon an Impartial Arbitrator who shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine disputes that are specifically referred to the Impartial Arbitrator pursuant to the express terms of this Agreement.	,
Section 2.	Scope of Authority: The powers of the Impartial Arbitrator and the rights of the parties in any proceeding before him or her shall be solely to determine disputes that are specifically referred to the Impartial Arbitrator pursuant to the express terms of this Agreement. In no event shall the Impartial Arbitrator have any authority to add to, subtract from, or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 3.	Effect of Rulings: Rulings of the Impartial Arbitrator shall upon their issuance be final and binding upon all parties, except as expressly specified under this Agreement or as expressly agreed to among all parties.
Section 4.	Discovery: In any of the disputes described in this Agreement over which the Impartial Arbitrator has authority, the Impartial Arbitrator shall, for good cause shown, grant reasonable and expedited discovery upon the application of any party where, and to the extent, he determines it is reasonable to do so and it is possible to do so within the time period provided for his determination. Such discovery may include the production of documents and the taking of depositions.
Section 5.	Compensation of Impartial Arbitrator: The compensation to and costs of the Impartial Arbitrator in any proceeding brought pursuant to this Agreement shall be equally borne by the NFL and the NFLPA. In no event shall any party be liable for the attorneys’ fees incurred in any such proceeding by any other party.
Section 6.	Procedures: All matters in proceedings before the Impartial Arbitrator shall be heard and determined in an expedited manner. A proceeding may be commenced upon 48 hours written notice served upon the party against whom the proceeding is brought and the Impartial Arbitrator, and the arbitration, shall be deemed to have been commenced on the second business day after such notice was given. All such notices and all orders and notices issued and directed by the Impartial Arbitrator shall be served upon the NFL and the NFLPA, in addition to any counsel appearing for individual NFL players or individual Clubs. The NFL and the NFLPA shall have the right to participate in all such proceedings, and the NFLPA may appear in any proceedings on behalf of any NFL player who has given authority for such appearance.
Page 149
Section 7.	Selection of Impartial Arbitrator: In the event that the NFL and the NFLPA cannot agree on the identity of an Impartial Arbitrator, the parties agree to submit the issue to the President of the ABA who shall submit to the parties a list of eleven attorneys (none of whom shall have nor whose firm shall have represented within the past five years players, player representatives, clubs, or owners in any professional sport). If the parties cannot within thirty days of receipt of such list agree to the identity of die Impartial
Arbitrator from among the names on such list, they shall alternatively strike names from said list, until only one name remains, and that person shall be the Impartial Arbitrator. The first strike shall be determined by a coin flip. The Impartial Arbitrator shall serve for a two-year term commencing on the date of entry of the order of appointment, unless the parties agree otherwise. The Impartial Arbitrator shall continue to serve for successive CwoQyear terms unless notice to the contrary is given either by the NFL or the NFLPA. Such notice shall be given to the other party and the Impartial Arbitrator within the ninety days preceding the end of any term, but no later than thirty days prior to the end of such term. If necessary, a new Impartial Arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with the procedures of this Section. The NFL and NFLPA may dismiss the Impartial Arbitrator at any time and for any reason upon their mutual consent.
Page 150
ARTICLE XXVIII
ANTI-COLLUSION
Section 1. Prohibited Conduct: No Club, its employees or agents, shall enter into any agreement, express or implied, with the NFL or any other Club, its employees or agents, to restrict or limit individual Club decisionD making as follows:
(a)	whether to negotiate or not to negotiate with any player;
(b)	. whether .to, submit or not to submit an Offer Sheet to any Restricted Free Agent;
(c)	whether to offer or not to offer a Player Contract to any Unrestricted Free Agent or Undrafted Rookie;
(d)	whether to exercise or not to exercise a Right of First Refusal; or
(e)	concerning the terms or conditions of employment offered to any player for inclusion, or included, in a Player Contract.
* [U]nder Article XIV (NFL Player Contract), paragraph 3 of Article XXX (Consultation and Information Sharing), paragraph 4 of Article XXV (Enforcement of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool), and Article XXVIII (Anti-Collusion Provisions) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, any approval or disapproval of a player's contract by the Commissioner, or any communication thereof, timely notice of which is provided to the NFLPA and Class Counsel, cannot be the basis of any claim of collusion. Class Counsel, the NFLPA, or the affected Player shall have the right to appeal the Commissioner’s disapproval of such player contract to the Special Master, pursuant to Article XXVI (Special Master) and Article XXV (Enforcement of the Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
♦Side Letter 5/6/93
Section 2. Other Club Conduct: No Club may have a policy not to negotiate with, or enter into a Player Contract with, any player who is free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club, on any of the following grounds, if such policy is inconsistent with Section 1 above:
(a)	that the player has previously been subject to the exclusive negotiating rights obtained by another Club in a College Draft, by virtue of a Required Tender to a player with less than three Accrued Seasons, or a Franchise Player designation; or
(b)	that the player has refused or failed to enter into a Player Contract for a Prior Season containing a Right of First Refusal or an Option Clause (i.e., any clause that authorizes an extension or renewal by a Club of a Player Contract beyond its stated term); or
Page 151
(c)	that the player has become a Restricted Free Agent or an Unrestricted Free Agent; or
(d)	that the player is or has been subject to any Right of First Refusal.
Section 3. Club Discretion: Section 2 above does not diminish any Club’s right not to negotiate or contract with any particular player on any policy ground not specified above. In conjunction with other evidence of an alleged violation(s) of Section 1, a Club’s adherence to a policy identified in Section 2 above may be offered as evidence of an alleged violation of Section 1 above, but may not be the basis of any separate proceeding seeking any penalty or other relief against any Club or the NFL.
Section 4. League Disclosures: Neither the NFL nor the NFL Management Council shall knowingly communicate or disclose, directly or indirectly, to any NFL Club that another NFL Club has negotiated with or is negotiating with any Restricted Free Agent, unless and until an Offer Sheet for such Restricted Free Agent has been given to the Prior Club, or with any Unrestricted Free Agent, prior to the execution of a Player Contract with that Unrestricted Free Agent, if such communication or disclosure is inconsistent with Section 1 above. It shall not be a violation of this Article for the NFL to respond to an inquiry from a Club about whether and under what circumstances proposed transactions would be permissible under this Agreement or NFL Rules consistent with the Settlement Agreement or this Agreement. In conjunction with other evidence of an alleged violation of Section 1 above, a Club’s communication or disclosure of the kind identified in the first sentence of this paragraph may be offered as evidence of an alleged violation(s) of Section 1 above, but may not be the basis of any separate proceeding seeking any penalty or other relief against any Club or the NFL.
Section 5. Enforcement of AntiDCollusion Provisions: Except as provided in Section 16(d) below, any player or the NFLPA, acting on that player’s or any number of players’ behalf, may bring an action before the Special Master alleging a violation of Section 1 of this Article. In any such proceeding, the Federal Rules of Evidence shall apply. Issues of relief and liability shall be determined in the same proceeding (including the amount of damages, pursuant to Section 8 below, if any). The complaining party shall bear the burden of demonstrating by a clear preponderance of the evidence that (1) the challenged conduct was or is in violation of Section I of this Article and (2) caused any economic injury to such player(s).
Section 6.	Burden of Proof: The failure by a Club or Clubs to negotiate, to submit Offer Sheets, or to sign contracts with Restricted Free Agents or Transition Players, or to negotiate, make offers, or sign contracts for the playing services of such players or Unrestricted Free Agents, shall not, by
Page 152
itself or in combination only with evidence about the playing skills of the player(s) not receiving any such offer or contract, satisfy the burden of proof set forth in Section 1 above. However, any of the types of evidence described in the preceding sentence may support a finding of a violation of Section I of this Article, but only in combination with other evidence which, by itself or in combination with such evidence, indicates that the challenged conduct was in violation of Section 1 of this Article. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the NFL or its Clubs from arguing that any evidence is insufficient to satisfy the burden of proof set forth in Section 5 above. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the NFLPA or any player from arguing that any evidence is sufficient to satisfy the burden of proof set forth in Section 5 above, except as set forth above.
Section 7.	Summary Judgment: The Special Master may, at any time following the conclusion of the permitted discovery, determine whether or not the complainant’s evidence is sufficient to raise a genuine
issue of material fact capable of satisfying the standards imposed by Sections 5 and/or 6 above. If the Special Master determines that complainant’s evidence is not so sufficient, he shall dismiss the action.
Section 8.	Remedies: In the event that an individual player or players or the NFLPA acting on his, or their, behalf, successfully proves a violation of Section 1 of this Article, the player or players injured shall have the right:
(a)	To terminate his (or their) existing Player Contracts) at his (or their) option, or void any Club’s Draft rights or other rights with respect to such player(s) at his (or their) option; any Player Contract terminated during the course of a playing season shall be terminated as of the end of that season. Such rights shall not arise until the recommendation of the Special Master finding a violation is no longer subject to further appeal and must be exercised by the player within thirty (30) days therefrom. If, at the time the Player Contract is terminated, such player would have been a Restricted Free Agent pursuant to Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), such player shall immediately become a Restricted Free Agent, upon such termination. If, at the time the Player Contract is terminated, such player would have been an Unrestricted Free Agent pursuant to Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), such player shall immediately become an Unrestricted Free Agent, upon such termination. If, at the time the Player Contract is terminated, such player would have been subject to a Club’s exclusive negotiating rights, such player shall remain subject to such rights upon such termination. In either case described in the preceding three sentences, the player shall not be subject to any signing period. In the case of a Drafted Rookie who does not sign a Player Contract and who is given the option of voiding a Club’s Draft rights pursuant to this subsection (a), such player shall then be treated as either: (i) a Drafted Rookie subject to the NFL waiver system as described in Article XVI, Section 4, if the termination takes
. Page. 153
place during the player’s first League Year; or (ii) a Drafted Rookie subject to the rules of Article XVI (College Draft), Section 9, if the termination takes place during the player’s second League Year; or (iii) a Free Agent, if the termination takes place during the player’s third League Year or thereafter; and
(b)	To recover all of his damages, as described in Section 9 below, for any alleged injuries suffered as a result of the violation.
Section 9.	Computation of Damages: Upon any finding of a violation of Section 1 of this Article, compensatory damages (i.e., the amount by which any player has been injured as a result of such violation) and non□ compensatory damages (i.e., the amount exceeding compensatory damages) shall be awarded as follows:
(a)	Two times the amount of compensatory damages, in the event that all of the Clubs found to have violated Section I of this Article, have committed such a violation for the first time. Any Club found to have committed such a violation for the first time shall be jointly and severally liable for two times the amount of compensatory damages.
(b)	Three times the amount of compensatory damages, in the event that any of the Clubs found to have violated Section 1 of the Article, have committed such a violation for the second time. In the event that damages are awarded pursuant to this subsection: (i) any Club found to have committed such a violation for the first time shall be jointly and severally liable for two times the amount of compensatory damages; and (ii) any Club found to have committed such a violation for the second time shall be jointly and severally liable for three times the amount of compensatory damages.
(c)	Three times the amount of compensatory damages, plus, for each Club found to have violated Section 1 of this Article for at least the third time, a fine of $ 1,000,000 in the event that any of the Clubs found to have violated Section I of this Article have committed such violation for at least the third time. In the event that damages are awarded pursuant to this subsection: (i) any Club found to have committed such a violation for the first time shall be jointly and severally liable for two times the amount of compensatory damages; (ii) any Club found to have committed such a violation for at least the second time shall be jointly
and severally liable for three times the amount of compensatory damages; and (iii) any Club found to have committed such a violation for at least the third time shall, in addition, pay a fine of S1,000,000.
Section 10. Player Election: A proceeding prosecuting an alleged violation of Section 1 of this Article shall initially be limited to the issues of liability and damages sustained to the date of the Special Master’s determination. In the event the Special Master finds a violation, the player shall make a determination within thirty (30) days of the date the Special Master’s determination is final, or within thirty (30) days after the last game of the season for such player (including any playoff games) if the finding is made during
Page 154
the course of the season, whether the player intends to void the applicable Player Contract or Draft right. If the player voids the applicable Player Contract or Draft right, the player may commence a supplemental proceeding before the Special Master, for the purpose of determining his future damages, if any, only after the player has signed a new Player Contract or after the first scheduled game of the next regular season, whichever is earlier. If the player elects not to void the applicable Player Contract or Draft right, he may immediately commence a supplemental proceeding before the Special Master for the purpose of determining his future damages, if any.
Section 11. Payment of Damages: In the event damages are awarded pursuant to Section 9 above, the amount of compensatory damages shall be paid to the injured player or players. The amount of non □compensatory damages, including any fines, shall be paid directly to any NFL player pension fund, any other NFL player benefit fund, or any charitable fund for the benefit of present or former NFL players, as selected by the NFLPA, subject to the reasonable approval of the NFL.
Section 12. Effect on Cap Computations: In the event that damages are awarded pursuant to Section 9 above, the amount of nond compensatory damages, including any fines, will not be included in any of the computations described in Article XXIV above. The amount of compensatory damages awarded will be included in such computations.
Section 13. Effect of Salary Cap: In awarding any amount of damages, the Special Master shall take into account that, in any League Year in which a Salary Cap is in effect, no Club would have been authorized to pay out any Salary in excess of that permitted under the Salary Cap.
Section 14. No Reimbursement: Any damages awarded pursuant to Section 9 above must be paid by the individual Clubs found liable and those Clubs may not be reimbursed or indemnified by any other Club or the NFL.
Section 15. Costs: In any action brought for an alleged violation of Section 1 of this Article, the Special Master shall order the payment of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs by any party found to have brought such an action or to have asserted a defense to such an action without any reasonable basis for asserting such a claim or defense. Otherwise, each party shall pay his or its own attorneys’ fees and costs.
Section 16. Termination: The NFLPA shall have the right to terminate this Agreement, under the following circumstances:
(a)	Where there has been a finding or findings of one or more instances of a violation of Section 1 of this Article with respect to any one
Page 155
NFL season which, either individually or in total, involved five or more Clubs and caused injury to 20 or more players; or
(b)	Where there has been a finding or findings of one or more instances of a violation of Section 1 of this Article with respect to any two consecutive NFL seasons which, either individually or in total, involved
I
seven or more Clubs and caused injury to 28 or more players. For purposes of this Section 16(b), a player found to have been injured by a violation of Section 1 of this Article in each of two consecutive seasons shall be counted as an additional player injured by such a violation for each such NFL season; or
(c)	Where, in a proceeding brought by the NFLPA, it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that 14 or more Clubs have engaged in a violation or violations of Section 1 of this Article causing injury to one or more NFL players.
(d)	In order to terminate this Agreement;
(i)	The proceeding must be brought by the NFLPA;
(ii)	The NFL and the Special Master must be informed at the outset of any such proceeding that the NFLPA is proceeding under this Section for the purpose of establishing its entitlement to terminate this Agreement; and
(iii)	The Special Master must find that the Clubs engaged in willful collusion with the intent of restraining competition among teams for players.
Section 17. Time Limits: Any action under Section 1 of this Article must be brought within ninety (90) days of the time when the player knows or reasonably should have known with the exercise of due diligence that he had a claim, or within ninety (90) days of the first scheduled regular season game in the season in which a violation of Section 1 of this Article is claimed, whichever is later. In the absence of a Special Master, the complaining party shall file such claim with the Court. Any party alleged to have violated Section 1 of this Article shall have the right, prior to any proceedings on the merits, to make an initial motion to dismiss any complaint that does not comply with the timeliness requirements of this section.	.
Section 18. Prior Conference: Prior to the initiation of any proceeding under this Article by the NFLPA, the parties shall confer in person or by telephone to attempt to negotiate a resolution of the dispute.
Page 156
ARTICLE XXIX
CERTIFICATIONS
Section 1.	Contract Certification:
(a)	Every Player Contract, or any renegotiation, extension or amendment of a Player Contract, entered into during the term of this Agreement shall contain a certification, executed separately by: (i) the person who executed the Player Contract on behalf of the Club, (ii) the player, and (iii) any player representative who negotiated the contract on behalf of the player confirming that the Player Contract, renegotiation, extension or amendment sets forth all components of a player’s remuneration, for his playing of professional football, from the Club or Club Affiliate and that there are no undisclosed agreements of any kind, express or implied, oral or written, and that there are no promises, undertakings, representations, commitments, inducements, assurances of intent, or understandings of any kind that have not been disclosed to the NFL involving Salary or other consideration of any kind to be paid, furnished or made available to the player, or Player Affiliate, by the Club or Club Affiliate either during the term of the Player Contract or thereafter.
(b)	In the same certification, the Club, player, and player representative will either confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, no conduct violative of Article XXVIII (Anti □Collusion) took place with respect
to the contract, renegotiation, extension or amendment in question, or describe such conduct of which they are aware.
(c)	In the same certification, the Club will confirm that any information regarding the negotiation of such contract provided to the Neutral Verifier pursuant to Article XXX (Consultation and Information Sharing), Section 4 was, at the time the information was provided, true and correct in all material respects.
(d)	No contract will be approved by the Commissioner unless accompanied by the certifications required by subsections (a), (b) and (c) above.
Section 2.	End of League Year Certification:
(a)	At the conclusion of each League Year, the executive primarily responsible for football operations on behalf of each Club shall submit to the NFL a certification confirming that the Club has not, to the extent of his knowledge after reasonable inquiry of all owners and all employees with authority to negotiate Player Contracts, violated the terms of Article XXVIII (Anti □ Collusion), Section 1, nor received from the NFL or the NFL Management Council any communication disclosing that an NFL Club had negotiated with or is negotiating with any Restricted Free Agent, unless and until an Offer Sheet has been given to the Prior Club, or any Unrestricted Free Agent, prior to the execution of a Player Contract with that player. Upon receipt of each such certification, the NFL shall forward a copy of the
Page 157	'
certification to the NFLPA.
(b)	Any failure to execute a certification as required under Section 2(a) above may be deemed evidence of a violation of Article XXVIII (Anti □Collusion), Section 1 of this Agreement.
Section 3.	False Certification: Any person who knowingly files a false certification required by Section 1(a) or 1 (b) of this Article shall be subject to a fine of up to $250,000, upon a finding of such violation by the Special Master. The amount of such fine as to a Club or nonOplayer Club employee shall be determined by the Commissioner.
Page 158
ARTICLE XXX
CONSULTATION AND INFORMATION SHARING	.
Section 1.	Consultation and Communications:
(a)	In any Capped Year, during the period from March 1 through July 15, or the scheduled date of the first day of the first NFL training camp that season, whichever is later, of each League Year covered by this Agreement, the Executive Vice President for Labor Relations of the NFL (or his designee) shall meet in person or by telephone conference once a week with the General Counsel of the NFLPA (or his designee) for the purpose of reviewing each Club’s Club Salary summary and advice regarding the interpretation of the Salary Cap rendered since the last such meeting, or as otherwise agreed to by the parties.
(b)	Subject to any claim of attorney□ client and/or work product privilege, any communications under this section may be referred to or used by the NFL or the NFLPA in any proceeding. By agreeing to this section, neither the NFL nor the NFLPA intends to waive or shall be deemed to have waived any attomeyD client or other privilege with respect to any communications.
Section 2.	Salary Summaries: During the period between March 1 and the first day of the regular season during any Capped Year, the NFL shall provide the NFLPA with Salary and Team Salary summaries for each Team on a weekly basis. Upon the first date of the regular season and during the remainder of any Capped Year, such information shall be provided as often as it is prepared for use by the NFL (but no less often than once each month). Prior to the first day of the regular season during any Uncapped Year, the NFL shall provide the NFLPA with an estimate of Projected DGR, and a revised estimate on the first day of each month thereafter in any such year.
Section 3.	Notice of Invalid Contract: If the NFL informs a Club that a proposed player transaction would be inconsistent with or in violation of the terms of the Settlement Agreement or this Agreement as interpreted by the NFL, the NFL shall promptly notify the NFLPA that such an interpretation has been communicated and the basis for such interpretation. The NFL shall provide such notice as soon as possible, but in no event later than five (5) business days following the communication of such interpretation to the Club.
Section 4.	Neutral Verifier: The NFLPA shall designate, subject to the reasonable approval of the NFL, a third party to serve as the neutral verifier of Player Contract offers (the “Neutral Verifier”). A Club that wishes to verify a Player Contract offer may contact the Neutral Verifier and request him or her to contact the Club that is asserted to have extended the offer, to verify the terms and conditions of the offer. The Neutral Verifier shall promptly	■
Page 159
contact the offering Club to ascertain such terms and conditions, and shall promptly advise the inquiring . Club of such information, and shall promptly advise the affected player of the inquiry and the information communicated. Communications pursuant to this paragraph shall be by telephone or telecopy, and the costs of the Neutral Verifier shall be equally borne by the NFL on the one hand, and the NFLPA on the other hand.
Section 5.	Copies: Within five (5) business days of their receipt by the NFL, the NFL shall provide to the NFLPA, at no expense, a copy of any and all Player Contracts and Offer Sheets that are entered into or extended during the term of this Agreement.
Section 6.	Meetings: During each League Year covered by this Agreement, the Executive Vice President for Labor Relations of the NFL (or his designee) shall meet once a month with the Executive Director of the NFLPA (or his designee), for the purpose of reviewing the implementation of this Agreement.
Page 160
ARTICLE XXXI
EXPANSION
Section 1.	Veteran Allocation: The Clubs may determine during the term of this Agreement to expand the number of Clubs and to have existing Clubs make available'for assignment to the expansion Clubs the contracts of a certain number of veteran players, up to an average of three per Club, excluding any player who has a no trade clause in his Player Contract.
Section 2.	Additional Compensatory Picks: The Clubs may decide the selection position for expansion teams in the college draft, and may allocate to each expansion Club additional special draft selections in the drafts held prior to each of the first three seasons in which the expansion Clubs will participate in regular league play, up to a maximum of one additional such special draft selection for each expansion Club in each round of the draft in each such year.
Section 3.	Entering Player Pool Adjustment: The Entering Player Pool, and the Rookie Allocation for each expansion team, will be adjusted to account for draft selections awarded to expansion teams pursuant to Section 2.
Section 4.	Relocation Bonus: Any Veteran player selected in any expansion allocation during the term of this Agreement will receive a bonus of $20,000 upon reporting to the expansion Club for pre □ season training camp, and an additional bonus of $30,000 upon being placed on the Active or Inactive List, or remaining on the Injured Reserved List, after the beginning of the first regular season game played by the expansion Club. The total amounts paid to players pursuant to this Section shall not be included as Player Costs, Benefits, or Salary under Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueOwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary) of this Agreement.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98	'
Page 161
ARTICLE XXXII
OTHER PROVISIONS
Section 1.	CFL Rule: No Club may sign any player who in the same year has been under contract to a Canadian Football League (“CFL”) club at the end of that CFL club’s season (regular season or postseason, whichever is applicable).
Section 2.	Physically Unable to Perform: Any player placed on a Physically Unable to Perform list (“PUP”) will be paid his full salary while on such list. His contract will not be tolled for the period he is on PUP, except in the last year of his contract, when the player’s contract will be tolled if he is still physically unable to perform his football services as of the sixth regular season game.
Section 3.	Nona Football Injury: A player who is placed on a NonOFootball Injury or Illness list (“NDF/I”) will not be entitled to any compensation under his contract while on such list but, except as provided below, his contract will continue to run while in such status.
A player on NDF/I who is in the final year of his contract (including an option year) will have his contract tolled. However, if the player is physically able to perform his football services on or before the sixth regular season game, the club must pay the player his negotiated salary (pro rata) for the balance of the season in order to toll such player’s contract. If such player is taken off N-F/I during the period when such action is allowed by League rules, his contract will not be tolled.
Section 4.	Roster Exemption:
(a)	Certain Players Not Under Contract. After the final roster reduction a Club must agree in writing witfi an unsigned player who is either an Unrestricted Free Agent, Transition Player, or Franchise Player, prior to signing a Player Contract with such player, on what compensation, if any, the player will be paid if he is placed in a roster exempt status.	-
(b)	Players Under Contract. If a Club obtains a roster exemption for a player under contract who does not report to his Club until after the first roster reduction, the player will not be entitled to pre □ season or regular season compensation until such exemption is removed, provided the player is given written notice of such fact upon reporting to the Club. If such notice is not given to the player, the player must be paid his salary during his exemption.
(c)	Restricted Players. Any player whose contract has expired and who either (i) has two but less than three Accrued Seasons or (ii) is a Restricted Free Agent pursuant to Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency),
Section 2, and who has been given the required tender pursuant to Article XVIII (Veterans With Less Than Three Accrued Seasons), Section 2, or Article XIX	,
Page 162
(Veteran Free Agency), Sections 2(b)(i) or (ii), and who has not signed a contract and has not reported to his Club’s predseason training camp, may be placed on the roster exempt list of his Club under the following conditions:
,(i)	If the player has not reported at least the day before the Club’s second pre □season game, he may
be placed on roster exempt until the day following the Club’s first regular season game.
(ii)	If the player has not reported at least the day before the Club’s third pre □ season game, he may be placed on roster exempt until the day following the Club’s second regular season game.	■
(iii)	Ifthe player has not reported at least the day before the Club’s fourth pre□ season game, he may be placed on roster exempt until the day following the third regular season game scheduled after the date he actually reports.
* [A]ny player who is placed on the roster exempt list of his Club, pursuant to Article XXXII, Section 4(c) of the CBA, shall be entitled to full compensation from his Club for any week in which his Club has a “bye” after the dale he reports, but while he is still on the roster exempt list. Thus, any such player may not lose more than three weeks of salary as a result of being placed on the roster exempt list. This agreement shall not affect the number of regular season games for which the player can be placed on the roster exempt. .. list, and thus for which the player may not play.for his Club, in accordance with subsections (i) through (iii) of Article XXXII, Section 4(c) of the CBA. Nothing herein shall affect any right or obligation the player or Club otherwise may have concerning compensation to the player.
*Side Letter 1/18/94	.
No player may be placed on roster exempt under this subsection unless the Club has provided written notice to the player and the NFLPA of its intent to place the player on roster exempt at least five days prior to the Club’s second preseason game. Once such written notice is provided, the Club must place the player on roster exempt in accordance with (i) through (iii) above. For purposes of this Article, extra preD season games such as the Canton Hall of Fame Game and the American Bowl shall not count. When placed on roster exempt pursuant to this subsection, the player shall not be entitled to compensation.
(d) Except as provided in subsection (c) above, for purposes of this Section, roster exemptions shall be for no more than two weeks of the regular season.
Page 163
ARTICLE XXXIII
SQUAD SIZE
Section 1.	Active List: For each regular season, the Active List limit will be 45 players per Club. This limit may not be reduced by the Clubs for the duration of this Agreement; provided, however, that individual Clubs may carry less than 45 players on their Active Lists during the regular season, but at no time less than 42.
Section 2.	PreDSeason: The preOseason cutdown dates and active player limits on such dates will be as determined by the Clubs. In the event the Clubs make a determination during the term of this Agreement that they wish to institute a “downOand-up” once during the preOseason, they may do so, provided that the active player limit may not be reduced below 40 at any time during the preOseason and the Active List limit must return to 45 by the start of the regular season.
Section 3.	Inactive List: Inactive List players will receive the same benefits and protections as Active List players.
Section 4.	Active and Inactive List Limit: In any League Year, a Club’s Active and Inactive Lists shall not exceed 53 players.
Page 164
ARTICLE XXXIV
PRACTICE SQUADS
Section 1.	Practice Squads: For each regular season commencing with the 1993 League Year, the League may elect in accordance with this Article to establish practice squads not to exceed five (5) players per Club.
Section 2.	Signing With Other Clubs: Any player under contract to a Club as a practice squad player shall be completely free to negotiate and sign a Player Contract with any Club at any time during the League Year, to serve as a player on any Club’s Active or Inactive List, and any Club is completely free to negotiate and sign such a Player Contract with such player, without penalty or restriction, including, but not limited to, Draft Choice Compensation between Clubs or First Refusal Rights of any kind, or any signing period, except that such player shall not be permitted to sign a Player Contract with another Club to serve as a practice squad player while under contract as a practice squad player.
Section 3. Salary: Minimum salary for a practice squad player shall be $3,300 per week for the 1993-97 League Years, $3,650 per week for the 1998-99 League Years, $4,000 per week for the 2000-02 League Years, and $4,350 for the 2003-04 League Years, including postCiseason weeks in which his Club is in the playoffs, provided however, that no player who was on a practice squad in the 1992 season shall be paid less than the minimum practice squad salary for that season.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 4. Eligibility:
(a)	The practice squad shall consist of the following players, provided that they have not served more than one previous season on a Practice Squad: (i) players who do not have an Accrued Season of NFL experience; and (ii) free agent players who were on the Active List for fewer than nine regular season games during their only Accrued Season(s). No player may be a practice squad player for more than two seasons.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	A player shall be deemed to have served on a Practice Squad in a season if he has passed the club’s physical and has been a member of a club’s Practice Squad for at least three regular season or post-season games (a bye week counts as a game provided that the player is not terminated until after the regular season or post-season weekend in question).
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
* If a player on the Practice Squad of one club (Club A) signs an NFL Player Contract with another club (Club B),
Page 165
(1) the player shall receive three weeks salary of his NFL Player Contract at the 53-player Active/Inactive List minimum even if he is terminated by Club B prior to earning that amount, and (2) Club B is required to count the player on its 53-player Active/Inactive List for three games (a bye week counts as a game) even if he is terminated or assigned via waivers to another club or is signed as a free agent to another club’s 53-player roster or another club’s Practice Squad prior to that time. If the player is terminated from Club B’s 53-player roster and signed to Club B’s Practice Squad, he shall continue to count on the club’s 53-player Active/Inactive List but shall not count against the five-player Practice Squad limit until the three-game requirement has been fulfilled. If a player is terminated prior to the completion of the three-game period and is signed to Club B’s Practice Squad or is signed or assigned to another club’s 53-player roster or Practice Squad, any salary (as that term is defined in Article XXIV, Section 1(c)) that he receives from any NFL club applicable to the three-game period shall be an offset against the three weeks salary that he is entitled to receive from Club B.
*Side Letter 8/18/97
Page 166
ARTICLE XXXV
OFF-SEASON WORKOUTS
Section 1.	Voluntary Workouts: No player shall be required to attend or participate in any ofifC season workout program or classroom instruction of a Club other than as provided in Article XXXVI (Minicamps). Any other Club offDseason workout programs and classroom instruction sessions shall be voluntary and take place in the manner and time period set forth in this Article.
Section 2.	Time Periods: From the end of the previous NFL season until the opening of training camp, Clubs may schedule or conduct offn season workout programs for no more than sixteen total weeks, and no more than four workouts per week, for any individual player. Such workout programs shall not be permitted on weekends. During such workout programs, there may be no more than fourteen (14) days of organized team practice activity, to be defined by the Player/Club Operations Committee. Nothing herein shall prevent a Club from permitting an individual player to work Clout on his own on weekends using Club facilities if he wishes to do so.
Section 3. Payment: Beginning with the offd season following the 1993 NFL season, each player shall receive at least the following amounts per day for any workouts or classroom instruction in which he participates pursuant to a Club’s voluntary ofltlseason workout program, provided the player fulfills the Club’s reasonable offO season workout requirements: $50 during the 1994 095. League Years; $60 during the 1996097 League Years; $70 during the 1998-99 League Years; $80 during the 2000-01 League Years;$90 during the 2002 League Year; and $100 during the 2003-04 League Years.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 4.	Injuries: Any player injured during offOseason workouts will be protected in the same manner as if injured during the Club’s pre□ season training camp, provided he is working out at the Club’s facility under the direction of a Club official.
Section 5.	Miscellaneous: No Club official shall indicate to a player that the Club’s offQseason workout program or classroom instruction is not voluntary (or that a player’s failure to participate in a workout program or classroom instruction will result in the player’s failure to make the Club). Contact work (e.g., “live” blocking, tackling, pass rushing, bumpDandDrun) is expressly prohibited in all offdseason workouts. All Clubs, coaches and other Club officials shall follow all of the rules regarding off-season workouts set forth in Appendix L hereto.
Page 167
Section 6.	Pre-Training Camp Period: During the ten consecutive days immediately prior to the mandatory veteran reporting date for each Club’s pre-season training camp (as specified in Article XXXVII, Section 5), no veteran player (other than (i) quarterbacks and (ii) other players who (1) were on the Injured Reserve, Physically Unable to Perform or Non-Footballlnjury or Illness list at the end of the previous season; or (2) failed a physical examination given by a team physician at any time after the last game of the previous season; or (3) sustained a football-related or non-football-related injury or illness during the offseason; or (4) had surgery during the off-season regarding a football or non-football-related condition regardless of when such condition arose) shall be permitted to participate in any organized workouts or other organized football activity of any kind, or any football activity with any coach, on either a voluntary or involuntary basis, in connection with or on behalf of the Club or Club Affiliate. This prohibition shall apply notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, or any provision in any Player Contract. Notwithstanding the above, nothing in this section shall prevent any player from using any Club facility, subject to League rules and the Club’s permission, to work out on his own at any time on a voluntary basis without the participation of any coach, trainer or other Club personnel. Nothing in this Section shall prohibit organized player activity in personal appearances or promotional activities on behalf of the Club or the League which have been agreed to by the player.
Section 7. Enforcement: The head coach, who is responsible for any conduct in violation of Sections 5 or 6 of this Article (including but not limited to the rules in Appendix L), shall be subject to a fine to be determined by the Commissioner, which fine(s) shall not be reimbursable by the Club or any other person. The NFLPA and any player involved in any such violation shall each have the right to enforce Sections 5 or 6 of this Article (including but not limited to the rules in Appendix L), through an expedited non-injury grievance arbitration proceeding conducted pursuant to Article IX (Non-Injury Grievance) without charge to the four (4) grievances referenced in the third and fourth sentences of Section 4 of that Article. As soon as practicable after the commencement of any such proceeding, the NFLPA shall be provided with all tape, film, or other recorded evidence of any workout that is the subject of the proceeding. In the event that the Arbitrator finds any violation of Sections 5 or 6 of this Article (including but not limited to the rules in Appendix L), the Commissioner shall promptly impose the fine upon the head coach, and the League shall . promptly provide the NFLPA with written evidence that the fine has been paid and donated to a qualified charitable organization. Any head coach who is the subject of a proceeding under this section shall have the right to participate in the proceeding and defend himself. It shall be an absolute defense if the head coach proves that the team’s actions were based on a good faith interpretation of Sections 5 and 6 of this Article, and the rules set forth in Appendix L.
Page 168
ARTICLE XXXVI
MINICAMPS
Section 1.	Number; Each League Year each Club may hold a maximum of one mandatory minicamp for veteran players. If a Club hires a new head coach after the end of the regular season, that Club may hold two additional voluntary minicamps for veteran players. There is no limitation on the number of minicamps a Club may hold for rookie players.
Section 2.	Length; No minicamp may exceed three days in length, plus one day for physical examinations. If possible, minicamps should be scheduled for weekends and not in conflict with previously scheduled meetings of the NFLPA Board of Reps or the annual NFLPA convention.
Section 3.	Expenses: Any veteran player who attends a mimcamp will receive meal allowances in accordance with Article XXXIX (Meal Allowance), Section 1 of this Agreement, plus all travel expenses to and from the camp, plus “per diem” payments at the rate provided in Article XXXVII (Salaries), Section 4 of this Agreement. In addition, the Club will provide housing at minicamps for players coming from outDofDtown.
Section 4.	Contact: There will be no contact work (e.g., “live” blocking, tackling, pass rushing, bumpDandDrun) or use of pads (helmets permitted) at minicamps.
Section 5.	Injuries: Any player injured in a Club’s minicamp will be protected in the same manner as if injured during the Club’s pre□ season training camp.
Page 169	,
ARTICLE XXXVII
PRE-SEASON TRAINING CAMPS	.
Section 1.	Definition; For purposes of this Article, a “rookie player” is defined as any player who has not completed one season in which a year of Credited Service under the Bert Bell or Pete Rozelle Plan has been earned, and a “veteran player” is defined as any player who has completed one or more seasons in which a year of Credited Service has been earned under such Plan(s).
Section 2.	Room and Board: All playerswill receive room and board during the preDseason training camp, and housing between training camp and the Tuesday prior to their Club’s first regular season game for those players who have not as yet established residence in the Team city.
Section 3. Rookie Per Diem: During the term of this Agreement, a rookie player will receive “per diem” payments at the rate of $500 per week in the 1993 0 94 League Years, $550 per week in the 1995 League Year, $600 per week in the 1996 League Year, $650 per week in the 1997 League Year, $675 per week in the 1998099 League Years, $700 per week in the 2000-01 League Years, $725 per week in the 2002-03 League Years, and $750 per week in the 2004 League Year, commencing with the first day of pre-season training camp and ending one week prior to the Club’s first regular season game.
* Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 4. Veteran Per Diem: During the term of this Agreement, a veteran player will receive “per diem” payments at the rate of $600 per week in the 1993D94 League Years, $700 per week tn the 1995'96 League Years, $800 per week in the 1997-99 League Years, $900 per week in the 2000C03 League Years, and $1,000 per week in the 2004 League Year, commencing with the first day of preDseason training camp and ending one week prior to the Club’s first regular season game, and an additional $200 per week during the preDseason, commencing with the Club’s first preDseason game (exclusive of the Canton Hall of Fame Game and any International Game) and ending one week prior to the Club’s first regular season game.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 5.	Reporting: No veteran player other than quarterbacks and injured players, will be required to report to a Club’s official pre□ season training camp earlier than fifteen (15) days (including one day for physical examinations) prior to its first scheduled preDseason game or July 15, whichever is later. The July 15 date will not apply to Clubs participating in the Canton Hall of Fame Game or any American Bowl game scheduled around the Canton Hall of Fame Game date.
Page 170
Section 6.	Number of PredSeason Games: The NFL will use its best efforts to hold no more than four preDseason games beginning in the 1995 League Year.
Section 7.	Telephones: Whenever possible, a player will be permitted to have a telephone in his room at preDseason training camp at his own expense.
Section 8.	Expenses: Clubs will reimburse all players under contract for reasonable traveling expenses incurred in reaching training camp from the players’ residences, upon submission of vouchers. There will be no deductions by the Clubs for these payments. Players who are released by a Club will be reimbursed for their return trips to their residences, upon submission of vouchers.
Page 171
ARTICLE XXXVIII
SALARIES
Section 1.1993 Minimum Salaries: For the 1993 League Year, the Salary of players not on a Club’s Active/Inactive List (excluding Practice Squad players), and of any player on a Club’s Active/Inactive List at any time during the regular season will be not less than the following:
Minimum Salary For
Players Not on Club’s
Active/Inactive For Players On
Length of Service (Excluding Practice Squad) Active/Inactive List
Less than One	$60,000	$100,000
Credited Season		
One Credited Season	$70,000	$125,000
Two or More	380,000	$150,000
Credited Seasons
Section 2. Minimum Salaries For 1994-97 League Years: For the 1994-97 League Years, the Minimum Salaries set forth in Section 1 above shall increase each League Year by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR for that League Year over the prior League Year’s DGR (as defined in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary)), up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) per League Year, but shall not in any event decrease in actual amount from League Year to League Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall such Minimum Salaries increase if the
Projected DGR for the League Year in question is not greater than the highest DGR of any previous League Year.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
* For the 1996 League Year, the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for players with five or more Credited Seasons (as defined in Article XXXVIII of the CBA), who have an allocated portion of signing bonus, reporting bonus, and roster bonus for that League Year of less than $25,000, shall be at least $250,000 plus a sum equal to $250,000 multiplied by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR for the 1996 League Year over DGR for the 1995 League Year (up to a maximum of ten percent (10%)). Thereafter, such Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary for such players shall increase each League Year by the same percentage as the increase in Projected DGR fttr that League Year over the prior League Year's DGR, up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) per League Year, but shall not in any event decrease in actual
Page 172
amount from League Year to League Year. For all other players with five or more Credited Seasons, the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary shall be the same as for players with two or more Credited Seasons, except that any player who has received with respect to that League Year (i) Salary (not including performance incentives but including roster bonuses, reporting bonuses and the allocated portion of any signing bonus) less than (ii) the amount of the Minimum Active/Inactive List Salary set forth in the first two sentences of this paragraph (as appropriate) adjusted to reflect the number of weeks that die player was on the Club’s Active or Inactive List, shall receive at the end of the League Year an additional payment from his Club(s) equal to the difference between (ii) and (i) (on a pro rata basis between or among the Clubs, if applicable).
•Side Letter 11/1/95: Sec. 3	.
Section 3. Minimum Salaries For 1998 League Year: For the 1998 League Year, the Salary of players not on a Club’s Active/Inactive List (excluding Practice Squad players), and of any player on a Club’s Active/Inactive List at any time during the regular season, as calculated under Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), including Paragraph 5 Salary and any additional amounts for pro-rated signing bonus (but excluding any amounts from signing bonuses paid prior to 1998 with a 1998 proration amount of $100,000 or less), roster and reporting bonuses, and likely to be earned incentives, will be not less than the following:
Page 173
Minimum Salary For
Players Not On Club’s
Active/Inactive List For Players On
Length of Service (Excluding Practice Squad)Active/Tnactive List
Less than One Credited Season$ 92,000		$158,000
One Credited Season	111,000	198,000
Two Credited Seasons	129,000	238,000
Three Credited Seasons	144,000	275,000
Four Credited Seasons
159,000
300,000
Five or more Credited Seasons 174,000	325,000
For the 1998 League Year, the Paragraph 5 Salary of players not on a Club’s Active/Inactive List (excluding Practice Squad players), and of any player on a Club’s Active/Inactive List at any time during the regular season, will be not less than the following:
Minimum Salary For
Players Not On Club’s
Active/Inactive List For Players On
Length of Service (Excluding Practice Squad)Active/Inactive List
Less than One Credited SeasonS 87,000		$144,000
One Credited Season -	101,000	180,000
Two Credited Seasons	117,000	216,000
Three Credited Seasons	117,000	216,000
Four Credited Seasons	117,000	216,000
Five or more Credited Seasons	117,000	216,000
Section 4.	Minimum Salaries For 1999 League Year: For the 1999 League Year, the Paragraph 5 Salary of players not on a Club’s Active/Inactive List (excluding Practice Squad players), and of any player on a Club’s Active/Inactive List at any time during the regular season will be not less than the following:
Minimum Salary
For Players Not On Club’s
Active/Inactive List For Players On
Length of Service	(Excluding Practice Squad) Active/Inactive List
Less than One Credited SeasonS 101,000		$175,000
One Credited Season	122,000	250,000
Two Credited Seasons	142,000	325,000
Three Credited Seasons	157,000	350,000
Four Credited Seasons	172,000	375,000
Five or more Credited Seasons	187,000	400,000
Page 174
Section 5.	Minimum Salaries After The 1999 League Year: After the 1999 League Year, the Minimum Paragraph 5 Salaries set forth in Section 4 above shall increase each League Year by the same percentage
as the increase in Projected DGR forthat League Year over the prior League Year’s DGR (as defined in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary)), up to a maximum often percent (10%) per League Year, but shall not in any event decrease in actual amount from League Year to League Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall such Minimum Salaries increase if the Projected DGR for the League Year in question is not greater than the highest DGR of any previous League Year.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 6. Credited Season; For purposes of calculating Credited Seasons under this Article only, a player shall earn one Credited Season for each season during which he was on, or should have been on, full pay status for a total of three or more regular season games, but which, irrespective of the player’s pay status, shall not include games for which this player was on: (i) the Exempt Commissioner Permission List; (ii) the Reserve PUP List as a result of a nond football injury; (iii) a Club’s Practice or Developmental Squad; or (iv) a Club’s Injured Reserve List.
Section 7. Other Compensation: A player will be entitled to receive a signing or reporting,bonus, additional salary payments, incentive bonuses and such other provisions as may be negotiated between his Club (with the assistance of the Management Council) and the player or his NFLPAOcertified agent. The Club and the ' player or his NFLPA □ certified agent will negotiate in good faith over such other compensation; provided, however, that a Club will not be required to deal with the player or his NFLPA □ certified agent on a collective or tandem basis for two or more players on that Club. Nothing in this Section will be affected by Article III (Scope of Agreement), Section 2.
Section 8. Arbitration: The question of whether or not the Club, the Management Council, the player or his N FLPAD certified agent has engaged in good faith negotiations over such other compensation may be the subject of a nonD injury grievance under Article IX (NonO Injury Grievance). If the arbitrator finds that any party did not engage in good faith negotiations, he may enter a cease and desist order; provided, however, that the arbitrator may not compel any party to agree to anything or require the making of a concession by any party in negotiations.
Section 9. Payment: Unless agreed upon otherwise between the Club and the player, each player will be paid at the rate of 100% of his salary in equal weekly or bid weekly installments over the course of the regular season commencing with the first regular season game. Nothing in this Article invalidates
Page 175
or otherwise affects any deferred compensation arrangement or any other method of payment which may have been entered into between a Club and a player or which after the execution of this Agreement may be negotiated'between a Club and the player or his NFLPA □certified agent.
Section 10. Deferred Paragraph 5: A Player Contract may provide for deferral of no more than 50% of the player’s Salary up to and including a total of the first $1 million, and may provide for deferral of no more than 75% of the player’s Salary in excess of $1 million.
Section 11. Number of Regular Season Games: The League and/or Clubs cannot at any time during this Agreement increase the number of regular season games per team from the standard of sixteen (16) without • providing ninety (90) days notice in writing to the NFLPA and thereafter negotiating with the NFLPA with regard to additional compensation to be paid to players for additional regular season games. If the parties are unable to agree on additional compensation within thirty (30) days after notice has been given, the issue of additional compensation may be submitted by either party to the Impartial Arbitrator under Article XXVII (Impartial Arbitrator) for an expedited hearing and a final and binding decision. The Impartial Arbitrator will have the full authority to decide the amount of additional compensation to which the players will be entitled. In no event will the regular season be extended during this Agreement to include more than eighteen (18) games per team.
Section 12.	Copies of Contracts: In connection with the NFLPA’s exclusive right to represent all players in its bargaining unit in negotiations with NFL Clubs, it is agreed and understood that: (a) copies of all contracts signed by Rookie and Veteran players after the date of execution of this Agreement covering the 1993 and future League Years will be provided to the NFLPA within five (5) days of their receipt by the Management Council; and (b) all information in such contracts will be made available to all Clubs by the Management Council. Any dispute regarding compliance of (a) above shall be resolved by the Impartial Arbitrator. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be made within ten (10) days of the application, and shall consider all information relating to such dispute submitted by such date. The determination of the Impartial Arbitrator shall be final and Clubs are prohibited from negotiating for or insisting upon any confidentiality clauses in Player Contracts.
Section 13.	Split Contracts;
(a)	After the point in the regular season at which a player who signed his Player Contract prior to the 1993 League Year has been placed on the Active List of his Club, he must for the balance of that regular season be paid his Active List salary if he is thereafter placed on the
Page 176
Inactive List, whether or not his Player Contract calls for a lower salary if he is placed on the Inactive List.
(b)	After the point in the regular season at which a player with four or more Accrued Seasons who signed his Player Contract when he was a Restricted Free Agent and during the 1993 League Year or thereafter has been placed on the Active List of his Club, he must for the balance of that regular season be paid his Active List salary if he is thereafter placed on the Inactive List, whether or not his Player Contract calls for a lower salary if he is placed on the Inactive List.
Section 14.	Funding of Deferred and Guaranteed Contracts: The NFL may continue to adhere to its existing requirement that by a prescribed date certain, each Club must deposit into a segregated account the present value, calculated using as a discount rate the one year Treasury Bill rate as published in The Wall Street Journal on March 1 of each year, of the gross amount, less $ 1,000,000, of deferred and guaranteed compensation owed by that Club with respect to Club funding of Player Contracts involving deferred or guaranteed compensation, provided, however, that with respect to guaranteed contracts, the amount of unpaid compensation for past or future services to be included in the funding calculation shall not exceed seventyDfive (75%) percent of the total amount of the contract compensation. The present value of any future years’ salary payable to a player pursuant to an injury guarantee provision in his NFL Player Contracts), shall not be considered owed by a Club under this Section until after the Club has acknowledged that the player’s injury qualifies him to receive the future payments.
Page 177
ARTICLE XXXIX
MEAL ALLOWANCE
Section 1. Reimbursement: A player will be reimbursed for meals not furnished by his Club on travel days during the pre-season, regular season andpostdseason as follows: 1993 094 League Years-Breakfast $12.00, Lunch $15.00, Dinner $33.00; 1995D96 League Years-Breakfast $13.00, Lunch $17.00, Dinner $35.00; 1997C1999 League Years-Breakfast $14.00, Lunch $19.00, Dinner $37.00; 2000 02 League Years-Breakfast$ 15.00, Lunch $21.00, Dinner $39.00; 2003004 League Years□ Breakfast $16.00, Lunch $23.00, Dinner $41.00. For purposes of this Article, commercial airline meals or the equivalent shall not be considered as furnished by the Club.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 2. Travel Day: Each travel day will commence at the rime a Team leaves its home city and will terminate at the time the Team arrives back at its home city. If a Team is traveling for a day game and leaves its home city after 2:00 p.m. on the day prior to the game, players will receive dinner money if the Team does not eat dinner together. When the pre-game meal on a travel day is after 9:00 a.m., players will receive breakfast money.
Page 178
ARTICLE XL
DAYS OFF
Section 1.	Rate: All players will be permitted daysDoffat least at the rate of four days per month as determined by the Clubs, commencing with the first pre □ season game and continuing until the last regular season or postOseason game played by the respective Clubs.
Section 2.	Requirements: During the 24 □ hour period constituting a daydoff, any injured player may be required to undergo medical treatment and quarterbacks may be required to attend coaches meetings.
Page 179	.
ARTICLE XLI
MOVING AND TRAVEL EXPENSES
Section 1.	Qualification: A player qualifying under either of the following categories will receive reimbursement for moving expenses, upon presentation of vouchers, in accordance with Section 2 of this Article:
(a)	Any veteran player who is traded, claimed, assigned in an expansion allocation or a member of a Club which relocates to a different home city, and before the first regular season game of the subsequent League Year, takes up permanent residence in the city of the Club to which he is traded or assigned, by which he is claimed or which relocates to a different home city; or
(b)	Any rookie player who is traded or claimed after the start of the regular season, subsequently makes the Active List of the Club to which he is traded or by which he is claimed, and takes up permanent residence in the city of the Club to which he is traded or by which he is claimed before the first regular season game of the subsequent season.
Section 2.	Moving Expenses: As a condition of the responsibility of the Club for the costs of moving expenses for a player who qualifies for reimbursement pursuant to Section 1 above, the player must (a) consult with the appropriate Club official in advance concerning his move; and (b) allow the Club to designate the moving company that will accomplish the move. In the event that the player demonstrates reasonable dissatisfaction with the moving company designated by the Club, the player may, at his option, proffer two additional estimates from established moving companies, from which the Club will select a substitute for the moving company initially designated. (In no event shall the Club be liable for any property damage or loss resulting from use of another moving company. This shall not be construed to mean that the Club is responsible for any property damage or loss resulting from using the Club’s moving company.) Thereafter, such player will receive reimbursement of his actual, ordinary and reasonable moving expenses, including travel expenses for player and his immediate family.
Section 3.	Travel Expenses: Any veteran player who is traded or claimed at any time during a League Year, or any rookie player who is traded or claimed after the start of the regular season and subsequently makes the Active List of the Club to which he is traded or by which he is claimed, will receive, upon presentation , of vouchers: (a) first class round trip air fare for his wife or the equivalent in cash if she makes the trip by another mode of transportation; (b) a sum not to exceed two months’ rent on living quarters in the home city from which the player is traded or by which he is waived, provided, however, that such payment shall be made only if and to the extent that the player is legally obligated to such rent and each such payment shall
Page 180
not exceed $4,000 during the 1993 ..'95 League Years, $4,750 during the 1996D98 League Years, $5,000 during the 1999-2002 League Years, and$5,250 during the 2003-2004 League Years; and (c) the room cost of seven days* stay at a hotel of die Club’s choice in the new team city for the player.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 4.	Transportation: Each player who is traded or claimed during the preDseason or regular season will by the fastest available means of transportation report to the Club to which he is traded or by which he is claimed. Any veteran player who is traded or claimed during the preDseason or regular season or any rookie player who is traded or claimed after the start of the regular season will receive first class air fare. All other players will be furnished coach air fare.
Page 181
ARTICLE XLII
POST-SEASON PAY
Section 1.	System: Beginning with the postDseason following the 1993 regular season, a fourDtiered (“wild card” game, division playoff game, conference championship and Super Bowl game) playDoff system will be used and continued throughout the term of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Compensation: A player who qualifies will receive the following amount for each postDseason game played:
(in $000’s) 93
94 95
96 97
98
99
00
01
02
03
04
Wildcard $12
12 13
14 15
15
16
16
17
17
18
18
Game
(Div. Winner)
(Other)
7.5
7.5
7.510 10
10
10
12.5
12.5
12.515
15
Division
12
12
13
14 15
15
16
16
17
17
18
18
Playoff Game
Conference 23.5
26
27
29 30
32.5
33
34.5
34.5
35
36.5
36.5
Champion
-ship Game	'	.
Super Bowl ,
Game
(Winning	38	42 42 48 48	53	58	58	63	63 68	68
Team)
(Losing	23.5	26 27 29 30	32.5	33	34.5	34.5	35 36.5	36.5
Team)
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 3.	Wild Card Game; Division Play Doff Game; A player who is on the Active List, Inactive List, or Injured Reserve List of a Club at the time of the game in question will be paid the full amount designated in Section 2 above for that game.	.
Section 4.	Conference Championship; Super Bowl Game;
(a)	A player who at the time of the game in question is and has been on the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game for at least three previous games (i.e., regular or _..post□ season) will receive the full amount designated in Section! for such game.
(b)	A player who at the time of the game in question is and has been on the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game for less than three previous games (i.e., regular or post□ season) will receive one □ half the amount designated in Section 2 for such game.
Page 182
(c)	A player who at the time of the game in question is not on the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game but was on the Active or Inactive List for eight or more games (i.e., regular or postDseason) will receive the full amount designated in Section 2 for such game provided he is not under contract to another Club in the same Conference at the time of the game in question.
(d)	A player who at the time of the game in question is not on the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game, but who was on the Club’s Active List or Inactive List for at least three and nol more than seven games (i.e., regular and postDseason) will receive oneDhalf the amount designated in Section 2 for such game, provided he is not under contract to another Club in the same Conference at the time of the game in question.
(e)	A veteran player injured during the regular season and removed from the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game in question for reason of injury will receive the full amount designated in Section 2 for such game provided he is still under contract to the Club at the time of the game.
(f)	A veteran player who has completed the season in which his fourth year or more of Credited Service under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan has been earned, who was injured during the predseason and removed from the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game in question for reason of injury will receive the full amount designated in Section 2 for such game provided he is still under contract to the Club at the time of the game.
(g)	A veteran player who has not completed the season in which his fourth year of Credited Service under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan has been earned, who was injured
during the preDseason and removed from the Active List or Inactive List of a Club participating in the game in question for reason of injury will receive one □ half the amount designated in Section 2 for such game provided he is still under contract to the Club at the time of the game.
Section 5.	Payment: Players will be paid under this Article within fifteen (15) days after the game in question has been played.
Page 183
|	ARTICLE XLIII
I
1	PRO BOWL GAME
।	Section 1. Compensation; Each player on the winning Team in the AFCD NFC Pro Bowl game will receive
I	$20,000 and each player on the losing Team will receive $ 10,000. These amounts shall be increased to
$25,000 and $12,500 respectively for the Pro Bowls following the 1997 through 1999 seasons, to $30,000 and $15,000 respectively for the Pro Bowls following the 2000 through 2002seasons, and to $35,000 and
I	$ 17,500 respectively for the Pro Bowls following the 2003 through 2004 seasons.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
!	Section 2. Selection: Pro Bowl game players will be chosen on the basis of ballots cast by fans, players and
coaches, with the total votes cast by each such group weighted equally at 33.33 percent (33.33%). Fan ballot results will be based on total votes received. Players' and coaches’ ballots will be in accordance with the procedures currently in effect. The player rep will conduct the balloting of the players on each team in accordance with the same procedure used by the NFL for the coaches. The NFLPA will actively cooperate with the NFL to ensure participation in the game and prompt reporting by players selected. Any Pro Bowl incentive clauses in Player Contracts signed prior to the effective date of this Agreement shall be earned and paid in accordance with this selection process.
Section 3.	Wives: Airplane, hotel and meal allowances will be provided for players’ wives who attend the Pro Bowl games.
Section 4.	Injury: In the event a player is injured in a Pro Bowl game and as a direct result is unable to perform in any regular season game the immediately following season, the player will be paid by his Club the weekly installments of his salary covering the games missed.
Section 5.	Payment: Players will be paid for the Pro Bowl game within fifteen (15) days after the game is played.
Page 184
ARTICLE XLIV
PLAYERS’ RIGHTS TO MEDICAL CARE
AND TREATMENT
Section 1.	Club Physician: Each Club will have a board-certified orthopedic surgeon as one of its Club physicians. The cost of medical services rendered by Club physicians will be the responsibility of the respective Clubs. If a Club physician advises a coach or other Club representative of a player’s physical condition which adversely affects the player’s performance or health, the physician will also advise the
player. If such condition could be significantly aggravated by continued performance, the physician will advise the player of such fact in writing before the player is again allowed to perform onQfield activity.
Section 2.	Club Trainers: All fullCtime head trainers and assistant trainers hired after the date of execution of this Agreement will be certified by the National Athletic Trainers Association. All partCtime trainers must work under the direct supervision of a certified trainer.
Section 3, Players’ Right to a Second Medical Opinion: A player will have the opportunity to obtain a second medical opinion. As a condition of the responsibility of the Club for the costs of medical services rendered by the physician furnishing the second opinion, the player must (a) consult with the Club physician in advance concerning the other physician; and (b) the Club physician must be furnished promptly with a report concerning the diagnosis, examination and course of treatment recommended by the other physician.
Section 4. Players’ Right to a Surgeon of His Choice: A player will have the right to choose the surgeon who will perform surgery provided that; (a) the player will consult unless impossible (e.g., emergency surgery) with the Club physician as to his recommendation as to the need for, the timing of and who should perform the surgery; and (b) the player will give due consideration to the Club physician’s recommendations. Any such surgery will be at Club expense; provided, however, that the Club, the Club physician, trainers and any other representative of the Club will not be responsible for or incur any liability (other than the cost of the surgery) for or relating to the adequacy or competency of such surgery or other related medical services rendered in connection with such surgery.
Section 5.	Standard Minimum PreO Season Physical: Each player will undergo a standardized minimum pre □ season physical'examination, outlined in Appendix I attached hereto, which will be conducted by the Club physician. In addition, the League may conduct mandatory urinalysis testing of all players at the beginning of the preOseason in the same manner as past
Page 185
seasons. The League may also conduct random testing for steroids as in the past seasons, but with limits on the number of times any given player can be tested to be negotiated between the Commissioner and the NFLPA.
Section 6.	Substance Abuse:
(a)	General Policy. The parties agree that substance abuse and the use of anabolic steroids are unacceptable within the NFL, and that it is the responsibility of the parties to deter and detect substance abuse and steroid use and to offer programs of intervention, rehabilitation, and support to players who have substance abuse problems.
(b)	Anabolic Steroids and Related Substances. The League’s existing Policy and Procedure with respect to Anabolic Steroids and Related Substances will remain in effect, except as it may be modified in the future due to scientific advances with respect to testing techniques or other matters. The parties will establish a joint Advisory Committee, consisting of the League’s Advisor for Anabolic Steroids and Related Substances and an equal number of members appointed by the NFLPA and by the Management Council, to study pertinent scientific and medical issues and to advise the parties on such matters.
(c)	Drugs of Abuse and Alcohol. The League’s existing Policy and Procedure with respect to
Drugs of Abuse and Alcohol will remain in effect, including annual preDseason testing of all players; provided that the parties will promptly make their best efforts jointly to formulate and implement a modified program with respect to Drugs of Abuse and Alcohol to become effective for the 1993 NFL season.
Page 186
ARTICLE XLV
ACCESS TO PERSONNEL AND
MEDICAL RECORDS '
Section 1. Personnel Records: Each Club will within seven (7) days after a written request of any player, permit the player to inspect and copy his individual personnel Ele and any other document which objectively relates to his performance and which in turn relates to any grievance. Each Club may, at its discretion, exclude from an individual player’s personnel file subjective coaching and scouting reports, attomeydclient privileged material or any other subjective material.
Section 2. Medical Records: Player may examine his medical and trainers’ records in the possession of the Club or Club physician two times each year, once during the preDseason and again after the regular season. Any player or former player may obtain a copy of his medical or trainer’s records upon request during the offDseason. Player's personal physician may, upon presentation to the Club physician of an authorization signed by the player, inspect the player’s medical and trainers’ records in consultation with the Club physician or have copies of such medical and trainers’ records forwarded to him for his exclusive and confidential use in rendering a medical opinion, which records will not be released by the player’s personal physician to any other person.
Page 187
ARTICLE XLVI
PLAYER BENEFIT COSTS
Section 1. (a) General Right of Reduction: The NFLPA will have the unilateral right to reduce or freeze each separate and individual Player Benefit Cost and the applicable benefit, with the exception of (1) benefits under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan, (2) benefits under the Supplemental Disability Plan, and (3) postDseason pay (although the NFLPA will have the unilateral right to direct that postDseason pay will not be increased), in a League Year, if such right is exercised on or before April 15 of such League Year. However, such action cannot reduce total Player Benefit Costs below seven percent (7%) of Projected Defined Gross Revenues, as defined in Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), and Player Benefit Costs required by law cannot be reduced.
(b)	1998 Amendment Benefits: During each League Year for which a Salary Cap applies, the NFLPA will have the unilateral right to increase, reduce or freeze each separate and individual Player Benefit Cost relating to 1998 Amendment Benefits that are set forth in Sections 5(c), 5(d) and 5(e) of this Article to the extent permitted by law, to ensure that the total cost of the 1998 Amendment Benefits does not exceed and is not less than the amount set forth below for each such League Year. Any increase shall be for one League Year only and shall not create a continuing obligation for the Clubs.
For the 1998 League Year, the total cost of the 1998 Amendment Benefits shall be the lesser of (i) 63% of Projected Defined Gross Revenues, less $1,607.65 million, less Player Benefit Costs for Player Benefits other ihan for the 1998 Amendment Benefits, or (ii) $50 million. For subsequent Capped Years, the total cost of the 1998 Amendment Benefits shall be as follows:
Capped Year	Total Cost
1999:
$ 50 million
2000:
$ 75 million
2001 and thereafter:	$100 million
Notwithstanding the foregoing language regarding the total cost of 1998 Amendment Benefits for the 1998 and subsequent League Years, Class Counsel and the NFLPA may specify additional amounts to be used for additional increases in the Player Annuity Program described in Article XLVIII-A (Player Annuity Program), pursuant to subsection (iii) of the last sentence of Article XXIV, Section 4(a) for additional amounts generated from the 1998 League Year, and pursuant to Article XXIV, Section 10(a)(ii) for additional amounts generated from later League Years. Forty-five percent (45%) of any additional amounts generated from the 1998 League Year pursuant to subsection (iii) of the last sentence of Article XXIV, Section 4(a) will be contributed to the Player Annuity Program for the 1998 Annuity
Page 188
Year (as defined in Article XLVIII-A), and fifty-five percent (55%) will be contributed to the Player Annuity Program for the 1999 Annuity Year. During each League Year for which a Salary Cap does not apply, the NFL shall be required to contribute with respect to the 1998 Amendment Benefits only the cost of those such benefits that are set forth in Sections 5(a), 5(b), 5(c) and 5(e).
If the NFLPA is notified in writing that the cost of the 1998 Amendment Benefits for a Capped Year is projected to exceed or to be less than the above total for a League Year, and the NFLPA does not specify which benefits are to be increased, reduced or frozen by the later of (1) the beginning of that League Year, and (2) 30 days after the date the NFLPA receives such notice, the Management Council shall have the unilateral right to reduce or increase 1998 Amendment Benefits to die extent permitted by law, to achieve the above total cost for that League Year. Any reductions or increases in 1998 Amendment Benefits shall be implemented as of the beginning of a League Year by determining projected 1998 Amendment Benefits based on Projected Benefits, as defined in Article XXIV, Section 10(c).
(c)	Adjustment: If the actual Player Benefit Costs of the 1998 Amendment Benefits exceed the applicable amounts set forth in Section 1(b) above for an applicable League Year (including any adjustments pursuant to this section), then the amount set forth in Section 1(b) for the following League Year shall be reduced by such excess.
If the actual Player Benefit Costs of the 1998 Amendment Benefits are less than the amounts set forth in Section 1(b) above for an applicable League Year (including any adjustments pursuant to this section), then the amount set forth in Section 1(b) for the following League Year shall be increased by such shortfall.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 2. Right of Restoration: Each separate and individual benefit reduced or frozen pursuant to Section 1 above may be unilaterally restored by the NFLPA in whole or in part for a League Year, if such right is exercised on or before April 15 of such League Year. Each benefit may be restored up to but hot in excess of its prescribed level for that League Year in this Agreement.
Section 3. Definition: For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Player Benefit Costs,” as also set forth tn Article XXIV (Guaranteed League □ wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), means the aggregate for a League Year of all sums paid (or to be paid on a proper accrual basis for a League Year) by the NFL and all NFL Clubs for, to or on behalf of present or former NFL players, but only for:
(a)	Pension funding, including the Bert Bell NFL Player Retirement Plan (as described in Article XLVII), the Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (as described in Article XLVII), the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (as described in Article XLVII), the National Football League PreO59er Special Benefit Program, and the Second Career Savings Plan (as described in Article XLVIII);
Page 189
(b)	Group insurance programs, including, life, medical, and dental coverage (as described in Article XLIX or as required by law), and the Supplemental Disability Plan (as described in Article LI);
(c)	Injury protection (as described in Article XII);
(d)	Workers’ compensation, payroll, unemployment compensation, and social security taxes;
(e)	PreO season per diem amounts (as described in Sections 3 and 4 of Article XXXVII) and regular season meal allowances (as described in Article XXXIX);
(f)	Moving and travel expenses (as described in Sections 2, 3, and 4 of Article XLI, and Section 8 of Article XXXVII);
(g)	Post□ season pay (as described in Article XLII and Article XLIII);
(h)	Player medical costs (i.e., fees to doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers, and the drugs and other medical cost of supplies, for the treatment of player injuries), but not including salaries of trainers or other Team personnel, or the cost of Team medical or training equipment (in addition, the amount of player medical costs included in Player Benefit Costs may not increase more than ten percent (10%) each League Year beginning with the 1993 League Year, which may not increase more than ten percent (10%) over the 1992 League Year);
(i)	Severance pay (as described in Article L); and
(j)	The Player Annuity Program (as described in Article XLVIII-A).
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Player Benefit Costs will not include salary reduction contributions elected by a player to the Second Career Savings Plan described in Article XLVIII, and such salary reduction contributions will not reduce Player Salaries for purposes of Article XXIV. Neither Player Benefit Costs nor Player Salaries will include any tax imposed on the NFL or NFL Clubs pursuant to section 4972 of the Internal Revenue Code for the Bert Bell NFL Player Retirement Plan, the Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan, and/or the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan, Player Benefit Costs for a League Year will be determined by adding together al) payments made and amounts properly accrued by or on behalf of the NFL and all NFL Clubs for the above purposes during that League Year, except that Player Benefit Costs for pension funding, the Second Career Savings Plan, the Supplemental Disability Plan, and the Player Annuity Program will be deemed to be made in a League Year for purposes of this Article if made in the Plan Year beginning in the same calendar year as the beginning of such League Year.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 4. Resolution of Disputes: In the event the NFLPA and the Management Council are unable to agree by March 7 as to Projected Benefits for
Page 190
the League Year beginning the previous February 20, the parties will proceed immediately to mediation and binding arbitration on an expedited schedule so that all such differences are resolved by March 31. For purposes of this Article, the parties and the Benefit Arbitrator will use Projected Defined Gross Revenues. Such mediation and binding arbitration will be presided over by the Benefit Arbitrator pursuant to the following procedure:
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(a)	The parties will submit in writing to the Benefit Arbitrator their respective calculations of Projected Benefits for the forthcoming year. Such submissions to the Benefit Arbitrator will be made by each party by March 15.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	Thereafter, the Benefit Arbitrator, upon receipt of such submissions by each party, will immediately convene an expedited hearing at the site of his or her selection. Such hearing will proceed for no more than three days, the first day of which will include whatever mediation efforts the Benefit Arbitrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such mediation will not be binding on the parties.
(c)	As soon as possible following the closing of such expedited hearing, the Benefit Arbitrator will render his or her decision, which will be final and binding on the parties. Post-hearing briefs following the close of such hearing will be permitted only if requested by the Benefit Arbitrator, and any post 0 hearing brief so requested must be submitted within one (1) week, with no extension. The parties intend that postD hearing briefs will be requested only in unusual circumstances. In no event will the Benefit Arbitrator’s decision be rendered and delivered to the parties any later than March 31.
Section 5. 1998 Amendment Benefits: For purposes of this Agreement, the term “1998 Amendment ■ Benefits” means the following:
(a)	The increase in 1998 and future Benefit Credits to $425 described in Article XLVII, Section 2 and .. the increase tn Benefit Credits for prior years described in Article XLVII, Section 4;	.
(b)	The decrease in the vesting requirement described in Article XLVII, Section 5;
(c)	The increases in the Second Career Savings Plan contributions described in Article XLVIII, Section 2;
(d)	The Player Annuity Program (as described in Article XLVIII - A); and
(e)	The increases in the Extended Post-Career Medical and Dental Insurance benefits described in
Article XLIX, Section 2(c).
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 191
ARTICLE XLVII
RETIREMENT PLAN
Section 1. Maintenance and Definitions: The Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (the “Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan” or “Merged Plan”) will be continued and maintained in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement. Prior to such merger, the Bert Beil NFL Player Retirement Plan (the “Bert Bell Plan”) and the Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (the “Pete Rozelle Plan”) will each be continued and maintained in full force and effect. When used in other Articles in this Agreement, the terms “Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan” and “Merged Plan” will also refer to each of the Bert Bell Plan and the Pete Rozelle Plan for the periods prior to such merger, as appropriate depending on the context in which such term is used. The Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan, and all past and future amendments thereto as adopted in accordance with the terms of that Plan, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; provided, however, that the terms used tn such Plan and the definitions of such terms are applicable only to
such Plan and shall have no applicability to this Agreement unless the context of this Agreement specifically mandates the use of such term.
Section 2. Additional Credited SeasonsiThe parties will amend Section 4.1 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan to provide a Benefit Credit of$425for players who earn a Credited Season ineach Plan Year that begins both (1) on or after April 1, 1998, and (2) prior to the expiration of the Final League Year.
’Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 3. Contributions: For the 1993 Plan Year and continuing for each Plan Year thereafter that begins prior to the expiration of the Final League Year, a contribution will be made to the Bert Bell Plan, the Pete Rozelle Plan, or the Merged Plan, as appropriate, on behalf of each NFL Club as actuarially determined to be necessary to fund file benefits provided in this Article, based on the actuarial assumptions and methods contained in Appendix J. No provision of this Agreement will eliminate or reduce the obligation to provide the benefits described in this Article, or eliminate or reduce the obligations of the NFL Clubs to fund retirement benefits. Contributions will be used exclusively to provide retirement benefits and to pay expenses. Contributions for a Plan Year will be made on or before the end of each Plan Year. Benefit Credits for future seasons and benefits subject to Retirement Board approval, if any, and contributions, if any, for Plan Years beginning on and after the expiration of the Final League Year will be determined pursuant to future collective bargaining agreements, if any. It will be the duty of the Retirement Board of the Merged Plan to pursue all available legal remedies in an effort to assure timely payment of all contributions due under this Agreement.
Page 192
Section 4.	Increase in Past Service Credit: Effective for payments on and after June 1, 1998, the parties will amend Section 4.1 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan to increase the Benefit Credit in effect for each Credited Season prior to 1998 as follows;
Credited Season in Plan Year Benefit Credit
Before 1968	$100
1968 and 1969	130
1970	170
1971	175
1972 through 1976	185
1977 through 1981	200
1982 through 1992	230
1993 and 1994	240
1995 and 1996	285
1997	330
Section 5.	Decrease in Vesting Requirement: Effective for payments on and after June 1, 1998, the parties will amend the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan to provide that any player who (i) earned his last Credited Season prior to the 1975 Plan Year; (ii) is credited with at least four (4) Credited Seasons; and (iii) is alive on June 1,1998, shall be fully vested in the right to receive a retirement benefit under the Bert Bell/Pete
Rozelle Plan. No player who is vested as a result of this amendment shall be entitled to receive any benefit under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan other than his Normal, Deferred or Early Retirement Benefit. No player who is vested as a result of this amendment shall be entitled to elect to receive a retirement benefit in the optional form provided by Section 4.4(c)(3) of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan. No beneficiary of a player who is vested as a result of this amendment and who dies prior to his Annuity Starting Date (as defined in the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan) shall be entitled to receive any benefit, except that the,surviving spouse of such a player shall be entitled to receive a pre-retirement survivor annuity under rules similar to those in Section 4.9(b) of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan. No player who is vested as a result of this amendment who attained his Normal Retirement Age prior to June 1, 1998 shall be entitled to a benefit with respect to any period prior to June 1, 1998. Any Normal Retirement Benefit paid pursuant to this amendment will not be actuarially adjusted to reflect an Annuity Starting Date after the player’s Normal Retirement Date, except to the extent the Annuity Starting Date is after June 1,1998.
Section 6. Line-of-Duty Disability Benefit: Effective as of July 1, 1993, the parties will amend Article 6 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan as follows:
(a)	Subsections 6.4(b) and 6.4(c) will be revised to read as follows:
“(b)	A disability will be deemed to be ‘permanent’ if it has persisted
Page 193
or is expected to persist for at least 12 months from the date of its occurrence and if the Player is not an Active Player.”
“(c) ‘Arising out of League football activities’ means a disablement arising out of any League preseason, regular-season, or post-season game, or any combination thereof, or out of League football activity supervised by an Employer, including all required or directed activities. 'Arising out of League football activities’ does not include, without limitation, any disablement resulting from other employment, or athletic activity for recreational purposes, nor does it include a disablement that would not qualify for benefits but for an injury (or injuries) or illness that arises out of other than League football activities.”
(b)	Subsection 6.5(f) will be revised to read as follows:
“(f) The phrase ‘and has resulted in the Player’s retirement from League football’ is added to replace everything after the word ‘occurrence’ in Section 6.4(b).”
Section 7. Classification Rules for Total and Permanent Disability: Effective as of July 1, 1993, the parties will amend the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan as follows;
“5.6 Classification Rules.	■
(a)	A Player who becomes totally and permanently disabled and who satisfies the conditions of eligibility for benefits under Section 5.1(a), 5.1(b), 5.1(c), or 5.1(d), or Section 5.5, shall be deemed to continue to be eligible only for the category of benefits for which he first qualifies, unless the Player shows by evidence found by the Retirement Board to be clear and convincing that, because of changed circumstances, the Player satisfies the conditions of eligibility for a benefit under a different category of total and permanent disability benefits.
(b)	A Player who becomes totally and permanently disabled and satisfies the conditions of eligibility for benefits under Section 5.1(a), 5.1(b), 5.1(c), or 5.1(d), or Section 5.5, and who subsequently is found by the Retirement Board no longer to be totally and permanently disabled, shall cease to be eligible for benefits. Any such Player shall thereafter remain eligible to receive total and permanent disability benefits in accordance with Section 5.1 or Section 5.5 should the Player experience a subsequent period of total and permanent disability. Any such subsequent total and permanent disability shall be classified in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.1 or Section 5.5, without regard to the classification of any previous period of total and permanent disability.
(c)	For purposes of Article 5, the term ‘League football activities’ will have the meaning given in Article 6.”
Page 194
Section 8. Limit on Retroactive Benefits and Claims: Effective for claims for benefits received on and after November 1,1998, the parties will amend the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan, or will cause the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan to be amended, as follows:
(a)	The text of the second paragraph of Section 5.1 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan will be amended
to replace the words “Notwithstanding the above” with the words “Except as provided in Section 5.7”;
(b)	Article 5 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan will be amended by adding a new Section 5.7 to read substantially as follows;
“5.	7 Limit on Retroactive Benefits and Claims. Effective for claims for benefits received on and after November 1, 1998, no total and permanent disability benefit under this Article 5 will be payable with respect to any month or other period of time that precedes by more than forty-two (42) months the date the Plan Director first receives a written application or similar letter requesting such benefit, provided that such written application or similar letter begins the administrative process that results in the award of the benefit. A Player’s total and permanent disability benefits will not be reclassified or otherwise increased with respect to any month or other period of time that precedes by more than forty-two (42) months the date the Plan Director receives a written application or similar letter requesting such reclassification or increase that begins the administrative process that results in the award of the benefit. In determining the appropriate classification of benefits for a Player who is totally and permanently disabled, it will be conclusively presumed that the Player was not totally and permanently disabled for all months or other periods of time more than forty-two (42) months prior to the date the Plan Director receives a written application or similar request for total and permanent disability benefits that begins the administrative process that results in the award of the benefit. The forty-two month limitations period in each of the above sentences’will be tolled for any period of time during which such Player is found by the Retirement Board to be physically or mentally incapacitated in a manner that substantially interferes with the filing of such claim.”
Section 9. Alcohol and Substance Abuse: The parties will amend Section 5.1 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan, or will cause the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan to be amended, to insert substantially the following language as a separate paragraph at the end of Section 5.1:
“Effective for payments on and after November I, 1998, Sections 5.1(a), 5.1(b), 5.1(c),and the provisions of Section 5.5 that pertain to disabilities resulting from a football injury incurred while an Active Player will not apply to a total and permanent disability caused by the use of, addiction to, or dependence upon (1) any controlled substance (as defined in 21 U.S.C. sec. 802(6)), unless (i) such use of, addiction to,
Page 195
or dependence upon results from foe substantially continuous use of a controlled substance that was prescribed for League football activities or for an injury (or injuries) or illness arising out of League football activities of the applicant while he was an Active Player, and (ii) an application for total and permanent disability benefits is received based on such use of, addiction to, or dependence upon a controlled substance no later than eight (8) years after the end of the Player’s last Credited Season; (2) alcohol; or (3) illegal drugs. Effective for payments on and after November 1, 1998, if a Player’s benefit has been increased pursuant to Section 5.4 with respect to a total and permanent disability to which Section 5.1(a), 51(b), or 5.1(c), or the provisions of Section 5.5 that pertain to disabilities resulting from a football injury incurred while an Active Player does not apply after November 1,1998, such benefit shall be reduced to the greater of the sum of the Player’s Benefit Credits or the minimum amount specified in
Section 5.1(d). All other provisions of Section 5.4 shall continue to apply to such benefit. For purposes of this section, the term ‘illegal drugs’ includes all drugs and substances (other than alcohol and controlled substances, as defined above) used or taken in violation of law or League policy.”
Section 10. Psychological/Psychiatric Disorders: Effective on October 29, 1998, the parties will amend Section 5.1 of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan, or will cause the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan to be amended, to insert substantially the following language as separate paragraphs at the end of Section 5.1:
“Effective for payments on and after November 1, 1998, a payment for total and permanent disability as a result of a psychological/psychiatric disorder may only be made, and will only be awarded, for benefits under the provisions of Section 5.1(b), Section 5.1(d), or the provisions of Section 5.5 that pertain to disabilities resulting from other than a football injury.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a total and permanent disability as a result of a psychological/psychiatric disorder maybe awarded under the provisions of Section 5.1(a), Section 5.1(c), or the provisions of Section 5.5 that pertain to disabilities resulting from a football injury incurred while an Active Player if the requirements for a total and permanent disability are otherwise met and the psychological/psychiatric disorder either (1) is caused by or relates to a head injury (or injuries) sustained by a Player arising out of League football activities (e.g., repetitive concussions); (2) is caused by or relates to the use of a substance prescribed by a licensed physician for an injury (or injuries) or illness sustained by a Player arising out of League football activities; or (3) is caused by an injury (or injuries) or illness that qualified the Player for total and permanent disability benefits under Section 5.1(a)."
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 196
ARTICLE XLVIII
SECOND CAREER SAVINGS PLAN
Section 1.	Maintenance: The NFL Player Second Career Savings Plan (“Savings Plan”), and all past and future amendments thereto as adopted in accordance with the terms of that Plan, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; provided, however, that the terms used in such Plan and the definitions of such terms are applicable only to such Plan and shall have no applicability to this Agreement unless the context of this Agreement specifically mandates the use of such term. Such Plan will be continued and maintained in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Contributions;
(a)	Prior to 1998: For each of the Plan Years 1993 to 1997, a contribution of $215,000 will be
made to the Savings Plan on behalf of each NFL Club. Such contributions will be made in four (4) equal payments, on June 30, September 30, December 31, and March 31 of each such Plan Year.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(b)	1998 and Later Years: For each Plan Year that begins (1) on or after April 1, 1998 and (2)
before the end of the Final League Year, a contribution will be made to the Savings Plan on behalf of each NFL Club as follows:
(i)	Matching Contributions. The parties will amend the Savings Plan to require the NFL Clubs in the aggregate to contribute a matching amount for each player who earns a Credited Season during such Plan Year, who would qualify for a Minimum Contribution under (ii) below if Matching Contributions were not
made on his behalf, and who makes a salary reduction contribution to the Savings Plan (“Matching Contribution”). The amount of such Matching Contribution shall be as set forth below:
Plan Years Amount
1998,1999,2000 One Dollar (up to a maximum of
$10,000) for each dollar contributed by the player
2001 through the Two Dollars (up to a maximum of
Final League Year $20,000) for each dollar contributed by the player.
Any salary reduction contribution made by a player to the Savings Plan during a calendar year, including such contributions in 1998 prior to the Extension Date, will be eligible to be matched in the Plan Year that begins during such calendar year. The NFL Clubs will be required to contribute the Matching Contribution:
Page 197
(a)	by December 1 of such Plan Year for those players who (i) earn a Credited Season by and through the sixth week of the regular season and(ii) make a salary reduction contribution of $10,000 or more to the Savings Plan for that calendar year by the end of the first full week in November of such Plan Year; and
(b)	by the last day of such Plan Year (March 31 of the following calendar year) for all other eligible players.
(ii)	Minimum Contribution. The NFL Clubs in the aggregate will contribute to the Savings Plan, for each of the Plan Years 1998 to the Final League Year, a contribution of at least $3,600 for each player who earns a Credited Season during such Plan Year and has three or more Credited Seasons, and $7,200 for each player who earns a Credited Season during such Plan Year and has exactly two Credited Seasons (“Minimum Contribution”). Any Matching Contribution made on behalf of a player will reduce his Minimum Contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis (but not below zero). Any and all Minimum Contributions that are not Matching Contributions described in Subsection (b)(i) above shall be made by and as of the last day of the Plan Year.
(iii)	Expenses. The NFL Clubs will make contributions to the Savings Plan at least quarterly in an amount sufficient to pay administrative expenses.
(c)	Protection of Deductions: The parties will adopt a Money Purchase Plan to supplement the Savings Plan to the extent necessary to avoid disallowance of deductions because of the limit of section 404(aX3)(A)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code. The NFL Clubs will not be required to make any contributions to the Savings Plan or to such Money Purchase Plan that are not deductible when made under the limits of section 404(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, provided that the NFL Clubs have timely taken such reasonable actions to avoid or minimize the application of those limits.
(d)	Future Contributions and Collection: Contributions, if any, for subsequent years will be determined pursuant to future collective bargaining agreements, if any. It will be the duty of the fiduciaries of the Savings Plan to pursue all available legal remedies in an effort to assure payment of all contributions due under this Agreement.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 198
ARTICLE XL VIII - A
i
PLAYER ANNUITY PROGRAM
Section 1. Establishment: The parties will jointly establish a new benefit, to be called the NFL Player Annuity Program (hereinafter referred to as “Player Annuity Program”). The Player Annuity Program will be jointly administered pursuant to the requirements of the Taft-Hartley Act in a manner similar to the NFL Player Second Career Savings Plan (“Savings Plan”), The Annuity Year will be the period April 1 to March 31. The Player Annuity Program, and all future amendments thereto as adopted in accordance with the terms of that Program, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; provided, however, that the terms used in such Program and the definitions of such terms are applicable only to such Program, and shall have no applicability to this Agreement unless the context of this Agreement specifically mandates the use of such terms. Such Program will be continued and maintained in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2. Contributions: For each of the Annuity Years 1998 and thereafter only for each year in which a Salary Cap applies, a contribution will be made to the Player Annuity Program on behalf of the NFL Clubs as indicated below, unless this figure is changed pursuant to this Agreement, including the rights of the parties under Section 1(b) of Article XL VI of this Agreement:	.
Capped Annuity Year	Total Contribution
1998 '	$33 million	,
1999	$35.4 million
2000	$54 million
2001 and	$73 million
later Capped years
Contributions to the Player Annuity Program for an Annuity Year will be made as follows:
1.	Expenses: The NFL Clubs will prepay contributions to the Annuity Program at least quarterly in an amount sufficient to pay administrative expenses. For purposes of this provision the term “administrative expenses” does not include reserve or similar capital requirements.
2.	Allocations: Allocations for the benefit of individual players will be made on and as of
December 31 and March 31 of each Annuity Year, as described in Section 3(c) below.
Page 199
Contributions, if any, for subsequent years will be determined pursuant to future collective bargaining agreements, if any. It will be the duty of the fiduciaries of the Player Annuity Program to pursue all available legal remedies in an effort to assure payment of all contributions due under this Agreement.
Section 3.	Eligibility and Allocation:
(a)	Points: Players who earn a Credited Season, as that term is defined in the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan, in an Annuity Year and who have a total of four or more Credited Seasons as of the end of such Annuity Year will receive points for each such Credited Season depending on their total Credited Seasons as follows:
Total
Points for 1998 Points for 2000
Credited Seasons	and 1999 Years	and later Years
4,5, and 6	1	1
7 through 10	2	.	1
11 or more	3	1
(b)	Individual Allocations: The amount allocated to an individual player who receives one or more points in an Annuity Year will be calculated as follows: In December of each such year a good faith estimate will be made by the Annuity Board of the total contribution expected to be made during such Annuity Year under Section 2 above by all NFL Clubs, minus the estimated administrative expenses for the Annuity Year, and minus any retroactive allocations made to players under rules similar to those in Section 3.4 of the Savings Plan. A good faith estimate will also be made at that time by the Annuity Board of the total points expected to be earned during such Annuity Year by all players. Each player’s actual allocation will be determined by (1) taking the total estimated available contributions as described above, (2) dividing by the estimate of the total points expected to be earned by all players, and (3) multiplying the result by the number of points actually earned by that player according to the above schedule. In the Annuity Year beginning on April 1, 2000 only, the above formula will be adjusted so that players with 7 to 10 Credited Seasons will receive $12,000 more than players with 4 to 6 Credited Seasons, and players with 11 or more Credited Seasons will receive $24,000 more than players with 4 to 6 Credited Seasons.
(c)	Timing: Eligible players who earn a Credited Season by December 1 of an Annuity Year will receive their allocation on December 31 of such Annuity Year. All other players who are entitled to an allocation in an Annuity Year will receive their allocation on March 31 of such Annuity Year.
Section 4.	Distributions: A player may elect to begin receiving distributions under the Player Annuity Program in the form of annuity or installment payments at
Page 200
any time after the later of (a) the player’s attainment of age 35, or (b) five years after the end of the Annuity Year containing the player’s last Credited Season. Payments must begin no later than age 65. A player who elects to begin receiving annuity or installment payments under the preceding sentences may elect to receive such payments in substantially equal amounts for a period beginning on the date of commencement of such payments and ending upon the player’s attainment of age 45, or such later age as he shall specify, or for life. Alternatively, a player may elect to defer his receipt of distributions under the Player Annuity Program. Upon a player’s attainment of age 45, such player may elect to receive his benefit under the Player Annuity Program in the form of an annuity or a lump sum payment. If a player dies before making an election to receive benefits, the player’s named beneficiary may make an election that otherwise would have been available to the player. A player’s rights under the Player Annuity Program may not be transferred, assigned, or alienated.
Section 5.	Structure: The Player Annuity Program will hold assets for the sole benefit of players and their beneficiaries. To expedite the creation of the Program and to reduce costs, the parties agree that the Program will be administered by an Annuity Board, and that prior to the first meeting of the Annuity Board the advisors to the Player Annuity Program will be the same as the advisors to the Savings Plan. The Player Annuity Program is intended to be a program of deferred compensation that is not tax-qualified within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, it is intended that individual allocations will be subject to current taxation, and that taxes will be withheld in accordance with the requirements of applicable federal, state, and local law. The parties intend that the amount of each individual allocation remaining after withholding taxes will be used to purchase an annuity as described in Section 6 below.
Section 6.	Insurance Company: The parties intend to establish as soon as possible an insurance company to hold and invest the assets of the Player Annuity Program. It is intended that such insurance company would be owned by the Player Annuity Program, and would issue either a group annuity contract to the Player Annuity Program or individual annuity contracts to player participants. The parties will review as soon as possible the steps involved and the feasibility of establishing such an insurance company, and retain the right to jointly decide to contract with outside entities for the provision of services in this area. To the extent that the approval or acquiescence of the Department of Labor or any other federal or state agency is deemed necessary or desirable with respect to any feature of the Player Annuity Program, counsel for the Program will seek such approval or acquiescence with the involvement and cooperation of the parties and their designated representatives.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Page 201
ARTICLE XLIX
GROUP INSURANCE
Section 1.	Group Insurance Benefits: Effective after the ratification of this Agreement, players will receive group insurance benefits, consisting of life insurance, medical, and dental benefits, as follows:
(a)	, Life Insurance: For the 1993-99 League Years, a rookie player will be entitled to $100,000
in coverage, and a veteran player’s coverage will be increased by $20,000 for each Credited Season (as defined by the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan) up to a maximum of $200,000 in coverage. For the 2000-02 League Years, a rookie player will be entitled to $150,000 in coverage, and a veteran player’s coverage will be increased by $30,000 for each Credited Season (as defined by the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan) up to a maximum of $300,000 in coverage.
(b)	Medical: Subject to the deductible, 80% of the first $3,000, and 100% thereafter, of qualifying expenses (as defined in existing insurance contract provisions) for all players and their eligible dependents are covered. Each player is required to pay an annual deductible of $200 per individual per plan year and $400 per family per plan year, with a maximum outOofUpocket expense of $800 per plan year (including the deductible) for each covered individual. The maximum lifetime benefits paid on behalf of a covered individual will be $2 million.
(c)	Dental: Usual, customary and reasonable (“UCR”) dental expenses for all players and their eligible dependents will be reimbursed to players pursuant to the following schedule:
1)	Preventive care paid at 100% of UCR,
2)	General services paid at 85% of UCR, and
3)	Major services paid at 50% of UCR.
Each player is required to pay an annual deductible of $50 per individual per plan year and $100 per family per plan year. The maximum benefit payable is $2,000 per covered individual per plan year.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
(d)	Insurance Benefits for Vested Players; Players vested under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan who are released or otherwise sever employment on or before May 1 in a calendar year will continue to receive insurance coverage under this Article until the first regular season game of the season that begins later in that calendar year. Players vested under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan who are released or
otherwise sever employment after May 1 in a calendar year will continue to receive insurance coverage under this Article until the first regular season game of the season that begins in the following calendar year. Group insurance benefits are guaranteed during the term of this Agreement unless reduced by the NFLPA pursuant to Article XLVI (Player Benefit Costs), Section 1, or required to be modified by law.
Page 202
Section 2.	Extended Post-Career Medical And Dental Insurance: The medical and dental insurance benefits described in Section 1 of this Article XLIX are continued, subject to limitations described in Section 3 below, as follows:
(a)	Players vested under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan who are released or otherwise sever employment at anytime during the period from January 1, 1996 through May 1, 1996 will continue to receive the benefits described in Subsections 1(b) and 1(c) above until the first regular season game of the 1997 season.
(b)	Players vested under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan who are released or otherwise sever employment at any time after the first regular season game in the 1996 season, and before the first regular season game of the 1998 season, will continue to receive the benefits described in Subsections 1(b) and 1(c) above for twenty-four (24) months beyond the date the benefits described in Subsections 1(b) and 1(c) above terminate in accordance with Section 1(d) of this Article.
(c)	Players vested under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan who are released or otherwise sever employment at any time after the first regular season game in the 1998 season or at any time thereafter prior to the expiration or termination of this Agreement, will continue to receive the benefits described in Subsections 1(b) and 1(c) above for thirty-six (36) months beyond the date the benefits described in Subsections 1(b) and 1(c) above terminate in accordance with Section 1(d) of this Article.
(d)	All rights under federal law of the players and their spouses and dependents to elect COBRA continuation coverage will commence upon the expiration or termination of the period in which the benefits described in Subsections 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c) above are provided, as if such additional benefits had not been provided.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 3.	Limitations And Rules For Extended Insurance: Certain limitations and rules for the benefits described in Section 2 above will apply as follows:
(a)	The benefits described in Subsections 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c) above will terminate immediately upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement, for individuals eligible for benefits under this Section, including, without limitation, those who have already been released or otherwise severed employment at the time of such expiration or termination.
(b)	The benefits described in Section 2 above will not be provided to employees of the NFL or an NFL Club who are eligible for group insurance by reason of such employment.
(c)	The benefits described in Section 2 above will be secondary to any other health plan or program for health services (for the player or his spouse and dependents) to the extent permitted by state or federal law.
Page 203
(d)	The obligation in the aggregate of the Clubs to provide the benefits described in Section 2 above is limited to; (i) in the 1998 League Year, the costs for such benefits up to $250,000 multiplied by the number of Chibs in the League that League Year; and (ii) in the 1999 and each subsequent League
Year, the costs for such benefits up to $500,000 multiplied by the number of Clubs in the League that League Year.
Sectton 4. Financing For Extended Insurance:
(a)	The cost for the benefits described in Subsection 2(a) above will be paid promptly and in full by the NFLPA to the NFL upon receipt of each itemized invoice from the insurance provider.
(b)	The cost for the benefits described in Subsection 2(b) above for those players who are released or otherwise sever employment after the first game of the 1996 regular season through the 1997 League Year will be paid promptly and in full by the NFLPA to the NFL upon receipt of each itemized invoice from the insurance provider.
(c)	The NFL will reimburse the NFLPA for costs paid pursuant to Subsections 4(a) and 4(b) above, when and to the extent that such costs are charged against the Salary Cap in accordance with Subsections 4(d) and 4(e) below, and as follows:
(i)	in the 1998 League Year, only to the extent that, in the aggregate, the Clubs’ costs forthat League Year for Section 2 benefits is less than $250,000 multiplied by the number of Clubs in the League that League Year, up to that aggregate amount; and
(ii)	in the 1999 and subsequent League Years, only to the extent tliat, in the aggregate, the Clubs' costs for that League Year for Section 2 benefits is less than $500,000 multiplied by the number of Clubs in the League that League Year, up to that aggregate amount.
Reimbursement by the NFL will end when the costs paid by the NFLPA pursuant to Subsections 4(a) and 4(b) above have been fully reimbursed or such earlier date when this Agreement shall expire.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the NFL cancels any extensions of this Agreement pursuant to Article LXI (Extension of Agreement), any costs paid by the NFLPA pursuant to Subsections 4(a) or 4(b) above, and which have not been charged against the Salary Cap, shall be reimbursed by the NFL in the first month of the Final League Year of this Agreement.
(d)	The costs for the benefits described in Section 2 above during the 1998 and subsequent League Years will be charged as Benefits pursuant to Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), Section 1(b).
(e)	The amounts reimbursed to the NFLPA in the 1998 and subsequent League Years for the costs described in Subsections 4(a) and 4(b) above will be charged against the Salary Cap in the League Year in which the reimbursements are to be made, prior to the issuance of the
Page 204
Initial Special Purpose Letter, based upon a projection pursuant to Article XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueWide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), Section 10(c), of the amount of such reimbursements to be made for that League Year, subject to the following rules:
(i)	In the 1998 League Year, the amount shall be charged only after the Salary Cap, following any adjustments due to the Salary Cap Bank created by the Settlement Agreement between the parties dated June 6,1996, is $1,000,000 more than the amount of the 1997 Salary Cap. Any amount that is not charged in the 1998 League Year, pursuant to the preceding sentence, maybe carried over to be charged in the 1999 and future League Years, pursuant to and subject to subsections (ii) and (iii) below.
(ii)	In the 1999 and future League Years, any carryover amounts from prior League Years, and any original reimbursement amounts, shall be charged only after the Salary Cap, following any adjustments due to the Salary Cap Bank created by the Settlement Agreement between the parties dated June 6, 1996, is $1,500,000 more than the amount of the Salary Cap in the prior League Year. Any remaining amount that
is not charged in such a League Year may be carried over to be charged in subsequent League Yearfs), subject to subsection (iii) below.
(iii)	Beginning in the first League Year in which at any time the Salary Cap Bank has a balance of zero, and in all subsequent League Years, any carryover amounts from prior League Years, and any original reimbursement amounts, shall be charged as Benefits pursuant to Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), Section 1(b).
(iv)	To the extent that the projection of the amount of reimbursements for a League Year made pursuant to this Subsection 4(e) are later determined to be incorrect, a reconciliation shall be made the following League Year.
Section 5. Administration: The Management Council will assume administrative responsibility for group insurance benefits. The NFLPA will have the right to veto for cause any insurance company or other entity selected by the NFL or the Management Council to provide benefits under this Article. Reasons justifying such a veto for cause include, but are not limited to, excessive cost, poor service, or insufficient financial reserves. The parties agree to review and consider the most cost efficient manner to provide the coverage described in this Article. Upon request by the NFLPA, the Management Council will promptly provide the NFLPA with any document or other information relating to group insurance, including materials relating to experience and costs.
Page 205
ARTICLE L
SEVERANCE PAY
Section 1.	Eligibility: Only players with two or more Credited Seasons (as that term is defined in the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan), at least one of which is for a season occurring in 1993 through 2004, will be eligible for severance pay under this Article. Except as provided in Section 8, this Article will not extinguish or affect any other rights that a player may have to any other severance pay.
Section 2.	Amount: Each eligible player will receive severance pay in the amounts determined as follows: (a) 55,000 per Credited Season for each of the seasons 1989 through 1992; (b) $10,000 per Credited Season for each of the seasons 1993 through 1999; and (c) $ 12,500 per Credited Season for each of the seasons 2000 through 2002.
Section 3.	Application: To apply for severance pay under this Article, a player must submit a request in writing to the NFL Club that he was under contract with when he earned his last Credited Season, with copies to the Executive Director of the NFLPA and the Executive Vice President for Labor Relations of the NFL. His request must indicate his intention to permanently sever employment with all NFL Clubs as an Active Player.
Section 4.	Payment; Severance pay under this Article will be paid in a single lump sum payment by the NFL Club with which the player last earned a Credited Season according to the following schedule;
LAST LEAGUE PLAYING IF APPLY NO PAYMENT DATE
ACTIVITY	LATER THAN
(AS DETERMINED
BY ROSTER)
The date of the first regular March 1
March 31
season game of that player’s
Club through League
Week 8, or earlier
League Week 9 Through
June 1
June 30
February 19, or earlier
February 20 through
September 1
September 30
May31, or earlier
June 1 through the date
December 1
December 31
immediately preceding the
, date of the first regular	'
season game of that player’s
, Club, or earlier
Page 206
Section 5.	Failure to Apply: A player who has not applied for severance pay under this Article within twenty (20) months of his last participation in NFL football playing activities will be deemed to have applied under this Article as of the expiration date of such twenty (20) month period.
Section 6.	Only One Payment: Any.player who returns, to NFL.football after receiving a severance payment under this Article will not be entitled to any further severance pay.
Section 7.	Payable to Survivor: In the event a player eligible to receive severance pay under this Article dies before receiving such pay, the player’s designated beneficiary (or his estate in the absence of a designated beneficiary) will be entitled to receive such pay on the later of (a) the next payment date following the date of the player’s death, or (b) thirty (30) days after written notification of the player’s death.
Section 8. Prior Severance Pay; Any player entitled to severance pay solely under the 1982 Collective Bargaining Agreement will receive his severance on March 31 or September 30 (instead of April 15 or the day after the third game of the NFL regular season), provided that such player complies with the procedure of the Settlement Agreement dated October 26, 1983.
Section 9. Nonassignability: The right to receive payment hereunder shall not be assignable, transferable or delegable, whether by pledge, creation of a security interest or otherwise, and in the event of any attempted assignment, transfer or delegation, the Clubs will have no liability to pay any amount so attempted to be assigned, transferred or delegated. Neither the NFL nor any NFL Clubs will have any obligation to verify other than to the NFLPA upon request the amount of severance pay a player may be entitled to receive, unless and until an application for pay is properly submitted by such player.
Page 207
ARTICLE LI
SUPPLEMENTAL DISABILITY BENEFITS
Section 1.	Maintenance: The NFL Player Supplemental Disability Plan, and all past and future amendments thereto as adopted in accordance with the terms of that Plan, are incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement; provided, however, that the terms used in such Plan and the definitions of such terms are applicable only to such Plan and shall have no applicability to this Agreement unless the context of this Agreement specifically mandates the use of such term. Such Plan will be continued and maintained in full force and effect during the term of this Agreement.
Section 2. Contributions: For the 1993 Plan Year and continuing for each Plan Year thereafter that begins prior to the expiration of the Final League Year, unless modified as described below, contributions will be made to the Supplemental Disability Plan at least quarterly in an amount sufficient to pay estimated benefits and administrative expenses. Contributions, if any, for later Plan Years will be determined pursuant to future collective bargaining agreements, if any. It will be the duty of the fiduciaries of the Supplemental Disability Plan to pursue all available legal remedies in an effort to ensure payment of all contributions due under this Agreement.
Section 3. Extension: For each Plan Year that begins both(l) on or after April 1, 2000 and (2) prior to the expiration of the Final League Year, the parties will amend Section 3.1 of the NFL Player Supplemental Disability Plan at the beginning-of such Plan Year to provide that a player receiving benefits under Section 5.1(a) of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan will receive a benefit of $14,670 per month for such Plan Year only; a player receiving benefits under Section 5.1(b) of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan will receive a benefit of $7,167 per month for such Plan Year only; and a player receiving benefits under Section 5.1 (c) of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan will receive a benefit of $5,167 per month for such Plan Year only.
Page 208
ARTICLE LII
BENEFIT ARBITRATOR
Section I. Selection; The Management Council and the NFLPA will submit five candidates for Benefit Arbitrator to each other within two weeks of the ratification of this Agreement. If the parties are unable to agree on a Benefit Arbitrator from among the ten candidates submitted, a flip of the coin, no later than three weeks after ratification of the Agreement, will determine which party first strikes a name from the other party’s list of candidates, and the parties will alternately strike names beginning within 24 hours of the coin flip and continuing for no more than a total of 24 hours until the parties are able to agree on the selection of the Benefit Arbitrator, or until only one candidate’s name remains, which candidate will become the Benefit Arbitrator. If for any reason this procedure does not result in the selection of the Benefit Arbitrator within one month of the ratification of this Agreement, the Notice Arbitrator provided for in Article IX (NonDinjury Grievance), will appoint the Benefit Arbitrator of his or her choice within one week of written request by either party.
In the event of a subsequent vacancy in the position of Benefit Arbitrator, the procedure in this Section will be followed to fill the vacancy, substituting only the date of such vacancy for the date of ratification of this Agreement, and permitting the party who lost the prior coin flip to strike the first name from the other party’s list of candidates. Either party may dismiss the Benefit Arbitrator between May 1 and June 1 of each calendar year of this Agreement by written notice to the Benefit Arbitrator and the other party.
Section 2.	Compensation: To the extent that the fees and expenses of the Benefit Arbitrator are not properly charged to and paid by one of the employee benefit plans described or created by this Agreement, such fees and expenses will be divided equally between the parties.
Section 3.	Role: The Benefit Arbitrator will resolve any and all disagreements relating to Articles XLVI through LI of this Agreement. However, disagreements relating to eligibility for pension, disability, or other benefits under the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan and disagreements relating to eligibility for disability benefits under the Supplemental Disability Plan will be resolved in accordance with the procedures that have previously been adopted by the Members of the Retirement Board of the Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan for the resolution of such issues under that Plan, or such other procedures as may be jointly agreed upon by the parties. Also, prior to the merger of the Bert Bell Plan and the Pete Rozelle Plan, disagreements relating to eligibility for benefits under the Pete Rozelle Plan will be resolved in accordance with the procedures established under that Plan. The parties may jointly agree to enlarge or restrict the role of the Benefit Arbitrator. Either
Page 209
party may refer a matter to the Benefit Arbitrator by so notifying the Benefit Arbitrator and the other party. If no other provision in this Agreement governs the procedures for resolution of the dispute, the following procedures will apply. The parties will have two weeks to submit briefs or other documents to the Benefit Arbitrator. Thereafter, .upon the request of either party, the Benefit Arbitrator will immediately convene an expedited hearing at the site of his or her selection. Such hearing will proceed for no more than three days, the first day of which will include whatever mediation efforts the Benefit Arbitrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such mediation will not be binding on the parties. As soon as possible following the closing of such expedited hearing, the Benefit Arbitrator will render his or. her decision, which will be final and binding on the parties. Postdhearing briefs following ihe close of such hearing will be permitted only if requested by the Benefit Arbitrator, and any post □hearing briefs so requested by the Benefit Arbitrator must be submitted within one week of the close of the hearing, with no extensions. The parties intend that postDhearing briefs will be requested only in unusual situations, tn no event will the Benefit Arbitrator’s decision be rendered and delivered to the parties any later than 60 days after a hearing is requested.
Page 210
ARTICLE LIII
RETENTION OF BENEFITS
No financial benefit granted by any Club to its players (e g., free shoes) in all of the 1990, 1991 and 1992 League Years may be reduced or eliminated during the term of this Agreement, unless compelling business reasons make continuation of the benefit financially impracticable.
Page 211
ARTICLE LIV
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Section 1. Benefits: In any state where workers’ compensation coverage is not compulsory, a Club will either voluntarily obtain coverage under the compensation laws of that state or otherwise guarantee equivalent benefits to its players. In the event that a player qualifies for benefits under this section, such
benefits will be equivalent to those benefits paid under the compensation law of the state in which his Club is located.
Section 2. Rejection of Coverage: Nothing in this Article is to be interpreted as preventing a Club that has the legal right to do so from rejecting coverage under the workers’ compensation law of its state. However, if a Club elects to reject coverage under the compensation law of its state, it must nevertheless guarantee benefits to its players in the manner provided in Section 1 above. Moreover, any Club may be excluded from those laws if it elects to do so, but any such Club will be obligated to guarantee benefits to its players in the same manner provided in Section 1 above.
Section 3. Arbitration: In any state where a Club (e g., Miami Dolphins/ Florida) has legally elected not to be covered by the workers’ compensation laws of that state, the equivalent benefit, if any, to which a player may be entitled under this Article will be determined under the grievance procedure of Article IX (NonD Injury Grievance).
Section 4.	Joint Study: The parties agree to establish a joint committee comprised of three NFLPA appointees (plus advisors) and three NFLMC appointees (plus advisors) which will study and make recommendations concerning workers’ compensation coverage of NFL players in the various states (and the District of Columbia) where NFL games are played. The committee will seek to find ways in which workers’ compensation benefits can be provided to players in the most cost □effective manner possible. Written recommendations shall be provided by the committee to the NFLPA and the NFLMC on or before June 1, 1994. The NFLPA and NFLMC shall thereafter exercise their best efforts to implement the recommendations of the committee.
Section 5.	Moratorium: The NFLMC, the NFL, all of the Clubs and the NFLPA agree to a moratorium on any and all efforts to change state laws concerning workers’ compensation coverage of professional athletes: (a) beginning as of the execution of this Agreement and ending December 31, 1994; and (b) beginning as agreed to by the parties in the transition rules for the 1998 League Year and ending June 1, 1999. During such periods, the NFLMC,
Page 212
the NFL, any Club, the NFLPA, and/or their respective agents are prohibited from making or supporting any attempt, directly or indirectly, to change state laws affecting players’ workers’ compensation coverage.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 6. Preservation of Rights: The NFLPA and the Clubs preserve their prior positions with regard to the legality of workers’ compensation offset provisions under state law, and nothing in this Article shall prevent any player from claiming that an offset provision is not legally binding upon him or prevent any Club from asserting that an offset provision is legally binding upon a player. In addition, neither party nor members of the NFLPA’s bargaining unit will claim that the other party’s agreement to this Article or the revised NFL Player Contract appended hereto affects the rights set forth above.
Section 7. Reopener: If the parties do not reach agreement concerning future workers’ compensation coverage of NFL players within sixty (60) days of the issuance of the committee recommendations pursuant to Section 4 above, then either party may reopen this Article upon the giving often (10) days written notice, and both parties will have an obligation to resume negotiations limited to the issue of workers’ compensation, and both parties will be free to engage in whatever concerted or other action may be permitted by law in support of their positions.
Page 213
ARTICLE LV
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1.	Endorsements: No Club may unreasonably refuse to permit a player to endorse a product.
Section 2.	OnD Field Attire: Neither the NFL nor any of the Clubs may have any rule prohibiting or limiting the type of footwear or gloves which may be worn by players on the field, except to the extent such rules or limitations are agreed to by the NFLPA.
Section 3.	Appearances: No Club may unreasonably require a player to appear on radio or television.
Section 4.	Promotion: The NFLPA will use its best efforts to ensure that the players cooperate with the Clubs and the news media in reasonable promotional activities on behalf of the Clubs and the NFL.
Section 5.	Deduction: The involuntary deduction of amounts from any compensation due to a player for the purpose of compensating any Club personnel is prohibited.
Section 6.	Public Statements: The NFLPA and the Management Council agree that each will use its best efforts to curtail public comments by Club personnel or players which express criticism of any club, its coach, or its operation and policy, or which tend to cast discredit upon a Club, a player, or any other person involved in the operation of a Club, the NFL, the Management Council, or the NFLPA.
Section 7. Address: The Management Council will furnish upon request to the NFLPA whatever address .and telephone lists .that Clubs have covering all players .who are.-under. contract to the Clubs as of October 1 for in□ season information, and under contract to the Club as of January 1 for ofTO season information. The Management Council will not divulge player telephone numbers to the media or the public. As of the first pre-season cutdown date, the Management Council will provide to the NFLPA employment dates for all players who are then under contract to the Clubs.
Section 8. NFLPA Tickets: Two (2) complimentary tickets will be made available to the NFLPA to permit attendance at each regularly scheduled League game by authorized NFLPA representatives. AU Clubs will make their best efforts to.make available two (2) additional tickets to the NFLPA for purchase. The NFLPA will provide a list of authorized persons to the Management Council. The NFLPA must notify the home Club of its desire to attend such a game at least three days prior to the date of the game. NFLPA representatives must possess appropriate identification.
Page 214
Section 9.	Player Tickets: Two (2) complimentary tickets will be made available to each player for each home game of his Club. Each player will be afforded the opportunity to purchase two (2) tickets for each away game of his Club from the best tickets available for public sale immediately prior to the public sale for each game. Each Club will provide players with the opportunity to purchase two (2) tickets to the Super Bowl game each year, subject to reasonable safeguards to avoid scalping of the tickets.
Section 10.	Tests: No psychological or personality tests will be given to any player after he signs his first contract with an NFL Club. An Unrestricted Free Agent may agree to take a psychological or personality test if so requested by a Club interested in his services. A player is entitled to review the results of his psychological or personality tests upon request.
Section 11.	League Security: A player will have the right, if he sorequests, to have an NFLPA representative present during an interview by any representative of NFL Security if the player has a reasonable basis for believing that Commissioner discipline might result from the interview.
Section 12.	Career Planning Program: The parties will use best efforts to establish an mDdepth, comprehensive Career Planning Program. The purpose of the program will be to help players enhance their career in the NFL and make a smooth transition to a second career. The program will also provide information to players on handling their personal finances, it being understood that players shall be solely responsible for their personal finances.
Section 13.	Delivery of Documents: The NFL, its Clubs, the Management Council, and the NFLPA shall, upon request therefore by any party hereto, execute and deliver such further documents and instruments and take such further steps as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to implement and effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.
Section 14, Binding Effect: This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their heirs, executors, administrators, representatives, agents, successors and assigns and any corporation into or with which any corporate party hereto may merge or consolidate.
Section 15.	Authorization: The Management Council represents that it has been duly authorized to enter into and to execute this Agreement on behalf of itself and its members. The NFLPA hereby represents that it has been duly authorized to execute this Agreement on behalf of its members.
Page 215
Section 16.	Headings: The headings in this Agreement are solely for the convenience of the attorneys for the parties, and shall not be deemed part of, or considered in construing or interpreting this Agreement.
Section 17.	Time Periods: The specification of any time period in this Agreement shall tncludeany non□ business days within such period, except that any deadline falling on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal Holiday shall be deemed to fall on the following business day.
Section 18.	Exhibits: All of the Exhibits hereto are an integral part of this Agreement and of the agreement of the parties thereto.
Section 19.	Parol Evidence: The parties shall not, in any proceeding or otherwise, use or refer to any parol evidence with regard to the interpretation or meaning of Articles I, XIV, XVICXXl, XXIVnXXX, and LVIDLVHI of this Agreement. None of the Articles of this Agreement may be changed, altered or amended other than by a written agreement.	•
Page 216
ARTICLE LVI
FINAL LEAGUE YEAR
All of the provisions of this Agreement shall be the same in the Final League Year of this Agreement, except that the following rules shall apply only in that League Year:
Section 1.	No Salary Cap: No Salary Cap shall be in effect during the Final League Year.
Section 2.	Free Agency If Salary Cap In League Year Prior To Final League Year: In the event that a Salary Cap is in effect in the League Year prior to the Final League Year: (a) the number of Accrued Seasons required to be an Unrestricted Free Agent during the Final League Year shall be six or more Accrued Seasons; and (b) the provisions of Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), Sections 2D4, shall apply to any player with five Accrued Seasons in the Final League Year, as if such player had four Accrued Seasons, except that the Qualifying Offers specified in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), Section 2(b)(ii) shall be $50,000 greater for the Qualifying Offers originally stated to be $325,000, and $100,000 greater
for the Qualifying Offers originally stated to be $700,000 or $900,000, subject to any additional increases in the base amounts in accordance with the rules set forth in Article XIX (Veteran Free Agency), Section
2(e).	■
Section 3.	Free Agency If No Salary Cap In League Year Prior To Final League Year: In the event that a Salary Cap is not in effect in the League Year prior to the Final League Year, the number of Accrued Seasons required to be an Unrestricted Free Agent during the Final League Year shall be five Accrued Seasons.
Section 4.	Franchise and Transition Players: As set forth in Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), Section 3, each Club shall be permitted to designate one Unrestricted Free Agent as a Transition Player between February 1 and February 15,in the Final League Year, notwithstanding that Transition Players may not be designated in the League Years after the 1994 League Year(except as provided in Article XX (Franchise and Transition Players), Sections 3(a) and 11).
Page 217
ARTICLE LVII
MUTUAL RESERVATION OF RIGHTS;
■. LABOR EXEMPTION
Section 1.	Rights Under Law; Subject to the provisions of this Article, upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement, no Party (as defined in Article XVIII (Mutual Reservation of Rights; Labor Exemption), paragraph 1, of the Settlement Agreement) nor any member of the collective bargaining unit shall be deemed to have waived, by reason of the Settlement Agreement or this Agreement or the settlement and dismissal of other actions, or the entry into or effectuation of this Agreement or any Player Contract, or any of the terms of any of them, or by reason of any practice or course of dealing between or among any of the Parties, their respective rights under law with respect to the issues of whether any provision or practice authorized by this Agreement is or is not then a violation of the antitrust laws. Subject to the provisions of this Article, upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement or the Settlement Agreement, the Parties shall be free to make any available argument that any provision or practice authorized by this Agreement or the Settlement Agreement is or is not then a violation of the antitrust laws, or is or is not then entitled to any labor exemption.
Section 2.	Labor Exemption; In effectuation of this Agreement, the Parties agree that the labor exemption from the antitrust laws applies during the express term of this Agreement and to any conduct of the NFL and the NFLPA taken in accordance with the terms of this Agreement during its express term.
Section 3.	CBA Expiration;
(a)	Following the expiration of the express term of this Agreement, then, if the NFLPA is in existence as a union, the Parties agree that none of the Class Members (as defined in the Settlement Agreement) nor any player represented by the NFLPA shall be able to commence an action, or assert a claim, under the antitrust laws for conduct occurring, until either: (i) the Management Council and NFLPA have bargained to impasse; or (ii) six months after such expiration, whichever is later; at that time, the Parties reserve any . arguments they may make regarding the application of the labor exemption.
(b)	The Parties agree that, after the expiration of the express term of this Agreement, in the event that at that time or any time thereafter a majority of players indicate that they wish to end the collective bargaining status of the NFLPA on or after expiration of this Agreement, the NFL and its Clubs and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, representatives, agents, successors and assigns waive any rights
they may have to assert any antitrust labor exemption defense based upon any claim that the termination by the NFLPA of its status as a collective bargaining representative is
Page 118
or would be a sham, pretext, ineffective, requires additional steps, or has not in fact occurred.
Page 219
ARTICLE LVIII
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1.	Effective Date: Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be effective upon ratification by the NFLPA in accordance with its internal procedures. Upon ratification by the NFLPA, Articles I, XIV, XVIQXX1, XX1VDXXX and LVIDLVIII shall be deemed effective as of March 29, 1993. With respect to the 1998 amendments to this Agreement, those amendments shall be effective upon the execution of those amendments, except that: (i) the 1998 amendments with respect to the Entering Player Pool and the amount of the Salary Cap shall be effective as of the first day of the 1998 League Year; and (ii) the parties may agree upon transition rules implementing the terms of the 1998 amendments, which transition rules shall be effective as of such dates as are agreed to by the parties.
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 2.	Termination: Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Agreement, either die NFLPA or the Management Council may terminate this Agreement on March 1,2005 (or March 1,2004, in the event the extension of this Agreement is canceled as set forth in Article LXI (Extension of Agreement)), or thereafter, by giving sixty (60) days prior written notice to the other party. Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Agreement, all the terms and conditions of this Agreement will be continued in full force and effect for a period of 60 days after such notice is given or until the expiration date of this Agreement, whichever occurs later.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 3.	Expiration Date: Except as provided in Section 4 below, and in Article LXI (Extension of Agreement) below, this Agreement shall be effective from the date hereof and shall continue in full force and effect until the last day of the 2004 League Year, except for the provisions relating to the Draft, Article XVI (College Draft), which shall expire as prescribed in Article XVI, Section 1.
♦Extension Agreement 2/25/98
Section 4.	Termination Prior to Expiration Date:
(a)	Due to Invalidation of Settlement Agreement. In the event that the Settlement Agreement does not receive Court Approval or is otherwise invalidated by any appellate court prior to September 1, 1993;
(i)	This Agreement shall terminate immediately;
(ii)	The White action and the Related Litigation (as defined in Article I of the Settlement Agreement) shall be reinstated to the status quo ante that existed in such actions prior to January 6,1993;
(iii)	All pending motions in White and McNeil shall be decided by the Court; and
Page 220
(iv)	With respect to all Player Contracts entered into by Unrestricted Free Agents during the period from March 1 to the date of such disapproval, and by Restricted Free Agents during the period from March 1 to the date of such disapproval:
(1)	Any Club that had rights to the services of any such player on January 31, 1993 shall have the right to assume any such Player Contract by notice to the player, the New Club, the NFLPA and Class Counsel within ten days of the date of such disapproval, and in such event such Prior Club shall have the same rights to the services of such player that the New Club would have had under such Player Contract;
(2)	Within twenty days of the date of such disapproval, any such player shall have the right to void any such Player Contract, whether such contract was assumed by the Prior Club or not, by notice to the Prior Club or New Club, which clubs shall notify the NFLPA and Class Counsel of such election as soon as possible but in no event later than one day after receiving such notice (in the event the player voids such Player Contract, the player shall return to the Team any compensation received thereunder); and any such player shall have such further relief as determined by the Court pursuant to the pending motions in White and McNeil;	. ■
(3)	In the event that a player voids a Player Contract pursuant to section 4(a)(iv)(2) above, such player shall not be entitled to assert any claim covered by the releases and covenants not to sue, set forth in Article XIX (Releases and Covenants Not to Sue) of the Settlement Agreement, dial arise out of such Player Contract after the date of such election; and
(4)	In the event that a player elects not to void a Player Contract pursuant to section 4(a)(ivX2) above, such player shall not be entitled to assert any claim covered by the releases and covenants not to sue, set forth in Article XIX (Releases and Covenants Not to Sue) of the Settlement Agreement, that arise out of Such Player Contract.	■
(b)	Approval of Settlement Agreement Invalidated. In the event that the Settlement Agreement receives Court Approval but such approval is invalidated by any appellate court on or after September 1, 1993:	_
(i)	This Agreement shall terminate immediately;
(ii)	The White action and the Related Litigations shall be reinstated to the status quo ante that existed in such actions prior to January 6, 1993;
(iii)	All Player Contracts entered into prior to such date of such disapproval shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding on all Parties;
(iv)	A player with a Player Contract referred to in Section 4(b)(iii) above shall not be entitled to assert any claim covered by the releases and covenants not to sue, set forth in Article XIX (Releases And Covenants Not to Sue) of the Settlement Agreement, that arises out of such Player Contract, for conduct prior to such disapproval consistent with the express terms of this Agreement.
Page 221
(c)	Provision Invalidated. If at any time after Court Approval during the term of this Agreement except as referred to in subsections (a) and (b) above, any provision of this Agreement is enjoined, declared null and void, rendered unenforceable or otherwise invalidated by a court of competent jurisdiction, and such court’s order having become final and all appeals through the Court of Appeals having been exhausted, the provision in question shall be severed from the Agreement, and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Notwithstanding anything in this Subsection (c), either the NFL or the NFLPA shall have the right to terminate this Agreement if one or more of the following provisions is rendered invalid, null and void, or unenforceable.1 Articles XVI (College Draft), XIX (Veteran Free
Agency), XXIV (Guaranteed LeagueDwide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), LVI (1999 League Year), XXVIII (Anti□ Collusion), and LVI1 (Mutual Reservation of Rights; Labor Exemption). If either the NFL or the NFLPA wishes to exercise its option to terminate, it may do so by serving upon the other parties written notice of termination within 30 days of the date of such determination and any appeals relating thereto. '
(d)	Termination Due To Collusion. If at any time the conditions of Article XXVIII (AntiO Collusion), Section 16(a), (b) or (c) are satisfied, the NFLPA shall have the right to terminate this Agreement. To execute such a termination, the NFLPA shall serve upon the NFL written notice of termination within thirty days after the Special Master’s report finding the requisite conditions becomes final and any appeals therefrom to the District Court have been exhausted. The Parties agree, however, that such termination shall be stayed if any Party appeals such finding to the Court of Appeals. All Parties agree to seek and accept expedited review in any appeal of a collusion determination, with all the procedural limitations thereof. Thirty days after any expedited review by the Court of Appeals, and in die absence of a stay by the U.S. Supreme Court within ten days thereof, the termination shall be effective, unless the Parties agree otherwise. The Parties shall confer in person or by telephone during the thirtyDday period to attempt to resolve the dispute.
(e)	Termination After Closing Date. If the Settlement Agreement is terminated after the Closing Date (as defined in the Settlement Agreement), the rules set forth in Article XXVI (Termination Prior to Expiration Date), paragraph 6 of the Settlement Agreement, apply.
(f)	No Waiver. Any failure of the NFL, the NFLPA or Class Counsel to exercise its right to terminate this Agreement with respect to any League Year in accordance with this Article shall not be deemed a waiver of or in any way impair or prejudice any right of any such party, if any, to terminate this Agreement in accordance with this Article with respect to any succeeding League Year.
Page 222
Section 5.	Ratification: This Agreement is subject to ratification by the NFLPA and the Management Council in accordance with their internal procedures before it becomes effective. In the event of failure of ratifications by either party, then this Agreement will not become effective and neither party, nor any of its members, will possess or assert any claim whatsoever against the other party because of the failure of ratification of this Agreement.
Page 223
ARTICLE LIX
GOVERNING LAW	1
To the extent that federal law does not govern the implementation of this Agreement, this Agreement shall be construed and interpreted under, and shall be governed by, the laws applicable to contracts made and performed in the State of New York.
Page 224
ARTICLE LX
NOTICES
Any notice to be given under the terms of this Agreement whose method is not otherwise specified herein shall be given in writing by handD delivery and firstDclass prepaid mail addressed as follows:
(a)	To the National Football League Management Council:
The National Football League
Management Council
280 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
Attention: Executive Vice President—Labor Relations
(b)	To an NFL Club:
At the principal address of such Club as then
listed on the records of the NFL or at that Club’s
principal office.
Attention: President
(c)	To the NFLPA:
National Football League Players Association
2021 L Street, N.W.	.
Washington, D.C. 20036
Attention: General Counsel
or to such other persons or addresses as the parties hereto may designate in writing.
Page 225
ARTICLE LXI
EXTENSION OF AGREEMENT
If the NFL or the NFLPA has by December 1,2000 provided written notice to the other party canceling the further extension of this Agreement, then this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until the last day of the 2003 League Year, except for the provisions relating to the Draft,Article XVI (College Draft), which shall expire as prescribed in Article XVI, Section 1. The December 1, 2000 deadline may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
•Extension Agreement 2/25/98
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
PLAYERS ASSOCIATION MANAGEMENT COUNCIL
BY:	BY:
Page 226
APPENDIX A
CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION FOR
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS
ASSOCIATION DEDUCTIONS
I hereby authorize and direct my present club, or any other National Football League club by which I may be employed as a player in the future to deduct from my salary and to pay die National Football League Players Association any initiation fees, annual membership dues, or the required service fee, in the amounts from time to time certified by the National Football League Players Association to the club as properly authorized for each year of the operation of this authorization.
।	I direct that the initiation fee and the annual dues be deducted beginning on the 30th day following the
I	beginning of my employment as a player in the National Football League.
I direct that the annual service fee in the same amount as any initiation fee and the annual dues required
|	of members of the National Football League Players Association be deducted on the 30th day following the
।	beginning of my employment as a player in the National Football League.
I
।	The foregoing authorized deductions are to be checked-off in equal weekly or biweekly installments
from each pre-season and regular season pay check, beginning with the first pay check after the date of the
|	first pre-season squad cutdown. The club will forward such deductions within seven days of each check-off
to the National Football League Players Association, 2021 L Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.
This check-off authorization is irrevocable for a period of one year or until the expiration date of the currently effective collective bargaining agreement between the National Football League Players Association, the National Football League Management Council and the Member Clubs of the National Football League, whichever date occurs first, and I agree and direct that this authorization shall be automatically renewed and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one year each or for the period of each succeeding collective bargaining agreement between the National Football League Players Association, the National Football League Management Council and the Member Clubs of the National Football League, whichever shall be shorter, unless written notice is given by me to the National Football League Players Association and the club not more than twenty (20) and not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration of each period of one year or of each collective bargaining agreement between the National Football
Page 227
League Players Association, the National Football League Management Council and the Member Clubs of the National Football League, whichever occurs sooner.
Date:
Signature
Player’s Name—Type or Print
Page 228
AAPPENDIXB
INJURY PROTECTION/EARLY WAIVER
With regard to the last sentence of Section 1, Article X, of the March 1,1977 Collective Bargaining Agreement, it was agreed that a player who qualifies for “Injury Protection” under subsections (a) and (b) may be waived prior to being given a pre-season physical examination, but the waiving Club would retain “Injury Protection” liability unless and until the player signed a contract with and passed the physical examination of another NFL Club. In other words, a Club cannot evade “Injury Protection” liability by early waiving.	.
Page 229
APPENDIX C
NFL PLAYER CONTRACT
THIS CONTRACT is between_______________________‘s
____________________________________ , hereinafter “Player,” and _____________________,_,___„_.________.____,___,____________._____ * a_________________________________________________________________
corporation (limited partnership) (partnership), hereinafter “Club,” operating under the name of the_____________________________________________
as a member of the National Football League, hereinafter “League.” In consideration of the promises made by each to the other,
Player and Club agree as follows:
1.	TERM. This contract covers__________football season(s), and will begin on the date of
execution or March 1,, whichever is later, and end on February 28 or 29,_____________, unless
extended, terminated, or renewed as specified elsewhere in this contract.
2,	EMPLOYMENT AND SERVICES, Club employs Player as a skilled football player. Player accepts such employment. He agrees to give his best efforts and loyalty to the Club, and to conduct himself on and off the field with appropriate recognition of the fact that the success of professional football depends largely on public respect for and approval of those associated with the game. Player will report promptly for and participate fully in Club’s official mandatory mini-camp(s), official pre-season training camp, all Club meetings and practice sessions, and all pre-season, regular season and post-season football games scheduled for or by Club. If invited, Player will practice for and play in any all-star football game sponsored by the League. Player will not participate in any football game not sponsored by the League unless the game is first approved by the League.
3.	OTHER ACTIVITIES. Without prior written consent of the Club, Player will not play football or engage in activities related to football otherwise than for Club or engage in any activity other than football which may involve a significant risk of personal injury. Player represents that be has special, exceptional and unique knowledge, skill, ability, and experience as a football player, the loss of which cannot be estimated with any certainty and cannot be fairly or adequately compensated by damages. Player therefore
agrees that Club will have the right, in addition to any other right which Club may possess, to enjoin Player by appropriate proceedings from playing football or engaging in football-related activities other than for Club or from engaging in any activity other than football which may involve a significant risk of personal injury.
Page 230
4.	PUBLICITY AND NFLPA GROUP LICENSING PROGRAM.
(a)	Player grants to Club and the League, separately and together, the authority to use his name and picture for publicity and the promotion of NFL Football, the League or any of its member clubs in newspapers, magazines, motion pictures, game programs and roster manuals, broadcasts and telecasts, and all other publicity and advertising media, provided such publicity and promotion does not constitute an endorsement by Player of a commercial product. Player will cooperate with the news media, and will participate upon request in reasonable activities to promote the Club and the League. Player and National Football League Players Association, hereinafter “NFLPA,” will not contest the rights of the League and its member clubs to telecast, broadcast, or otherwise transmit NFL Football or the right of NFL Films to produce, sell, market, or distribute football game film footage, except insofar as such broadcast, telecast, or transmission of footage is used in any commercially marketable game or interactive use. The League and its member clubs, and Player and the NFLPA, reserve their respective rights as to the use of such broadcasts, telecasts or transmissions of footage in such games or interactive uses, which shall be unaffected by this subparagraph.
(b)	Player hereby assigns to the NFLPA and its licensing affiliates, if any, the exclusive right to use and to grant to persons, firms, or corporations (collectively “licensees”) the right to use his name, signature facsimile, voice, picture, photograph, likeness, and/or biographical information (collectively “image”) in group licensing programs. Group licensing programs are defined as those licensing programs in which a licensee utilizes a total of six (6) or more NFL player images on products that are sold at retail or used as promotional or premium items. Player retains the right to grant permission to a licensee to utilize his image if that licensee is not concurrently utilizing the images of five (5) or more other NFL players on products that are sold at retail or are used as promotional or premium items. If Player’s inclusion in a particular NFLPA program is precluded by an individual exclusive endorsement agreement, and Player provides the NFLPA with timely written notice of that preclusion, the NFLPA will exclude Player from that particular program. In consideration for this assignment of rights, the NFLPA will use the revenues it receives from group licensing programs to support the objectives as set forth in the By-laws of the NFLPA. The NFLPA will use its best efforts to promote the use of NFL player images in group licensing programs, to provide group licensing opportunities to all NFL players, and to ensure that no entity utilizes the group licensing rights granted to the NFLPA without first obtaining a license from the NFLPA. This paragraph shall be construed under New York law without reference to conflicts of law principles. The assignment in this paragraph shall expire on December 31 of the later of (a) the third year following the execution of this contract, or (b) the year in which this contract expires. Neither
Page 231
Club nor the League is a party to the terms of this paragraph, which is included herein solely fur the administrative convenience and benefit of Player and the NFLPA. The terms of this subparagraph apply unless, at foe time of execution of this contract, Player indicates by striking out this subparagraph (b) and marking his initials adjacent to the stricken language his intention to not participate in the NFLPA Group Licensing Program. Nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to supersede or any way broaden, expand, detract from, or otherwise alter in any way whatsoever, the rights of NFL Properties, Inc. as permitted under Article V (Union Security), Section 4 of the 1993 Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”).
5.	COMPENSATION. For performance of Player’s services and all other promises of Player, Club will pay Player a yearly salary as follows:
$2 for the 19 season;
$for the 19 season;
$.for the 19 season;
$for the 19.season;
$:for the 19 season.
In addition, Club will pay Player such earned performance bonuses as may be called for in this contract; Player’s necessary traveling expenses from his residence to training camp; Player’s reasonable board and lodging expenses during pre-season training and in connection with playing pre-season, regular season, and post-season football games outside Club’s home city; Player’s necessary traveling expenses to and from pre-season, regular season, and post-season football games outside Club’s home city; Player’s necessary traveling expenses to his residence if this contract is terminated by Club; and such additional compensation, benefits and reimbursement of expenses as may be called for in any collective bargaining agreement in existence during the term of this contract. (For purposes of this contract, a collective bargaining agreement will be deemed to be “in existence” during its stated term or during any period for which the parties to that agreement agree to extend it.)
6.	PAYMENT. Unless this contract or any collective bargaining agreement in existence during the term of this contract specifically provides otherwise, Player will be paid 100% of his yearly salary under this contract in equal weekly or bi-weekly installments over the course of the applicable regular season period, commencing with the first regular season game played by Club in each season. Unless this contract specifically provides otherwise, if this contract is executed or Player is activated after the beginning of the regular season, the yearly salary payable to Player will be reduced proportionately and Player will be paid the weekly or bi-weekly portions of his yearly salary becoming due and payable after he is activated. Unless this contract specifically provides otherwise, if this contract is terminated after the beginning of the regular season, the yearly salary payable to Player will be reduced proportionately and Player will be paid the weekly or bi- weekly
Page 232
portions of his yearly salary having become due and payable up to the time of termination.
7.	DEDUCTIONS. Any advance made to Player will be repaid to Club, and any properly levied Club fine or Commissioner fine against Player will be paid, in cash on demand or by means of deductions from payments coining due to the Player under this contract, the amount of such deductions to be determined by Club unless this contract or any collective batgaining agreement in existence during the term of this contract specifically provides otherwise.	.
8.	PHYSICAL CONDITION. Player represents to Club that he is and will maintain himself in excellent physical condition. Player will undergo a complete physical examination by the Club physician upon Club request, during which physical examination Player agrees to make full and complete disclosure of any physical or mental condition known to him which might impair his performance under this contract and to respond fully and in good faith when questioned by the Club physician about such condition. If Player fails to establish or maintain his excellent physical condition to the satisfaction of the Club physician, or make the required full and complete disclosure and good faith responses to the Club physician, then Club may terminate this contract
9.	INJURY. Unless this contract specifically provides otherwise, if Player is injured in the performance of his services under this contract and promptly reports such injury to the Club physician or trainer, then Player will receive such medical and hospital care during the term of this contract as the Club physician may deem necessary, and will continue to receive his yearly salary for so long, during the season of injury only and for no subsequent period covered by this contract, as Player is physically unable to
I I
I I
perform the services required of him by this contract because of such injury. If Player’s injury in the performance of his services under this contract results in his death, the unpaid balance of his yearly salary for the season of injury will be paid to his stated beneficiary, or in the absence of a stated beneficiary, to his estate.
10.	WORKERS’ COMPENSATION. Any compensation paid to Player under this contract or under any collective bargaining agreement in existence during the term of this contract for a period during which he is entitled to workers’ compensation benefits by reason of temporary total, permanent total, temporary partial, or permanent partial disability will be
Page 233
deemed an advance payment of workers’ compensation benefits due Player, and Club will be entitled to be reimbursed the amount of such payment out of any award of workers’ compensation.
11.	SKILL, PERFORMANCE AND CONDUCT. Player understands that he is competing with other players for a position on Club's roster within the applicable player limits. If at any time, in the sole judgment of Club, Player’s skill or performance has been unsatisfactory as compared with that of other players competing for positions on Club’s roster, or if Player has engaged in personal conduct reasonably judged by Club to adversely affect or reflect on Club, then Club may terminate this contract. In addition, during the period any salary cap is legally in effect, this contract may be terminated if, in Club’s opinion, Player is anticipated to make less of a contribution to Club’s ability to compete on the playing field than another player or players whom Club intends to sign or attempts to sign, or another player or players who is or are already on Club’s roster, and for whom Club needs room.
12.	TERMINATION. The rights of termination set forth in this contract will be in addition to any other rights of termination allowed either party by law. Termination will be effective upon the giving of written notice, except that Player’s death, other than as a result of injury incurred in the performance of his services under this contract, will automatically terminate this contract. If this contract is terminated by Club and either Player or Club so requests, Player will promptly undergo a complete physical examination by the Club physician.
13.	INJURY GRIEVANCE. Unless a collective bargaining agreement in existence at the time of termination of this contract by Club provides otherwise, the following injury grievance procedure will apply: If Player believes that at the time of termination of this contract by Club he was physically unable to perform the services required of him by this contract because of an injury incurred in the performance of his services under this contract, Player may, within 60 days after examination by the Club physician, submit at his own expense to examination by a physician of his choice. If the opinion of Player’s physician with respect to his physical ability to perform the services required of him by this contract is contrary to that of the Club’s physician, the dispute will be submitted within a reasonable time to final and binding arbitration by an arbitrator selected by Club and Player or, if they are unable to agree, one selected in accordance with the procedures of the American Arbitration Association on application by either party.
14.	RULES. Player will comply with and be bound by all reasonable Club rules and regulations in effect during the term of this contract which,
Page 234
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this contract or of any collective bargaining agreement in existence during the term of this contract. Player’s attention is also called to the fact that the League functions with certain rules and procedures expressive of its operation as a joint venture among its member clubs and that these rules and practices may affect Player’s relationship to the League and its member clubs independently of the provisions of this contract.	,
15.	INTEGRITY OF GAME. Player recognizes the detriment to the League and professional football that would result from impairment of public confidence in the honest and orderly conduct of NFL games or
the integrity and good character of NFL players. Player therefore acknowledges his awareness that if he accepts a bribe or agrees to throw or fix an NFL game; fails to pronptly report a bribe offer or an attempt to throw or fix an NFL game; bets on an NFL game; knowingly associates with gamblers or gambling activity; uses or provides other players with stimulants or other drags for the purpose of attempting to enhance on-field performance; or is guilty of any other form of conduct reasonably judged by the League Commissioner to be detrimental to the League or professional football, the Commissioner will have the right, but only after giving Player the opportunity for a hearing at which he may be represented by counsel of his choice, to fine Player in a reasonable amount; to suspend Player for a period certain or indefinitely; and/or to terminate this contract.
16.	EXTENSION. Unless this contract specifically provides otherwise, if Player becomes a member of the Armed Forces of the United States or any other country, or retires from professional football as an active player, or otherwise fails or refuses to perform his services under this contract, then this contract will be tolled between the date of Player’s induction into the Armed Forces, or his retirement, or his failure or refusal to perform, and the later date of his return to professional football. During the period this contract is tolled, Player will not be entitled to any compensation or benefits. On Player’s return to professional football, the term of this contract will be extended for a period of time equal to the number of seasons (to ' the nearest multiple of one) remaining at the time the contract was tolled. The right of renewal, if any, contained in this contract will remain in effect until the end of any such extended term.
17.	ASSIGNMENT. Unless this contract specifically provides otherwise, Club may assign this contract and Player’s services under this contract to any successor to Club’s franchise or to any other Club in the League. Player will report to the assignee Club promptly upon being informed of the assignment of his contract and will faithfully perform his services under this contract. The assignee club will pay Player’s necessary traveling expenses in reporting to it and will faithfully perform this contract
Page 235
with Player.
18.	FILING. This contract will be valid and binding upon Player and Club immediately upon execution. A copy of this contract, including any attachment to it, will be filed by Club with the League Commissioner within ] 0 days after execution. The Commissioner will have the right to disapprove this contract on reasonable grounds, including but not limited to an attempt by the parties to abridge or impair the rights of any other club, uncertainty or incompleteness in expression of the parties’ respective rights and obligations, or conflict between the terms of this contract and any collective bargaining agreement then in existence. Approval will be automatic unless, within 10 days after receipt of this contract in his office, the Commissioner notifies the parties either of disapproval or of extension of this 10-day period for purposes of investigation or clarification pending his decision. On the receipt of notice of disapproval and termination, both parties will be relieved of their respective rights and obligations under this contract.
19.	DISPUTES. During the term of any collective bargaining agreement, any dispute between Player and Club involving the interpretation or application of any provision of this contract will be submitted to final and binding arbitration in accordance with the procedure called for in any collective bargaining agreement in existence at the time the event giving rise to any such dispute occurs.
20.	NOTICE. Any notice, request, approval or consent under this contract will be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed (certified or first class) by one party to the other at the address set forth in this contract or to such other address as the recipient may subsequently have furnished in writing to the sender.
21.	OTHER AGREEMENTS. This contract, including any attachment to it, sets forth the entire agreement between Player and Club and cannot be modified or supplemented orally. Player and Club represent that no other agreement, oral or written, except as attached to or specifically incorporated in this contract, exists between them. The provisions of this contract will govern the relationship between Player and Club unless there are conflicting provisions in any collective bargaining agreement in existence during
the term of this contract, in which case the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement will take precedence over conflicting provisions of this contract relating to the rights or obligations of either party.
22.	LAW. This contract is made under and shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Page 236
23.	WAIVER AND RELEASE. Player waives and releases any claims that he may have arising out of, related to, or asserted in the lawsuit entitled White v. National Football League, including, but not limited to, any such claim regarding past NFL Rules, the College Draft, Plan B, the first refusal/compensation system, the NFL Player Contract, pre-season compensation, or any other term or condition of employment, except any claims asserted in Brown v. Pro Football, Inc. This waiver and release also extends to any conduct engaged in pursuant to the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement in White (“Settlement, Agreement”) during the express term of that Settlement Agreement or any portion thereof. This waiver and release shall not limit any rights Player may have to performance by the Club under this Contract or Player’s rights as a member of the White class to object to the Settlement Agreement during its review by the court in Minnesota. This waiver and release is subject to Article XIV (NFL Player Contract), Section 3(c) of the CBA.
24.	OTHER PROVISIONS.
(a) Each of the undersigned hereby confirms that (i) this contract, renegotiation, extension or amendment sets forth all components of the player’s remuneration for playing professional football (whether such compensation is being furnished directly by the Club or by a related or affiliated entity); and (ii) there are not undisclosed agreements of any kind, whether express or implied, oral or written, and there are no promises, undertakings, representations, commitments, inducements, assurances of intent, or understandings of any kind that have not been disclosed to the NFL involving consideration of any kind to be paid, furnished or made available to Player or any entity or person owned or controlled by, affiliated |	with, or related to Player, either during the term of this contract or thereafter.
।	(b) Each of the undersigned further confirms that, except insofar as any of the undersigned may
I	describe in an addendum to this contract, to the best of their knowledge, no conduct in violation of the
Anti-Collusion rules, of the Settlement Agreement took place with respect to this contract. Each of the i	undersigned further confirms that nothing in this contract is designed or intended to defeat or circumvent
i	any provisions of the Settlement Agreement, including but not limited to the Rookie Pool and Salary Cap
provisions; however, any conduct permitted by the CBA and/or the Settlement Agreement shall not be |	considered a violation of this confirmation.
(c) The Club further confirms that any information regarding the negotiation of this contract that it I	provided to the Neutral Verifier was, at the time the information was provided, true and correct in all
material respects.
I
!	Page 237
I	25. SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
,	THIS CONTRACT is executed in six (6) copies. Player acknowledges that before signing this contract he
was given the opportunity to seek advice from or be represented by persons of his own selection.
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------—
PLAYER	CLUB
Home Address	By
Telephone Number	Club Address
Date	Date
PLAYER’S CERTIFIED AGENT
Address
Telephone Number
Date
Copy Distribution: White-League Office Yellow-Player
Green-Member Club Blue-Management Council
Gold-NFLPA Pink-Player Agent
page 238
APPENDIX D
FIRST REFUSAL OFFER SHEET
Name of Player:
Address of Player:
Name and Address of
Date:	.
Name of New Team:
Name of Prior Team:
Player’s Representative
Authorized to Act for Player:
l
Address of Prior Team:
Principal Terms of NFL Player Contract With New Team:
[Supply Information on this Sheet or on Attachment]
1,	Salary to be paid, guaranteed or loaned (i.e., paragraph 5 Salary; signing, reporting and roster bonuses; deferred compensation (including the specified installments and the specified dates); amount and terms of loans, if any; and description of variation and method of calculation, if any, for Salary in Principal Terms that may be variable and/or calculable (i.e., only likely to be earned team incentives for New Team [not to exceed 15% of Salary] and generally recognized league-wide honors): [Please identify every component of such payment (e.g., signing bonus, salary, etc.) and indicate if any component or portion thereof is guaranteed or based upon specific incentives].
2.	‘ Modifications and additions to NFL Player Contract(s); [or attach marked-up copy of NFL Player Contracts)]
3,	Other terms (that need not be matched):
Player;	New Club:
By;	■ By: 	- Chief Operating Officer
Page 239
APPENDIX E
FIRST REFUSAL EXERCISE NOTICE
Name of Player;
Date:
Address of Player:
Name of New Team;
Name and Address of
Name of Prior Team;
Player’s Representative
Authorized to Act for Player;
Address ofPrior Team:
The undersigned member of the NFL hereby exercises its Right of First Refusal so as to create a binding Agreement with the player named above containing the Principal Terms set forth in the First Refusal Offer Sheet (a copy of which is attached hereto), and those terms of the NFL Player Contract not modified by such Principal Terms.
Prior Team
By;Chief Operating Officer
Page 240
APPENDIX F
WAIVER OF FREE AGENT RIGHTS
I,	the undersigned, hereby state that I have agreed to a Right of First Refusal at the end of my NFL Player Contract, as set forth in the documents attached to this waiver. I understand that, in so doing, I am giving up rights I have to be complete iy free to sign with other teams at the end of my contract. I also understand that no NFL team is permitted to force me to renounce these rights, which are rights that I have under the NFLPA/NFL collective bargaining agreement and the settlement of the Reggie White class action suit against the NFL. In exchange for renouncing these rights, I understand that I will receive the following additional compensation, if any, from my team:	.
By:_________________________
WITNESSED BY:
Page 241
APPENDIX G
NOTICE OF TERMINATION
TO:
You are hereby notified that effective immediately your NFL Player Contracts) with the Club covering the football season(s) has (have) been terminated for the reason(s) checked
below;
-	You have failed to establish or maintain your excellent physical condition to the satisfaction of the Club physician.
-	You have failed to make full and complete disclosure of your physical or mental condition during a physical examination.
-	In the judgment of the Club, your skill or performance has been unsatisfactory as compared with that of other players competing for positions on the Club’s roster.
-	You have engaged in personal conduct which, in the reasonable judgment of the Club, adversely affects or reflects on the Club.
The following reason can be checked only in a year in which a Salary Cap is in effect:
-	In the Club’s opinion, you are anticipated to make less of a contribution to the Club’s ability to compete on the playing field than another player or players whom the Club intends to sign or attempts to sign, or already on the roster of the Club, and for whom the Club needs Room.
Page 242
APPENDIX H
ACCOUNTANTS’ REVIEW PROCEDURES
The information included in the Schedule of Team Salaries, Benefits, Player Costs, Defined Gross Revenues (“DGR”) and Excluded DGR of the member clubs of the NFL (the “Schedule”), which is not intended to be a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is to be prepared in accordance with the provisions and definitions contained in die Settlement Agreement. The information on the Schedule is to be file responsibility of the NFL Member Clubs’ and the NFL’s managements. The Accountants’ responsibility will be to express an opinion on the Schedule based on their audit.
The NFL and Class Counsel or any Players Union are to retain a national accounting firm (the “Accountants”). The Accountants are to conduct an audit of the Schedule (the “Audit”) in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that the Accountants plan and perform the Audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Schedule is free of material misstatement. The Audit shall include examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Schedule. The Audit shall also include an assessment of the significant estimates made by management, as well as an evaluation of the overall Schedule presentation.
A committee is to be established, the Settlement Agreement Salary Cap Review Committee (the “Committee”), consisting of 6 members with 3 representatives designated by each of the NFL and Class Counsel or any Players Union. The Committee is to meet with the Accountants at least twice during the year, once prior to December 31 st to review the scope of the Audit described in the preceding paragraph and again before February 15th to review the results of the Audit before issuance of the final report for that playing season.
The procedures detailed below are designed for the Accountants to determine whether, in their opinion, the Schedule represents, in all material respects, the Team Salaries, Benefits, Player Costs, Defined Gross Revenues and Excluded DGR of the member clubs of the NFL for such season in accordance with the terms of the Settlement Agreement. The Accountants will audit the Schedule for each playing season.
The Accountants may rely on the auditing procedures performed by each member club’s local accounting firm (“Local Accountants”) or may test the procedures on a scope basis so as to permit the Accountants to obtain a reasonable basis to express an overall opinion on the Schedule as referred above.
Page 243
The Accountants will have access to the Local Accountants’ audit workpapers of the Schedule (the “Workpapers”). If the Accountants need to review the financial audit workpapers or the corresponding financial statement of any club or the League Office, this information will be held in confidence and not be part of the file subject to review by the Committee.
Procedures provided by the NFL and Class Counsel to be performed by the Accountants
General
The Settlement Agreement should be reviewed and understood.
See Exhibit I for the form of the Accountants’ Audit Report.
*	Examine the National Television and Cable contracts at the League Office and agree to amounts reported.
•	Schedules of international broadcast should be obtained from the League Office. Schedules should be
verified by agreeing to general ledgers and testing supporting documentation where applicable.
•	All loans, advances, bonuses, etc. received by die League Office should be noted in the report and included in DGR where appropriate.
•	The Player Compensation and Defined Gross Revenues Reporting Package and instructions for the . playing season should be reviewed and understood.
•	All audit workpapers of the Accountants relative to its report on the Schedule should be made available for review by representatives of the NFL and Class Counsel or any Players Union prior to issuance of the report.
•	A summary of all Audit findings (including any unusual or non-recurring transactions) and proposed adjustments must be jointly reviewed with representatives of the NFL and the NFLPA prior to issuance of the report.
•	Any problems or questions raised during the Audit should be resolved by the Committee.
*	Estimates should be reviewed in accordance with the Settlement Agreement Estimates are to be reviewed based upon the previous year’s actual results and current year activity. Estimates should be reconfirmed with third parties when possible.
Page 244
•	Revenue and expense amounts that have been estimated should be reconfirmed with the Controller or other team representatives prior to the issuance of the report.
•	Where possible, team and League Office revenues and expenses should be reconciled to audited financial statements. This information is to be held in confidence.
•	The Accountants should be aware of revenues excluded from DGR. All revenues excluded by the teams or League Office should be reviewed to determine proper exclusion, The Accountants should perform a review for revenues improperly excluded from, or included in, DGR.
Procedures provided by the NFL and Class Counsel to be performed by the Local Accountants
General
•	Each NFL member club shall be audited in accordance with the Settlement Agreement, The Settlement Agreement should be reviewed and understood by all Local Accountants.
•	See Exhibit II for the form of the Local Accoutants’ Audit Report.
•	Special rules for Cap Counting such as annuities, loans, guarantees, deferrals, signing bonuses and the like should be reviewed and understood.
Team Salaries - Schedule 1
*	Trace amounts to the team’s general ledger or other supporting documentation for agreement.
Foot all schedules and perform other clerical tests.
•	Examine the applicable player contracts for all players listed, noting agreement of all salary amounts for each player, in accordance with the definition of salary in the Settlement Agreement.
Compare player names with all player lists for the season in question.
*	Determine method used to value non-cash compensation is in compliance with methods outlined in the Settlement Agreement.
•	Examine trade arrangements to verify that each team has properly recorded its pro rata portion of the players’ entire salary based upon roster days.
1	Page 245
I
• Inquire of Controller or other representative of each team if any additional compensation was paid to !	players and not included on the schedule.
I
i
I	• Review “Miscellaneous Bonuses” to determine whether such bonuses were actually earned for such
I	season.
,	• Review signing bonuses to determine if they have been allocated over the years of the Contract in
accordance with the Settlement Agreement.
I
i
1	• Review contracts to insure that any guaranteed amounts for future years are allocated, if applicable,
1	over previous years in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
•	Compare the balances of player loans from the end of the prior period to the end of the current period and reconcile to the respective payment schedule in effect at the end of the prior period.
Benefits - Schedule 2
•	Trace amounts to the team’s general ledger or other supporting documentation for agreement.
Foot all schedules and perform other clerical tests.
Players Pension Severance Costs Disability Insurance MedicalZDental/Life Ins.
Player Costs - Schedule 3
•	Investigate variations in amounts from prior year through discussion with the Controller or other representative of the team.
•	Review each team’s insurance expenses for premium credits (refunds) received from carriers.
•	Review supporting documentation as to the following expenses;
Workers Compensation
FICA - Social Security/Medicare
Unemployment Insurance	■
Other Allowable Benefits
•	Perform procedures provided in Schedules 1 and 2 above and deduct amounts not includable in the definition of “Player Costs” in the Agreement.
Page 246
Defined Gross Revenues - Schedule 4
•	Trace amounts to team’s general ledger or other supporting documentation for agreement.
•	Foot ail schedules and perform other clerical tests.
•	Trace gate receipts to general ledger and test supporting documentation where appropriate.
Gate receipts should be reviewed and reconciled to League Office gate receipts summary.
•	Luxury box revenues should be included/excluded in DGR in a manner consistent with the DGR Settlement Agreement. Amounts included in DGR should be verified to supporting documentation.
Examine local television, local cable and local radio contracts. Verify to amounts reported by teams.
*	When local broadcast revenues are not verifiable by reviewing a contract, detailed supporting documentation should be obtained and tested.
•	All loans, advances, bonuses, etc. received by the team should be noted in the report and included in DGR where appropriate.
•	All amounts of other revenues should be reviewed for proper inclusion/exclusion in DGR. Test . appropriateness of balances where appropriate.
j	Excluded DGR - Schedule 5
I	• Perform procedures provided in Schedule 4 above for amounts of DGR defined in the Agreement as
I	“Excluded DGR” and make any adjustments to DGR as appropriate.
'	Questions - Schedule 6
I
•	Review with Controller or other representatives of the team the answers to all questions on this
!	schedule.
i	■
i
• Review that appropriate details are provided where requested.
।	• Prepare a summary of all changes.
Page 247
DGR Reporting Procedures - Schedule 7 and List of Related Entities - Schedule 8
1	• Review with Controller or other representatives of the team all information included on both
।	schedules.
•	• Prepare a summary of any changes, corrections or additions to either schedule.
I
• Review supporting details of any changes.
i	Page 248
1	EXHIBIT I
ACCOUNTANTS’ AUDIT REPORT
We have audited the Schedule of Team Salaries, Benefits, Player Costs, Defined Gross Revenues and excluded Defined Gross Revenues of the Member Clubs of the National Football League (“NFL”) for the  playing season (the “Schedule”). This information, which is not intended to be a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, was prepared in accordance with the provisions and definitions contained in the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement dated February 26, 1993, White v. NFL, No. 4-92-906 (D. Minn.) (the “Settlement Agreement”). The information on this schedule is the responsibility of the Member Clubs and the NFL’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this Schedule based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurances about whether the Schedule is free of material misstatement An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Schedule. An audit also includes assessing the significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall Schedule presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion the Schedule referred to above presents fairly, in all material respects, the Team Salaries, Benefits, Player Costs, Defined Gross Revenues and Excluded Defined Gross Revenues of the Member Clubs of the National Football League (“NFL”) for the____________playing season in accordance with
the applicable terms of the Settlement Agreement.
This report is for your use in connection with the Settlement Agreement and should not be referred to or distributed to anyone outside of your organization for any other purpose, nor should it be related to the financial statements of the NFL or any Member Club taken as a whole.
Page 249
EXHIBIT II
LOCAL ACCOUNTANTS’ AUDIT REPORT
We have audited the Schedule of Team Salaries, Benefits, Player Costs, Defined Gross Revenues and Excluded Defined Gross Revenues of the__________________a Member Club of the National Football
League (“NFL”) for the_________________playing season (the “Schedule”). This information, which is not
intended to be a presentation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, was prepared in accordance with the provisions and definitions contained in the Stipulation and Settlement Agreement dated February 26,1993, White v. NFL, No. 4-92-906 (D. Minn.) (the “Settlement Agreement”). The information on this schedule is the responsibility of__________________management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on this Schedule based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurances about whether the Schedule is free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Schedule. An audit also includes assessing the significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall Schedule presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion the Schedule referred to above presents fairly, in all material respects, the Team Salaries, Benefits, Player Costs, Defined Gross Revenues and Excluded Defined Gross Revenues of the for the  playing season in accordance with the applicable terms of the Settlement Agreement.
This report is for your use in connection with the Settlement Agreement and should not be referred to or distributed to anyone outside of your organization for any other purpose, nor should it be related to the financial statements of the taken as a whole.
Page 250
APPENDIX I
STANDARD MINIMUM PRE-SEASON PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION
Should there be the need for additional examination or testing in any specific area, such will be permitted.
General Medical Examination
1.	History
-	player
-	family
-	thorough review of all team physicians and trainer reports for preceding seasons
2.	Examination
-	head
-	face
-	scalp
-	ears
-	external & drums
-	sinus
-	throat
-eyes
-	pupils	.
-	reaction to movement & light
-	lungs
-	palpation
-	chest
-	heart
-	visceral	■
-	hernia
- rectal
hemorrhoid
-	fistula
-	prostate
-	gastric
-	any unusual body marks, i.e. scars, birthmarks
-	height
-	weight
-	temperature
-	blood pressure
-pulse
-	heart rate
Page 251
Orthopedic Examination
Examination visually, including stress testing and range of motion for all of the following:
-	neck and spine
-	shoulder
-	elbow
-	wrist
-	fingers
-hips
-	knees; also knee jerk
-	ankle; check Achilles tendon for abnormalities and by jerk test
-	toes	.
Flexibility
Testing of hamstrings and neck
EKG
Heart Abnormalities
Stress Testing (at physician’s discretion) (Treadmill or bicycle) for cardiovascular
Blood Testing
Standard grid. Testing for (including but not limited to):
-	Chemistry
-	Calcium
-	Phosphorus
-	Glucose
-	Uric Acid
-	Cholesterol
-	Iron
-	Triglyceride
-	Lipids
-	Sodium
-	Chlorides	.
-	White Blood Count
-	Red Blood Count
-	Mono-Screen*
-	Tay Sachs*
-	Sickle Cell*
-	VD*
Page 252
Urinalysis
Check for (including but not limited to):
-	Protein
-	Glucose
-	PH Factor
-	Diabetes
-	Renal Failure
-	Gout
1 .
]	------ *Where applicable. If found,
1 individual counseling necessary.
Vision Testing
-	peripheral vision
-	standard eye test
Hearing Test
Dental Examination
Chest X-Ray (at appropriate intervals)
(Only as recommended by AMA standard)
Check for:	Tumor
T.B.
Lesions
X-Ray all previously injured areas (at physician’s discretion)
Page 253
■ APPENDIX J
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS AND ACTUARIAL
COST METHOD
Mortality rates:	Group Annuity Mortality Table for 1983
without margins
Disability mortality	1965 Railroad Retirement Board select and
before age 65:	ultimate table
Non-football related	Age	Rate
disability rates before	*	22	.04
retirement:	27	.04 32	.04 37	.05 42	.09 47	.18 52	.41
Football related	.08% per year for active players and .06%
disability rates:
per year for inactive players until age 45, after which it becomes zero. Active
players are assumed to become inactive after one year or age 30, whichever comes later.
Withdrawal rates:
For Players
With Service of	Rate
1 year	29.1%
2 years	19.7%
3 years	17.0%
Election of early
35% of all players out of football less than
payment benefit:
two years will elect the benefit two years after leaving football. Active players are
assumed to leave football after one season or age 30, whichever is later. No assumption for players with no credited seasons before 1993.
Retirement age:
47, except 55 for players with no credited seasons before 1993
Percent married:
Social Security awards in 1972
Page 254
Age of Player’s wife:
Three years younger than player
Remarriage rates;
1971 Railroad Retirement Board rates
Net investment return:
7.25%
Administration expenses: Actual for prior year
Valuation date:
First day of plan year
Actuarial value of assets: One-time write-up to market value as of March 31, 1993 followed by restart of the present procedure thereafter.
Unit credit cost method, except retrospective term cost based on actual
Funding method:
experience during the prior year for Line-of-Duty disability benefits.
Amortization period:	20 years beginning April 1,1993; 19 years as of April 1,1994, etc. In years
when there is a zero or negative unfunded actuarial accrued liability, the amount which is expected to produce a zero unfunded actuarial accrued liability at the end of the plan year.
Page 255
APPENDIX K
EXTENSION CHART
Salary Cap as Percentage of DGR
98
99
00
01
02
03	04
Notice to Cancel
63
63
63
63
64
U
No Notice to Cancel 63	63	63	63	63.5 64 U
U = Uncapped
Page 256
APPENDIX L
OFF-SEASON WORKOUT RULES
The 1993 Collective Bargaining Agreement with the NFLPA provides that, except for certain specified minicamps, any off-season workout programs or classroom instruction shall be voluntary. No Club official shall indicate to a player that the Club’s off-season workout program or classroom instruction is not voluntary (or that a player’s failure to participate in a workout program or classroom instruction will result in the player’s failure to make the Club). Off-season programs may take place for sixteen weeks between the end of the previous season and ten days prior to the start of veteran training camp. The CBA limits such workouts to four days per week, except weekends. Included in the sixteen weeks may be no more than fourteen days of organized team practice activity. This does not preclude any player from working out on his own on other days, including weekends. Contact work (e.g., “live" blocking, tackling, pass rushing, bump-and-run), is expressly prohibited in all off-season workouts.
Voluntary off-season workout programs are intended to provide training, teaching and physical conditioning for players. The intensity and tempo of drills should be at a level conducive to learning, with player safety as the highest priority, and not at a level where one player is in a physical contest with another player.
Teams are to provide their players and the Management Council, at least fifteen days prior to the start of its off-season workout program, the time frame for the program including designation of any days on which organized team practice activity will take place. Prompt notification of any schedule changes must be provided to the Management Council, which will provide the NFLPA with prompt notification of both the original schedule and any changes.
The following rules shall also apply to the fourteen days of organized team practice activity:
•	No pads except protective knee or elbow pads. Helmets are permitted.
•	No live contact; no live contact drills between offensive and defensive linemen.
*	7-on-7, 9-on-7 and 11-on-l 1 drills will be permitted, providing no live contact takes place.
*	The NFL will monitor all Clubs during the off-season to ensure player safety and adherence to live contact guidelines.
•	Maximum six hours per day, with a maximum two hours on field, for any player.
Page 257
APPENDIX M
PSL EXAMPLES
Without limitation on any other example, the fallowing are examples of the operation of the rules in Article XXIV (Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap & Minimum Team Salary), Section 1(a), concerning Personal Seat Licenses (PSLs):
1.	Subsection (x)(l) — Maximum Annual Allocation Amount
Year 1 (1996) - PSL revenues received = $ 45 million
Remaining lifeofPSL= 16years
WSJ Treasury Bill rate at 2/1'96 - 8%
Factor-Future Value of 8% annuity 15 years (maximum)
= 27.152 (annual compounding)
Future Value of $3 million/year for 15 years
= $3 million x 27.152	=$81,456 million	.
Interest Amount = $81,456 million - $45 million
= $36,456 million
Year 1 Annual Interest Allocation
= $36,456 millton/15 years = $2.43 million/year
Year 1 PSL Allocation Amount
= PSL Amount = $45 million/15 years= $3.00 million ■
+ Allocated Interest	= $2.43 million
Total Year I Allocation	= $5.43 million
1996 PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount = $5.43 million
Page 258
Year 2 (1997)- PSL revenues received = $ 30 million
Remaining life of PSL =15 years
WSJ Treasury Bill rate at 2/1/97 - 7%
Factor-Future Value of 7% annuity 15 years = 25.129
(annual compounding)
Future Value of $2 million/year for 15 years
= $2mx 25.129 = $50,258 million
Interest Amount = $50,258 million - $30 million
= $20,258 million
Year 2 Annual Interest Allocation
= $20,258 million/15 years = $1,35 million/year
Year 2 PSL Allocation Amount
=PSL Amount=$30 million/15 years = $2.00 million
+ Allocation Interest	= $1.35 million
Total Year 2 Allocation	= $3.35 million
PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount
Year 1 PSL Allocation Amount	= $5.43 million
Year 2 PSL Allocation Amount	= $3.35 million
1997 PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount = $8.78 million
Page 259 ■
Year 3 (1998)- PSL revenues received = $ 7 million
Remaining life of PSL =14 years
WSJ Treasury Bill rate at 2/1/98 - 7.5%
Factor-Future Value of 7.5% annuity 14 years = 23.366
Future Value of $.5 million/year for 14 years
= $.5m x 23.366 = $11.683 million
Interest Amount = $ 11.683 million - $7 million
= $ 4.683 million
Year 3 Annual Interest Allocation
= $4,683 million/14 years = $.335 million/year
Year 3 PSL Allocation Amount
= PSL Amount = $7 million/14 years = $ .500 million
+ Allocated Interest	= $ .335 million
Total Year 3 Allocation	= $ .835 million
PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount
Year 1 PSL Allocation Amount
= $5,430 million
I
Year 2 PSL Allocation Amount	= $3,350 million
Year 3 PSL Allocation Amount	= $.835 million
1998 PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount	= $9.615 million
2.	Subsection (x)(2) — PSL Revenues Used For Stadium Construction Or Renovation
Assume the Team sells PSLs on the following terms:
-	Gross PSL revenues received in 1996 = $45 million
-	Income taxes paid on PSL revenues in 1996 = $12 million
-	Legal and marketing costs incurred relating to PSL
revenues=$6 million
-	Stadium renovation costs = $56 million
The PSL revenues included in DGR, subject to the rules in Subsections (x)(3) through (x)(7), would be $45 million.
Assume that only the net PSL revenues of $27 million were used in the renovation project ($45m - ($ 12m + 6m)) and the total stadium renovation costs were $30 million.
The PSL revenues excluded from DGR in this example would be limited to $27 million, subject to the rules in Subsections (xX3) through (x)(7). The PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount, however, would be calculated based upon the gross revenues of $45 million.
Page 260
3.	Subsection (x)(2) — Maximum Exclusion Of PSL Revenues Each League Year	.
For purposes of this subsection, Excluded DGR spillover shall be calculated as follows for each Team:
-Assume that the new stadium’s first full year of operation is 1998.
-Assume that the Team’s Excluded DGR data is as follows:
1997	1998
Excluded DGR $5 million $15 million
If the League, as a whole, is in a spillover situation in 1998, then the increase in DGR due to spillover would be $10 million ($15 million - $5 million).
If the League is not in a spillover situation in 1998, the increase in DGR due to spillover would be zero.
4.	Subsection (x)(3) — PSL Difference Credited To DGR
a.	Assume that the new stadium is placed in service in June 1998.
1998 increase in DGR directly related to new stadium:
- Increase in gate receipts	$6 million
- Increase in DGR spill-over $2 million
Total DGR increase	$8 million
Cumulative PSL Difference:
PSL
Maximum Annual First Year
Year	Allocation Amount	DGR Increase	PSL Difference
1996	$5,430 million	$8 million (assumed)	$0
1997	$8,780 million	$8 million (assumed)	$.780 million
1998	$9,615 million	$8 million	$ 1.615 million
Cumulative PSL Difference
$2,395 million
For purposes of computing the PSL Difference, we assume that the increase in DGR was the same for 1996 and 1997 (years prior to the first full year the new stadium was placed into service) as it is in the first full year in the new stadium was placed into service ($8 million).
$2,395 million would be credited into DGR in the 1999 League Year.
Page 261
b.	Assume that the new stadium is placed in service in June 1998.
1998 increase in DGR directly related to new stadium:
- Increase in gate receipts	$ 9 million
- Increase in DGR spill over	$16 million
Total DGR increase	$25 million
Cumulative PSL Difference:	
PSL
	Maximum Annual	First Year	
Year	Allocation Amount	DGR Increase	PSL Difference
1996	$5,430 million	$25 million (assumed)	0
1997	$8,780 million	$25 million (assumed)	0
1998	$9,615 million	$25 million	0
Cumulative PSL Difference
0
Since the increase in DGR in the first full year is greater than the PSL Maximum Annual Allocation Amount for each prior year in which such Allocation Amount was used, then there is no PSL Difference in any prior year.
No amount would be credited into DGR in the 1999 League Year.
5.	Subsection (x)(5) - Carryover PSL Credit
Assume the following:
-	New Stadium is placed in service in June 1998.
-	1999 - 2002 Maximum Annual Allocation Amount is $9,615 million.
-	Increases in DGR directly related to New Stadium are as follows;
1999	$8 million
2000	$ 9 million
2001	$14 million
The Carryover PSL credits are calculated as follows:
1999	$9.615m - $8m = $I.615m
2000	$9.615m-$9m = $ .615m
2001	(No carryover PSL credits)
Under this scenario, year 2001 has a PSL Excess of $4,385 million ($14m-$9.615m). The Carryover PSL credits of $2,230 million from 1999 and 2000($L615m+ $.615m) can be deducted in full from DGR in League Year 2001. There would be no remaining Carryover PSL credits to deduct from DGR in future League years.
Page 262
6.	Subsection (x)( 6) - Reduction In Premium Seat And Luxury Box Expenses
Assume that $80 million in PSL revenues are used to fund the New Stadium which has a total construction cost of $200 million. If the annual expenses relating to luxury boxes and premium seats are $5 million, the reduction in such expenses would be $2 million, computed as follows: $5 million x ($80 million/$200 million) = $2 million.
7.	PSL Revenues Not BBenefitingThe Team Or Any Team Affiliate Except Through A New Or Improved Stadium
In any case where:
(i)	PSLs are sold by a Team or by a third party (such as a stadium corporation, a non-profit private sector entity, or a governmental entity) pursuant to Team authorization; and
(ii)	all net proceeds of such PSL sale are used to build a new stadium or construct improvements to an existing stadium in which the Team will play upon completion, or is then playing and will continue to play (net proceeds are all gross proceeds net of (a) taxes and (b) expenses (e.g., legal costs, marketing expenses, or securities registration fees) if such taxes and expenses are directly incurred as the result of the PSL sale, and do not benefit the Team or any of its affiliates, either directly or indirectly, other than through the stadium construction or improvements paid by the PSL revenues); and
(iii)such new or improved stadium is owned by a party not affiliated with the Team, such as a governmental entity or a private sector for-profit or non-profit entity; and
(iv)the Team (and all Team affiliates) have only a leasehold interest, and no reversionary interest in the stadium (that is, if the Team or any Team affiliate wishes to acquire any title to the stadium, it must do so in a separately negotiated arms’-length transaction); and
(v) neither the Team nor any of its affiliates receives any payments, long-term loans, forgiveness of indebtedness, or other consideration from the Stadium landlord or any of its affiliates, other than payments that are due to the Tearn pursuant
Page 263
to its lease as consideration for its performance of its obligations under the lease, or are reimbursements for expenses incurred by the Team solely in performing its obligations under the lease;
then, because the Team and its affiliates do not receive any net benefit arising out of the sale of PSLs other than through the stadium construction or improvements paid by the PSL revenues (all PSL revenues being spent on third-party costs and charges directly incurred as a result of the PSL sale, or on stadium construction or improvements), none of the proceeds received from the sale of the PSLs would be included in DGR or Excluded DGR. Each of Example Nos. 1 through 6 above assumes that, for one or more reasons, the example does not qualify for the foregoing treatment.
Nothing in the foregoing shall provide any basis to argue that any amounts other than the PSL proceeds, including but not limited to any expense payments, may be treated as DGR, Excluded DGR, or non-DGR under this Agreement. Moreover, the Special Master or the Court would have the authority to examine any transaction involving the Club or any of its affiliates and the Stadium landlord or any of its affiliates, to determine if such transaction transfers, in whole or in part, some or all of the economic benefit of any PSL revenues to the Club or any of its affiliates, and any such transferred economic benefits shall be treated as DGR or Excluded DGR, as appropriate.
NOTE: Premium seat revenues (non-shared amounts) discussed in Subsections (xi)( 1) through (xi)(6) call for calculations quite similar to those discussed in Example Nos. 1 through 6 above in calculating “Premium Seat Differences,” “Carryover Premium Seat Credits;” “Premium Seat Excesses,” and “Reductions in Expenses Related to Premium Seats and Luxury Boxes.”
Page 264
APPENDIX N
WRITTEN WARNING
GOOD FAITH EFFORT
[date]
Dear [player]:
The Club hereby provides you with written notice that you are failing to exhibit the level of good faith effort which can be reasonably expected from players on this Club. If you do not demonstrate the good faith effort which can be reasonably expected from players on this Club, you will not be entitled to Termination Pay under Article XXIII of the Collective Bargaining Agreement if you are terminated before the end of this season.
[Club Official]
[Club name]
*Extension Agreement 2/25/98
|	INDEX
i
।	A
|	Acceleration, 102
i	AAccess to medical records,	186to personnel records, 186
।	Accrued Season, 55, 57,68,150,164definition, 5for franchise player, 79for restricted free agent, 58-59
,	AActive List 75, 85,164,176PIayer,	193,205
Active/Inactive List, 164,171-172
Advisory Committee, 185
Agent regulation system, 16
Agents regulated by NFLPA, 16. See also NFLPA
AAgreement definition deflective date, 219expiration date, 219extension, 7-8,43,95,203,219, 225negotiation of, 1 Gratification, 221-222scope and arbitration, lOtermination, 154-155,219
Alcohol and substance abuse, 194-195. See also Chemical Dependency; Drugs; Substance abuse
Annual, See Draft, aannual Selectionmeeting, 1993,43
Annuity, See Player Annuity
Answer
injury grievance, 25. See also Injury grievance, non-injury grievance
Anti-Collusion, 67, 145-146, 156, 22 (burden of proof, I5l-I52computationofdamages, I53costs,
154 disclosures, 15 (discretion, 151 effect on computations, 154enforcement of provisions, 15 Ion remedies, 152—153on summary judgment, 152other Club conduct, 150-151
Anti-Collusion (continued)payment of damages, I54player election, 153-154prior conference, 155prohibited conduct, 150reirribursement, 154termination, 154-155time limits, 155
Appeal, 20-21, Commissioner discipline, 31
Appearances, 213
Application, 78,205for disputes, 175for Final Eight Plan, 80for signing period, 78-79for total disability benefits, 195	,
AAppointment of Special Master, 145
Arbitration, 10, II, 174,211 expedited, 65
Arbitration PPanel andinjury grievance, 27involved in non-injury grievance, 21-22
Arbitrator. 29
decision in committees, 36
injury grievance procedure, 26	' ' '
notice, 20-22
senior, 21, 27
Arbitrators decision
of non-injury grievance, 22-23
Attire
on field, 213
Authorization, 214 f
B
Benefit Arbitrator, 190compensation, 20Srole, 208-209s el ection, 208
Benefit Credits, 190-192
Benefits, 9, 88,142,160, 21 Idefinition, 6, 93injury protection, 33maximum lifetime, 201
Benefits (continuedjprojected, 96, 141-142retention of, 210
Bert Bell Plan, 93, 94, 169, 189, 191. See also Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan; Pete
Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan; -Retirement Plans
Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle NFL Player Plan (Merged Plan), 23,29, 83, 85, 93, 94, 187,189,191, 192, 193 194, 199, 201-202,205,207
Bonus
amounts treated as signing, 103
completion, 104,122
credit for signing bonuses refunded, 105
expansion, 98
extension, 101, 137
incentive, 106,124,125, 126 128.127
non-guaranteed reporting, 105,121
off-season reporting, 104
off-season roster, 104
off-season workout, 105
paid performance, 106
performance, 70, 105
pre-season roster, 128
prior signing, 102-103
pro-rated signing, 172
relocation, 105,122, 160
reporting, 64
roster, 64,70, 172
salary, 70
signing, 51, 64,70, 99, 101,102, 105, 134-135, 137
weight, 105
Buyouts and signing bonus, 51
C
Canton Hall of Fame game, 162
Capped Year, 57
definition, 6. See also League Year
Career Planning Program, 15, 214
Career-ending injury, 76
Carryover Premium Seat Credit, 90,92. See also PSL
Certification
contract, 156
end of League Years, 156-157
exclusive representation and NFLPA agent certification, 16
false, 157	.
NFLPA agent certification penalty, 16
CCheck-Off authorization 13union security, 13
Chemical Dependency Program, 15. See also Alcohol and substance abuse; Drugs; Substance abuse
Circumvention, 143
Claim filing, 155
Class Counsel, 51, 87, 135, 150, 187
definition, 4
Club affiliate, 39, 143, 146, 156, 167
definition, 4. See also Team affiliate
Chib discipline
deduction, 19
disputes, 19
maximum discipline, 18-19
published list, 19
uniformity, 19
Club physician, 18,184,186
injury grievance, 25, 29
injury protection, 33, 34
College draft, 5, 11,29,64-65, 150,153,221
assignment of draft rights, 46
compensatory draft selections, 46—47
definition, 5
no subsequent draft, 46
notice of signing, 47
number of choices, 43
other professional themes, 44-45
required tender, 43
return to college, 45-46
signing of drafted rookies, 43-44
subsequent draft, 46
time of draft, 43
undrafted rookies, 47
workouts draft eligible players, 47, See also Compensatory Draft; Draft
Commissioner, 16, 99, 167,185and committees, 35approval of contract, 156definition, 4determination by, 157disapproval, 39, 143-144. See also Exempt Commissioner Permission List
Commissioner ddiscipline costs 32fine money, 32
Commissioner discipline (continuedjleague discipline, 3 lone penalty, 32representation, 31-32time limits, 31
Committee Player/Club Operations, 166
Committees, 23
Advisory, 185
and Commissioner, 35
Competition Committee, 36
Grievance Settlement Committee, 24
Joint Committee, 35-36
Player/Club Operations Committee, 36
Compensation, 169, 208
Benefit Arbitration, 208
I
draft choice, 164
of Special Master, 146
pre-season training camp, 169
other, 174
to players, 162. See also Bonus; Incentive; Meal allowance; Salary
Compensatory
damages, 153
picks, additional, 160
Compensatory Draft, 11	-
definition, 5
selection, 43,48, 49, 77, 78. See also College Draft; Draft
Competition Committee, 36
Completion
bonus, 104, 122. See also Bonus
Conduct
other club, 150-151
prohibited, 150
Conformity
NFL Player Contract, 38
Consideration between clubs, 64
Consultation and Information Sharing, 150, 156
consultation and communication, 158
copies, 159
meetings, 159
neutral verifier, 158-159
notice of invalid contract, 158
salary summaries, 158
Contact
waiver system, 83
work, 166	■
CContract certification 156deferred, 176guaranteed, 176mid-season, 134multi-year, 130player’s contract, during suspension, ^renegotiation and extensions, 136-140renegotiation, definition, ©split, 175— 176traded, 133-134. See also NFL Player’s Contract
Contributions to Savings Plan, 196-197. See also specific retirement plans; savings plans
Copies, 159
of contracts, 175
of medical records, 186
of personnel records, 186
j	requirements for processing, 65
।	Costs, 154
|	and non-injury grievance, 23—24	■
I	Commissioner discipline, 32
।	for insurance coverage, 203-204
'	injury grievance[Expenses], 29
।	of arbitration, 23-24
।	of arbitrator, 23-24
I	player benefit, 142
'	player costs in Rookie Orientation Programs, 53
'	postponement, 27
'	transcription, 23-24. See also Expenses
I
Credited .
।	season, 172,174, 199-200,201,205
I	service, 169
i ■	.
D
i
Deduction 213
Deferred
contracts, 176
salary, 99	.
Deferred Paragraph 5 Salary, 175. See also Salaries
Defined Gross Revenues, 86-94,141
definition, 6, See also DGR; Excluded DGR; Projected DGR
Definition accrued season, ^agreement, 4annuity starting date, 192
Definition (continued)benefits, 6Class Council, 4Club Affiliate, 39Commissioner, 4compensatory draft, 5disability, 192—193draft, 5draft choice compensation, 5drafted rookie, 5entering player pool, 48final eight plan, 5free agent, 5guaranteed, 104
guaranteed league-wide salary, salary cap & minimum team salary, 6-7
Impartial Arbitrator, 4injury grievance, 251eague football activity, defined, 1931eague year, 4minimum salary, 5 mini mum team salary. 7negotiation, 5new club, 5NFL player contract, 4NFL Rules, 4NFLPA Player, Group Licensing Program, 13-14non-injury grievance, 20paragraph 5 salary, Vplayer benefit costs, 93player contract, 5player costs, 7priorciub, 5Retirement Plan, 191 Rookie player, definition, 169room, 7undrafted rookie, 6
“Deion Rule”[Signing Bonus], 100-101
Dental insurance group insurance benefit, 201 insurance benefits, 202
insurance extended post-career, 202. See also specific insurance -programs
Designated franchise player, 73
Developmental squad, 173. See also Practice squad
DGR, 60, 86-94. See also Defined Gross Revenue, Excluded DGR; -Projected. DGR
Disability classification rules for total and permanent, 193definition, 192-193. See also Injuries
Disability benefits supplemental contributions, 207supplemental extension, 207supplemental maintenance, 207
Disagreements
resolved by Benefit Arbitrator, 208—209
Discipline list
published, 19
Discovery, 21
of Impartial Arbitrator, 148
of Special Master, 146
I
I
Dispute, 18, 87, 148	'
and injury protection, 34
attempt to negotiate, 155
club discipline, 19
resolution, 189-190, 209
with career-ending injury, 76-77
Disputed Adjustments, 139-149
Distributions, 199-200
Documents
delivery of, 214
Draft, 126annual, 49between clubs, 55definition, 5eligible players, 47first round, 68initial, 44next annual, 44no subsequent, 46picks, 5requirements, 48rights, 154selection, I deselections, 69subsequent, 46
supplemental, 49. See also College Draft; Compensatory Draft; Draft Choice Compensation
Draft Choice Compensation, 6,45,46,47,49, 55,57, 59-63, 68-69, 71,78-79, 83, 164
Draft Choice Compensation (continued)between clubs, 58definition, 5
Draft rights assignment, 46of clubs, 152
Draft Selection
and player’s original draft round, 59
Drafted
player, 43
player on waivers, 50
Drafted Rookie, 44,46,65,152-153
definition, 5
Player Contract, 49, 52
signing, 43-44,48
Drugs illegal, 195. See also Alcohol and Substance Abuse; Chemical -Dependency; Substance abuse
Duration of Agreement, 14, 37effective date, 219expiration date, 219ratification, 22 l-222termination, 219termination prior to expiration date, 219-221, See also Agreement
E	.
Early Retirement Benefit, 192
Effect
of rulings of Impartial Arbitrator 148,148
ofSalaryCap, 154
on computations, 154
Eligibility, 205
waiver system, 83. See also Waiver system
End of League Years
certification, 156-157. See also League Years
Enforcement of Salary Cap and Entering Player Pool, 74, 150
circumvention, 143
Commissioner disapproval, 143
DGR circumvention, 144
sanctions, 144
Special Master action, 143
Special Master review, 144
undisclosed terms, 143
Entering Player Pool, 11,38,44,45, 103,124,131, 136-137, 143, 219adjustment, 160
Entering Player Pool (continued)calculation, 48-50covered league years, 48definition, 48formula allotment, 48-50, 52incentives, 121-122operation, 50-54
Excluded DGR, 9, 87-88, 91-92. See also DGR; Defined Gross Revenue; Projected DGR
Exclusive Representation and NFLPA Agent Certification, 16. See also NFLPA
Exempt Commissioner Permission List, 55, 174. See also List
Expansion additional compensatory picks, 160bonuses, 98clubs, 160entering player pool adjustment, 160relocationbonus, ISOteams, 160veteran allocation, 160
Expedited Arbitration, 65
Expense, 86,132
administrative, 198
awarded by arbitrator, 24
deducted from revenues, 139
for players attending minicamps, 168
injury grievance, 29
medical, 9, 93, 189
moving and travel, 93, 189
non-injury grievance[Costs], 23-24
of copies, 159
of neutral physician, 29
Rookie Orientation Program, 53
traveling, 170
Extended insurance
financing for, 203-204
limitations and rules for, 202-203, See also specific insurance programs
Extended Post-Career Medical and Dental Insurance benefits, 190. See also specific Benefits; Insurance programs
Extension of Agreement, 7-8,43, 95,203. See also Agreement
F
False certification, 157
Fees initiation, I3tnaintenance, 90postponement, 27postponement on hearing, 22
Filing, 20claim, 155in injury grievance, 25of non-injury grievance, 22
Final Capped Year, 104, 105, 126, 128, 130-131
definition, 8
Final Eight Plan, 11,136
application, 80
definition, 5
increases, 81
next four teams, 80
replacement of free agents signed by other club, 80-81
salary definition, 81
top four teams, 80
trade limitation, 81-82
Final League Years, 8, 71,134
definition, 7-8. See also League Years
Final Special Purpose Letter, 96,139
Fines
club discipline, 19
Commissioner discipline, 32
First Game, 169
First Refusal
Exercise Notice, 65-66
Exercise Notice For Restricted Free Agents, 62-63
Exercise Notice, No and Veteran Free Agency, 63
Procedures For Restricted Free Agents, 62-63	.
Rights, 45,57,61,79, 83, 164
Franchise and transition player, 5, 6,43,49compensatory draft selection, 77-78designations, 68duration of designation, 73-75franchise player designation, 73-74franchise player designation period, 74-751ists, 72other terms, 77prospective designation, 77required tender for franchise players, 68~72right to decline, 77rights of first refusal for transition players, 72
Franchise and transition player (continued)salary information, 72—73signing period for franchise players, 78—79signing period for transition players, 78transition player designation period, 74—75
Free Agent, 45,153definition, 5
Free Agent List, 67. See also List
Funding
of deferred and guaranteed contracts, 176
G
Good faith
I
negotiation, 40-41
of required tender, 58
Governing Agreement
conflicts, 9
implementation, 9
management rights, 9
rounding, 9
Governing law, 223
Grievance	■
initiated, 20
procedure, 11
received, 20 ■
resolving, 20-21
Grievance. See also Injury grievance; Non-injury grievance
Grievance Settlement Committee, 24
Group Insurance
administration, 204
financing for extended insurance, 203-204
group insurance benefits, 201-202
programs, 93, 189. See also specific insurance programs
Guaranteed
contracts, 176
definition, 104
Guaranteed League-Wide Salary & Minimum Team Salary, 4, 95
Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary & Minimum Team Salary, 8, 11
definition, 6-7
Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap, & Minimum Team Salary, 14430% Rules, 134-135accounting procedures, 138-142compensationofteam salary, 97definitions, 86-93
Guaranteed League-Wide Salary, Salary Cap, & Minimum Team Salary (continued)guaranteed leaguewide salary, 95minimum team salary, 96renegotiations and extensions, 136—137salary cap amounts, 95trigger, 94—95valuation of player contracts, 98-133
H
Hearings, 140, 209
injury grievance, 27, 29
of non-injury grievance, 22-23
prehearing briefs, 21
transcribing of, 27
Honors	■
and recognized media, 122-123
I	.
Impartial Arbitrator, 3,44,55, 57, 61.65, 73,74, 76,78,94,99, 105, 132-133,175
compensation of, 148	■
definition, 4
effect of rulings, 148
procedures, 148
scope of authority, 148
selection, 148-149
Inactive List, 85, 163, 176. See also List
Incentive
additional incentive rules for veterans, rookies, individuals and teams, 123—130
and Veteran Free Agency, 64
based on another player’s performance, 122
based on Club performance, 64
bonus,106,124,125, 126-127,127-128
bonus for rookie, 122
clause, 128-129
entering player pool incentives, 121-122
for rookie, 54
individual incentives, 108-109
likely to be earned, 54, 64
performance, 130
rookie “likely to be earned” incentives, 110-120
team incentives, 107
team performance-related, 134, See also Bonus
Individually negotiated limitations on player movement and veteran free agency, 65-66
Initial Special Purpose Letter, 204
Injured Reserve List, 30. See also Active/Inactive List
Injury, 166asan Active Player, 194—195career-ending, 76during minicamps, 16 Soon-football, 174non-
injury circumstances, 76protection, 93, 189
Injury grievance, 69
answer, 25
appeal, 26-27
arbitration channel, 27	'
definition, 25
discovery, 30
expenses, 29
filing, 25
hearing, 27-28
information exchange, 30
miscellaneous issuers, 28
neutral physician, 26
payment, 29
pension credit, 29
playoff money, 29-30
presumption of fitness, 29. See also Non-injury grievance
Injury protection
benefit, 33
disputes, 34
qualification, 33
Insurance coverage. See COBRA coverage; Dental insurance; Extended insurance coverage; Medical insurance
Insurance programs. See specific insurance programs
'J
Joint Committee, 35-36. See also Committee
L
Labor
exemption, 217
Labor Relations, 158—159
League
discipline, 31
disclosures, 151
League Security, 214	’
League Year, definition, 4Final, 216
Life insurance group insurance benefit, 201. See also specific insurance programs
“Likely to be Earned.’’ See Incentives
Limits
of active players, 163
List Active, 75, 85Active/Inactive List, 164Active/Inactive List Limit, 163, 165Discipline List, Published, 19Exempt Commissioner Permission List, 55, 174Free Agent List, 67Inactive List, 85, 163, 176Injured Reserve List, 30Minimum Active/Inactive List Salaries, 5, 9Non- Football Injury or Illness List, 167Size Active and Inactive List Limit, 163 Size Inactive List, 163
Loans, 131
LTBE, See Incentives
M ■
Maintenance of Retirement Plans, 191. See also specific retirement plans
Management Council, 1, 9, 14—17, 20-22,25, 27,28, 30-32, 35,36, 38,39, 51,84, 105,135, 174, 204, 208,211,213,214,219,221
Matching Contributions to Savings Plan, 197-198
Maximum Annual Allocation Amount, 89-90
Meal allowance reimbursement, 177
Medical insurance
benefits, 202
extended post-career, 202
group insurance benefit, 201. See also specific insurance programs
Merged Plan. See Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Plan
Mid-season contracts, 134. See also Contracts
Minicamps, 166
contact, 168
expenses, 168
injuries, 168
length, 168
number, 168
Minimum Active/Inactive List Salaries, 5, 9,43, 45, 55Contributions to Savings Plan, 197-198Paragraph 5
Salaries, 174salaries, 9, 164after 1999, 174increase, 174
salaries, definition, 5. See also Salaries
Minimum Team Salary, 96-97, 142, 143
definition, 7
Mutual reservation of rights: labor exemption
CBA expiration, 217-218
labor exemption, 217
rights under law, 217
N
National Football League Players Association. See NFLPA
National Football League Management Council. See Management Council
Negotiation, 150
Club’srights, 151
definition, 5
for Unrestricted Free Agent, 57
of Agreement, 10
rights, exclusive, 134. See also Good faith negotiation
Neutral Physician
injury grievance, 25,28-29
Neutral verifier, 158-159
New Club, 62, 64,70, 72
definition, 5. See also Old Club; Prior Club
NFL Competition Committee. See Competition Committee
NFL Constitution and By-Laws, 11,20
definition, 4
NFL Draft. See Draft.
NFL Player Contract, 6,7,9,11, 16,20,25, 37,41,42,43,44,46, 52, 58, 61, 63, 69,72, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80,94,97-99, 102, 104,123,125,126, 132,133, 134,135,136,150, 152, 156, 164-165, 170and noninjury grievance, 20changes, 37Commissioners disapproval, 39-40, 143-144conformity, 38definition, 4, 5determining the salary, 136expirationof, 61fbr franchise Players, 68form, 37
NFL Player Contract (continued)general, 37good faith negotiation, 40-41 injury grievance, 23induded in team salary, 97multi-year, 100NFLPA Group Licensing Program, 40not modified by Principal Terms, 63requiremeats for rookie, 50-Sltertn, 37variation, 98See also Contracts
NFLMC. See Management Council
NFLPA, 3, 9,10,11, 13,14, 15, 20,22, 23,26, 27,28, 29,31, 32, 34,35,38,46,55, 58, 72, 84,90, 91,96, 97,140,143,144, 146,147, 148, 151, 154, 155,157, 158, 167, 168, 183, 185, 201, 205, 221, 224
address, 67
agent certification enforcement, 16
agent certification exclusive representation, 16
certified agents, 174-175
enforcement, 16
exclusive representation, 16
Group Licensing Program, 40
meetings and union security, 13
penalty, 16
responsibility in union security, 15
sponsoring orientation, 15
tickets, 213
union security and NFLPA requirements, 13	.
union security and NFLPA responsibility, 15
No-trade clause, 83
Non
cash provisions, 131-133
football injury, 55, 161,174
football injury or illness list, 167
guaranteed reporting bonus, 105, 121
Non-injury grievance, 10, 11,14, 35, 167,174, 211appeal, 20—21 arbitration panel, 21-22arbitrator’s decision and award, 23costs, 23-24definition, 20discovery, 21 filing, 20
Non-injury grievance (continued)Grievance Settlement Committee, 24hearing, 22-23initiation, 20payment, 24representation, 23time limits, 23. See also Injury grievance
Notice and Veteran Free Agency, 66-67Arbitrator, 2O-22hand delivered, 224notice of invalid contract, 158of invalid contract, 158of signing, 58of signing by veteran with less than three accrued seasons, 55of signing drafted rookie, 47of signing undrafted rookie, 47of termination in waiver system, 83Personnel, 84
Number
of regular season games, 175
O
Off-Season Workouts
bonus, 105
enforcement, 167
injuries, 166
miscellaneous, 166
payment, 166
pre-training camp, 166-167
time period, 166
voluntary workouts, 166
Offer Sheet, 62, 63, 64, 66,67, 70,98, 150, 156
and Principal Terms, 63-64
for Restricted Free Agents, 62-63
Old Club
and incentives, 64. See also New Club; Prior Club
Option Clause, 11
existing option clauses, 42
prohibition, 42
Orientation during timing and testing sessions, 15Rookie Orientation Program, player reimbursement, 53Rookie Orientation Program, evaluation, 53—54
P
Paragraph 5 Salary, 57, 59, 61, 64,65, 70, 81, 85,99, 100
definition, 7
Parol Evidence, 214
Payment, 70,166, 174-175
and non-injury grievance, 24
calculation, 51
minimum workout payments, 51
Rookie Orientation Program, 53
of damages, 154
of injury grievance, 29
of salaries, 174-175. See also Bonus; Benefits; Compensation
Penalty	’
and NFLPA Agent Certification, 16
assessed by Special Master, 147
Commissioner discipline, 32
negotiating rights of players, 55
Performance
bonus, 70, 105
categories, 125-126, 129
incentives, 130
issuers, 129	.
physically unable, 161
Personal Seat Licenses. See PSL
Personnel information
NFLPA’s right to, 84
Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan (Peter Rozelle Plan), 93,94,169,189. See also Bert Bell NFL Player Retirement Plan; Bert Bell/Pete NFL Player Retirement Plan; Retirement Plan
Physical examination, 29,167
in injury protection, 33	'
Physically unable to perform. See PUP
Physician
club, 26,29
neutral, 26, 28-29, 29
orthopedic, 26
treating, 26
Player Affiliate, 1, 39, 57, 70,94, 143, 146, 156
definition, 4
Player Annuity Program, 94,133,187,189-190contributions, 198-199definitions, 198eligibility, 199-
200establishment, 198
Player Benefit Costs, 1421998 Amendment benefits, 187-188,190definition, 93, 188-189general right of reduction, 187resolution of disputes, 189-190right of restoration, 188. See also Benefit; Incentive; Salary
Player Costs, 9,88, 139, 160
definition, 7. See also Costs
Player Second Career Savings Plan. See Savings Plan
Player security
no discrimination, 17
personal appearance, 17
Players Association. See NFLPA
Player’s Contract	'
during suspension, 14. See also Contract
Player/Club Operations Committee, 36,166
Post-season pay, 30, 187
Practice squad, 174
eligibility, 164-165
or development squad, 55
player, 164
restriction in size, 164	■
salary, 164
signing with other clubs, 164. See also Developmental Squad
Pre-season, 163
game, 40, 169-170
per diem, 189
per diem amounts, 93
physical, 184-185
roster bonus, 128
Principal Term, 62, 65, 70
I
and Veteran Free Agency, 63-64
of Offer Sheet, 63-64
Prior
Club, 6,55, 58, 60, 62, 64, 65, 70, 72, 76, 78, 151,220, 256
Club and Restricted Free Agents, 58
conference, 143,155
signing bonuses, 102-103
team, 61, 78
Prior Year Salaries, 57,68-69,71,73, 75,76, 77
definition 5-6
Pro-rated
signing bonus, 172
Procedures of Impartial Arbitrator, 148of Special Master, 146-147
Projected benefits, 9, 96,141-142adjusted, 142defmition, 7. See also Benefits
Projected Defined Gross Revenues, 95, 187, 190
Projected DGR, 48, 81,140-141, 171, 174
definition, 7. See also DGR; Excluded DGR
Proration
of signing bonuses, 99
PSL
difference, 89
excess, 90
first-year increases, 89
revenues, 89-90, 92
PUP, 161, 167, 174
Q
Qualifying Offer, 9,60, 61-62, 67,88,97, 216
and Restricted Free Agent, 65
for Restricted Free Agents, 58
R
Recruitment
of an unsigned player, 132
Refusal Exercise Notice. See First Refusal Exercise Notice
Related Entities, 88
Release
waiver system, 83. See also Waiver system
Releases and Covenants Not to Sue, 11,37, 220
Relocation
bonus, 105, 122, 160
Remedies, 152-153
Renegotiation
and extensions, 136-140
and Rookie, 57
contract, 123-124
definition, 6
during the term of Player Contract, 6
of a Player Contract, 74	'
of an existing Player Contract, 70	.
Reporting bonusoff-season, 104 under the Player Contract, 64. See also Bonus; Incentive
Representation, 31-32
and non-injury grievance, 23
Required tender, 9,43,44,69, 77, 88and Rookie Allocation, 50definition, 6for Franchise Players, 68-70for
Transition Players, 71—72good faith negotiation, 41. See also Tender
Reserve PUP List, 55. See also PUP
Restricted Free Agency
definition, 6
player qualifications, 6
Restricted Free Agent, 65, 71,72, 151—152, 156, 176
and Qualifying Offer, 65
definition, 6
signing period, 73
Retirement
Board, 193
of players, 133
Retirement Plan additional credited seasons, 191alcohol and substance abuse, 194-195classification rules for total and permanent disability, 193contributions, 191 decrease investing requirement, 192definition, 191 increase in past service credit, 1921imits on retroactive benefits and claims, 1941ine-of-duty disability benefit, 192-193maintenance, 191psyDchological/psychiatric disorders, 195. See also Bert Bell NFL Player Retirement Plan; Bert Bell/Pete Rozelle Retirement Plan; Pete Rozelle NFL Player Retirement Plan; specific savings plans	.
Right of First Refusal, 44,46, 60,62, 63, 65, 73, 150 151
definition, 6
for Restricted Free Agents, 58-59
for transition players, 72. See also No Right of First Refusal
Rights preservation of, 212under law, 217
Rookie, 99, 10025% rule for rookies, Siallocation, 48, 49-50, 160and Contract requirements, 50-51and minimum workouts payments, 51
Rookie (continued)and Player Contract requirements, 50-5 Icontract, 126definition, 6Free Agent, 45insurance coverage, 201 likely to be earned incentives, 110-120Orientation Camps, 132per diem, 169player, 3player definition, 169undrafted, 3without renegotiation, 57. See also Drafted Rookie; Undrafted Rookie
Rookie Orientation Program evaluation of, 53-54per player reimbursement, 53
Room definition, 7in rookie allocation, 50
Roster
bonus, 70, 172
bonus under the Player Contract, 64
bonus, off-season, 104
categories, 100
exemption, 161-162
exemption time limits, 162
final, 84
reduction, 161
Rules
25% Rule for Rookies, 51, 52, 125, 135
30% Rules, 134-135
CFLrule, 161
for classification of total and permanent disability, 193
S
Salaries, 171-175
calculation of ten largest, 72
of various team positions, 73. See also specific salary categories
Salary advance, 103—104advances, 131bonus, 70camp, 142deferral, 137
Salary (continued)deferred, 99definition, 4,69-70, 81, 94drafted rookie salary, 97for Restricted Free Agent, 63-64fully guaranteed, 104increase requirements for Rookie, 50-51 Information, 72—73 information in NFL Player Contract, 38minimum, 164minimum team salary, 97reduction contributions, 189requirements minimum salary, 5lsummaries, 158team, 99, 100,101, 102team salary, 97. See also Bonus; Incentive; Paragraph 5 Salary; Prior Year Salary; Team Salary
Salary Cap, 6-7, 39,69, 103, 130-131, 154, 158,203	.
definition, 7
for Rookie, 53
Savings Plan
contributions, 196-197
establishment, 199
maintenance, 196. See also Second Career Savings Plan
Scope of authority
of Impartial Arbitrator, 148
of Special Master, 145-146
Scouting Combine, 15,47	’
Season, 127
Second Career Savings Plan, 93,94, 188,189, 190. See also Savings Plan
Selection, 208
of Impartial Arbitrator, 148
of Special Master, 147
Senior Arbitrator, 21
arbitration panel, 27
Settlement Agreement, 11,158definition, 4
Severance pay, 94amount, 205application, 205eligibility, 205failure to apply, 206nonassignability, 206only one payment, 206payable to survivor, 206
Severance pay (continued)payment, 205prior severance pay, 206
Signing bonus, 5-6, 70, 99,101, 102-103, 105, 134-135, 137amounts treated as, 103and time of buy-out, 51 for Unrestricted Free Agents, 57prorata portion, 70under the Player Contract, 64, See also Bonus
Signing period, 67, 69
definition, 60-61
for Restricted Free Agents, 60-62
for transition players, 78
for Unrestricted Free Agents, 57-58
in waiver system, 83
of Restricted Free Agent, 73
SpecraJ Master, 40, 87, J50, 152, 153-155, 157
action, 143
appointment, 145
compensation, 146
definition, 4
discovery, 146
penalties, 147
procedures, 146-147
proceeding, 139-140	•	■
, review, 143
scope of authority, 145-146
selection of, 147
Split contracts, 175-176
“Spillover" (Excess EDGR), 88
Squad
developmental, 174
practice, 163-164, 174
size active and inactive list limit, 163
size inactive list, 163
size pre-season, 163. See also Developmental squad; Practice squad
Standard Minimum Pre-Season Physical, 184—185
Stipulation and Settlement Agreement, 81,99-100, 131, 137
definition, 4
Subsequent draft. See Draft, subsequent
Substance Abuse, 194-195alcoholic steroids and related substances, 185drugs of abuse and alcohol, 185general policy, 185	'
Summary judgment, 152
Supplemental Disability Plan, 93,187, 189
Supplemental draft. See Draft, supplemental
Suspension, 19
T
Team, 91, 98, 131, 141 incentives, 107performance issues, 130performance-related incentive, 134rights, 98
Team Affiliate, 1, 57, 70, 88, 89,90, 91,92, 94,97, 131
Team Salary, 9,51,97,99, 100,102, 105-106, 131, 136
definition, 7
right to exercise option, 52
summaries, 158. See also Salaries
Tenders, 97-98
Termination, 154-155
of Agreement, 154-155
of drafted rookie, 152-155
pay, 98
pay eligibility, 85
pay ineligibility for termination pay, 85
pay liability, 98
pay regular season signings, 85
prior to expiration date, 37	.
through waivers, 84
Time limits, 31, 155
injury grievance [financing], 25
non-injury grievance [initiation], 20
Time off
days off, 178
requirements, 178
Time periods, 166,214
Traded contracts, 133-134
Training camp, 103, 166-167pre-season, 162definition, 169expenses, 170number of games, 170reporting, 169room and board, 169telephones, 170veteran per diem, 169
Transition player, 5,65, 70, 71,73,151,216
designation, 71
signing period, 78
Treating Physician
injury grievance, 25. See also Physician	■
Trigger for Guaranteed League-wide Salary, Salary Cap, and Minimum Team Salary, 94-95
u
Uncapped Year, 48,62, 95definition, 7
Undisclosed terms, 143
Undrafted Rookie, 46, 47,150
definition, 6
Free Agent, 44
Player Contract, 52
salary of, 50
Undrafted rookie player. See also Drafted Rookie; Drafted Player
Union security, 10, 11, 13-15
and NFLPA meetings, 13
and NFLPA requirements, 13
check-off, 13
disputes, 14
NFLPA Player Group Licensing Program, 13—14
NFLPA responsibility, 15
orientation, 15
procedure for enforcement, 14-15. See also NFLPA
Unrestricted Free Agency, 5
player qualifications, 5
Unrestricted Free Agent, 38, 68,71,72, 77, 79, 150, 151-152, 156,216
definition, 6
Unrestricted Free Agents, 57-58, 71
Upgraded Tender, 60. See also Required Tender; Tender
V
Veteran
allocation, 160
definition, 6
Player Contract, 135,136
Veteran Free Agency, 6,11,66-67,69,77, 152,161-162,216,221expeditedarbitration, 63individua!ly negotiated limitations on player movement, 65-660ffer Sheet and First Refusal Procedures, 62— 63restricted free agents, 58-62
Veteran Free Agency (continued)signing period for Unrestricted Free Agents, 57—58Unrestricted Free
Agents, 57-58
Veteran Free Agency Notices, 66-67
Veteran player, 136and Player Contract, 129contract, 136definition, 169insurance coverage, 201
Veterans with less than three accrued seasons, 11,45, 161accrued seasons calculation, 53negotiating rights, 53notice of signing, 53-54
Voluntary workouts, 166
W
Waiver
procedures, 83
Waiver system, 11,44, 76, 80, 152-153
contact, 83
ineligibility, 83
NFLPA right to personnel information, 84
notice of termination, 83
release, 83
rosters, 84
Weight bonus, 105, See also Bonus
Workers’ Compensation, 10, 11, 93, 189
arbitration, 211
benefits, 211
joint study, 211
moratorium, 211—212
preservation of rights, 212
rejection of coverage, 211
reopener, 212