K foil
MID-AMERICA REGIONAL
BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
LABORERS ROAD BUILDING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
ILLINOIS ROAD BUILDERS ASSOCIATION (
REPRESENTED BY
MID-AMERICA REGIONAL BARGAINING ASSOCIATION (MARBA)
AND
CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL LABORERS DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CHICAGO AND VICINITY
TERM OF AGREEMENT
JUNE 1, 2001 TO MAY 31, 2006
Laborers, Road Building - tii
Revised 11-01
PLEASE NOTE:
A great amount of care has been used in the preparation of this labor contract. However, since MARBA relies on other sources for the information MARBA cannot be responsible for the accuracy or content of the following labor agreement. If you have questions regarding the agreements or if you find errors, please contact the MARBA Office at (847) 699-1283. We will be updating these contracts from time to time and we will advise you of errors as they are brought to our attention.
Laborers, Road Building - iv
Revised 11-01
CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CHICAGO AND VICINITY TERM OF AGREEMENT
6/1/01 - 5/31/06
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.........................................1
ARTICLE I	SUBCONTRACTING............................................1
ARTICLE III	HOURS AND OVERTIME.........................................2
ARTICLE IV	HOLIDAYS...................................................2
ARTICLE V	WAGES......................................................3
Dosimeter Use..............................................4
Power Pac..................................................4
Asbestos Use...............................................4
Welfare....................................................4
Pension....................................................4
Supervisors................................................5
ARTICLE VI	BONDING TO GUARANTEE WAGE PAYMENTS AND WELFARE AND
PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS......................................6
ARTICLE VII	CHECK-OFF & DUES DEDUCTIONS...............................6
ARTICLE VIII	INDUSTRY FUNDS............................................7
ARTICLE IX	STEWARDS................................................. 8
ARTICLE X	SHIFT WORK..............................................  8
ARTICLE XI	PAYDAY................................................... 9
ARTICLE XII	BRANCHES OF WORK..........................................9
Work not included.........................................14
Wrecking..................................................14
Wrecking: Complete Demolition.............................14
Hiring Hall...............................................14
ARTICLE XIII	UNION SECURITY...........................................15
ARTICLE XIV	REPORTING FOR WORK...................................... 15
ARTICLE XV	TRAINING AND APPRENTICE PROGRAM..........................15
Apprentice Committee......................................15
Training Fund.............................................16
Apprentice Program Funding................................16
ARTICLE XVI	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES...................................17
ARTICLE XVII	ALCOHOL & SUBSTANCE ABUSE................................18
ARTICLE XVIII	APPROVAL................................................18
Laborers, Road Building - v
Revised 11-01
Employer's Warranty.................................................18
Execution /........................................................ 18
Saving Clause...................................................... 18
SIGNATURES OF PARTIES.............................................................18
ADDENDUM Construction industry Service Corporation Uniform Drug/Alcohol Abuse Program................................................19
Laborers, Road Building - vi
Revised 11-01
AGREEMENT
ROAD BUILDING AGREEMENT and Working Rules entered into this 1st day of June, 2001, for Cook, DuPage, Lake, Will, Grundy, Kendall, Kane, McHenry and Boone Counties, Illinois by and between the ILLINOIS BUILDERS ASSOCIATION, represented by the MID-AMERICA REGIONAL BARGAINING ASSOCIATION, Associates who are parties signatory hereto, and the present and future members of such Association who have designated the Association as their bargaining representative, together with such other Employers signatory to this Agreement, hereinafter called the ’’Employer," and LOCAL UNION NO. 76, LOCAL NO. 1006, LOCALS NO. 96 AND NO. 288 of the LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA and CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CHICAGO AND VICINITY, hereinafter called "Union," covering Street Paving and Grade Separation Work in all its branches, shall remain in full force and effect until 11:59 p.m. on May 31, 2006.
If either party wishes to modify this Agreement, it shall serve written notice by certified or registered mail, upon the other party not less than sixty (60) days prior to May 31, 2006 of its intent to begin negotiations for a new Agreement. In the absence of the service of such notice, this Agreement shall automatically renew itself, together with all amendments and improvements as negotiated after said initial expiration date, by and between the parties in area-wide bargaining, from year to year thereafter.
The Employer shall pay the scale of wages herein agreed upon and give these Employers the Union conditions stipulated in this Agreement.
Article I EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
The parties agree that Employees will not be discriminated against because of race, creed, religion, color, age, sex or national origin.
The masculine gender has been used in this Agreement to facilitate ease of writing and editing and therefore the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender. Whenever the words “he", “him”, “his", or "man” is used, they shall be read and construed as “he or she", “him or her”, “his or hers”, and "man or woman", respectively.
Article II SUBCONTRACTING
Paragraph 1. On work covered by this Agreement, the contractor or subcontractor agrees to see that all subcontractors on work within the Union’s jurisdiction on this job site adhere to the wages and fringes contained in this Agreement when the subcontract is let by the contractor or subcontractor. If, upon the Union's request, the subcontractor chooses to sign a current labor agreement with the Union (although such signing might not be required under Paragraph 1), then the contractor shall be relieved of any liability under this Paragraph 1.
Paragraph 2. Work on the job site, that has been traditionally and historically assigned by the Employer to its Laborer employees, may be subcontracted only to a person, firm or corporation which is signatory to a current labor agreement with the Union. This provision only applies to subcontracts let directly by the contractor and not subsequent tiers of subcontractors.
A)	Paragraph 2 applies to work to be performed at the site of construction, alteration, painting and repair of a building, structure or other work, and shall not apply to the delivery and removal of materials, supplies and equipment to and from the job site or other work not performed directly on the job site.
Revised 11-01
Laborers, Road Building -1
•«>
B)	Further, Paragraph 2 shall not be applicable to jurisdictional disputes. Therefore, if the dispute involves entities who are signatory to a contract with an AFL-CIO affiliated union, there can be no violation of Paragraph 2.
C)	All disputes arising under Paragraph 2 shall be resolved exclusively by resort to the grievance arbitration clause and in no event shall the Union strike or withdraw employees from the signatory contractor over alleged violations of Paragraph 2. The Employer shall not be liable for the wages and fringe benefits owed by a subcontractor.
D)	Under Paragraph 2, if the subcontractor does not sign an agreement with the Union, then the Employer upon receipt of a written notice from the Union sent by hand, mail or facsimile shall remove the subcontractor within forty-eight (48) hours. Notices received on Friday in any work week shall require the subcontractor to be removed not later than the close of business on the following Monday. Contractors who follow this procedure will be relieved of any liability under this Paragraph 2.
Paragraph 3. The Employer shall promptly provide a list of all of its subcontractors on a job upon written request from the Union.
Article III HOURS AND OVERTIME
When one shift is used, eight (8) hours per day, between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. from Monday through Friday, inclusive, shall constitute the normal work day and straight time shall be paid. In weeks that have designated holidays that fall during the regular work week, but not more often than six (6) times per year, the Employer may schedule four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days at straight time. The Union and the Employees must be informed and the Union must give permission to the Employer in writing. There shall be no overtime except for an emergency nature to preserve life or property at the discretion of the Employer.
On emergency work, the two and one-half (272) hours immediately following the normal workday, from Monday through Friday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half and thereafter double time will apply.
At the option of the Employer, the starting time for the day, (or the first) shift can be flexible. It is the Employer's responsibility to inform the Employee and obtain clearance from the Union of any change in starting time prior to quitting time the day before such change is to be effective. The first eight (8) hours' work shall be paid at straight time, the next 2% hours at time and one-half and double time thereafter.
On emergency work performed on Saturdays, rates on single shift work shall be time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours, and thereafter double time shall be paid until 8:00 a.m., Monday; however, under no conditions shall more than eight (8) hours be worked at the rate of time and one-half.
Between December 1st and March 15th, Saturday may be used as a make-up day at straight . time while tending masons whose Local Unions observe similar conditions; provided, however, that after forty (40) hours have been worked time and one-half will be paid.
Article IV HOLIDAYS
Except to protect life or property, there shall be no work performed on Sunday or on the following holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day, or on days when such holidays are celebrated, and all hours worked shall be paid for at the double time rate.
When a holiday falls on Monday through Friday, make-up day on Saturday shall be paid at time and one-half for the first eight (8) hours and double time thereafter. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall
Laborers, Road Building - 2
Revised 11-01
be celebrated on the following Monday. If a holiday falls on a day other than Sunday, it shall be celebrated on that date.'
Article V WAGES
Paragraph 1. The rate of wages exclusive of fringe benefits to be paid in this trade for the period June 1, 2001 to and including May 31, 2006, shall be as set forth below for the respective following classifications as further defined herein.
The wage rates include an increase of $1.65 per hour effective June 1, 2001 to May 31, 2002 for a wage rate of $26.65 per hour.which includes the dues deduction. June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2003, $1.80 per hour increase to be allocated between wages and fringe benefits by the Union in its sole discretion. June 1, 2003 to May 31, 2004, $2.00 per hour increase to be allocated between wages and fringe benefits by the Union in its sole discretion. June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005, $2.20 per hour increase to be allocated between wages and fringe benefits by the Union in its sole discretion. June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2006, $2.20 per hour increase to be allocated between wages and fringe benefits by the Union in its sole discretion.
The foregoing allocations may include allocations to LECET. For the economic increases listed above, the Union shall also have discretion to allocate to another fund(s) to be established, up to a maximum of thirty cents ($ .30) per hour over the term of the Agreement (up to twelve cents ($ .12) in the first year and up to eighteen cents ($ .18) over the remaining years). The fund(s) shall indemnify and hold harmless Employers who have assigned their bargaining rights to a MARBA-represented Association for purposes of collective bargaining with the Union, and the MARBA-represented Associations party to this Agreement, and MARBA, as regards the creation, implementation and operation of the fund(s), other than the obligation to contribute the designated amounts to the fund(s), and such indemnity and hold harmless shall include the payment of all reasonable costs and attorney’s fees actually incurred on behalf of the employer. The Employer shall give prompt notice to the fund(s) of any claims asserted or suits filed that are subject to indemnification.
CLASSIFICATION	6/01/01	6/01/02	6/01/03	6/01/04	6/01/05
Laborers and Helpers		$26.65	$1.80	$2.00	$2.20	$2.20
Rakers and Lutemen		26.925			
Machine-Screwmen		26.925	to be allocated		
Asphalt Tampers and Smoothers..	26.925	between wages and		
Kettlemen		26.925	fringe benefits by		
Mixermen		26.925	the Union in its.		
Drum-Men		26.925	sole discretion		
Jackhammermen (Asphalt)		26.925	(See above paragraph)		
Paintmen		26.925			
Mitre Box Spreaders	 Laborers on Birch, Overman and	26.925			
Similar Spreader Equipment		26.925			
Laborers on Apsco		26.925			
Laborers on Air Compressors.... Material Expeditor (Asphalt	26.925			
Plant Laborers)		26.65			
Paving Form Setters		26.925			
Jackhammerman (Concrete)	 Power Drive Concrete Saws,	26.925			
Other Power Equipment	 Cement Gun Nozzle (Laborers)	26.925			
Gunite		26.80			
Laborers, Road Building * 3
Revised 11 -01
Cement Gun Laborers...........	26.725
Street Paving, Grade Separation,
Sidewalk Curb and Gutter Strippers and all Other Laborers....................
General Foreman of Laborers ...
Superintendent.............
Foremen of Laborers...........
Asphalt Foreman..............
Cut-Out Foreman..............
Street Repair Foreman.........
Apprentices (1st 6 months)...
Apprentices (2nd 6 months)....
Apprentices (3rd 6 months)...
Apprentices (4th 6 months)...
Apprentices (after 24 months)....
26.65 28.225 28.225 27.80 27.80 27.80 27.80
60% of base rate: ($15.99) 70% of base rate: ($18,655) 80% of base rate: ($21.32) 90% of base rate: ($23,985) 100% of base rate: ($26.65)
Wages must be paid by payroll check and shall include a stub or statement showing the number of straight time and overtime hours worked and rate of pay.
Dosimeter Use A premium of One ($1.00) Dollar per hour shall be paid to any Laborer required to work with a dosimeter used for monitoring nuclear exposure or with any similar instrument or measuring device.
Power Pac When a Laborer uses a power driven piece of equipment he shall be paid the rate of pay of the tool at the end of the power pac.
Asbestos Use For the period June 1, 2001 through May 31, 2002, a premium of fifteen cents . ($ .15) per hour shall be paid to any Laborer required to work with asbestos who is a certified asbestos Laborer licensed by the State of Illinois as an Asbestos Abatement worker. Thereafter, no premium shall be paid.
Paragraph 2. WELFARE: Beginning the period from June'1, 2001 to May 31, 2002, the Employer agrees to make Health and Welfare contributions of $3.45 per hour for each hour worked by all Employees covered by this Agreement in addition to the wages herein stipulated. This $3.45 per hour shall be paid to the Health and Welfare Department of Construction and General Laborers’ District Council of Chicago and Vicinity or a designated appointee at the end of each month.
That for the periods June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2003; June 1, 2003 to May 31, 2004; June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005; June 1,2005 to May 31, 2006; that on May 1 of each year, if able, but not later than June 1, the Union in its sole discretion, shall determine the amount of additional contributions to Welfare and/or Pension and Training to be allocated from the economic package for that year. (See Article V, Paragraph 1)
The Employer agrees to bound by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the . Health and Welfare Department of Construction and General Laborers’ District Council of Chicago and Vicinity, as well as any amendments thereto.
Paragraph 3. PENSION: Beginning June 1, 2001 the Employer agrees to make a pension contribution of $2.65 per hour for each hour worked by all Employees covered by this Agreement in addition to the wages and welfare payments herein stipulated. This $2.65 per hour shall be paid to the Laborers' Pension Fund or to a designated appointee at the end of each month.
That for the periods June 1, 2002 to May 31, 2003; June 1, 2003 to May 31, 2004; June 1, 2004 to May 31, 2005; June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2006; that on May 1 of each year, if able, but not later than June 1, the Union in its sole discretion, shall determine the amount of additional contributions to Welfare; and/or Pension and Training to be allocated from the economic package for that year. (See Article V, Paragraph 1)
The Employer agrees to bound by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the Laborers’ Pension Fund, as well as any amendments thereto.
Laborers, Road Building - 4
Revised 11-01
The parties agree that the Employer shall make lump sum contributions to employee fringe benefit accounts, administered by the Trustees on behalf of each employee. It is further agreed that such contribution shall be accompanied by a breakdown of payment according to appropriate benefits.
The Trustees of the Welfare Fund and the Trustees of the Pension Fund shall, among other things, have authority to determine the type and amount of benefits to be provided in each of said funds, the eligibility rules governing entitlement to benefits, and whether and to what extent benefits are to be provided for covered Employees.
The failure of the Employer to contribute to the said Welfare or Pension Fund, as provided herein, shall for the purposes of the remedies the Union may pursue, be deemed the same as the failure of the Employer to pay wages, and the Union shall be permitted to remove workers whom they represent for non-payment of such contributions, anything to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
A grace period of thirty (30) days shall be granted for Employers to submit reports and contributions as provided. Said reports and contributions not received during this grace period shall be assessed liquidated damages amounting to ten (10%) percent of the amount of the contributions which are owed. The Employer acknowledges that the liquidated damages shall be used to defer administrative costs arising by said delinquency and acknowledges the costs to be actual and substantial, though difficult to ascertain. However, the Employer acknowledges these costs to be ata minimum often (10%) percent, waiving the necessity of any additional proof thereof. In addition, the delinquent contributions shall bear interest at a maximum legal rate of interest per annum from the due date until they are paid.
Further, in the event the Trustees refer the account to legal counsel for collection, the delinquent Employer shall be liable for reasonable attorneys' fees, and for all reasonable costs incurred in the collection process, including court fees, audit fees, etc.
Reasonable attorneys' fees shall mean: All reasonable attorneys' fees in the amounts for which the Trustees become legally bound to pay, including recovery of liquidated damages, interests, audit costs, filing fees, and any other expenses incurred by the Trustees.
The Trustees of the aforementioned Welfare and Pension Funds and the Union shall have the ■ authority to audit the books and records of a participating Employer, either directly or through their authorized representative, whenever such examination is deemed necessary for the purpose of compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, including the obligation to remit Union Dues under Article.VH.
Each participating Employer shall make its books and records available to the Trustees for such purpose. In the event the audit discloses that the Employer, during the period of the audit, had underpaid its contributions and/or wages, the Employer shall be liable for the costs of the examination, including but not limited to, audit fees and reasonable attorneys' fees. The Trustees' authority to waive any costs shall be governed by the terms of the Trust Agreement.
Section 415 Excess Benefit Fund. A Section 415 Excess Benefit Fund shall be established for the purpose of providing alternative benefit to any employees of the Employer who become unable to receive the entire amount of the accrued pension benefits to which they would be entitled under one or more of the pension plans sponsored by their Employer because of limitations established by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Employer may be required and directed by the Board of Trustees of the Excess Benefit Fund to contribute a portion of its agreed-upon “pension” contribution to the Section 415 Excess Benefit Fund and shall not increase the Employer's cost beyond the amount that the Employer is obligated to contribute to the Laborers’ Pension Fund and that the funding of the Section 415 Excess Benefit Fund shall be fully tax deductible to the Employer for Federal Income Tax purposes..The Employer hereby agrees that the Board of Trustees of any such Section 415 Excess Benefit Fund shall be authorized to determine each year the amount that will be contributed by the Employer and the amount to be credited to the account of any eligible retiree for payment in lieu of accrued benefits that would exceed the limits set by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Paragraph 4. SUPERVISORS: To the extent permissible by the Internal Revenue Service or any Federal Act, and for the purposes of Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article V of this Agreement only, the bargaining unit shall also include those persons in the employ of an Employer who are supervisors, as defined in the Labor Management Relations Act, as amended; and who at one time were Employee members of the bargaining unit herein on whose behalf contributions were required to be made to the trust funds described in the aforesaid Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article V hereof.
Laborers, Road Building - 5
Revised 11-01
Article VI BONDING TO GUARANTEE WAGE PAYMENTS AND WELFARE AND PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS
Paragraph 1. All Employers shall procure, carry and maintain a surety bond in form and amount satisfactory to the Union, but not less than in the principal sum of $5,000.00, to guarantee payment of wages. Pension and Welfare Trust contributions, during the term of this Agreement.
Paragraph 2. If the Employer employs between seven (7) and ten (10) Laborers, the surety bond shall be increased to $15,000. If the Employer employs between eleven (11) and twenty (20) Laborers, the surety bond shall be increased to $25,000. If the Employer employers twenty-one (21) to forty (40) Laborers, the surety bond shall be increased to $35,000. If the Employer employs forty-one (41) or more Laborers, the surety bond shall be increased to $45,000.
Paragraph 3. The Employer shall give notice to the Union and the appropriate Fund Office in writing not later than ten (10) days after the occurrence of any of the following events relating to the Employer, occurring after the date hereof:
(a)	Formation of Partnerships;
(b)	Termination of business;
(c)	Change of name commonly	used	in	business operation;
(d)	Change in form of business	organization;
(e)	Incorporation of business;
(f)	Dissolution of corporation;
(g)	Name and business organization of successor; and
(h)	Admission to or withdrawal from any association operating as a multi-employer bargain-
ing unit.
Article VII CHECK-OFF & DUES DEDUCTIONS
Paragraph 1. Employers also agree to deduct from the net earnings payable to an Employee covered by this Agreement, initiation fees and quarterly Union dues insofar as permitted by state and federal laws upon receipt and in accordance with a duly executed authorization form from the Employees. Said authorization form shall not be revocable for a period of more than one (1) year or prior to the termination date of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner.
Paragraph 2. All Employers covered by this Agreement shall deduct from the wages of Employees covered by said contract, working dues in the amount of one and one-half percent (1.5%) of gross wages or such amount approved by the Union for each hour worked and shall remit monthly to the Union office the sums so deducted, together with an accurate list of Employees from whose wages said dues were deducted and the amounts applicable to each Employee, not later than the 10th day of the month next following the month for which such deductions were made. Dues remittance reports shall include a report of the hours worked and wages earned by each Laborer. Employers who fail to timely remit Union dues shall be assessed an additional ten percent (10%) liquidated damages.
Paragraph 3. The Union will submit to the Employer a written statement of respective amount of initiation fees and Union dues due the Union. The Employer will then deduct said amounts from each Employee's pay every weekly pay period until the total amount of initiation fees and dues have been deducted. Deductions from the weekly wages shall be not less than Twenty-five ($25.00) Dollars per week to apply to initiation fees and dues until fully paid.
Laborers, Road Building - 6
Revised 11-01
Paragraph 4. Deductions shall be remitted to the Union or to a designated appointee of the Employer promptly, and the Local Union shall acknowledge receipt of the money. The Employer shall furnish the Union with a record of those for whom deductions have been made, the amount of the deductions, and a list of absentees.
Paragraph 5. Employees may authorize deductions of more than the aforesaid Twenty-five ($25.00) Dollars per week, if they so desire, in order to complete early payment of initiation fees and quarterly dues.
Paragraph 6. It is the intention of the parties that such deductions shall comply with the requirements of Section 302(c)(4) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended, and that such deductions be made only pursuant to written assignments from each Employee on whose account such deductions are made, which assignment shall not be revocable for a period of more than one (1) year, or prior to the termination date of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner.
Paragraph 7. The Union agrees that it will indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any and all claims, suits, causes of action, or otherwise, as regards the creation and administration of the dues check-off established by this Article and such indemnity and agreement to hold harmless shall include the payment of costs and attorneys' fees on behalf of the beneficiaries of such indemnity.
Paragraph 8. Should any Employer fail to remit dues to the Union as required under this Agreement, the Employer shall be liable for and pay all costs of collection, including reasonable audit expenses and reasonable attorney fees and costs. The Union may file suit, or remove employees that it represents, or both, for non-remittance or underpayment of dues by an Employer.
Article VIII INDUSTRY FUNDS
Paragraph 1. Each Employer shall pay into the MIDWEST CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY ADVANCEMENT FUND (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Industry Fund"), or such other fund as MARBA may in its sole discretion designate at any time during the term of this Agreement, the amount of six cents ($ .06) for each hour worked for the Employer by those of his Employees covered by this Agreement.
Each Employer shall pay into the Chicago-Area Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust (“LECET"), the amount of five cents ($ .05) for each hour worked for the Employer by those of his Employees covered by this Agreement.
Each Employer shall pay into the Laborers’ District Council Labor-Management Cooperation Committee (“LDC/LMCC”), the amount of twelve cents ($ .12) for each hour worked for the Employer by those of his Employees covered by this Agreement.
Each contractor shall contribute one cent ($ .01) per hour for each hour worked by his/her employees covered by this Agreement to the Construction industry Service Corporation (“CISCO”), a not for profit corporation.
Paragraph 2. The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the Industry Fund, as well as any amendments thereto, and agrees to be bound by all actions taken by the Trustees of said Industry Fund pursuant to said Agreement and Declaration of Trust and amendments thereto. The Employer agrees to be bound by the Agreements and Declarations of Trust establishing the LECET and LDC/LMCC, as well as any amendments thereto.
Paragraph 3. Inasmuch as the existence and utilization of these Industry Fund(s) should result in increased construction and, therefore, in increased construction job opportunities for Employees, the Union agrees to cooperate in assuring that the contributions required by this Article are in fact made by Employers bound by this Agreement.
Laborers, Road Building - 7
Revised 11-01
SAFETY FUND
Paragraph 4. For the period June 1, 2001 to May 31, 2006 each Employer shall contribute one cent ($.01) per hour for each hour worked by its Employees covered by this Agreement to the Chicago-land Construction Safety Council, a not for profit corporation.
Article IX STEWARDS
Paragraph 1. The Business Agent of the Union in whose jurisdiction a job or project is located shall have the right to appoint one Laborer employed on the job as Steward on said job or project. Such Steward shall be subject to the same terms of employment as any other Employee, but taking into consideration that the Steward should be present during all working hours, all possible overtime work shall be assigned to all Stewards, if the Stewards do not replace another Laborer from that other Laborers' previously assigned duties.
Paragraph 2. The duties of the Steward shall include the checking of terms and conditions of work, safety conditions, starting dates of employment for new Laborers, whether Union or Non-Union, and report same to the Business Representative who appointed him. All Laborers employed on a job or project shall report to the Steward any differences or disputes which may arise in connection with the work or any part of it, and the Steward shall report same to the office of the Union. If it becomes necessary to discharge or lay off any Laborers because of completion of the work or otherwise, the Laborer appointed and acting as Steward shall not be discharged or laid off while other Laborers remain employed on the job or project so long as he is competent to perform the work. Nothing herein contained shall in any way restrict the right of any Employer to discharge a Steward for cause, upon notification to the Business Agent of the Local Union who appointed the Laborer to act as Steward.
Paragraph 3. Whenever one or more Laborers are required to work overtime, one of these Laborers shall be the regularly designated Steward if he is competent to do the work required; or if he cannot work, he will call the Business Manager and the Business Manager will designate someone on this job to act as Steward.
Paragraph 4. Where an Employer has been found to have engaged in:
(a)	a serious violation of the wage provisions of this Agreement by the Joint Grievance Committee or by an arbitrator;
(b)	a violation of the fringe benefit provisions of this Agreement, by a court order or by a delinquency settlement agreement; or
(c)	a violation of the rules of the apprenticeship program as determined by the JATC; then for the next six (6) months of active laborer employment, the Union shall have the right to appoint and place a steward of its own choosing on a then-current job of that Employer.
Article X SHIFT WORK
When necessary from Monday through Friday, the Employer shall have the right to work his Employees in consecutive shifts of eight (8) hours for straight time, with one-half (%) hour for lunch during the shift which must be paid for, and not less than, the established overtime rates for all hours worked over eight (8) hours each day. Employees shall receive eight (8) hours pay under this Section even if they are permitted to leave after seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours, and it shall be a violation of this Agreement if an employee does not receive eight (8) hours pay. Employees who work eight (8) hours on a shift without receiving one-half hour lunch shall receive, in addition to the eight (8) hours pay as provided in this Section, one (1) hour’s pay at the applicable premium rate.
Laborers, Road Building - 8
Revised 11-01
Multiple shift work on Saturday shall start after 11:59 p.m. on Friday and not more than eight (8) hours will be worked at the rate of time and one-half during any one shift, and double time shall apply for all hours over and above eight (8) hours worked, until 8:00 a.m. Monday.
All hours worked on Sundays and Holidays, or on days when Holidays are celebrated, shall be paid at the double-time rate.
When less than three (3) shifts are worked, from Monday through Friday, during each day, the lunch period must be provided, but not paid for, and all established overtime rates must be complied with.
When it is necessary that the contractor use more than one shift for a period of three (3) or more consecutive days, the Union shall be notified twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the effective date of the starting of such multiple shift operations.
Article XI PAYDAY
It is hereby agreed that the Employee shall be paid on the job and before quitting time on the regular payday of each weekly period. When a Laborer is discharged, he shall be paid in full and also, if he is laid off and demands his pay, except when the layoff is caused by bad weather or lack of material being furnished by others. Such wages due may be paid in person or placed in the mail on the same day of discharge or layoff at the option of Employer.
When a Laborer quits on his own accord, he shall receive his pay at the next regular payday. Payment may be made by check or currency of the United States at the option of the Employer; but in the event the Employer pays by check, he shall provide reasonable facilities for cashing same. Time checks payable by the Employer shall be considered valid, providing the Laborer be allowed two (2) hours traveling time. Such traveling time shall be added to the time check by the person issuing the same. If the Laborer is obliged to remain and wait before receiving his check, he shall be allowed regular wages for such waiting time.
Where the Employer orders Employees to work and said Employees are compelled to wait upon .the job, they shall be paid regular wages for such waiting time, provided they remain on the job. Any Employee reporting for work upon order expressed or implied by the Employer and not put to work for any reason except weather conditions, fire or accident, shall receive four (4) hours1 pay. When Employer sends Employees from one job to another during working hours, regular wages shall be paid for such travel time. Single time shall be paid for moving equipment, except on Sunday and holidays, when double time rates shall be paid. The Union reserves the right to strike at any time for wages which are overdue or underpaid, as well as for any violation of this Agreement.
On General Election Days, the individual employed in this trade shall be allowed, not to exceed two (2) hours’ time, without pay, for the purpose of voting.
Article XII BRANCHES OF WORK
Paragraph 1. The classification of Employees covered by this Agreement doing the work falling within jurisdiction of this Union shall be used in performing all common labor at the building or site, in connection with masonry and carpentry or such other work as may be directed by the Employer, his foreman or agent.
Paragraph 2. The Employer shall not engage his labor on a piece-work basis.
Paragraph 3. The Employer shall furnish all tools and shovels required for the work, also boots and rain equipment required for the protection of the workers in the trade and the worker shall be held responsible for them.
Paragraph 4. The Employer shall furnish any necessary protective medication, such as petroleum jelly, to prevent burns from creosote or chemicals which may prove injurious to the skin.
Laborers, Road Building - 9
Revised 11-01
Paragraph 5. On a job site requiring a Tool Shanty, said Tool Shanty shall be tended by a Laborer if Employer determines tending is required.
Paragraph 6. Portable Water Pumps shall be tended by Laborers if Employer determines tending is required.
Paragraph 7. In any instance where a Machine replaces only the work of Laborers, said Machine shall be operated by a Laborer if so determined by the Employer.
Paragraph 8. The Employer shall furnish a suitable place, properly heated when reasonably necessary, where Laborers may eat and change their clothes.
Paragraph 9. RECOGNITION OF BARGAINING REPRESENTATIVE: Employer hereby agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive representative of all its Employees performing work within the jurisdiction of the Union for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and also confirms the jurisdiction of this Union over the branches of work covered herein, and agrees not to enter into any agreement with other labor organizations covering such branches of work.
Paragraph 9. BRANCHES OF WORK COVERED HEREIN: The building of all scaffolding, runways and windbreaks for concrete and mason work, rigging for caissons, concrete chutes and hoppers, digging, lagging, sheeting and dewatering of foundation piers and caissons; concrete work within the walls of any building or jobs; the rubbing and grinding of concrete installations where no patching is involved; boxing for concrete footing, raising, moving, shoring of all buildings, back fillings and gradings; also all laboring work in connection with cement sidewalks, curbs or gutters, stone curbs, streets, alleys, driveways, viaducts, retaining walls, slate, tile and asbestos roofings; also al! laboring work connected with composition floor work, rock asphalt, whether done by hand or by any other process, wrecking and stripping of concrete forms and falsework, tending to carpenters, tending to salamanders; removal, clearing and cleaning of all debris, signalman and handling of such materials for construction as directed by the Employer; building in centering for fire proofing; gunite work in handling of cement gun nozzle, when gunite is applied of a thickness of one and one-half (172) inches or more, all laboring work in connection with original installation of landscaping in connection with the new construction of all types, also all laboring work in connection with boiler setting, including the installation of plastic or other non-solid refractory materials. The coverage of this agreement, in referring to the type of work hereunder, includes in addition to all other types of construction, the construction and alteration and maintenance over track work in property on which a railroad company does not have a property right; in short, all unskilled labor connected with work undertaken by Employer and the handling of all materials, or appliances in any trade where it will be more economical to have the work done by Laborers as may be decided by the Employer, subject to appeal to the decision of the Joint Grievance Committee.
Tenders: Tending masons, plasterers, carpenters and other building and construction crafts.
Tending shall consist of preparation of materials and handling and conveying of materials to be used by mechanics or other crafts, whether such preparation is by hand or any other process. After the material has been prepared, tending shall include the supplying and conveying of said material, and all other materials to such mechanic, whether by silo mixer, bucket, hod, wheelbarrow, buggy, or any motorized unit used for such purpose, including bobcats, and uniloaders for cement masons and concrete contractors, forklifts for brick masons and/or any other machine which replaces the wheelbarrow.
Unloading, handling, and distributing of all materials, fixtures, furnishings, furniture, and appliances whether crated or uncrated from point of delivery to stockpiles and from stockpiles to approximate point of installation.
Drying of plaster, concrete, mortar or other aggregate when done by salamanders, heaters or any other drying process.
Cleaning and clearing of all debris, including wire brushing of windows, scraping of floors, removal of surplus material from ail fixtures within confines of structures and cleaning of all debris in building and construction area. The general cleanup, including sweeping, cleaning, washdown and wiping of construction facility, equipment and furnishings and removal and loading or burning of all debris including crates, boxes, packagings, and packaging waste material. Washing orcleaning of walls, partitions, ceil
Laborers, Road Building -10
Ra vised 11-01
ings, windows, bathrooms, kitchens, laboratory, and all fixtures and facilities therein. Cleanup, mopping, washing, waxing and polishing or dusting of all floors or areas.
The aging and curing of concrete, mortar and other materials applied to walls, floors, ceilings and foundations of buildings and structures, highways, airports, overpasses, tunnels, bridges, approaches, viaducts, ramps, or other similar surfaces by any mode or method.
Scaffolds: Erection, planking, maintenance and removal of all scaffolds and windbreaks for lathers, plasterers, bricklayers, masons and other construction trade crafts. Building planking or installation and removal of all staging, swinging, tubular and hanging scaffolds, including maintenance thereof.
Excavations and Foundation-Site Preparation and Clearance For Transportation and Transmission Lines: Excavation for building and all other construction; digging of trenches, piers, foundations and holes; digging, lagging, sheeting, cribbing, bracing and propping of foundations, holes, caissons, cofferdams, dams, dikes and irrigation trenches, canals and all handling, filling and placing of sand bags connected therewith. All drilling, blasting and scaling on the site or along the right of way, as well as access roads, reservoirs, including areas adjacent or pertinent to construction site; installation of temporary lines.
Preparation and compacting of roadbeds for railroad track laying, highway construction and the preparation of trenches, footings, etc., for cross-country transmission by pipelines or electric transmission or underground lines or cables.
On-site preparation and right-of-way clearance for construction of any structures or the installation of traffic and transportation facilities such as highways, pipelines, electrical transmission lines, dam sites and reservoir areas, access roads, etc. Clearing and slashing of brush or trees by hand or with mechanical cutting methods. Blasting for all purposes such as stumps, rocks, general demolition. Falling, bucking, yarding, loading or burning of all trees or timber on construction areas. Choker setters, off-bearers, lumber handlers and all Laborers connected with on-site portable sawmill operations connected with clearing. Erection, dismantling and/or reinstallation of all fences. Cleanup of right-of-way, including tying on, signaling, stacking of brush, trees or other debris, and burning where required. All soil tests, operations of semi and unskilled labor, such as filling of sand bags, handling timber and loading and unloading of same.
Concrete, Bituminous Concrete and Aggregates: (a) Concrete, bituminous, concrete or aggregate for walls, footings, foundations, floors or for any other construction. Mixing, handling, conveying, pouring, vibrating, guniting and otherwise placing concrete or aggregate, whether done by hand or any other process. Wrecking, stripping, dismantling and handling concrete forms and false work. Building of centers for fire proofing purposes. Operation of motorized wheelbarrows or buggies or machines of similar character, whether run by gas, diesel or electric power. When concrete or aggregates are conveyed by crane or derrick, or similar methods, the hooking on, signaling, dumping and unhooking the bucket. Placing of concrete or aggregates, whether poured, pumped, gunited, or placed by any other process. The assembly, uncoupling of all connections and/or parts of, to equipment used in mixing or conveying concrete, aggregate, or mortar, and the clearing of such equipment, parts and/or connections. All vibrating, grinding, spreading, flowing, puddling, leveling and strike-off of concrete or aggregates by floating, rodding or screening by hand or mechanical means prior to finishing. Where prestressed or pre-cast concrete slabs, walls, or sections are used, all loading, unloading, stockpiling, hooking on, signaling, unhooking, setting and barring into place of such slabs, walls or sections. All mixing handling conveying, placing and spreading of grout for any purpose. Green cutting of concrete or aggregate in any form, by hand, mechanical means, grindstones or air or water.
(b)	The filing and patching of voids, crevices, etc., to correct defects in concrete caused by leakage, bulging, sagging, etc.
(c)	The loading, unloading, carrying, distributing and handling of all rods, mesh and material for use in reinforcing concrete construction. The hoisting of rods, mesh and other material for use in reinforcing concrete construction. The hoisting of rods, mesh and other materials except when a derrick or outrigger by other than hand power is used.
(d)	All work on interior concrete columns, foundations for engine and machinery beds.
(e)	The stripping of forms, other than panel forms which are to be re-used in their original form, and the stripping of forms on all flat arch work.
The moving, cleaning, oiling and carrying of all forms to the next point of erection.
Laborers, Road Building -11
Revised 11-01
The snapping of wall ties and removal of tie rods. Handling, placing and operation of the hoses and pots or hoppers on sand blasting or other abrasive cleaning. The jacking of slip forms, and all semi and unskilled work connected therewith.
Streets, Ways and Bridges: Work, in the excavation, preparation, concreting, asphalt, bituminous concrete and mastic paving, ramming, curbing, flagging and surfacing of streets, striping, street markings and other pavement markings, Laborers engaged in layout work, cleanup and helping painters involved in any pavement markings, ways, courts, underpasses, overpasses, bridges, approaches and slope walls and the grading and landscaping thereof and all other labor connected therewith. Cleaning, grading, fence or guard rail installation and/or removal for streets, highways, roadways, aprons, runways, sidewalks, parking areas, airports, approaches and other similar installations. Preparation, construction and maintenance of roadbeds and sub-grade for all paving, including excavation, dumping and spreading of sub-grade material, ramming, or otherwise compacting. Setting, leveling and securing or bracing of metal or other road forms and expansion joints, including placing of reinforcing mats, or wire mesh, for the above work. Loading, unloading, placing, handling and spreading of concrete aggregate or paving material, including leveling of the surface. Strike-off of concrete, when used as paving material by hand and floating or mechanical screening for strike-off. Cutting of concrete for expansion joints and other purposes. Setting of curb forms and the mixing, pouring, cutting, flowing, and strike-off of concrete used therefor. The setting, leveling and grouting of all pre-cast concrete or stone curb sections. Installation of all joints, removal of forms and cleaning, stacking, loading, oiling and handling. Grading and landscaping in connection with paving work. Al! work in connection with loading, unloading, handling, signaling, slinging and setting of all paving blocks, riprap or retaining walls such as stone, wood, metal, concrete or other material and the preparation of surfaces to receive same.
Lagging for bridge decks, if the Employer elects to assign this work to Laborers.
Trenches, Manholes, Handling and Distribution of Pipe, Etc.: Cutting of streets and ways for laying of pipe, cables or conduits for all purposes; digging of trenches, manholes, etc., handling and conveying all materials; concreting, back-filling, grading and resurfacing and all other labor connected therewith. Clearing and site preparation as described herein. Cutting or jackhammering of streets, roads, sidewalks or aprons by hand or the use of air or other tools. Digging of trenches, ditches and manholes and the leveling, grading and other preparation prior to laying pipe or conduit for any purpose. Loading, unloading, sorting, stockpiling, wrapping, coating, treating, handling and distribution of water mains, gas mains, and all pipe, including placing, setting and removal of skids. Cribbing, driving or sheet piling, lagging and shoring of all ditches, trenches and manholes. Handling, mixing or pouring concrete and handling and placing of other materials for saddles, beds or foundations for the protection of pipes, wires, conduits, etc. Backfilling and compacting of all ditches, resurfacing of roads, streets, etc. and/or restoration of lawns and landscaping.
Shafts and Tunnels, Subways and Sewers: Construction of sewers, shafts, tunnels, subways, caissons, cofferdams, dikes, dams, levies, aqueducts, culverts, floor control projects and airports. All underground work involved in mines, underground chambers for storage or other purposes, tunnels or shafts for any purpose, whether in free or compressed air. Drilling and blasting, mucking and removal of material from the tunnels or shafts. The cutting, drilling and installation of material used for timbering, or retimbering, lagging, bracing, propping or shoring the tunnel or shaft. Assembly and installation of multiplate, liner plate, rings, mesh, mats or forms for any tunnel or shaft including the setting or rods for same. Pouring, pumps-creting or guniting of concrete in any tunnel or shaft operation, manual or hydraulic jacking of shields and the use of such other mechanical equipment as may be necessary.
Excavation or digging and grading of footings and foundations for bridges, overpasses, underpasses, aqueducts, etc., and their approaches. All concrete work as described above and in addition, the hooking on, signaling and dumping of concrete for treme work over water on caissons, pilings, abutments, etc. Excavation, grading, grade preparation and landscaping of approaches. Installation of pipe, gratings and grill work for drains or other purposes. Installation of well points or any other dewatering system.
Compressed Air: In compressed air all work underground or in compressed chambers, including tending of the outer air lock.' All work in compressed air construction including, but not limited to,
Laborers, Road Building -12
Revised 11-01
groutmen, trackmen, blasters, shield drivers, miners, brakemen, miner's helpers, lock tenders, mucking machine operators, mortar men, gauge tenders, rodmen, compressed air electricians, setting of line plate and ring sets, drill runners, powermen or blasters, air hoist operators; form men; concrete blower operators, cement (invert) operators, power knife operators, erector operators, keyboard operators, pebble placer operators, car punches, grout machine operators, steel setters, cage tenders, skinner track layers, dumpmen, diamond drillers, timbermen and re-timbermen, cherry pickmen, nippers, chucktenders and cable tenders, vibratormen, jetgunmen, gunite, nozzlemen, gunmen, reboundmen and all other work connected therewith.
Sewer, Drains, Culverts and Muitiplate: Unloading, sorting, stockpiling, wrapping, coating, treating, handling, distribution and lowering or raising of alt pipe or multiplate. All digging, breaking of concrete, backfilling, tamping, resurfacing and paving of all ditches in preparation for the laying of pipe. Pipe laying, leveling, and making of the joint of any pipe used for main or side sewers and storm sewers. All of the laying of clay, terra cotta, iron-stone, vitrified concrete or other pipe and the making of joints for main or side sewers and storm sewers and all pipe for drainage. Unloading, handling, distribution, assembly in place, bolting and lining up of sectional metal or other pipe including corrugated pipe. Laying of lateral sewer pipe from main sewer or side sewer to building or structure, except that Employer may direct that this work be done under proper supervision. (Referee Hutcheson’s decision). Laying, leveling and making of the joint of all multi-cell conduit or multi-purpose pipe. Cutting of holes in walls, footings, piers or other obstructions for the passage of pipe or conduit for any purpose and the pouring of concrete to secure said holes. Digging under streets, roadways, aprons or other paved surfaces for the passage of pipe, by hand, earth auger or any other method and manual and hydraulic jacking of pipe under said surfaces. Installation of septic tanks, cesspools and drain fields.
Underpinning, Lagging, Bracing, Propping and Shoring. Underpinning, lagging, bracing, propping and shoring, raising and moving of all structures; raising of structure by manual and hydraulic jacks or other methods. All work on house moving, shoring and underpinning of structures, loading, signaling, right- of-way clearing along the route of movement. Resetting of structure in new location to include all site clearing, excavation for foundation and concrete work. Cleanup and backfilling, landscaping old and new site.
Drilling and Blasting. All work of drilling jackhammering and blasting. Operation of all rock and concrete drills, including handling, carrying, laying out of hoses, steel handling, installation of all temporary lines and handling and laying of all blasting mats. All work in connection with blasting, handling and storage of explosives carrying to point of blasting, loading holes, setting fuses, making primers and exploding charges. All securing of surfaces with wire mesh and any other material and setting of necessary bolts and rods and anchor same. All high scaling and other rock breaking and removal after blast. Handling and laying of nets and other safety devices and signaling, flagging, road guarding.
Signalmen: Signalmen on all construction work defined herein, including traffic control signalmen at construction site.
General Excavation and Grading: The clearing, excavating, filling, backfilling, grading and landscaping of all sites for all purposes and all labor connected therewith, including chairmen, rodmen, grade markers, etc.
Factories: All work in factories, mills, and industrial plants performed now or as may be acquired hereafter, including packers, cutters, loaders, raw material unloaders, checkers, stutters, production line personnel and stenciling of materials. Handling of raw pigment; vessel cleaners and/or dryers; washing or cleaning laboratory glassware; stocking of materials in laboratories; the cleaning and/or scrubbing, washing, polishing of all floors, glasses, windows, walls rest rooms and furniture.
General: Material yards, junk yards, asphalt plants, concrete products plants, cemeteries, landscape nurseries and the cleaning or reconditioning of streets, ways, sewers and water lines and all maintenance work and work of an unskilled and semi-skilled nature, including Laborers in shipyards, tank cleaners, ship scalers, shipwright helpers, watchmen, flagmen, guards, security and safety men, toolroom
Laborers, Road Building -13
Revised 11-01
men, parks, sports area and all recreational center employees, utilities employees, horticultural and agricultural workers, garbage and debris handlers and cleaners.
Pits, Yards, Quarries, Etc.: All drillers, blasters and/or powdermen, nippers, signalmen, Laborers in quarries, crushed stone yards and gravel and sand pits and other similar plants, including temporary and portable batching plants.
Wrecking: The wrecking or dismantling of buildings and all structures, breaking away roof materials, beams of all kinds, with use of cutting or other wrecking tools as necessary. Burning or otherwise cutting all steel structural beams. Breaking away, cleaning and removal of all masonry and wood or metal fixtures for salvage or scrap. All hooking on and signaling when materials for salvage or scrap are removed by crane or derrick. All loading and unloading of materials carried away from the site of wrecking. All work in salvage or junkyards in connection with cutting, cleaning, storing, stockpiling or handling of materials. All clean-up removal of debris, burning, backfilling and landscaping of the site of wrecked structures.
Railroad Track Work. Right-of-way clearance as described above, excavation, grading, subgrading, ballasting and compacting of right-of-way. Loading, unloading, stockpiling, handling and distribution of track and ties and placing of or jacking track and ties at point of installation. All burning or otherwise cutting of track. Setting of tie plates, bolting, leveling, and gauging of rails and all spiking, whether by hand or mechanical means. Placing and tamping of ballast by hand or mechanical means. Construction and/or relocation of main line, shoe flies, sidings, gradings, crossing, relocating of pipes and drainage and culverts and connected with same and removal and replacing of all fences.
Studio Utility Employees: All such work as herein described as may be pertinent to and part of the operation of Motion Picture and other related types of studios.
Use of Tools: Operation of all hand, pneumatic, electrical, motor, combustion or air-driven tools or equipment necessary for the performance of work described herein. In short, all unskilled labor connected with work undertaken by members of the party of the first part, and the handling of all materials or appliances in any trade where it will be more economical to have the work performed by Laborers as may be decided by the Employer, subject to appeal to and decision of the Joint Grievance Committee.
Miscellaneous: All such work and jurisdiction as may have been acquired by reason of amalgamation or merger with former national or international Unions and as may be hereafter acquired; including all such work and jurisdiction as declared by actions of the Executive Council or conventions of the American Federation of Labor.
Paragraph 10. WORK NOT INCLUDED: The laboring work not included in this Agreement is general excavating for buildings to the bottom of floor level. If there are any sub-basements or cellars, this general excavation shall be considered to extend to the bottom of the floor, of same. Excavation in. basement and sub-basements other than by power equipment shall be done by Laborers at Building Laborers' rate (except where caisson rates apply).
Paragraph 11. WRECKING: Where a building is only partially wrecked and parts torn down for the purpose of building additions, alterations, remodeling, or repairing same, such work is covered by this Agreement, and rates as established herein shall apply.
Paragraph 11(a). WRECKING: COMPLETE DEMOLITION: Work pertaining to wrecking of buildings and structures in their entirety and removed to the basement floor level is covered by the Agreement between Local No. 225 of the Laborers' District Council and the Labor Committee representing the Wrecking Industry of Chicago and Vicinity, and the rates established by said Agreement shall apply.
Paragraph 12. HIRING HALL: No agreement on the request of the Union for the establishment of an exclusive Hiring Hall has been consummated. Therefore, the question of establishing a Hiring Hall
Laborers, Road Building -14
Revised 11-01
is hereby reserved for the future consideration of the parties. Upon service of a sixty (60) days' notice in writing upon employer from Union, such question shall be taken up for discussion and future negotiation by the parties hereto.
Article XIII UNION SECURITY
All new Employees shall be required to join the Union after the expiration of seven (7) days of employment or seven (7) days after the execution of this Agreement, whichever is later, and shall remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of continued employment for the duration of this agreement.
Good standing shall mean payment of the initiation fees and working and non-working dues uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in a Local Union.
Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it is signed, and who are members of the Union at that time, shall be required as a condition of continued employment, to continue membership in the Union for the duration of this Agreement.
Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it has been signed, and who are not members of the Union at that time shall be required to join the Union seven (7) days after the date of execution of this Agreement and remain members of the Union in good standing as a condition of employment for the duration of this Agreement.
Article XIV REPORTING FOR WORK
Paragraph 1. If any Employee of the Employer shows up in the morning for work and is not put to work for any reason whatsoever, he shall receive at least two (2) hours' pay.
Weather conditions shall be an exception to the requirement for "show up" on reporting pay provided the Employer has notified the Employee by telephone or has required in writing that the Employee call before he departs from home. The Employer must provide a definite and available phone number and must post this provision on each job site.
if any Employee of the Employer works any time in excess of four (4) hours after the starting time of any day, and he does not finish the day at work through no fault of his own, he shall receive eight (8) hours' pay.
The Employer agrees that no punitive action shall be taken against their Employees, if said Employees refuse to cross a picket line that may be placed on the job or project of their Employer.
Paragraph 2. In case of an accident requiring medical attention during working hours, Laborers shall be permitted to go for or be taken for medical attention at once, and shall be paid for lost time that day.
In the event such injured Laborer is permitted to continue working by the doctor, but is required to return for periodic medical attention during working hours by the insurance physician or company doctor, such injured Laborer shall be paid for lost time, but not to exceed two (2) hours' pay for such visit to the doctor.
Article XV TRAINING AND APPRENTICE PROGRAM
Paragraph 1. APPRENTICE COMMITTEE: MARBA and the Union shall create a Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee (JATC), consisting of three (3) management and three (3) Union appointees to draft a trust agreement, hire staff, develop apprenticeship standards and oversee implementation of the apprentice program. The Employer hereby adopts and shall be bound by the agreement and declaration of trust established by the JATC for the apprentice program, together with any amendments thereto,
Laborers, Road Building -15
Revised 11-01
which are incorporated by reference herein. The JATC shall have authority to set and enforce penalties for violations of the apprenticeship rules.
Paragraph 2. TRAINING FUND: The Employer shall contribute twelve cents ($ .12) per hour for each hour worked from June 1, 2001 to May 31, 2002 for all Employees covered under this Agreement to the Construction and General Laborers' District Council of’Chicago and Vicinity Training Fund payable to the training Fund or a designated appointee at the end of each month and such additional sums as the Union may designate in its sole discretion from its total economic package on June 1, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 under this Agreement. The terms of the trust establishing the Fund are incorporated by reference herein and all terms regarding auditing, assessment, non-payments and grace periods as set out in the Collective Bargaining Agreement regarding payment of Welfare and Pension Fund contributions shall apply as if fully set forth herein for the Construction and General Laborers' District Council of Chicago and Vicinity Training Fund.
Paragraph 3. APPRENTICE PROGRAM FUNDING: The apprenticeship program administered by the JATC shall be self sustaining. In addition to the sums set forth above in Paragraph 2, effective January 1, 1999 the Employer shall also contribute to the Training Fund an additional contribution of five cents ($.05) per hour for each hour worked by all employees covered by this agreement to the Training Fund or to a designated appointee at the end of each month, and such additional sums as the Union may designate in its sole discretion from the total economic package on June 1, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 under this Agreement..
Paragraph 4. The term of apprenticeship shall be 4,000 hours, or two years, whichever occurs later. All Health and Welfare, Pension, Training Fund, Industry Advancement and other contributions required under this Agreement will commence immediately upon employment of an apprentice. Union affiliation will be required after seven (7) days of employment.
Paragraphs. The wages per hour paid to apprentices shall be as follows:
1st six (6) months:	60% of journeyman (base) wages
2nd six (6) months:	70% of journeyman (base) wages
3rd six (6) months:	80% of journeyman (base) wages
4th six (6) months:	90% of journeyman (base) wages
After twenty-four (24) months:	100% of journeyman (base) wages
Paragraph 6. The ratio of journeymen to Apprentices shall be six (6) Laborer journeymen to one (1) Laborer apprentice on a company-wide basis, with no more than twenty percent (20%) of Laborers being apprentices on any one job site of the Employer. Employers who employ a maximum of between one (1) and five (5) Laborer journeymen shall be entitled to one (1) Laborer apprentice, who may be assigned to jobsites irrespective of the twenty percent (20%) job site maximum specified in this provision.
Paragraph 7. Referral of apprentices will be through the Local Union with jurisdiction over the job site. All apprentices must be referred by the Local Union from approved JATC apprentices. Employers requesting apprentices will be assigned an apprentice by the JATC from the available apprentice pool. The JATC can limit the number of apprentices to that which is adequate for current needs and which can be properly trained by the program. Employers may recall their laid off apprentices to work, provided that the Employer complies with the ratios set forth in Paragraph 6. All apprentices must report their hours weekly to the JATC. All apprentices will be required to undergo testing by the JATC for the presence of illegal substances at the time they enter the apprentice program.
Laborers, Road Building -16
Revised 11-01
Article XVI SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
Paragraph 1. Any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement between an Employer and the Union shall be adjusted by the particular Employer and Union, in the first instance. Jurisdictional disputes (that is, competing claims for the assignment of work) are not subject to being processed through this grievance procedure.
Paragraph 2. In the event that the matter is not settled, the Union may file a written grievance, which shall be submitted to a Joint Grievance Committee (hereinafter the "JGC") comprised of three (3) Employer representatives selected by MARBA and three (3) Union representatives selected by the Construction and General Laborers' District Council of Chicago and Vicinity, which shall convene monthly. The JGC shall adopt its own rules of procedure. The Union must file the grievance within forty-five (45) days of the date of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance or when the affected employee knew or reasonably should have known of the existence of the grievance. Grievances not filed within the forty-five (45) day period are deemed waived and are not subject to being processed through this procedure. The determination of the JGC shall be governed by majority vote, provided that the Employer representatives and Union representatives shall have equal voting power. If decided by majority vote, the grievance determination and any relief determined to be appropriate shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Laborers who prevail in their grievances shall be compensated for two (2) hours lost time to attend the JGC Grievance hearing. Grievances shall be dismissed if the grievant fails to appear at the scheduled hearing and no continuance is granted by the JGC.
Paragraph 3. In the event that the JGC is deadlocked upon the disposition of a grievance, then the Union or the Employer may refer the matter to arbitration by so notifying the other within thirty (30) days of the date of the JGC decision. The moving party shall obtain a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, provided that all arbitrators maintain their principal office in the Chicago area. The party selected by lot shall strike the first name from the list, then parties shall alternately strike names from the list until one arbitrator remains.
Paragraph 4. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties. The arbitrator shall not be empowered to amend, alter or add to this Agreement. The arbitrator's expenses shall be jointly paid by the Employer and the Local Union between whom the grievance exists.
Paragraph 5. Any party who fails to comply with an award within seven (7) days' notice of an arbitrator's award or the JGC determination shall be responsible for an additional ten percent (10%) liquidated damages on any monetary award and all court costs and reasonable attorney fees actually incurred by the party enforcing the award.
Paragraph 6. With regard to Article V, the Union reserves its right, and it shall not be a violation of this Agreement, for the Union to strike, picket and/or withdraw its employees from any Employer who fails to pay wages or fringe benefits as required under this Agreement. Except as provided in Article V, there shall be no strike, slowdown, withdrawal of men or other concerted refusal to work by the Union or the employees during the term of this Agreement. Further, there shall be no lockout by the Employer.
Laborers, Road Building -17
Revised 11-01
Article XVII ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE
The parties incorporate the CISCO Uniform Drug/Alcohol Abuse Program, as modified, attached hereto as Addendum.
It is recognized that some client owners require additional substance abuse procedures to be followed on their projects for all trades, and it shall not be a violation of this agreement for signatory employers to comply with such procedures, provided prior written notification is given, to the District Council.
Article XVIII APPROVAL
Paragraph 1. EMPLOYERS* WARRANTY. The signatory Associations and its bargaining association represent and warrant that they are the bargaining agents of all the individual Employers of the signatory Associations who are now or hereafter become members of said Associations and who assign to one or more of the Associations full authority to negotiate and execute this Agreement.
Paragraph 2. EXECUTION. It is expressly agreed and understood that execution of this Agreement by authorized representatives of the signatory Associations shall be conclusively presumed sufficient legal execution by all individual contractors represented by said Associations and that individual executions are not required for this Agreement to be binding on such Contractors.
Paragraph 3. SAVING CLAUSE: Any provision contained herein which is contrary to or held to be in violation of any State or Federal Law shall be void and of no force or effect, and this Contract shall be construed as though such void provision were not a part hereof; it being intended that the other provisions of this Contract shall not be affected thereby.
CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL LABORERS’
DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CHICAGO AND VICINITY
By. James P. Connolly
Business Manager
By: Frank Riley
President and Secretary-Treasurer
THE MID-AMERICA REGIONAL BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
FOR THE ILLINOIS ROAD BUILDERS ASSOCIATION
By. David H. Lorig
Laborers, Road Building -18
Revised 11-01
ADDENDUM
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY SERVICE CORPORATION JOINT LABOR-MANAGEMENT UNIFORM DRUG/ALCOHOL ABUSE PROGRAM
Policy Statement
The parties recognize the problems created by drug and alcohol abuse and the need to develop prevention and treatment programs. (Company Name), and the signatory unions seek to protect people and property, and to provide a safe working environment. The purpose of the following program is to establish and maintain a drug free, alcohol free, safe, health work environment for all of its Employers.
IL Definitions
a.	Company Premises - The’term "Company Premises" as used in this policy includes all property, facilities, land, buildings, structures, automobiles, trucks and other vehicles owned, leased or used by the company. Construction job sites for which the company -has responsibility are included.
b.	Prohibited Items & Substances - Prohibited substances include illegal drugs (including controlled substances, look alike drugs and designer drugs), alcohol beverages, and drug paraphernalia in the possession of or being used by an employee on the job.
c.	Employee - Individuals, who perform work for (Company Name), including, but not limited to, management, supervision, engineering, craft workers and clerical personnel.
d.	Accident - Any event resulting in injury to a person or property to which an employee, or contractor/ contractor's employee, contributed as a direct or indirect cause.
e.	Incident - An event which has all the attributes of an accident, except that no harm was caused to person or property.
f.	Reasonable Cause - Reasonable cause shall be defined as excessive tardiness, excessive absenteeism, and erratic behavior such as noticeable imbalance, incoherence, and disorientation.
III.	Confidentiality
a.	All parties to this policy and program have only the interest of employees in mind, therefore, encourage any employee with a substance abuse problem to come forward and voluntarily accept our assistance in dealing with the illness. An employee assistance program will provide guidance and direction for you during your recovery period. If you volunteer for help, the company will make every reasonable effort to return you to work upon your recovery. The company will also take action to assure that your illness is handled in a confidential manner.
b.	All actions taken under this policy and program will be confidential and disclosed only to those with a "need to know".
c.	When a test is required, the specimen will be identified by a code number, not by name, to insure confidentiality of the donor. Each specimen container will be properly labeled and made tamper proof. The donor must witness this procedure.
d.	Unless an initial positive result is confirmed as positive, it shall be deemed negative and reported by the laboratory as such.
Laborers, Road Building -19
Revised 11-01
e.	The handling and transportation of such specimen will be properly documented through the strict chain of custody procedures.
IV.	Rules - Disciplinary Actions - Grievance Procedures
1.	Rules - All Employers must report to work in a physical condition that will enable them to perform their jobs in a save and efficient manner. Employees shall not:
a.	Use, possess, dispense or receive prohibited substances on or at the job site; or
b.	report to work with any measurable amount of prohibited substances in their systems.
2.	Discipline - When the company has reasonable cause to believe an employee is under
the influence of a prohibited substance, for reasons of safety, the employee may be suspended until test results are available. If no test results are received after three (3) working days, the employee, if available, shall be returned to work with back pay. If the test results prove negative, the employee shall be reinstated with back pay. In all other cases:
a.	Applicants testing positive for drug use will not be hired.
b.	Employees who have not voluntarily come forward, and who test positive for drug use, will be terminated.
c.	Employees	who refuse to cooperate with testing procedures will be terminated.
d.	Employees	found	in possession of drugs or drug paraphernalia will be terminated.
e.	Employees	found	selling or distributing drugs will be terminated.
f.	Employees	found	under the influence of alcohol while on duty, or while operating a com-
pany vehicle, will be subject to termination.
3.	Prescription Drugs - Employees using prescription medication which may impair the performance of job duties, either mental or motor functions, must immediately inform their supervisors of such prescription drug use. For the safety of all Employers, the company will consult with you and your physician to determine if a re-assignment of duties is necessary. The company will attempt to accommodate your needs by making any appropriate re-assignment. However, if a reassignment is not possible, you will be placed on temporary medical leave until released as fit for duty by a prescribed physician.
4.	Grievance - All aspects of this policy and program shall be subject to the grievance procedure of the applicable collective bargaining agreement.
V.	Drug/Alcohol Testing
The parties to this policy and program agree that under certain circumstances, the company will find it necessary to conduct drug and alcohol testing. While "random" testing is not necessary for the proper operations of this policy and program, it may be necessary to require testing under the following conditions:
a.	A pre-employment drug and alcohol test may be administered to all applicants for employment;
b.	A test may be administered in the event a supervisor has a reasonable cause to believe that the employee has reported to work under the influence, or is or has been under the influence while on the job; or has violated this drug policy. During the process of estab-
Laborers, Road Building - 20
Re vised 11 -01
* •*
lishing reasonable cause for testing, the employee has the right to request the on-site representative to be present;
c,	Testing may be required if-an employee is involved in a workplace accident/incident or if there is a workplace injury;
d.	Testing may be required as apart of a follow-up to counseling or rehabilitation for substance abuse, for up to a one (1) year period;
e.	Employees may also be tested on a voluntary basis.
Each employee will be required to sign a consent and chain of custody form, assuring proper documentation and accuracy. If an employee refuses to sign a consent form authorizing the test, ongoing employment by the company will be terminated.
Drug testing will be conducted by an independent accredited laboratory (National Institute on Drug Abuse and/or College of American Pathology), and may consist of either blood or urine tests, or both as required. Blood tests will be utilized for post accident investigation only.
The company will bear the costs of all testing procedures.
VI.	Rehabilitation and Employee Assistance Program
Employees are encouraged to seek help for a drug or alcohol problem before it deteriorates into a disciplinary matter. It an employee voluntarily notifies supervision that he or she may have a substance abuse problem, the company will assist in locating a suitable employee assistance program for treatment, and will counsel the employee regarding medical benefits available under the company or union health and welfare/insurance program.
If treatment necessitates time away from work, the company shall provide for the employee an unpaid leave of absence for purposes of participation in an agreed upon treatment program. An employee who successfully completes a rehabilitation program shall be reinstated to his or her former employment status, if work for which he/she is qualified exists.
Employees returning to work after successfully completing the rehabilitation program will be subject to drug tests without prior notice for a period of one year. A positive test will then result in disciplinary action as previously outlined in this policy and program.
Laborers, Road Building - 21
Revised 11*01