AGREEMENT BETWEEN KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS and KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN OF THE NORTHWEST and
SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 49
October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2006
2^00
LOCAL 49
KAISER PERMANENCE
SEIU
Leading the Way
This Contract is Dedicated to the Memory of
Judy Althaus
SEIU Local 49 President
1996-2000
Who Lost Her Life In a Tragic Accident on July 31, 2000
Kaiser Bargaining Teams 2000
SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 49
Monday-Friday
Portland Office: 3536 S.E. 26th Avenue Portland, Oregon 97202-2901 (503)236-4949
FAX: (503)238-6692 1-800-955-3352
MEETINGS at the Portland Office: Executive Board: Thursday before 2nd Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m.
General Membership: 2nd Tuesday of each month at 1:00 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Dues Questions: (503) 236-4949
Chief Steward: _ ---------------—----------------
Steward:^____________________—-------------------
Steward:
KAISER PERMANENTE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
Tie Line: 494738 (503)813-4738
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS DEPARTMENT
Tie Line: 494790 (503)813-4790
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
Tie Line: 494759 (503)813-4759
LOCAL 49/KAISER EDUCATION COMMITTEE
Tie Line: 494846 (503)813-4846
TABLE OF CONTENTS	Page
Article 1.0	Purpose of Agreement.................................... 1
Article 2.0	Scope of Agreement...................................... 1
Article 3.0	Recognition and Union Security.......................... 2
Article 4.0	Bulletin Boards......................................... 4
Article 5.0	Contract Printing....................................... 4
Article 6.0	Discrimination......................................     4
Article 7.0	Access of Business Representatives of the Union..	5
Article 8.0	Union Stewards.......................................... 5
Article 9.0	Labor Management Partnership Cooperation.........	5
Article 10.0	Types of Employees...................................... 7
Article 11.0	Seniority..................................... 11
Article 12.0	Job Bidding............................................ 12
Article 13.0	Job Bidding - Leadpersons.............................. 14
Article 14.0	Reduction in Force..................................... 14
Article 15.0	Floating.............................................   18
Article 16.0	Hours of Employment and Overtime....................... 19
Article 17.0	Scheduling............................................. 22
Article 18.0	Reporting Pay.......................................... 26
Article 19.0	Wage Rates............................................. 26
Article 20.0	Payday................................................. 27
Article 21.0	Prior Experience....................................... 27
Article 22.0	Tenure Step Adjustments................................ 28
Article 23.0	“Red Circle” Rates..................................... 28
Article 24.0	Reclassification....................................... 28
Article 25.0	Job Descriptions....................................... 29
Article 26.0	Service Differential................................... 30
Article 27.0	Standby Pay............................................ 30
Article 28.0	Shift Differential..................................... 30
Article 29.0	Work in a Higher Classification........................ 31
Article 30.0	Promotions............................................. 31
Article 31.0	Rest and Meal Periods.................................. 31
Article 32.0	Holidays............................................... 31
Page
Article 33.0	Vacations............................................. 33
Article 34.0	Sick Leave............................................ 36
Article 35.0	Bereavement Leave..................................... 37
Article 36.0	Jury Duty............................................. 37
Article 37.0	Time Off Requests..................................... 37
Article 38.0	Tax Sheltered Savings Plan............................ 38
Article 39.0	Health Plan.........................................   38
Article 40.0	Disability Insurance.................................. 39
Article 41.0	Group Life Insurance.................................. 39
Article 42.0	Benefit Premiums...................................... 40
Article 43.0	Fringe Benefit Improvements Guarantee..........	41
Article 44.0	Employee Assistance Program........................... 41
Article 45.0	Retirement Benefits................................... 41
Article 46.0	Leave of Absence...................................... 43
Article 47.0	Jurisdiction by the Union............................. 46
Article 48.0	Disputes.............................................. 46
Article 49.0	Discipline and Discharge.............................. 49
Article 50.0	Health and Safety..................................... 49
Article 51.0	Staffing.............................................. 51
Article 52.0	Inservice Education................................... 51
Article 53.0	Education............................................. 52
Article 54.0	Child Care............................................ 52
Article 55.0	Therapeutic Abortion Procedures....................... 53
Article 56.0	Employment Security Provisions........................ 53
Article 57.0	Duration of Agreement................................. 54
7/70 Employees........................................ 55
Dental................................................ 57
Schedule ‘A’........................................................ 59
Letters of Understanding
Union Issue #2, Staffing Levels....................... 73
Union Issue #3, Scheduling............................ 74
Union Issue #4, Health and Safety..................... 75
Union Issue #5, Hiring and Training for Retention..	76
Page
Employer Issue #1, Upcoded Employees............	78
Long and Short Term Reduction Seniority, Medical Assistant and Receptionists................... 79
Partnership Activities................................ 80
Paid Time Off Pay Rate - Employees Working More than One Job....................................  81
Leadperson Job Description............................ 83
Float Language....................................     84
Teaming Differential - Short Staffing Incentive.	85
Shift Differential - Early and Late Reporting...	86
Break Period Proposal................................. 87
Orthodontic Assistant Trainee......................... 88
Regarding Seniority as it Applies to Reduction in Force................................................. 89
Short Term Reduction in Force......................... 90
Floating.............................................. 91
Module Staffing Relationships......................... 92
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of October 1, 2000, by and between the KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS and KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN OF OREGON (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Employer") and SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION and its LOCAL NO. 49 (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Union").
WITNESSETH:
That the parties hereto have agreed as follows:
1.0	PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
1.1	It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto to set forth herein the basic agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment to be observed between the parties.
2.0 SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
2.1	The term "Employee" or "Employees" as and wherever used in this Agreement shall mean and include employees of the employer employed in the classifications set forth in Schedule "A" attached hereto at the Employer's Kaiser Permanente facilities, including but not limited to facilities located in Multnomah, Clackamas, Washington and Marion Counties in the State of Oregon, Clark County and Cowlitz County in the State of Washington.
2.2	This Agreement shall also apply to employees performing work in the •classifications set forth in Schedule "A" as appropriate in any new facility operated by the Employer.
2.3	This agreement shall not apply to job classifications notreferred to in Schedule A unless a job classification is added to the Bargaining Unit by the following procedure:
A.	The Union will provide written notification to the Employer that it has obtained a showing of interest by signed and dated authorization cards of at least fifty percent (50%) of the employees in that job classification. The Employer will provide a list of employees in that job classification within five (5) days of written notification from the Union that will include name, address, telephone number, job location and Social Security number.
B.	An election date will be set within five (5) working days from the date the Employer receives the written notification from the Union. The date will be no later than three (3) weeks from the date the Employer receives the written notification from the Union. The election will be conducted by a neutral third party selected by the parties. Employees who have been hired or who have terminated after the list has been made will not be eligible to vote.
C.	If a dispute exists regarding the employee list that cannot be resolved by the parties, a permanent arbitrator, which will be selected within fifteen (15) working days from the signing of this agreement, will hear and decide the issue prior to the date of the scheduled election.
D.	The parties will meet at a mutually agreeable date and time to verify the Union's fifty percent (50%) showing of interest but no later than the date of the
election. If the Union cannot show a fifty- percent (50%) showing of interest the election will not be held.
E.	Elections will be conducted pursuant to this Article only for job classifications considered non-professional by the National Labor Relations Board. The Employer will send the Union on or about the fifteenth (15th) of January, April, July and October of each year, a list of unrepresented, non-professional job classifications by job code classification number, title and work location. If the Employer changes its job code or job classification system it will notify the Union and the arbitrator.
F.	If an election determines the Union has a majority of employees in a job classification who wish to be represented by the Union, this job classification(s) will be covered by the Current Collective Bargaining Agreement with the exemption of wages which will be negotiated by the parties.
2.4	Under no circumstances will the provisions of this Agreement apply to supervisors, confidential employees or confidential secretaries.
2.5	The Employer recognizes the fact that bona fide supervisory employees are only those who have the authority to hire, promote, discipline, discharge or otherwise effect changes in the status of employees or effectively recommend such action; and it is not the policy to establish jobs or job titles for the purpose of excluding such employees from the unit established in this Article 2.0.
2.6	The parties recognize that the Employer has the right and obligation to assign and schedule employees in a manner compatible with efficient operations. It is also understood that supervisory personnel shall not be utilized to perform bargaining functions in a way that would result in a reduction in the number of bargaining unit employees or in a way that would result in a permanent reduction in scheduled hours of work of a member of the bargaining unit.
2.7	The role of the volunteer worker in the Employer's facilities is to provide services to patients that may not otherwise be offered. While employees are regularly providing services pursuant to the Labor Agreement, volunteers will not be assigned to replace or be used in lieu of Union personnel in performance of the typical duties of their classification.
2.8	In the event the Employer enters into an arrangement with an outside contractor to take over the employment of employees covered by this Agreement, every reasonable effort shall be made to enter into such an arrangement with a contractor whose employees are covered under the terms and conditions of a union labor agreement.
3.0 RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY
3.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purposes of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and working conditions.
3.2	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and those hired on or after its effective date shall, within thirty<)ne (31) days following the beginning of such employment become and remain
1
members in good standing of the Union or tender to the Union the initiation fees and periodic dues that are the obligations of members.
3.3	Employees who are required hereunder to join the Union and maintain membership in the Union, or pay initiation fees and periodic dues uniformly required of members, and who fail to do so shall upon notice of such fact in writing from the Union to the Employer be discharged; provided, however, that the Employer shall not be required to discharge such employee until a competent replacement can be obtained.
3.4	For the duration of this Agreement, the Employer shall deduct from each employee's wages an initiation fee and monthly Union dues, as specified by the Union; provided that the employee has voluntarily agreed to and signed a written assignment and authorization which has been received by the Employer. Such assignment and authorization shall be effective at the time it is signed by the employee and it shall remain irrevocable for a period of one (1) year thereafter, or fora period of fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the termination date of the Current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer and the Union, whichever occurs sooner.
3.5	The following general conditions will be applicable:
A.	New check-off authorization cards will be submitted to the Employer through the Secretary Treasurer of the Local Union at intervals no more frequent than once each month. On or before the last Friday of each calendar month the Union shall submit to the Employer a summary list of cards transmitted in each month.
B.	Dues for a given month shall be deducted from the first (1st) pay which an employee received in the succeeding month; deductions on the basis of authorization cards submitted to the Employer shall commence with respect to dues for the month in which the Employer receives such authorization cards.
C.	Unless the Employer is otherwise notified, the only Union membership dues to be deducted for payment to the Union from the pay of the employee who has furnished an authorization shall be the monthly Union dues. The Employer will deduct initiation fees when notified, by notation on the list referred to in "A" above.
3.6	The Union shall indemnify the Employer and save it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities that shall arise out of or by reason of any action that shall be taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with the provisions of Article 3.0, or in reliance upon any assignment and authorization form, list or information which shall have been furnished the Employer under such provisions.
3.7	To insure maximum utilization of both the Union and the State Department of Employment as referral sources, the Employer agrees that notices of job openings covered by this Agreement shall be transmitted to the Union and to the State Department of Employment concurrently with other recruitment sources as necessary to obtain qualified applicants, it being understood that the Employer is free to hire from any source.
3.8	In the event the Employer requires the services of temporary help in classifications covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to notify the Union before hiring such employees. In the event the Union cannot promptly respond to the Employer's needs in this regard and additional temporary help is obtained through an employment agency, such temporary help shall receive the contractual rate provided for in the Agreement.
3.9	When new employees are hired who are subject to the Agreement, the Employer shall deliver to such employees a written notice stating that the Employer recognizes the Union as the collective bargaining agent for the employees covered by the Agreement and quoting or paraphrasing the provisions of Article 3.0 of the Agreement.
3.10	By the first (1st) and fifteenth (15th) of each month, the Employer shall provide the Union with a listing of the name, address, telephone number, Social Security number, job title, hourly wage rate and scheduled hours of work of newly hired employees. The Employer shall also provide the Union with names of employees terminating and employee changes including leaves of absence, return from leaves of absence, change in status and change in classification.
3.11	The Employer shall also provide the Union with a listing of employees performing work in classifications covered by this Agreement along with related data on approximately January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 each year.
4.0 BULLETIN BOARDS
4.1	A designated space for the posting of matters pertaining to legitimate Union business will be provided on one (1) of the Employer’s bulletin boards located in an area frequented by employees in each worksite. The designated space shall be 24 x 24 inches. The ones at Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center, and at the Process Center and Supply Center shall be locked. New bulletin boards and lockswill be established by October 1,1991. If the Union feels that items are being removed from the bulletin boards inappropriately, it may bring the matter to the Labor Management Steering Committee for resolution.
5.0 CONTRACT PRINTING
5.1	The Employer and the Union shall equally share expenses for the printing of an adequate supply of copies of this Agreement. The contract will be printed by a Union print shop.
6.0 DISCRIMINATION
6.1	The Employer and the Union agree that each will fully comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding discrimination and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of such person's race, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, sex, age, physical, mental, veteran status or union activities. There shall be no distinction between the wages paid men and the wages paid women for the performance of comparable quantity and quality of work on the same or similar jobs.
6.2	In conformance with State and Federal laws, Schedule "A shall be applied, administered and enforced in a non-discriminatory manner without regard to an employee's race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or handicap.
7.0	ACCESS OF BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNION
7.1	Duly authorized representatives of the Union shall be permitted at all reasonable times to enter the Employer’s worksites for the purpose of transacting Union business and observing conditions under which employees are employed; provided, however, that the Union representative shall notify the office of the administrator or manager of the intent to transact Union business, and further that no interference with the work of employees shall result, and such right of entry shall at all times be subject to general rules applicable to non-employees.
8.0 UNION STEWARDS
8.1	The Union shall notify the Employer of the names of all Union Stewards.
8.2	Except for direct representational time such as steps in the grievance procedure, no employee shall engage in Union business during working hours.
8.3	From time to time, issues of mutual concern will arise which may require discussions/meetings between a Bargaining Unit representative and a member and/or a management representative. Such discussions when practicable shall be held during regular working hours on the Employer's premises and without loss of pay to participating employees. Prior to the discussions/meetings, the Bargaining Unit representative needs to receive approval from the supervisor(s) of the work area(s); however, approval will not be capriciously denied. Disputes concerning these meetings will be referred to the respective medical or dental Labor Management Steering Committee.
8.4.1	Stewards will conduct investigation activities away from public areas.
8.5 Chief Steward, Steward, or a Union designated representative at the Employees worksite will be given a fifteen minute period of a regular work shift to meet with all newly hired Bargaining Unit Employees for the purpose of Union orientation. Such time will not drive overtime nor consecutive day pay.
9.0	LABOR MANAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP COOPERATION
Joint Labor Management Steering Committees
9.1	The Employer and Union agree to establish medical and dental labor management committees to provide both management representatives and employees an opportunity to discuss issues of mutual concern.
9.2	The Labor Management Steering Committees will consist of Union, Bargaining Unit and Employer representatives. Geographic, and job representation, and the number of members will be mutually agreed to by the parties.
9.3	Meetings shall generally be held monthly unless mutually agreed to by the parties. Committee members shall not lose pay for attendance at committee meetings. Attendance at meetings will be considered voluntary. Employees will be paid for actual hours in attendance. Attendance at such meetings will not drive consecutive day pay.
9.4	Minutes of the meeting will be kept by either party and approved for accuracy
prior to any distribution. Agendas will be distributed at least one week prior to the meeting. The agenda will be established by at least one (1) Union member of the committee and one (1) Employer member of the committee.
9.5	The steering committees will examine and resolve issues brought to its attention. Decisions made by the consensus of the committee shall be implemented. However, it is not the intent of the parties to consider issues that should more appropriately be reviewed in Collective Bargaining or the grievance procedure.
Worksite Committees
9.6	Local Worksite Committee Liaisons will be allowed one half hour per month to check on Local Worksite LMC assignments during regularly scheduled work hours. Liaisons will be made whole for time needed to attend worksite meetings as problems arise, if required to attend by the Labor Management Steering Committee.
9.7	Worksite committees will be established at each Medical Office, Dental Office, Medical Center department or group of departments (e.g. Inpatient Nursing, Support Services, Process Center, Medical Records, Transportation). Committees will consist of Employer and Bargaining Unit member representatives. It can be expanded to include others by mutual agreement. Each party will appoint its own members to the committees. Committee members shall not lose pay for attendance at committee meetings. Attendance at meetings will be considered voluntary. Employees will be paid for actual hours in attendance. Attendance at such meetings will not drive consecutive day pay.
9.8	Examples of Issues of Mutual Concern
The Union and Employer agree to cooperate with respect to the following:
A.	Mutual efforts to reduce absenteeism and turnover including the recruitment of personnel who will be stable, efficient employees interested in associating with our program on a long-term basis.
B.	Establishing and conducting personnel training programs designed to further upgrade the skills of all employees.
C.	Conducting employee attitude, job satisfaction and similar surveys to assist in identifying various problems and possible solutions.
D.	Staffing, workload, scheduling, safety and health, professional standards, and issues referred by the HRPPC.
9.9	Local Labor/Manaqement Partnership Committees to encourage the use of the toolkits referenced in the Letter of Understanding regarding hiring and training for retention, pages 77 and 78 of the current bargaining agreement.
Toolkits will be a standing agenda item at Local Labor/Manaqement Partnership Committees.
Appeals will be handled per Article 9.5.
Management will track and report financial results. Local Labor/Management Partnership Committees will review results and report back to Regional Partnership Steering Committee.
10.0	TYPES OF EMPLOYEES
Probationary Employees
10.1	Employees will be considered probationary during the first ninety (90) calendar days of employment. The probationary period may be extended in writing as follows:
1.	For all probationary employees, the probationary period may be extended up to an additional sixty (60) calendar days by mutual agreement between Employer, Employee and the Union for the following reasons only:
a.	Extensive technical training
b.	Job transfers
■	Employee preference
■	Skill fit
c.	Job performance - Employer must identify specific issues and a skill development plan will be mutually agreed to by Employer, Employee and Union.
d.	Prolonged leaves
2.	During probationary period, employees may be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure.
3.	During the probationary period, employees may be discharged without recourse to the grievance procedure.
Regular Employees - Non 7/70 Schedule
10.2	A regular employee is one who is regularly employed to work a predetermined work schedule of twenty (20) or more hours per workweek. An employee designated as a regular employee shall accumulate and receive all fringe benefits as provided in this Agreement (except as set forth in Article 38.0) when he/she becomes and so long as he/she remains a regular Employee.
10.3	If a regular employee changes status to an on-call employee, he/she shall continue to maintain past accumulated sick leave benefits, vested pension benefits, and shall receive payment for accrued vacation benefits to the time of status change.
Regular Employees - 7/70 Schedule
10.4	A regular employee is one who is regularly employed to work a predetermined work schedule of twenty (20) or more hours per workweek. An employee designated as a regular employee shall accumulate and receive all fringe benefits as provided in this Agreement (except as set forth in Article 38.0) when he becomes and so long as he remains a regular employee.
10.5	If a regular employee changes to the 7/70 staffing system, the employee shall continue to maintain past accumulated sick leave benefits and shall receive payment for accrued vacation benefits to the time of status change.
Other Regular Employees - Floater
10.6	A floater is an employee who works varying shifts and in varying departments and locations. A Floater must be available two (2) shifts and five (5) days per week, and every other weekend.
10.7	Float positions shall be created through conversion of on-call employees upon request of the employee if after one BAH period in their respective status an employee has consistently worked forty (40) hours or more per pay period. The Employer will respond in writing to each request. Floaters also may be created through job posting procedures. Floaters will be coded for twenty (20) hours per week in a home base worksite but may not have recourse to short-term reduction in force procedures to maintain coded hours. Floaters will accrue seniority within their job classification.
10.8	Float employees who do not submit availability or who develop a pattern of not accepting available shifts may, on review, be converted to on-call status.
Floater Upcoding
This replaces the LOU dated 9/1/94 pertaining to the upcoding of floaters described in Article 10.6, 7, and 8. The Employer shall agree to upcode a floater who is working above coding to part-time or full-time coded hour status at the employee’s request if the floater employee is working twenty percent (20%) or more hours above coding or two (2) consecutive BAH periods.
Upcoded hours achieved by replacement will remain replacement hours. Replacement hours are not guaranteed.
Temporary and On-call Employees
10.9	The following definitions shall apply:
A.	A temporary employee is one who is hired as an interim replacement, or for temporary work on a predetermined work schedule which does not extend beyond three (3) calendar months;
B.	An on-call employee is one who works varying days and shifts on an intermittent basis. On-call employees are used primarily for replacement and temporary increases in workload.
1.	On-Call employees hired prior to October 5,1997, will submit an availability for three days per week, (one of which will be Monday or Friday). All new on-calls will be hired with an availability in place for three days per week. This availability can only be changed by mutual agreement between the Employer, employee and a Union designated representative.
2.	On call employees who do not submit availability or who develop a pattern of not accepting available shifts may, upon review, be subject to progressive disciplinary action up to and including termination.
10.10	All temporary and on-call employees as defined above shall be ineligible for fringe benefits provided under this Agreement (except as set forth in Article 10.13) except for premium pay of time and one-half (1-1/2) for worked holidays, shift differential pay and tenure increase eligibility.
10.11	If the Employer assigns a temporary or on-call employee to work a schedule of twenty (20) or more hours per week for a period in excess of three (3) months due to replacement of regular employees on vacation or during temporary absences of regular employees, the Union will be so notified.
10.12	Regular or on-call employees who meet the minimum qualifications may apply to fill a posted temporary vacancy. The employee may assume an interim assignment without loss of status, seniority, or return rights to their previous position.
In-Lieu-of-Benefits Eligibility
10.13	Temporary and on-call employees shall receive a wage differential of forty cents ($0.40) per hour above the rate provided for in Schedule "A." In no event will there be any duplication of the differential payment and accumulation of rights to fringe benefits and tenure adjustments other than those specified above.
Hours worked by new on-call employees will be reviewed monthly after three (3) months in their respective status. If an employee has consistently worked forty (40) or more hours per pay period for the preceding three (3) months and the Employer determines that such a pattern is likely to continue, the employee will be eligible for benefits effective the first of the following month. Continuing eligibility for benefits will thereafter be determined by Benefit Average Hours (BAH).
Upcoding On-Call to Floater - See Article 10.7
Upcoding of Part-time Employees
10.14	The upcoding of part-time employees shall at the request of the employee be done in the following manner.
A.	Requests may be made on or about January 1st and July 1st after the Employer has recalculated the BAH of all employees.
B.	Part-time employees may request to be upcoded if the hours worked at the same worksite exceed current coding.
c. If a part-time employee is consistently working above his/her coded hours for two (2) consecutive BAH periods, the employee will be upcoded at the employee’s request.
The Employer will be responsible for communication to the employee and the Union Office.
10.15 Replacement Pool
The Employer and Union support scheduling dental/medical replacement employees using the geographical area concept with the creation of replacement pools.
Scheduling of full and part time employees without a regular permanent assignment, float and on-call employees may be done by geographic area.
The definition of geographic areas shall be outlined as follows:
1.	Dental, Lab, and Primary Care Medical (Family Practice, Internal Medicine, Pediatrics, and HAP).
Longview/Kelso; Clark County; West Portland Metro; East Portland Metro; Central Portland Metro; Salem
2.	Specialty Medical
Longview/Kelso, Portland Vancouver Metro, Salem.
Employees hired into a replacement pool will use that replacement pool as their home base.
For the purposes of Area scheduling, regular employees who indicate availability will obtain extra available hours in their home base first prior to granting hours to area replacement pool employees in the following order:
1.	By dental/medical/lab office (home base)
2.	By area; i.e., worksites within geographic area
If hours become available at the “home” (coded) dental/medical office/lab after an employee is scheduled elsewhere, every reasonable effort will be made to offer the employee the "home” office hours.
11.0	SENIORITY
11.1	Seniority of employees shall be based on their last date of hire with the Employer (KPNW) within a position represented by the Union, (except for accreted employees. The seniority date for accreted employees will be the date they came into a classification, which is currently represented by SEIU.) Seniority shall not be broken by leaves of absence of less than ninety (90) days or by medical or disability leaves of absence.
11.2	Seniority shall be used to determine the assignment of start times within a shift. Permanent start time changes of greater than two (2) hours may be voluntarily accepted by a work group employee, otherwise the job position shall be posted.
11.3	Seniority shall be lost by virtue of:
A.	Discharge (if not reinstated).
B.	Resignation if not rescinded by mutual agreement. All benefits, including seniority, shall remain intact if rehired after voluntaiy resignation or voluntary resignation is rescinded by mutual agreement within thirty (30) days of resignation date.
C.	Layoff in excess of twenty-four (24) months.
D.	Failure to return to work after layoff when properly notified by the Employer by certified letter to the employee's last known address. It shall be the employee's responsibility to keep current addresses on record with the Employer.
E.	Transfer out of, or leave of absence from the bargaining unit for a period in excess of six (6) months or, if extended^ the length of the leave from the bargaining unit.
F.	Failure to return from an authorized leave of absence on the agreed upon date, unless mutual agreement has been reached to extend the leave, seniority shall accrue during such absence.
G.	Employees returning to formerly held classification within six (6) months of transferring to another classification (including those outside the bargaining unit) shall have all previously accrued seniority within the original classification restored to them.
12.0 JOB BIDDING
12.1	All job vacancies covered by this Agreement shall be posted on a bulletin board at each worksite by the Employer in addition to the bulletin boards in the cafeteria area of KSMC. A copy of job posting notices will also be mailed to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union. Such job postings will include job title; qualifications for the job; shift; weekly hours; worksites for dental and medical specialties when a provider is working in two worksites, and geographic area for floats and on-calls); and pay rate and will be posted for a minimum of seven (7) calendar days. All transfer applications shall be forwarded to the hiring Supervisor. Employee is to be released within three (3) weeks unless mutually agreed upon between management, employee and union, to increase or decrease the release time.
NOTE: In cases where additional hours may become available, but do not in themselves constitute an available position, such additional hours will be posted and Part-time employees in the affected department/worksite and shift who wish to increase hours may apply for posted hours in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
12.2	It is the intent of the parties that the seniority of eligible employees be a primary factor in filling open jobs. In cases of job bidding and promotions, provided that performance, experience and qualifications are approximately equal and bargaining unit applicants are qualified to perform the work required, the principle of seniority shall first govern for regular employees, second, for on-call
employees in the following manner:
A.	Seniority in classification for regular employees by date of hire.
B.	Seniority by hire date on a Region wide basis.
C.	In situations, when after applying the screening tests above, there still exists a tie among two (2) or more employees, the following two (2) tests shall be applied in order:
coded hours (the most coded hours would be the most senior) - earliest date of birth
12.3	Facility as referred to in Section 14.6 and elsewhere in this Agreement shall mean:
Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center, Regional Process Center, Regional Supply Center and Regional Laboratory.
Portland/Vancouver Medical Offices* including Regional Offices (Nicolai, MPD, KPB) for the purposes of long-term reductions;
Note: Edgar Kaiser Campus (Central Interstate Medical Office, South Interstate Medical Office, Town Hall, Overlook Building, West Interstate Medical Office, East Interstate Medical Office, Health Research Center shall be considered a single worksite.
Portland/Vancouver Dental Offices
Kelso/Longview Medical Offices
Kelso/Longview Dental Offices
Salem Medical Offices
Salem Dental Offices
H. Continuing Care Services
* Medical Offices refer to the Employer’s outpatient worksites.
DENTAL
12.4	Dental employees may transfer within the Dental program before three (3) months of service by mutual agreement of Employer and Union.
Also, the progression of a DAI to a DAII shall be accomplished within nine (9) months from date of hire. A maximum extension of three (3) months may be granted upon mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer.
For the purposes of job bidding, Dental Assistant Ils, Orthodontic Assistants, PTDA Assistants, and TMD Assistants will be considered the same classification.
GENERAL
12.5	An employee must have completed at least three (3) months of service in his/her present position to be eligible to transfer to another department. Intradepartment transfers will be considered at any time. For the purposes of this paragraph, a change of position shall have been deemed to have occurred when
an employee changes worksites, departments (e.g., OPD Nursing to Housekeeping) or job classification.
12.6	Where two (2) or more employees have submitted a request for the same job or shift, seniority, as provided for above, shall prevail providing performance, experience and qualifications are approximately equal. Bargaining unit employees requesting a change in accordance with the foregoing shall be given preferential consideration over outside applicants or employees not in the bargaining unit provided they possess the necessary qualifications for the job or have performance, experience and qualifications that are approximately equal to outside applicants.
12.7	Successful bidders for jobs on a non 7/70 work schedule will be given thirty-one (31) calendar days from the first working day as a trial period to determine if they wish to remain on the job and the Employer will have the same period to determine if they are competent to do the job. If the employee voluntarily gives up the job or is removed for inability to perform the work prior to the thirty-first (31st) day, he/she will not acquire job classification seniority and will be returned to his/her former position without any loss of seniority.
In such instances the next senior qualified bidder, based on the foregoing, will be given a trial period on the job. For the purposes of 12.6 and 12.7 "position" shall mean: The same worksite, the same shift, the same scheduled hours, and the same classification.
12.8	Successful bidders for jobs on a 7/70 work schedule will be given three (3) seven (7) day work periods on the job (twenty-one [21] days) as a trial period to determine if they are competent to do the job. Trial period considerations must be completed in seven (7) day work increments on the job (7,14, 21 days). If the employee voluntarily gives up the job or is removed for inability to perform the work prior to the start of the fourth (4th) work period on the job, the employee will not acquire job classification seniority and will be returned to the employee's former position without loss of seniority.
13.0 JOB BIDDING - LEADPERSONS
13.1	Permanent lead positions will be posted for application by employees in the work group where the responsibilities exist. If no employee in the immediate work group qualifies for the lead position, the position will be posted so that other interested and qualified candidates may apply. Selection of permanent leadpersons and the assignment of temporary leadpersons will be from a pool of the three most senior candidates that meet all qualifications of the position. Selection will include participation from SEIU Local 49 Unit staff; however, the ultimate decision will be made by the Employer.
13.2	All qualified candidates for a permanent lead position will be interviewed and if not selected, will be informed of the reasons for non-selection.
13.3	It is not the Employer’s intent to select lead personnel for the purpose of circumventing established procedures for filling a non-lead position.
13.4	Leadpersons shall receive eighty cents ($0.80) per hour above the top step rate referred to above of any classification of employees being supervised.
13.5	The Employer will make its best effort to provide sufficient time for the leadperson to accomplish their lead and regular duties within their normal shift.
14.0 REDUCTION IN FORCE
14.1	In cases of reduction in force or reduction of hours or shifts in the department where such change occurs, the reduction shall take place within classifications within the worksite where the reduction occurs in the following order providing the employees remaining have the necessary skills and ability to effectively perform the work required:
A.	Volunteers
B.	Temporary employees
C.	On-call employees by seniority date.
D.	Floaters by seniority date.
E.	Regular employees by seniority date.
14.2	Recall or increase of hours or shifts that have been reduced shall be in reverse order of the foregoing.
14.3	Definitions
A.	Long-term reductions shall be based on the employee’s seniority date as defined in Article 11.
B.	For the purposes of this language, reduction in hours is defined as a reduction in coded hours. That is, employees who maintain their coded hours in each pay period shall not be considered to have been reduced in hours although a cancellation of scheduled hours might have occurred.
C.	At their option, employees affected by this language may elect to reduce their weekly coded hours to achieve an open position or a bumped position closer to their own needs.
d. The ability of the staff to provide safe and effective patient care shall not be infringed by the bumping process.
E. For the purposes of Reduction in Force, Dental Assistant Ils, Orthodontic Assistants, PTDA Assistants, and TMD.Assistants will be considered the same classification.
14.4	Options for employees effected by long-term reduction.
A.	Employees whose positions in their own worksites are being eliminated or hours reduced by change of worksite due to provider and/or team worksite change within a geographic area, will have the option of accompanying their provider or exercising long-term reductions rights (per article 14).
1.	Dental & Medical Primary Care
For the purposes of this paragraph geographical area will be defined: Longview/Kelso, Clark County, West Portland Metro, Central Portland Metro, east Portland Metro, Salem.
2.	Medical Specialty - Longview/Kelso, Portland/ Vancouver Metro, Salem.
B.	Regular employees whose positions are eliminated or whose hours have been reduced may choose to fill open, unfilled positions within the same classifications, with comparable hours on a region-wide basis. For the purposes of this language, comparable shall mean any position with the same or eight (8) additional hours per week of the employees current coded hours.
C.	Open positions will be considered the least senior positions for the purpose of reductions of staff, hours or shifts.
D.	Provided no open positions of comparable hours are available or the employee elects not to fill an open position at the time of reduction, regular employees shall be able to exercise their seniority in the following manner: by bumping from among the three (3) least senior employees in the same job classification with comparable hours and in the same status, first (1st) in the same shift then on any shift within the worksite. This process shall be repeated until the least senior, regular status employee in the work site remains. For medical and dental offices this employee may then exercise similar bumping right in the facility as defined in 14.6.
E.	If comparable positions as defined in 14.4B in the same classification are not available, employees may accept open positions in other classifications of comparable pay and hours for which they possess the minimum qualifications as defined by the job description.
F.	The least senior regular employee so affected shall have bumping rights into a Float or an on-call position.
G.	Regular or Floater employees whose only bumping option is into an on-call position may elect one (1) of the following: (a) to be placed on lay-off status as stipulated in 14.4 with rights to recall to available hours or position for the period of one (1) year, (b) accept an on-call position with the same rights and privileges of other on-call employees.
H.	Employees electing recall pool will be entitled to first (1st) call (before on-call employees only) for available weekly hours, in their respective worksites, up to the number lost by reduction. First call will end after one (1) year or after the acceptance of a position of comparable status by the employee.
I.	Open positions held pursuant to this language shall be posted within thirty (30) days if not filled by an employee affected by the reduction.
14.5	Regular, Floater or on-call employees who are laid off shall be eligible for recall during a period equal to their length of service with a maximum of twelve (12) months following date of layoff. The Employer's obligation under the recall provision contained herein shall cease upon expiration of the above time limits, or if the employee is placed in or refuses to accept an offer of comparable employment. Comparable employment shall be defined as a position of the
same status; regular to regular (coded 20 hours or more), on-call to on-calljn the employee’s previous classification. Employees who are recalled in accordance with this provision will have their former seniority and attendant benefits restored.
14.6	Facility as referred to in this article shall mean:
A. Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center, Regional process Center, Regional Supply Center and Regional Lab.
F. Portland/Vancouver Medical Offices* including Interstate South Medical Office, Sunnyside Medical Offices, Stevens Plaza, UCC and ER, Regional Offices, (Nicolai, MPO, NISB, KPB) Fisher’s Landing, Salmon Creek, Airport Way, St. Vincent Medical Office, Southwest Washington^ for the purpose of long-term reductions:
Note:
1.	Edgar Kaiser Campus (Central Interstate Medical Office, South Interstate Medical Office, Town Hall, Overlook Building, West Interstate Medical Office, East Interstate Medical Office, Health Research Center shall be considered a single worksite.
2.	For the purposes of long-term reduction only, Kaiser Sunnyside Campus shall be considered a single worksite for the Laboratory and Environmental Services.
C.	Portland/Vancouver Dental Offices
D.	Kelso/Longview Medical Offices
E.	Kelso/Longview Dental Offices
F.	Salem Medical Offices
G.	Salem Dental Offices
H.	Continuing Care Services
‘Medical Offices refer to the Employer’s outpatient worksites.
14.7	Short-term Reductions
A.	No bumping shall occur if double pay, premium pay, or overtime is thereby incurred.
B.	The ability of the staff to provide safe and effective patient care shall not be infringed by the bumping process.
C.	In case of short-term reductions in force, reduction of hours, or shifts (not to exceed thirty [30] days), such reductions shall take place on the same shift within job classifications in the worksite where the reduction occurs.
D.	Senior affected employees shall be able to bump the least senior employee in classification in the worksite on the same day and shift provided employees remaining can effectively perform the task of the position bumped. However, an employee may be allowed to work on another shift on the same day in order to maintain his/her hours (Continuing Care Services/Hospice Department, different day same week). In such cases, the employee shall
waive his/her right to overtime or premium pay as provided in this Agreement.
E.	Regular employees suffering a loss of shifts or reduction of hours may request orientation to other areas or units at their worksite. Such orientation and/or cross-training shall be provided by the Employer when the circumstances warrant and when a need exists as determined by the Employer.
F.	Regular 7/70 employees who suffer a reduction of hours or shifts may make themselves available to work open shifts on another team at straight-time rates of pay.
G.	It is the intent of the parties that regular employees should not be reduced in hours while short-hour, on-call, or temporary employees in the same job classification remain on duty in the work site on the same shift.
14.8	Clinician Driven Reductions:.ShortTerm Reductions Only
A.	When a provider is prescheduled off (at the time the final schedule is posted), the assigned support person:
1.	Will be scheduled to fill a vacancy at their home worksite.
2.	If a vacancy does not exist at the home worksite, but a vacancy exists within the home geographic area that cannot be filled by replacement staff, the affected employee may choose to work at that alternate location. The Employer will pay a $25 bonus for such regular provider support staff and consideration will be given for special circumstances.
3.	If the employee chooses not to travel to another location as described
in #2 above, the employee may:
a. Volunteer off without pay, or b. take unscheduled vacation, or c. be preassigned alternate work in the home worksite.
B.	When a provider calls in on short notice (after the final schedule is posted), the assigned support person:
1.	Will fill a vacancy at their home worksite
2.	If no vacancy at the home worksite, may bump an on-call or float at their home worksite.
3.	If 1 or 2 do not apply, but a vacancy exists within the home geographic area that cannot be filled by replacement staff, the affected employee may choose to work at that alternate location. The Employer will pay a $25 bonus for such regular provider support staff and consideration will be given for special circumstances.
4.	If the employee chooses not to travel to another location as described in #3 above, the employee may volunteer off without pay or take unscheduled vacation.
5.	Alternate work will be assigned in the Home based.worksite, if there is not a vacancy.
15.0 FLOATING
15.1	In the event that the Employer determines that it is necessary to float an employee from his/her regular work assignment, an attempt will be made to fill the need from available volunteers. If staffing needs cannot be filled by volunteers, employees will be floated by inverse seniority subject to the requirements of efficient operations.
15.2	Unit Secretaries may be asked to assist on more than one (1) floor during a shift. Unit Secretaries may be held directly accountable only for those work responsibilities directly related to the floor and time period assigned.
15.3	Employees who are on duty as a result of advance scheduling shall be given preference for prescheduled assignment over employees who are called in for unscheduled duty whenever possible.
16.0	HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT AND OVERTIME
5/40 Schedule Employees
16.1	"Payroll Week" as referred to in this Article shall mean and consist of the seven (7) day period beginning at 12:01 a.m. Sunday or at the shift-changing hour nearest that time.
"Payroll Day” as referred to in this Article shall mean and consist of the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at the time the employee commences work.
16.2	Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight-time hourly rate, including shift differential, for all hours of work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one payroll day (except on occasions when the start time of an employee has been temporarily changed by two hours or less) and for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours within the payroll week.
16.3	All hours worked on the sixth (6th) consecutive day of work shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2), except when there is a change of schedule agreed upon between the employee and the Employer, and all hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day of work shall be paid at the rate of double (2) time except when there is a change of schedule agreed upon between the employee and the Employer (i.e., trading of scheduled shifts). In all cases, however, overtime shall be paid for hours worked in excess of forty (40) per week.
16.4	The Employer will exercise its efforts in good faith, subject to the requirements of efficient operations, to the extent that employees will be scheduled on a basis of a normal work week of forty (40) hours within five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days, followed by two (2) consecutive days of rest.
Extended Hours
16.5	Employees may work daily shifts greater than eight (8) hours and less than ten (10) hours and be compensated for such shifts at straight-time. This
arrangement will hereafter be referred to as extended hours.
1.	The reason for extended hours is to accommodate clinician needs and may only apply to employees whose schedules are directly clinician driven.
a. For regularly scheduled employees, shifts of greater than eight (8) hours, but less than ten (10) hours must be scheduled three weeks in advance. For on-call, or regular employees contacted for unscheduled replacement, employees must be notified that they will work an extended shift at straight-time at least one (1) hour before reporting to work.
2.	The employees will have the right to vote on extended hours through the following election process: A vote shall be conducted jointly by an Employer representative and a Union representative for the group of employees selected by the Employer to be subject to extended hours. The question presented shall be whether the employees wish to work extended hours. A majority of the ballots cast shall be determinative.
3.	Job postings will conform to Article 12 and in addition. contain the notation "expanded hours/waiver required."
4/40 Schedule Employees
16.6	"Payroll Week" as referred to in this Article shall mean and consist of the seven
(7)	day period beginning at 12:01 a.m. Sunday or at the shift changing hour nearest.that time. "Payroll Day" as referred to in this Article shall mean and consist of the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at the time the employee commences work.
16.7	Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight-time hourly rate, including shift differential, for all hours of work performed in excess often (10) hours in any one payroll day (except on occasions when the start time of an employee has been temporarily changed by two hours or less), and for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours within the payroll week.
16.8	All hours worked by full-time employees on the fifth (5th) or sixth (6th) consecutive day of work in a payroll week shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) and all hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day of work shall be paid for at the rate of double (2) time.
16.9	Employees scheduled less than forty (40) hours in a specific work week shall be ineligible for time and one-half (1-1/2) payment for hours worked on a fifth (5th) consecutive day in that week.
7/70 Schedule Employees
16.10	The workweek is defined as a "fixed and regularly recurring period of one hundred sixty-eight (168) hours - seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods." It need not coincide with the calendar week and may begin at any hour or any day for employees assigned to the specific workweek.
A.	The work week for the day and evening shift will commence at 12:01 a.m. on Friday and end at 12:00 p.m. (midnight) the following Thursday.
B.	The workweek for the night shift will commence at 12:01 p.m. on Thursday and end at 12:00 p.m. (noon) the following Thursday.
C.	It is intended that the employees' work shifts will typically be scheduled within the workweeks as follows:
Day Shift - Starts Tuesday @6:45 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.
Evening Shift - Starts Tuesday @12:45 p.m. to 11:15 p.m.
Night Shift - Starts Monday @9:15 p.m. to 7:45 a.m.
16.11	The employees’ work shifts are subject to change as may be dictated by operational requirements.
16.12	Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight-time hourly rate, including shift differential, for all hours of work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour work day (except on occasions when the start time of an employee has been temporarily changed by two (2) hours or less) and for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours within the work week.
16.13	All hours worked on the eight (8th) consecutive day of work shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) except when there is a change of schedule agreed upon between the employee and the Employer and all hours worked on the ninth (9th) consecutive day shall be paid for at the rate of double (2) time.
16.14	If a thirty six (36).pr more hour coded employee's scheduled day off for the following week is changed by the supervisor after the final schedule is posted, the employee shall receive premium pay (one and one-half [1 times straight-time hourly rate) for working the previously scheduled day off.
A.	Schedules of starting times and quitting times, and days off of regular employees, will be posted according to Article 17, subject to emergency situations, and as much advance notice of overtime requirements will be given as permitted by operational circumstances.
B.	An "emergency” for the purpose of the above paragraph, is a situation in which the Employer is obligated without advance planning to change schedules with less than twenty four (24) hours notice. In cases of emergencies, work schedules may be adjusted, provided the employees are given reasonable notice of the change in their schedule. In making changes, however, the Employer shall give consideration to any prior commitments of the employees. It is the employee's responsibility to keep the Employer informed of his/her telephone number or how else he/she can be reached.
C.	In order for supervisors to post schedules according to Article 17, employee requests for time off shall be presented in writing on the prescribed form within department guidelines.
16.15	An employee may request, in writing, a change in day(s) off. If the request is approved by the supervisor, the employee will be paid at his/her regular straight
time rate for working the previously scheduled day off.
16.16	Eligibility for premium pay for working the previously scheduled day off may be waived by a mutually acceptable agreement between the employee and supervisor only in cases where the employee desires to make up for wages lost during the regularly scheduled work week.
16.17	Paid sick leave, paid vacation and paid holidays shall count toward forty (40) hours in the work week for the purpose of computing overtime but not consecutive day pay.
16.18	Overtime paid for a previously scheduled day off may not be used to drive sixth (6th) consecutive day overtime for a regularly scheduled day (fifth [5th] day for 4/40 scheduled employees). .There will be no duplication nor pyramiding of overtime.
16.19	All scheduled shifts will be for a minimum of four (4) hours except for shifts which may exist at the date of this agreement which shall be for a three (3) hour minimum. If a shift with a three (3) hour minimum is discontinued, it may not be re-initiated for less than a four (4) hour shift.
17.0 SCHEDULING
Medical/Dental Clinics - and all other Outpatient Departments
17.1	Final schedules including days off will be posted at least by noon Friday three (3) weeks in advance of the week to be worked. The Employer has no obligation to grant additional time off after schedules are posted. In the event the schedule is changed after the final schedule is posted the Employee is to be notified and confirmed of the change in as timely a manner as possible.
17.2	Extra straight-time and overtime hours will be made available prior to the final posting of the schedules by using the following process:
A. Employees available to work prescheduled hours above coding, either straight time or overtime, shall submit an Availability Form by 12:00 noon on Friday five (5) weeks preceding the posting of the final schedule.
The Availability Form shall be considered valid for one (1) year or until a new form is submitted. Any changes in the employee’s availability shall necessitate the submission of a new Availability Form. Available hours will be assigned by seniority based on the Availability Form information in the following order:
1.	Regular full and part-time
2.	Floater
3.	On-call
Straight time hours will be scheduled before overtime.
Employees who show a pattern of denying offered shifts will receive a “letter of non-availability” from his/her supervisor. The letter will not be placed in the employee’s file, nor be used for discipline or performance evaluation. Once a letter of non-availability is issued, the employee will not be called for extra shifts
beyond coding until the employee updates his/her availability.
17.3	KSMC Inpatient Nursing Departments
Purpose:
Staffing Process for Certified Nursing Assistants (CNA), Certified Patient Care Assistants (CPCA), Unit Specialists (US), Transport Orderlies, Member Intake
Specialist (KSMC ER) and Medical Assistants (KSMC ER),
1.	Prescheduling
■	Availability is submitted by on-calls; part time staff may submit availability (Note: availability must meet contractual requirements for all on-calls).
■	On-calls and part time staff: Shifts are assigned in seniority order, (using availability and preferences and skills matched against open slots)
■	Hours above coding (but not overtime) are assigned as requested, in seniority order after coded hours assigned, (and matches found with availability)
■	On-calls and part time staff who submit availability are assigned shifts up to full-time (no overtime)
■	Overtime/double-time is never prescheduled
2.	Pre-schedules mailed out
3.	Ten-day open sign-up window (Ten (10) days from time schedules mailed)
■ During this window extra sign-ups will be accepted by voice mailbox (571-4856) and by e-mail account only (SEIU_ Availability); no drop-ins or direct calls to Staffers will be accepted during this window, due to the high volume of contacts.
4.	Scheduling of extra shifts
■	At end of 10-day window, work is assigned in seniority order, matching availability, skills with needs. Straight time assigned before overtime, overtime before double time.
■	If no work is available, names are put on availability list.
5.	Open Scheduling AFTER 10-Day Window
■	After 10-day window, needs are filled using the availability list (Note: Staff are not required to work when contacted, when name is on the availability list, after the 10-dav window)
Straight time scheduled before overtime, overtime before double time. Overtime will be assigned on a first come first sign-up basis with tiebreakers for signing up on the same day going by seniority.
■	If no one on availability list, first come, first serve for those requesting work, including overtime.
6.	Ill Calls and Other Last Minute Replacement
■	Replaced off of availability list. (Straight time before overtime, overtime before double-time). Overtime/double-time will be assigned on a first come first sign-up basis with tiebreakers for signing up on the same day going by seniority.
■	If no availability on list, first come first serve.
Cancellation
Per Contract but few clarifications:
■	If extra staff are on the schedule, will cancel overtime and utilize a straight time person from another area, who is Qualified to do the work; but would not call in a straight time person from the availability list.
■	Cancellation will be in reserve seniority in the following order:
1.	Those who signed up after the 10-day window
2.	Those who signed up during the 10-day window
3.	Pre-scheduled staff who are picking up hours above coding
4.	Regularly scheduled staff who are picking up coded days
17.4 Department of Transportation Final schedules will be posted at least by noon Friday three (3) weeks in advance of the week to be worked.
Extra straight-time and overtime full shifts will be made available prior to the final posting of the schedules using the following process:
A. Employees available to work pre-scheduled hours above coding, either straight time or overtime, shall submit an Availability by 12:00 noon on Friday five (5) weeks preceding the posting of the final schedule.
The Availability form shall be considered valid for one (1) year or until a new form is submitted. Any changes in the employee’s availability shall necessitate the submission of a new Availability Form. Available full-shifts will be assigned by seniority based on the Availability Form information in the following order:
1.	Regular full and part-time
2.	Floater
3.	On-Call
General
17.5	Once the final schedule has been posted, additional straight-time or overtime hours (except shifts for transportation and Inpatient Services) will be offered according to seniority first to those employees who provided such information on an Availability Form in the following order:
A.	Regular full and part-time
B.	Floater
C.	On-call
Note: Although it is the intent of the Employer to schedule by order of seniority, it is recognized by the parties that scheduling occasionally may not be in seniority order.
However, should a pattern of out-of-seniority scheduling develop, affected employees may then have recourse to the grievance process to review his/her complaint.
Straight time hours will be scheduled before overtime. However, for Department of Transportation and Inpatient Services, full-time shifts involving a combination of straight time and overtime will be offered by seniority.
True Shift Trades:
Employees may arrange among themselves and submit changes to their Supervisor or designee for approval. Such trades will not result in any additional cost.
Trades will go in order of seniority with documentation.
Employee will be responsible for traded shift.
Employee must be Qualified to do the job.
Employee trades will be processed in a timely fashion. Approval will not be unreasonably denied. •
17.6	The Employer shall use its best efforts to distribute overtime among employees in the same classification at the same worksite on the same shift by seniority subject to the efficiency of operations. It is understood that employees must make their preferences known in writing.
17.7	Existing schedules which are acceptable to the Union and Employer shall not be deemed to violate the provisions of this Article. If in the interest of efficient operations, it becomes necessary to change or establish schedules departing from work days or work weeks as provided for in this Article, or from a permanently established 4/40, 5/40, or 7/70 mode of scheduling for regular employees, the Employer shall confer with the Union in an attempt to arrange mutually satisfactory schedules; however, it is understood that the final right to establish schedules rests exclusively with the Employer.
17.8	The Employer, subject to efficient operations, will encourage the establishment and maintenance of full-time employment.
17.9	When an employee is absent for any reason, and necessary replacement is unavailable the Employer will equitably assign his/her work load among other employees in his/her department so that no undue hardship may be placed on any individual worker.
18.0	REPORTING PAY
18.1	Employees who are scheduled to report for work and who are permitted to come to work without receiving prior notice that no work is available shall be paid at their regular rate for a minimum of four (4) hours pay (five hours pay for 4/40 and 7/70 employees, six hours for twelve [12] hour employees). The Employer may
assign such employees to any work for which they are qualified in lieu of being released.
18.2	Regularly scheduled employees called to work on what would otherwise have been a regularly scheduled day off, who do not receive at least one (1) hour notice before the start of the required shift, shall be paid for the hours of work actually performed plus one (1) hour at the straight time rate. Such employees shall be paid not less than four (4) hours or one-half (1/2) the hours of a regular shift, whichever is more, (e.g., four hours for an eight (8) hour shift) unless they work more hours in that shift.
18.3	It,shall be the employee's responsibility to notify the Employer in writing of their current address and telephone number. Failure to do so shall excuse the Employer from the requirements of this Article.
19.0	WAGE RATES
19.1	The minimum straight-time hourly rates of pay shall be as shown in Schedule "A" attached hereto and made a part hereof.
19.2	No employee covered by this Agreement, shall as a result hereof, suffer a reduction in wages or overtime benefits except as may result from the application of Article 14.0 or the waiver provisions referred to in Article 16.0.
19.3	Effective January 1, 1998 employees in the Bargaining Unit will participate in the annual TEAM Variable Compensation Program. Payout is in ApriLbased on the previous year’s results.
19.4	Recruitment, Retention and Other Adjustments
1.	The parties will create a joint committee based on an interest-based problem-solving model to evaluate and recommend wage adjustments and other recruiting/retention incentives. The committee will be composed of three or four representatives from each party. Each party will name their own representatives.
2.	The parties will create the joint committee no later than sixty days after the ratification of this collective bargaining agreement.
3.	Either party may refer an issue to the joint committee.
4.	The committee will research data and seek information from affected employees and supervisors which is pertinent to the issues raised. Both parties may appeal recommendations to the Regional Partnership Steering Committee.
5.	The joint committee will annually review wage rates based on the formula developed by National Negotiations.
6.	The committee will establish a process to evaluate the effectiveness of implemented projects.
7.	The committee will utilize the following criteria in considering referred issues:
■	What is the impact on cost/savinqs?
■	Is the project effective in recruiting/retaining employees?
■	What is the impact on current employees in the affected jobs?
■	Does the project offer incentives to current employees first?
20.0 PAYDAY
20.1	Paydays now in effect shall continue and no more earned wages shall be held back from any employee than as results from operation of the present system without the consent of the Union.
A.	The Employer may place any employee not now on a weekly payroll on a weekly payroll without permission of the Union.
B.	Any employee who quits of his/her own volition shall receive all wages due him/her within twenty-four (24) hours of the termination of his/her employment.
C.	All employees discharged or laid off shall receive all moneys at the time of discharge or layoff.
D.	Employees laid off shall, if they so request, be provided with a written statement giving the reason for such layoff.
E.	The Employer retains the right during the term of this Agreement to convert the present payroll system to semimonthly.
21.0 PRIOR EXPERIENCE
21.1	Credit shall be given employees in the tenure brackets set forth in Schedule "A" above for prior experience in the same classifications acquired in Class A hospitals or other facilities acceptable to the Employer. Such credit shall commence on the date satisfactory proof is provided by the new employee of such prior experience at which time such employee shall be advanced from tenure in accordance with the following formula:
A.	Classifications in the medical/technical job family shall receive year for year credit.
B.	Classifications in the maintenance/delivery, service and clerical job families shall advance from tenure on the basis of two (2) years prior experience equaling one (1) year prior experience credit, up to a maximum of three (3) years prior experience credit. Prior Kaiser Permanente experience shall be credited on a year for year basis provided the employees last day of work was no more than six (6) months prior to the date of re-employment.
22.0 TENURE STEP ADJUSTMENTS
22.1	All tenure step rate increases shall become effective at the beginning of the first (1st) day of the current pay period based on meeting both of the following requirements:
A.	On or before the last day of the prior pay period, the tenure hours requirement will have been met.
B.	On or before the last day of the current pay period, the tenure months requirement, as indicated in Schedule A, will have been met.
22.2	One Thousand Forty (1040) compensated hours and one (1) year shall be considered to constitute a working year in advancing from one (1) full year tenure step to another. Five Hundred Twenty (520) compensated hours and six (6) months shall qualify for advancing along six (6) month steps.
A.	No adjustment shall be made to the tenure eligibility date or the tenure hours requirement due to a leave of absence.
B.	Tenure hours earned toward the tenure hours requirement shall be limited to eighty (80) hours in a pay period.
C.	The tenure hours required and the tenure eligibility date will be set at the most recent date of hire or promotion.
23.0 "RED CIRCLE" RATES
23.1 An employee's wage rate which exceeds the maximum rate for his/her job classification shall be considered "red circle." When general wage rate increases are applied to the wage rates shown in Schedule "A" the rate for an employee whose wage rate was “red circled’1 on or before the ratification of the 2000 agreement, shall be adjusted by 90% of the negotiated tenure step adjustment until the “red circle” situation is eliminated.
For employees whose wage rate was “red circled” on or after ratification of the 2000 Agreement, the rate shall be adjusted by 70% of tenure step adjustment until the “red circle” situation is eliminated.
24.0 RECLASSIFICATION
24.1	The Employer and the Union agree that the classification for each job shall continue in effect unless there is an authorized change in job content significant enough to justify a review and reclassification. Either the Employer or the Union may request a reclassification review. All reclassification requests will be handled in the manner outlined in the following procedure and shall not be subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure.
24.2	Reclassification is defined as a significant change in duties of a job over time.
24.3	Reclassification requests originated by employees shall be referred to the Union representative. The Union representative will review the request and if he/she believes that there has been a significant change in job duties which warrants a reclassification, shall submit the request, along with information to support the request, to the Regional Human Resources office.
24.4	Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of request the Human Resources Department shall conduct a job audit of the affected position(s) and communicate in writing with the employee(s) detailing its findings.
24.5	If the employee(s) disagrees with the determination of the Human Resources Department, they may file a letter of appeal detailing their objections with the Human Resources Department within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the Human Resources determination.
24.6	A review committee composed of two (2) members appointed by the Employer and two (2) members appointed by the Union, one of whom will be a member of the bargaining unit, will meet to evaluate the appeal and render a decision. Information submitted by the employee and collected by the Employer and the Committee will be used in determining the appropriate job classification.
24.7	If the determination of the Department of Human Resources or the final determination of the review committee places the job in a classification of higher pay, the incumbent employee(s) will receive, retroactive to the time of the request, an increase in pay in accordance with promotion policy.
24.8	If the determination of the Human Resources Department or the final determination of the review committee results in the placement of the position(s) in a new classification, the Union and the Employer will immediately commence negotiations to determine the wage rate of the new classification. Incumbents in the position(s) will receive, retroactive to the time of the request, an increase in pay in accordance with promotion policy.
25.0 JOB DESCRIPTIONS
25.1	The Employer and the Union recognize the importance of maintaining job descriptions that reflect the various duties and responsibilities associated with the job titles contained in Scheduled "A" as appropriate. Such duties and responsibilities shall be used as the basis for determining an employee's appropriate job title and related wage rate. Any revisions to such descriptions shall be by mutual agreement. It is recognized, however, that the maintenance of job descriptions is a continuing and on going process necessitating review and revisions as circumstances indicate.
26.0 SERVICE DIFFERENTIAL
26.1 Employees who complete at least five (5) years continuous service with the Employer shall receive five cents ($.05) per hour service premium; ten (10) years* continuous service with the Employer shall receive an additional ten cents ($0.10) per hour; fifteen (15) years of service (for a total of fifteen cents ($.15) per hour effective October 1,2000.
27.0 STANDBY PAY
27.1	Employees on standby duty beyond their regularly scheduled workday or workweek, who are called in to work on other than a recognized holiday, shall be paid for the time worked at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their basic straight-time hourly rate. Employees on standby duty, who are called in to work on a recognized holiday, shall be paid for the time worked at two and one-half (2-1/2) times their basic straight-time hourly rate. Pay for such hours shall commence when the employee reports for work at the worksite.
27.2	Employees on standby duty shall be guaranteed a minimum credit of three (3) hours’ work or pay for each occasion on which they.are called in. However, the total hours paid at time and one-half (1-1/2) shall not exceed the number of hours in the standby period assigned unless total hours worked are greater than the standby period. The number of hours paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) shall be deducted from the number of hours for which standby pay is received.
27.3	Pay shall be $2.75 per hour for standby hours assigned on other than a recognized holiday. Standby duty assigned on a recognized holiday shall be paid at $6.88 per hour.
28.0 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
28.1	AH employees who work a shift of four (4) hours or more commencing at or after 12:00 noon and prior to 6:00 a.m. shall be eligible for a shift differential.
28.2	Shift differential shall be eighty-five cents ($0.85) per hour for evening shift and one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20) per hour for night shift.
28.3	Evening shift shall be defined as any shift of four (4) hours or more commencing at or after 12:00 noon and terminating after 6:00 p.m.
28.4	Night shift shall be defined as any shift of four (4) hours or more starting before midnight whose majority of hours are worked after midnight or a shift of four (4) hours or more starting between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
28.5	Shift differential payment shall be included in vacation; sick leave and holiday pay for employees consistently scheduled for evening or night shift. Shift differential shall be paid on overtime hours worked for days or hours that qualify for payment as described above.
29.0 WORK IN A HIGHER CLASSIFICATION
29.1 Any employee who performs work in a higher classification for one (1) hour or more (except for rest periods and meal relief) shall be paid for such hours worked at the step rate in the higher classification that results in a rate at least thirty cents ($0.30) per hour above the rate paid in the employee's regular classification.
30.0 PROMOTIONS
30.1	An employee who is permanently promoted to a job in a higher classification shall be paid that tenure step rate in his/her new classification which is next above his/her former rate and which results in a wage increase of at least thirty cents ($0.30) per hour. A new tenure eligibility date is thereby established in determining an employee's eligibility for future step rate increases in his/her new job.
30.2	An employee who transfers to a job in a lower job classification shall be paid that tenure step rate in his/her new classification, which is closest to his/her former rate.
31.0 REST AND MEAL PERIODS
31.1	Employees are entitled to take rest periods daily, which insofar as practicable shall be in the middle of each work period.
31.2	Rest periods for employees working an eight (8) hour shift shall be computed on the basis of fifteen (15) minutes during each half of their work shift. Rest periods for employees working a ten (10) hour shift shall be computed on the basis of twenty (20) minutes during each half of their work shift.
31.3	No wage deduction shall be made for such rest periods.
31.4	Employees scheduled to work more than five (5) hours per day shall be entitled to a meal period of at least thirty (30) minutes at, as near as practical, the middle of the workday. Except as provided below, meal periods shall be on an unpaid basis.
31.5	In the event an employee is called back to work during a scheduled meal period, the scheduled meal period, of at least thirty (30) minutes, shall count as hours worked and another meal period of thirty (30) minutes will be rescheduled within two (2) hours.
32.0 HOLIDAYS
Non 7/70 Schedule Employees
32.1	The following days shall be observed as holidays:
	2000	2001	2002	2003	2004	2005	2006
New Year’s Day		01/01	01/01	01/01	01/01	01/01	01/01
Memorial Day		05/28	05/27	05/26	05/31	05/30	05/29
Independence Day		07/04	07/04	07/04	07/04	07/04	07/04
Labor Day		09/03	09/02	09/01	09/06	09/05	09/04
Thanksgiving Day	11/23	11/22	11/28	11/27	11/25	11/24	11/23
Christmas Day	12/25	12/25	12/25	12/25	12/25	12/25	12/25
32.2	There shall be no deduction in pay for the observance of the foregoing holidays for employees who have been in a benefited status for at least thirty (30) consecutive days prior to the holiday. Such employees working on one (1) of the foregoing holidays shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay in addition to their regular rate of pay. Pay for holidays not worked shall be on the following basis:
A.	If the holiday falls on a normally scheduled workday and the employee is scheduled off because of the holiday, the pay for such holiday not worked shall be for the number of hours at the straight-time rate, the employee would have received had he/she worked.
B.	If the holiday falls on a day normally scheduled off, the employee shall, at the option of the Employer, receive a paid day off or additional pay equal to onefifth (1/5) of the employees scheduled weekly hours or BAH, whichever is greater: one-fourth (1/4) for 4/40 employees and employees regularly scheduled more than eight hours but less than ten [10] hours.
7/70 Schedule Employees
32.3	Employees shall receive pay for holiday accumulations on each check. The holiday hours will accrue based on compensable hours and be paid out on the following check.
Float Holiday
32.4	Employees who have one (1) or more years of continuous employment as a benefited employee shall be eligible for three (3) float holidays per year. Effective January 1, 2001, employees with ten to fourteen years' employment in a~benefited status shall be eligible for four float holidays; fifteenor more years employment in a benefited status shall be eligible for five (5) float holidays. Each calendar year the supervisor and the employee shall agree on the date to be taken as a float holiday. It is the responsibility of the employee entitled to a float holiday to give thirty (30) days notice of the day he/she wishes to take as the holiday. The float holiday must be taken within the calendar year or it shall be forfeited. In order to prevent the loss of float holidays, the first vacation days off in a year will be coded as float holidays.
General
32.5	Temporary and on-call employees who have been on the payroll for at least thirty (30) consecutive days prior to a holiday shall receive no pay for holidays not
worked but shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay for all work performed on one of the foregoing holidays.
32.6	If an employee's work shift includes work on both a holiday and a non-holiday, the entire shift shall be paid at the holiday rate in cases where a majority of hours worked on such shift are between 12:01 a.m. and the following midnight of the holiday.
32.7	Paid holidays shall count toward forty (40) hours in the workweek for the purpose of computing overtime.
33.0 VACATIONS
Non 7/70 Schedule Employees
33.1	Vacation benefits consisting of the average number of straight time hours worked per week shall accrue for employees as follows.
33.2	All regular employees who have been continuously in service with the Employer for a period of one (1) year shall annually be entitled to two (2) weeks vacation with pay.
A.	If an employee terminates within the first six (6) months of employment, no vacation will be granted.
B.	After the completion of six (6) months of employment in a regular employee status or as a benefited on-call, an employee shall be entitled to prorated vacation credits which may have accrued.
33.3	All regular employees who have been continuously in service with the Employer for a period of five (5) years shall annually be entitled to three (3) weeks vacation with pay.
33.4	All regular employees who have been continuously in a service for a period of ten (10) years shall annually be entitled to four (4) weeks’ vacation with pay.
33.5	Regular part-time and benefited on-call employees shall receive prorated vacation time as follows:
A.	less than five (5) years continuous service - 3.89 hours per one hundred (100) compensable hours;
B.	five (5) or more years continuous service-5.77 hours per one hundred (100) compensable hours;
C.	ten (10) or more years continuous service - 7.69 hours per one hundred (100) compensable hours.
D.	in no event, however, shall a regular, part-time, or on-call employee receive more vacation time than he/she would otherwise accrue as a regular full-time employee.
33.6	Split vacation may be taken subject to the requirements of efficient operation. Such determination rests exclusively with the Employer.
33.7	If a holiday falls during an employee's vacation period, an additional day off with pay shall be added to the employee's vacation or pay given in lieu thereof.
33.8	Vacation pay shall be paid to employees prior to the start of their vacation providing the employee requests in writing that he/she receive such pay seven (7) days prior to the commencement of any vacation scheduled for a period of one (1) or more weeks.
33.9	Up to thirty (30) days absence from work on unpaid leave shall count as time worked for vacation accrual purposes for full-time employees.
33.10	The Employer may require two (2) weeks’ notice of an employee's intention to quit as a condition of eligibility for prorated vacation pay at termination.
33.11	An employee who is hospitalized for any length of time, or one who is incapacitated for five (5) consecutive days or more with documentation of care in progress during a paid vacation, may elect to substitute accrued sick leave for such time off and reschedule that vacation time. Certification by the attending physician is required by the Employer.
33.12	The carry-over of vacation accumulation from one (1) year to another shall be in accordance with the guidelines referred to in the General Vacation Policy effective May 1,1977
33.13	Vacation Scheduling - Non 7/70 Schedule Employees
A.	Seniority prevails for vacation and holiday requests received as described in paragraph B. Any requests received after the deadline shall be approved on a first-come, first-served basis regardless of seniority within departmental staffing limits. The time off request box will be checked on a timely basis by the staffing supervisor.
B.	Requests for time off will be accepted upto October 31 at 5:00 p.m. for the period of January 1 - March 31 of the next year. Requests will be accepted up to January 31 at 5:00 p.m. for the period of April 1 - June 30. Requests will be accepted up to April 30 at 5:00 p.m. for the period of July 1 -September 30. Requests will be accepted up to July 31 at 5:00 p.m. for the period of October 1 - December 31.
The supervisors will notify the employees in writing of the request status (approved or denied) within five (5) working days after the deadline.
Exceptions to the above deadlines will be considered when it is critical that travel plans be made well in advance. Proof of reservations may be required (e.g. plane tickets, documentation of reservation deadline, etc.).
33.14	No employee may receive more than two (2) major and two (2) minor holiday periods off per year unless coverage is available.
If major and minor holiday periods are to be minimally staffed, staffing will be offered on a voluntary basis by seniority or, if necessary, work will be assigned by inverse seniority to qualified employees.
Major Holidays: New Year's Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas.
Minor Holidays: Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day.
A holiday period is a series of days surrounding major or minor holidays unbroken by a return to work.
33.15	Scheduling request for vacation time and float holidays will be given priority consideration over WOP day requests.
33.16	Employees have the ability to cancel vacation time they have scheduled. If the employee wishes to cancel previously authorized time off, the employee will notify the supervisor two weeks prior to the posting of the final schedule to be guaranteed regular hours. If time off is canceled after this date the employee can make themselves available to work but cannot bump regular employees in the schedule.
The canceled vacation time if available will be posted in the affected area and awarded to the senior person that makes the request prior to the Friday the final schedule is posted.
33.17	Employees may vote to change their current vacation procedure in their own dept./worksite/program/work group if they so desire one time during the life of the agreement. Employees shall contact their Union Representative to set up a vote.
7/70 Schedule Employees
33.18	After completion of six (6) months’ continuous employment in a benefit status, employees shall receive pay for vacation accumulations on each check. The vacation will continue to accrue based on compensable hours and be paid out on the following check.
33.19	After the completion of five (5) years of continuous employment in a benefit status with the Employer, employees shall receive a lump sum vacation payment equivalent to one week of pay, and begin the new three (3) weeks per year accrual rate.
33.20	After the completion of ten (10) years of continuous employment in a benefit status with the Employer, employees shall receive a lump sum vacation payment equivalent to one week of pay, and begin the new four (4) weeks per year accrual rate.
General
Vacation pay will be computed on the employee's regular hourly rate of pay at the time the vacation is taken, including shift differential if applicable.
34.0 SICK LEAVE
Non 7/70 Schedule Employees
34.1	Regular full-time employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of eight (8) hours per month for each calendar month of employment. Regular part-time and on-call employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of eight (8) hours for each one hundred seventy-three (173) hours paid.
7/70 Schedule Employees
34.2	Regular full-time, part-time and on-call employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one (1) hour for every nineteen (19) hours paid.
General
34.3	Accrued sick leave shall be payable for absences of employees due to their own medical disability or for the medical disability of a dependent minor child, and related medical appointments.
34.4	Paid sick leave begins to accumulate during the first calendar month of employment but may not be applied to any illness that occurs during the first six (6) months of employment.
34.5	The Employer may require reasonable proof that the employee claiming sick leave (or for his/her dependent child) was suffering from a bona fide illness or injury justifying the employee's absence from work for the period claimed.
34.6	Earned sick leave may at the employee's discretion be integrated with Workers' Compensation Disability payments to the extent necessary to permit an employee to maintain his/her regular straight time earnings during the period of disability. The foregoing will be applicable to the extent that an employee has Employer paid sick leave accrued but not used.
34.7	Paid sick leave shall count toward forty (40) hours in the workweek for the purpose of computing overtime.
34.8	For employees with accrued sick leave, a maximum of four (4) hours sick leave pay will be granted for time off the job if necessary due to appointments of the employee for travel time, waiting time, and time for the appointment. Except in case of emergency appointments, at least seven (7) days’ prior notice must be given to the supervisor. Whenever possible, employees will be expected to schedule their medical or dental appointments at the beginning or end of their workday, or on their days off. An emergency shall be defined as something of an immediate and urgent nature that could not have been reasonably anticipated.
34.9	The Employer will provide employees with an accumulative total of available sick time to accompany their paycheck.
35.0 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
35.1	An employee in a benefit status who has a death in the family will be granted three (3) regularly scheduled working days within a two (2) week span for the purpose of attending and/or arranging the funeral of: parents, spouse, children, Foster Children stepchildren, sister, brother, current mother-in-law, current father-in- law, current son or daughter-in-law, step-parents, grandparents, grandchildren, or domestic partner (as stated in Affidavit of Domestic Partnership). An employee shall not be entitled to both funeral leave pay and holiday pay, sick leave pay or vacation pay for the same day.
35.2	The employer may allow an employee a leave of absence without pay for employees that need to have more than three (3) days for the bereavement of any of the above.
35.3	The employer will allow an employee a leave of absence to attend or arrange for the funeral of a person who is close to them. The employee may use vacation, float holiday, or a without payday to cover the time loss. Alleged abuse of this Article will be resolved in a dispute resolution process, by the appropriate Partnership committee.
35.4	Employees on an unpaid leave are not eligible for bereavement leave unless the unpaid leave is for the purpose of caring for a family member described in Article 35.1.
36.0 JURY DUTY
36.1	Employees in a benefit status who are called for jury service will be excused from work on days which he/she serves and shall receive for each day of jury service, his/her regular straight time day's pay. Hours paid for jury duty will not count as hours worked in determining eligibility for overtime. The employee must show proof of jury service and attendance.
36.2	Employees will be excused from work without loss of pay for time spent in a recognized court or government hearing or civil deposition when requested to appear or subpoenaed by the Employer.
37.0 TIME OFF REQUESTS
37.1	For the purpose of granting time off for Unit Secretaries, Certified Patient Care Assistants and Certified Nursing Assistants in the Inpatient area of the Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center, at least two (2) on day/evening shift, one (1) on night shift of each classification on each of the three (3) shifts may be able to take unpaid vacation time or floating holiday at the same time. Granting of such time off will be based on staff needs and efficient operations.
Without Pay Davs
37.2	Employees coded at least thirty (30) hours or more may use a maximum of two (2) days without pay on a prescheduled basis per calendar year.
37.3	Employees affected by a short-term reduction may use without paydays. These days will not be counted in the above mentioned days.
38.0 TAX SHELTERED SAVINGS PLAN
38.1	The Employer agrees to contribute $0.23 per compensated hour per eligible employee to the tax sheltered savings plan; effective October 1, 2001, the contribution rate will be $0.26 per hour.
Details of the administration of the tax sheltered savings plan and procedures for withdrawal of funds will be reduced to writing in a letter of agreement between the parties.
38.2	Effective January 1,1992, employees who are subject to payroll deductions for their medical and dental plans (scheduled weekly hours or benefit average hours between twenty (20) and thirty-one and nine tenths (31.9) hours) may elect to waive the Employer's TSA contributions by noting the same on a form to be provided by the Employer. Employees failing to submit such waiver within sixty (60) days of hire, or by December 15,1991, if later, and by December 15th for each of the following years, shall be deemed to have accepted the Employer TSA contributions for the next calendar year. Employees waiving such contributions shall be entitled to an annua! lump sum distribution in the amount of any contributions due during the calendar year less withholding taxes. Lump sum distributions shall be made within sixty (60) days of the close of a calendar year or termination, whichever occurs first. Eligible employees may elect to change their contribution format from TSA to lump sum or vice versa once each year to be effective January 1 of any subsequent year, by submitting a written election on the.Employer provided form no later than December 15th of the year preceding the year in which the change is to occur.
39.0 HEALTH PLAN
39.1	Employer-paid Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, plus the standard supplemental Health Plan benefits, prescription drug and vision care benefits will be provided to employees and their eligible dependents on the basis of benefit average hours or coded hours, whichever is greater. This plan will include a $7 per visit Doctor Office fee and a $3 per prescription drug co-pay to provide up to a 30 day supply if obtained at medical offices, or up to a 90 day supply for the $3 co-pay on maintenance medications if obtained through mail order as prescribed by the physician. Effective October 1,2001 the Doctor Office Visit Fee will be $5 per visit. Eligible dependents are a spouse or domestic partner (as stated in an Affidavit of Domestic Partnership), an unmarried child of an employee, spouse or domestic partner under the age of 25 who is chiefly dependent upon the employee, spouse or domestic partner for support; or an unmarried child of the employee, spouse or domestic partner of an employee who is chiefly dependent for support and maintenance because the child is incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of developmental disability or physical handicap which occurred prior to his/her reaching age 25. (See also National Agreement).
39.2	Employees with eighteen (18) months or more of continuous employment who are receiving Employer-paid Health Plan coverage shall receive Employer-paid Health Plan, dental plan and group life insurance coverage during disability insurance leaves of absence up to a maximum of six (6) months provided that three (3) calendar months of active employment elapse between incidents of application.
Employees who are receiving Employer-paid Health Plan coverage shall receive Employer-paid Health Plan, dental plan and group life insurance coverage during absences due to industrial injury up to a maximum of six (6) months provided that three (3) calendar months of active employment elapse between the incidents of application.
39.3	Employees who are receiving Employer-paid Health Plan Medicare Coordinated coverage for themselves and/or dependents will be reimbursed the base rate premium paid to Social Security for their own and/or dependents Part B Medicare coverage.
Dental Program
39.4	Employer-paid Kaiser Foundation Dental Plan will be provided to employees and their eligible dependents on the basis of Benefit Average Hours or coded hours, whichever is greater beginning the first day of the month following three (3) months of continuous service as an employee.
40.0 DISABILITY INSURANCE
40.1	Employees shall receive disability insurance coverage for illness or injury not connected with the job effective the first (1 st) day of the month following completion of one (1) year of continuous employment with benefit average hours (BAH) of twenty (20) or more per week. The disability insurance benefits provide income protection amounting to fifty percent (50%) of an employee's regular straight-time earnings up to a maximum of $195.00 per week for twenty-six (26) weeks, commencing on the eighth (8th) day of disability or upon expiration of Employer-paid sick leave, if later.
41.0 GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
41.1	The Employer will provide each employee in a benefited status on his/her coverage effective date with, at no cost to the employee, life insurance according to the following formula:
Take the hourly wage rate times the greater of scheduled weekly hours or benefit average hours (not to exceed forty (40) times 4.33333). Round to nearest cent.
Multiply the above result times 0.003. Round to the nearest cent.
Divide the latest result by the appropriate rate charged the Employer by the Employer’s insurance carrier. The rate charged the Employer may be obtained by contacting Employee Benefits. Multiply by $1,000. Round to the nearest cent.
The minimum amount of Employer-paid coverage will be_$10,000. The maximum amount of Employer-paid Life Insurance coverage will be $50,000.
41.2	In addition, a total and permanent disability benefit of $10,000 (distributed in equal payments over sixty (60) months) will be made available to an employee who qualifies for total and permanent disability. Any benefits received under this provision will reduce the ultimate death benefit paid under the plan.
41.3	Coverage shall become effective on the ninety-first (91st) day of continuous
employment in a benefited status and thereafter, eligibility shall be based on remaining in a benefited status. If an employee leaves benefited status after coverage has become effective, and returns to benefited status at a later date, the ninety (90) day waiting period will be waived and coverage will become effective on the first (1st) day that the employee is considered in benefited status, otherwise, the ninety (90) day waiting will be required again.
Voluntary Contributory Insurance
41.4	The Employer will make available a voluntary and contributory (employee paid through payroll deduction) employee age-rated life insurance program with open enrollment during the thirty (30) day period following the Employer provided coverage effective date, with age-rated life insurance coverage effective the first of the month following enrollment. The maximum total of Employer-paid and employee-paid coverage will be limited to $500,000. To be eligible for voluntary and contributory coverage’s, the employee must have employer provided life insurance in effect.
41.5	The Employer will make available a voluntary and contributory (employee paid through payroll deduction) dependent life insurance program. Employees will have open enrollment during the thirty (30) day period following their Employer provided coverage effective date, with dependent life insurance coverage effective the first (1 st) of the month following enrollment.
42.0 BENEFIT PREMIUMS
42.1	Benefit level will be based upon coded hours or BAH whichever is greater. Benefit Average Hours (BAH) is the average compensated hours worked per week in eleven (11) pay periods and applied prospectively. The pay periods used in the averaging will start on or about January 1 and July 1 each year. Coded hours lost as a result of short-term reductions in hours at the request of the Employer shall be included in total. All such hours lost will not be compensated.
Employees will be assessed each pay period for health and welfare as follows:
20-25.99 BAH	$25.82
or coded hours 26-31.9 BAH	$17.21
or coded hours
32 and above BAH	$00.00
or coded hours
Pre-Tax Deductions
42.2	The Employer will deduct the employee costs on a pre-tax basis.
Flexible Spending Accounts
42.3	The Employer agrees to provide a Health Care Reimbursement Account for employees.
The Employer agrees to provide a Dependent Care Reimbursement Account for employees.
43.0 FRINGE BENEFIT IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEE
43.1	In the event improvements are granted to the Employer’s Non-Union hourly employees relative to sick leave, vacation, holidays, Health Plan and Dental coverage, life insurance or shift differential for employees currently receiving eighty-five ($0.85) or one dollar and twenty cents ($1.20) per hour, such improvements shall also be extended to employees covered under this Agreement with the same effective date.
44.0	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
44.1	For the life of this Agreement, bargaining unit employees will be provided access to Employee Assistance counseling.
45.0 RETIREMENT BENEFITS
45.1	Eligible employees shall be covered under the terms of the Kaiser Foundation Hospitals Oregon Pension Plan as amended ("KFHOPP").
45.2	The pension benefit computation formula shall provide 1.2% of average monthly compensation over the highest sixty (60) consecutive months of compensation during employment for each year of credited service. The minimum monthly pension shall be $8.50 times the years of credited service. Sick Leave balances will be converted to time worked for eligible employees. The retirement plan impacted by this Credited Service is the Kaiser Permanente Northwest Pension Plan. The Sick Leave Benefit balance will not be used to determine service for the purpose of determining basic Plan eligibility or vesting.
Employees eligible for Tax Sheltered Annuity as described in Article 38.0 will have at time of retirement, a contribution made to the employee’s TSA account for each hour of unused sick leave in the amount in effect at the time as described in Article 38.1.
45.3	Employees hired on or before December 31, 1984 who at the time of their retirement are eligible for Employer-paid Health Plan, prepaid prescription drugs, prepaid vision care and dental plan coverage who retire on a normal basis shall continue to have Employer-paid Health Plan, prepaid prescription drugs, prepaid vision care and dental plan coverage for themselves and their eligible dependents for the life of the retiree or eligible surviving dependent.
45.4	Employees hired on or after January 1,1985 who retire as normal or postponed retirees under the provision of KFHOPP with at least fifteen (15) years of service and who are eligible for Employer-paid Health Plan and prepaid prescription drugs at the time of retirement shall receive Employer-paid Health Plan and prepaid prescription drugs for themselves and their eligible dependents for the life of the retiree.
45.5	In addition, employees who retire on or after January 1, 1985 as early retirees under the provisions of the Kaiser Foundation Hospitals Oregon Pension Plan with at least fifteen (15) years of service and who are eligible for Employer-paid Health Plan and prepaid prescription drugs at the time of retirement shall receive Employer-paid Health Plan and prescription drugs with coverage commencing upon retiree's eligibility for Medicare and continuing forthemselves and their eligible dependents for the life of the retiree.
45.6	Retirees who are receiving Employer-paid Health Plan Medicare Coordinated Coverage for themselves and their dependents and who were hired on or before December 31,1984 will be reimbursed the base rate premium paid to Social Security for their own and/or dependents Part B Medicare coverage.
45.7	For employees hired on or before December 31,1984, eligibility for Employer-paid Health Plan, prepaid prescription drugs, prepaid vision;care and.dental plan coverage at normal retirement (in accordance with this Article) shall not be conditional upon an employee having been a participant in the "Kaiser Foundation Hospitals Oregon Pension Plan" at retirement.
45.8	Employees hired on or after January 1,1985 will not receive Employer reimbursement for Part B of Medicare premiums paid to Social Security.
45.9	Effective for employees initially eligible to retire on or after January 1,1998, Kaiser will introduce changes to the Retiree Medical Program which will include $5.00 office visit and prescription drug co-pays. Kaiser will also introduce additional cost sharing in the form of contribution requirements by future retirees and will freeze Medicare Part B premium reimbursement at the January 1,1997 level for those eligible for this plan feature.
45.10	Employees eligible to retire and receive retiree medical benefits prior to January 1, 1998 are not affected by the above changes, even if they choose to retire at a date on or after January 1,1998.
45.11	Initially, the cost sharing noted above will be 50/50 sharing of future Health Plan premium cost increases until the retiree’s share of the total premium reaches 30%. For example, in the first year following implementation, if the monthly
premium increases $10.00, the retiree and Kaiser Permanente will share this cost increase at $5.00 each. This would mean that if premium cost on 1/1/97 was $200 and it increased to $210 on 1/1/98, Kaiser Permanente would contribute $205 per month and the retiree cost would be $5.00 per month.
45.12	As time passes, the cost of retiree medical plan premiums will ultimately be born 70% by Kaiser Permanente and 30% by the retiree.
45.13	Kaiser has also re-designed the retiree medical program to include new features. These features include:
1.	Surviving spouse benefits (including some restrictions on the definition of eligible dependents.
2.	Out of service area premium reimbursement for employees who chose to retire in an area which does not offer Kaiser Permanente coverage.
45.14	Employees (Subscribers) and eligible dependents who are eligible for both Part A and B of Medicare, will be eligible for the Medicare Coordinated Coverage plan including prepaid drug and prepaid vision care plan, but they must maintain enrollment in Part B of Medicare and assign both Part A and B of Medicare benefits to the Health Plan. If the employee or dependent is eligible for Part A but not for Part B, or for Part B but not for Part A, the employee or dependents must maintain the Medicare coverage for which the employee or dependent is eligible and assign benefits thereunder. Failure to maintain and assign all Medicare benefits for which the employee or dependents are eligible will relieve the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program from its obligation to provide Employer-paid health benefits.
45.15	If a retiree or any eligible dependent as described is not eligible for either Part A or B or Parts A and B of Medicare, the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program will provide the regular Health Plan under aged 65 benefits. If the current Medicare program is discontinued, substantially modified or replaced by a national health care program, these benefits shall terminate; provided, however, that the employee will be offered as an alternative a plan substantially equivalent to that provided to the majority of the Employer's employees.
45.16	For purposes of this Article, normal retirement is defined as retirement at age 65, early retirement is defined as retirement prior to age 65 and postponed retirement is defined as retirement after age 65.
46.0 LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Personal Leave
46.1	Personal leaves of absence without pay shall be granted upon written request when urgent personal and economic considerations justify such action and where Employer circumstances permit. An employee must have at least six (6) months of continuous service as a benefited employee to be considered eligible for a leave of absence for personal reasons. Except under unusual circumstances involving extreme personal hardship, personal leaves of absence shall not be authorized for a period exceeding ninety (90) days. Employees returning from a
personal L.O.A. of ninety (90) days or less shall be reinstated to the employee’s former position. Employees returning to work from a leave in excess of ninety (90) days shall be given preferential consideration for any available position of comparable pay and status (benefited, floater, on-call) for which the employee may be qualified.
Disability Leave
46.2	An employee must have at least twelve (12) months’ continuous service as a benefited employee to be considered eligible for disability insurance leave of absence. In accordance with the provisions of Section 40. Disability Insurance leaves of absence as certified by the attending physician will be granted after accumulated Employer-paid sick leave has expired. The period of such leaves will be based on the attending physician's certification of disability.
Medical Leave
46.3	An employee must have at least six (6) months' continuous service as a benefited employee to be considered eligible for medical leave of absence.
A.	Medical leaves of absence as certified by the attending physician will be granted upon written request after accumulated Employer-paid sick leave and disability insurance (if applicable) have expired.
B.	The period of such leaves will be based on the attending physician's .certification of disability. Initial leaves will not be granted for more than ninety (90) days, but may be extended for an additional period not to exceed ninety (90) days, if requested in writing and certified by the attending physician.
C.	Except under unusual circumstances medical leaves of absence shall not be authorized for a period exceeding six (6) months following expiration of Employer-paid sick leave or disability insurance leave of absence (if applicable).
Return from Leave of Absence
46.4	Two (2) weeks written notification of return from leave of absence must be given to the Employer. If an employee fails to return to work within seven (7) days of the expiration date of an approved leave of absence or the date arranged with the employee's supervisor, it will be assumed that the employee has voluntarily terminated his/her employment.
46.5	If an employee returns from an unpaid leave of absence of less than ninety (90) days in accordance with the foregoing, he/she will be returned to his/her previous position, station and shift.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the employee declines to accept the scheduled hours of work that were in effect for him/her prior to the granting of the leave.
General
46.6	Depending on the circumstances involved, including the nature of the job, the duration of an unpaid leave of absence, and various other factors relating to the
work to be performed, the Employer shall make all reasonable efforts to reinstate an employee upon return from unpaid leave. If reinstatement to the original job is not feasible due to the circumstances, employees shall be given preferential consideration for any available job of comparable pay and status for which they may be qualified; or, if this is not possible, for any available work within their capabilities.
46.7	Any employee who meets minimum qualifications may apply to fill a posted temporary vacancy.
46.8	Approvals for leaves of absence shall be in writing on forms provided by the Employer and the employees shall receive a copy of such leave authorization as soon as possible but in no case later than two (2) weeks from the date the employee made the request.
46.9	Employees must make arrangements in advance to pay the required premium necessary to keep Health Plan, Dental Plan or Group Life Insurance coverage in effect during any leave of absence (unless otherwise provided). Disability insurance coverage is not available to employees on leave of absence unless the reason for such leave is due to non-industrial illness or injury.
Military Leave
46.10	Military leave of absence shall be in accordance with applicable law.
Leave for Union Position/Business
46.11	An employee, but not more than six (6) at any one time, nor more than one (1) from any one (1) department, who accepts an official position/business with the Union shall be granted a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed six (6) calendar months in duration. The Union will make a reasonable effort to provide the Employer with a minimum of thirty (30) days notice of such request, but under no circumstances will the request be less than two (2) working days in advance of the requested release date.
Such employees shall be reinstated by the Employer provided that such employee notifies the Employer of their intent to return to work thirty (30) calendar days in advance and provided that said employee is still qualified to perform the applicable job duties. During this Leave of Absence, any employee acting as a temporary business agent will refrain from representing union members in handling grievances in their former worksite, work area, or department except if necessary to meet DFR requirements.
The Employer may hire a temporary employee specifically for replacement of the employee on this leave of absence.
The parties will conduct an annual review of requests for Union leave at the conclusion of each year of the Agreement (June of each year), and conduct good faith discussions in an effort to resolve any problems that have occurred in implementation of this article. Further, the parties agree to meet at the request of the other to resolve any dispute or problems that occur during the year.
Leave From Bargaining Unit
46.12	An employee may be allowed to take a ’’leave of absence from the bargaining unit" under the following terms and conditions:
A.	The period of the leave will not exceed ninety (90) days, but may be extended for an additional ninety (90) days by mutual agreement of the parties.
B.	The purpose of the leave may only be to accept a temporary reassignment to perform non-bargaining unit work.
C.	The employee shall continue to pay monthly Union dues and by so doing shall not suffer a reduction of the time spent on leave from their total seniority within the bargaining unit.
D.	On their return to the bargaining unit at the expiration of the leave, the employee shall be returned to their previous position with full restoration of all rights and privileges of Union membership.
E.	Requests for leaves of absence from the bargaining unit must be reduced to writing by the employee and approved by the Union.
46.13	Employees returning to formerly held classifications within six (6) months of transferring.to another classification (including those outside the bargaining unit) shall.have all previously accrued seniority within the original classification restored to them.
i
47.0 JURISDICTION BY THE UNION
47.1	The Union agrees that in the event any Union jurisdictional dispute develops with respect to any work or classification of employment covered hereby, such dispute shall be settled between the Unions in accordance with the practices of the AFL-CIO without permitting the same to interfere in any way with the progress and prosecution of the work hereunder. Pending the settlement of any such dispute, the work shall continue on the same basis as it was being performed at the time the jurisdictional dispute arose.
48.0 DISPUTES
48.1	The Employer and the Union realize the Employer's facilities are different in their operations from other industries, because of services rendered to the community and for humanitarian reasons, and agree that there shall be no lockouts on the part of the Employer nor suspension of work on the part of the employees, it being one of the purposes of this Agreement to guarantee that there will be no strikes, lockouts or work stoppages and that all disputes will be settled as hereinafter provided.
48.2	The grievance procedure supports cooperation, open communication and mutual respect between supervisors, shop stewards and employees to prevent and/or solve workplace problems and grievances. Any problems arising in connection with the application or the interpretation of this Agreement may be submitted as a grievance pursuant to the following procedure:
STEP 1:
48.3	Step 1 of this grievance procedure shall be considered non-precedent setting.
Although a formal grievance form is used, all settlements agreed to by the parties (Union, Employer and employee) at this step shall be considered non-precedent-setting informal resolutions. Written grievances shall be brought to the attention of the immediate supervisor within fifteen (15) calendar days of their occurrence or from when the employee reasonably should have been aware of the occurrence. The immediate supervisor shall give his/her answer to the grievant and/or Union Representative within ten (10) calendar days after presentation of the grievance. All discharge grievances shall be referred immediately to STEP 2 of the grievance procedure.
STEP 2:
48.4	In order for a grievance to be considered at this step, it must be appealed in writing to the next higher level of administration and the Area Human Resource Administrator or his/her designee within ten (10) calendar days of the time limit set forth in STEP 1 above. The Employer representative shall meet with the representative of the Union and the employee within ten (10) calendar days of the receipt of the new appeal and attempt to resolve the dispute. The Employer representative shall give his/her written answer to the Union representative within ten (10) calendar days after the meeting.
STEP 3:
48.5	In order for a grievance to be considered at this step of the grievance procedure, it must be appealed in writing to the Regional Human Resource Department within ten (10) calendar days of the time limit set forth in STEP 2 above. The Employer representative shall meet with the representative of the Union within ten (10) calendar days of the receipt of the new appeal and attempt to resolve the dispute. The Employer representative shall give his/her written answer to the Union representative within ten (10) calendar days after the meeting.
In the event the parties are unable to resolve the dispute at the Step 3 level the party appealing the matter may refer the grievance to an adjustment board or mediation within ten (10) calendar days of the time limits set forth in STEP 3. However, either the Employer or the Union has the option of waiving the adjustment board and proceeding to arbitration but shall be limited to three (3) such waivers during the term of this Agreement. The parties may mutually agree to waive mediation or the adjustment board and proceed directly to arbitration.
If a grievance is referred to mediation, a mediator will be selected from the arbitrator panel described in Section 48.7.
If either the Employer or the Union fail to respond to a step in the procedure in a timely fashion, the grievance may be moved to the next step.
Adjustment Board
48.6	The adjustment board shall be composed of two (2) representatives of the Employer who are not employees, officers or officials of the Employer or the Union, and two (2) representatives of the Union who are not employees, officers or officials of the Union or the Employer. The adjustment board shall convene no later than forty-five (45) calendar days from the date the appeal is mailed to the other party. Any decision by a majority of the Adjustment Board shall be final and binding.
Arbitration
48.7	In case of failure of a majority of the adjustment board to reach a decision within ten (10) calendar days after presentation at this level, or a mediator to obtain a settlement of the dispute, the Union or the Employer may move the grievance to arbitration. The Employer and the Union shall select an arbitrator from the panel described below who shall be a competent and disinterested person who shall have the deciding vote on the matterat issue. Selection will be rotated sequentially by alphabetical order of last name among the arbitrators listed in the panel except that by mutual agreement the parties may avoid the use of any arbitrator and either party may avoid the use of one (1) arbitrator who has issued at least one (1) decision in the life of the Agreement. This last provision may be exercised by either party one (1) time.
A.	The arbitrator shall render a decision as promptly as possible and in any event within thirty (30) days from the date of case presentation. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon both parties hereto providing, however, that the arbitrator shall not, without specific written agreement of the Employer and the Union with respect to the arbitration proceeding before him/her, be authorized to add to, detract from or in any way alter the provisions of this Agreement.
B.	The arbitrator’s pay and all incidental expenses of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties hereto. However, each party shall bear the expense of presenting its own case.
C.	The parties shall meet immediately after the execution date of the Agreement to mutually agree on five (5) arbitrators who will serve as a panel of Arbitrators during the life of the Agreement. If the parties cannot reach mutuaLagreement, each party shall select two (2) arbitrators for the panel and the parties will reach mutual agreement on the fifth (5th) panel member. If the parties cannot reach mutual agreement on the fifth (5th) panel member, a list shall be solicited from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and selection of the fifth (5th) panel member will be made from that list either by mutual agreement or by alternatively striking names until one (1) is left. The first (1st) party to strike a name will be determined by the flip of a coin. The FMCS will be requested to submit a list that does not contain any of the four (4) previously selected panel members.
48.8	Grievances may be by mutual agreement in writing referred back for further consideration or discussion to a prior step or advanced to a higher step of the grievance procedure. The time limitations specified in the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual agreement.
49.0	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
49.1	No employee shall be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
49.2	It is the Employer's intent normally to make use of progressive discipline in accordance with established practices and policy. However, the Employer maintains the right to determine and administer the appropriate discipline.
49.3	The employees and the Union shall receive copies of all written disciplinary
notices and documentation of employee counseling sessions placed in the Personnel file. Employees shall have the right to respond in writing to any written disciplinary notices and documentation of employee counseling sessions in their Personnel file and have that response attached to the relevant material.
49.4	Written disciplinary notices and documentation of employee counseling session shall be invalid after a period of one (1) year from the date of issuance, except when there are other materials of the same or related nature.
50.0	HEALTH AND SAFETY
50.1	The Employer agrees to make reasonable and proper provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standards of health and safety in the work place, to promptly review unsafe conditions brought to its attention, and to correct them as necessary. The employees acknowledge their responsibility to observe safety policies and procedures established by the Employer or mandated by state or federal laws or regulations related to employee's job or work area. The Employer acknowledges its' responsibility to appropriately train all employees regarding the Employer's safety policies, procedures, and state/federal laws and regulations. The Employer and the Union agree that employees have the right to give input into the safety program of the Employer. In the event an employee believes that an unsafe condition exists, he/she shall first bring the situation to the attention of his/her supervisor. If, after bringing the situation to the supervisor's attention, the employee believes the problem still exists, the employee may then report the condition, in writing, to the Safety Committee and the Employer will take whatever appropriate action it determines necessary to resolve the situation.
50.2	Placement of Bargaining Unit Injured Worker
A member of the bargaining unit who has a compensable injury or for whom the Employer has a job placement obligation or such obligation under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and can no longer perform the duties of his/her regular employment will be offered suitable employment for which the employee is qualified after reasonable Employer paid training and/or orientation, having the same rights as a Bargaining Unit member in a permanent Reduction in Force to open position based on seniority.
Safety Committees
50.3	Medical and Support Services
At each medical office, hospital, and at the Supply Center and Process Center, safety committees, with an equal number of Employer and employee representatives will regularly make recommendations on how to eliminate hazards and unsafe work practices and to improve accident and illness prevention programs. The Employee representatives will include employees represented by Local 49 as well as employees represented by other unions and unrepresented employees.
50.4	Dental Program
A.	For the Dental Program, one (1) safety committee will be established.
B.	The Dental Program's Environmental Health and Safety committee is
comprised of four (4) managers and four (4) staff members. The staff members will include at least two (2) Local 49 members. The chair is elected by the committee.
C.	In addition, each dental office will have a safety representative who volunteers for a minimum of one (1) year who will be responsible for identifying safety hazards and for conducting environmental rounds in their offices. The safety representative is selected by the employee group and may be a Local 49 member. The safety representative will report concerns to management and the Labor Management Committee.
50.5	General
A.	The Labor Management Committee shall receive periodic reports from the safety committees.
B.	Local 49 members on the safety committees are by mutual consent of the Union and the Employer. Neither party will capriciously withhold consent.
C.	If, in the Union's view, the committee members are not placed in a timely fashion, the Employer will meet with the Union to attempt to resolve the situation.
D.	The Employer will continue to promote the use of safe medical/dental devices and comply with federal and state requirements relating to safety, infection control and hazardous substances.
E.	Local 49 representatives will be chosen by mutual consent of the Union and the Employer to product evaluation committees. The Employer will notify the Union about these product evaluation committees at the Labor Management Steering Committee.
F.	The Employer will provide a list of all safety Committee members at every worksite identifying the worksite and the affiliation of each individualto the LMC Steering Committee on or before March 15th of each year.
51.0 STAFFING
51.1	In the event technological or mechanical changes occur which result in reduced hours or positions, the Employer will discuss these changes in advance with the Union and make reasonable efforts to place affected employees into available jobs of comparable pay and hours for which they may be qualified, or into other available work within employees' capabilities for which they may be qualified with minimal retraining.
51.2	It is in the mutual interest of both parties that the delivery of health care be organized and structured in the most efficient manner possible. It is the intent of the Employer to have members of the bargaining unit continue performing those duties they have routinely done in the past; however, the Employer must retain the right to establish all work assignments affecting members of the bargaining unit. The Employer will provide the Union with schedule changes prior to implementation. The Union has the right to question the reasonableness of such assignments, and should the Union feel there is a problem with respect to work assignments, the Employer will meet with their representatives and attempt
through mutual discussion to resolve the issue as expeditiously as possible.
51.3	Clinic employees on the payroll prior to April 5,1976 who are assigned a reduced work schedule for reasons directly related to the change in clinic hours shall be treated in the same manner as Non-Union hourly employees with respect to vacation and sick leave accumulation and eligibility for Employer-paid Health Plan, Dental Plan, Group Life and Disability Insurance coverage.
52.0 INSERVICE EDUCATION
52.1	When an inservice education program is provided by the Employer for employees in a particular classification or classifications covered under the Agreement, the Employer will use its best efforts to insure that the training sessions are available to all employees in such classification or classifications. Such best efforts shall include the presentation of programs on alternate shifts when appropriate and alternating the time and shift of presentation as operations permit.
52.2	Other interested employees may attend such programs when space is available to permit their attendance if supervisors are able to arrange their absence from their assignments without unduly affecting the workflow.
52.3	Information pertaining to the Employer's regional education program and tuition reimbursement program will be made available to employees upon request.
52.4	When the employer determines that an inservice program is mandatory, such inservice will occur on paid time.
53.0 EDUCATION
53.1	The parties agree that education is a very important part of our professional lives, particularly in the health care field. In recognition of this, the Employer provides continuing education opportunities for bargaining unit employees within the budgetary process. Interested employees may contact Human Resources for specific information of programs and how to apply for educational funds.
The Employer will provide intranet access, by ensuring that a PC and printer is identified for all members at each facility for each shift. In facilities where PC and printers are not yet available, and until such time as they are, the building administration will maintain an easily accessible supply of guidelines, applications and promotional information.
Tuition Reimbursement
53.2	Eligible employees covered under this Agreement shall be entitled to participate in the Employer's tuition reimbursement program in accordance with the policy effective May 1,1988.
Education Fund
53.3	This is to affirm our understanding relative to the Education Fund. The Employer and the Union will establish a fund committee (hereafter referred to as the Education Committee) to respond to educational issues. Twelve hours of wages per month to cover administrative time of Bargaining Unit members will be paid
for out of the Education Fund. These hours are in addition to the regularly scheduled monthly meeting of the Education Committee. The use of these hours will be determined by the Education Committee. The structure of this committee will be decided at the Labor Management Steering Committee. In each year of the Labor Agreement, the Employer will contribute the following amounts to be administered by this committee for educational purposes:
2000- January-December	$18,000
2001 - January - December	$31,319
2002 - January - December annually through the life of $36,393 . the Agreement
Funds not spent in one of the above stated calendar periods including funds not spent during the first six months of 1999 will be rolled over into the next period.
54.0 CHILD CARE
54.1	The Employer will work cooperatively with the Union to study options for childcare. The Employer and the Union may negotiate jointly with childcare providers for the purpose of obtaining child care services for employees. The Employer will not be liable for childcare costs.
54.2	The Employee agrees to make a federally approved pre-tax child care deduction plan available to bargaining unit employees. Details of this plan will be set forth in a separate letter of agreement.
55.0 THERAPEUTIC ABORTION PROCEDURES
55.1 The Employer and the Union recognize the rights of individuals to refuse to participate directly in therapeutic abortion procedures. Employees who wish to exercise those rights shall submit their written request to the Employer. The Employer shall honor such requests by making reasonable accommodation, except in an emergency situation, where the immediate nature of the patients needs and rights shall take precedence over exercise of the employee's rights.
56.0 EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PROVISIONS
56.1	The Employer and the Union recognize that extensive restructuring is currently occurring in the health care industry.
. In order to allow the Employer to respond to the demands of the market there may be occasions when employees are displaced from their current positions. When such actions appear imminent, the Employer commits to meeting with representatives of the Bargaining Unit thirty (30) days in advance of any anticipated long-term reduction to mutually explore ways to minimize the impact on employees, coordinate placement and other provisions of this Article. However, the provisions of this Article will not supersede any current written agreement, letters of understanding, or provisions of short-term or long-term RIF articles in the Current Agreement.
Retraining
A. Coverage - Regular employees whose positions are eliminated, whose coded hours are reduced by fifty percent (50%) or greater, or whose coded
hours are reduced below benefit eligibility, and are unable to be placed in an open position for which the employee meets minimum qualifications within the thirty (30) day notice period.
b. Provisions - Requests may be made by employees for retraining into open Bargaining Unit positions. Employees will be placed into open positions as trainees providing there is a reasonable expectation that the employee can meet the position minimum qualification within the 90-day training period and in keeping with all other provisions of this Article. The trainee must demonstrate proficiency in performing the new job duties within sixty (60) days after completion of the training period. If the employee fails to do so, he/she will be offered and must choose one of the three (3) following options:
-	Exercise seniority rights under Article 14.5C (bumping) in the former job classification.
-	Accept an on-call position in the former job classification at the previous worksite or other acceptable open on-call position.
-	Elect layoff and severance pay in accordance with this Article.
Severance Allowance
A.	Coverage - Regular employees coded twenty (20) hours per week or more (includes "floaters"), whose positions are eliminated, and for whom no open position can be found as outlined in Article 14 during the thirty (30) day notice period who are terminated. An employee must have a minimum of six (6) months service to qualify for any benefit under this Article.
B.	Provisions - The severance allowance will be determined by full years of service. Eligible employees will receive one (1) week severance allowance for each full year of service, but a minimum of one (1) week, maximum of fifteen (15). Employees will be given a choice of either receiving the allowance as a lump sum payment or in biweekly payroll payments. Employees receiving severance allowance in a lump sum payment are not eligible for rehire for a period of six (6) months from their termination date. Employees receiving a severance allowance in biweekly payments are eligible for rehire at any point; however, if rehire occurs prior to exhaustion of their severance allowance, severance payments will stop on the date of rehire.
C.	Medical and Dental Benefits - Employees receiving severance allowance shall receive continuation of Employer-paid medical and dental benefits for the same number of weeks as severance benefits with a minimum of one (1) month beyond month of termination and a maximum of four (4) months. After the expiration of Employer-paid coverage, employees will have the opportunity to purchase continued group health plan and dental plan coverage for an additional eighteen (18) months.
D.	Outplacement Support - Regularly scheduled employees with twenty (20) or more coded hours per week who are terminated because their positions have been eliminated are eligible to receive outplacement support as outlined in the Employer’s Employment Stability Policy.
E.	Employees rehired into a SEIU Bargaining Unit covered position will have the interval between termination and employment dates as unpaid leave of
absence for the purpose of establishing seniority dates after rehire, provided no more than two years have elapsed from date of termination to rehire date, and the employee was terminated due to lack of available work (layoff).
57.0 DURATION OF AGREEMENT
57.1	This Agreement shall become effective on October 1,2000, and shall remain in effect until June 30, 2006, except as provided for hereunder, and from year to year thereafter; provided, however, that either party upon not less than ninety (90) days written notice to the other prior to July 1,2006, or July 1 of any subsequent year, may notify the other party of its desire to amend or terminate the Agreement upon the expiration of its then current term. If such notice to amend or terminate is timely served, negotiations shall commence between the parties in a timely manner.
57.2	If any provision of this Agreement is found to be in conflict with the laws of the State of Oregon, or the State of Washington, as may be applicable, or the United States of America, the remaining provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
7/70 Employees
10.4	A regular employee is one who is regularly employed to work a predetermined work schedule of twenty (20) or more hours per workweek. An employee designated as a regular employee shall accumulate and receive all fringe benefits as provided in this Agreement (except as set forth in Article 38.0) when he becomes and so long as he remains a regular employee.
10.5	If a regular employee changes to the 7/70 staffing system, the employee shall continue to maintain past accumulated sick leave benefits and shall receive payment for accrued vacation benefits to the time of status change.
12.7	Successful bidders for jobs on a 7/70 work schedule will be given three (3) seven (7) day work periods on the job (twenty-one [21] days) as a trial period to determine if they are competent to do the job. Trial period considerations must be completed in seven (7) day work increments on the job (7,14, 21 days). If the employee voluntarily gives up the job or is removed for inability to perform the work prior to the start of the fourth (4th) work period on the job, the employee will not acquire job classification seniority and will be returned to the employee's former position without loss of seniority.
16.1	0 The workweek is defined as a "fixed and regularly recurring period of one hundred sixty-eight (168) hours - seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods." It need not coincide with the calendar week and may begin at any hour or any day for employees assigned to the specific workweek.
A.	The work week for the day and evening shift will commence at 12:01 a.m. on Friday and end at 12:00 p.m. (midnight) the following Thursday.
B.	The workweek for the night shift will commence at 12:01 p.m. on Thursday and end at 12:00 p.m. (noon) the following Thursday.
C.	It is intended that the employees' work shifts will typically be scheduled within the workweeks as follows:
Day Shift - Starts Tuesday @6:45 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.
Evening Shift - Starts Tuesday @12:45 p.m. to 11:15 p.m.
Night Shift - Starts Monday @9:15 p.m. to 7:45 a.m.
16.1	1 The employees' work shifts are subject to change as may be dictated by operational requirements.
16.1	2 Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight-time hourly rate, including shift differential, for all hours of work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour work day (except on occasions when the start time of an employee has been temporarily changed by two (2) hours or less) and for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours within the work week.
16.1	3 All hours worked on the eight (8th) consecutive day of work shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) except when there is a change of schedule agreed upon between the employee and the Employer and all hours worked on the ninth (9th) consecutive day shall be paid for at the rate of double (2) time.
32.3	Employees shall receive pay for holiday accumulations on each check. The holiday hours will accrue based on compensable hours and be paid out on the following check.
33.18	After completion of six (6) months of continuous employment in a regular status, employees shall receive pay for vacation accumulations on each check. The vacation will continue to accrue based on compensable hours and be paid out on the following check.
33.19	After the completion of five (5) years of continuous employment with the Employer in a regular status, employees shall receive a lump sum vacation payment equivalent to one-third (1/3) of their vacation anniversary eligibility at the straight-time based rate.
33.20	After the completion often (10) years of continuous employment with the Employer in a regular status, employees in a regular status shall receive a lump sum vacation payment equivalent to one-fourth (1/4) of their vacation anniversary eligibility at the straight-time base rate,.
34.2	Regular full-time and part-time employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one (1) hour for every nineteen (19) hours paid.
Dental Employees
12.3	Dental employees may transfer within the Dental program before three (3) months of service by mutual agreement of Employer and Union.
Also, the progression of a DAI to a DAII shall be accomplished within nine (9) months from date of hire. A maximum extension of three (3) months may be granted upon mutual agreement between the Union and the Employer.
For the purposes of job bidding and reduction in force, Dental Assistant Ils, Orthodontic Assistants, PTDA Assistants, and TMD Assistants will be considered the same classification.
50.4 Dental Program
A.	For the Dental Program, one (1) safety committee will be established.
B.	The Dental Program's Environmental Health and Safety committee is comprised of four (4) managers and four (4) staff members. The staff members will include at least two (2) Local 49 members. The chair is elected by the committee.
c. In addition, each dental office will have a safety representative who volunteers for a minimum of one (1) year who will be responsible for identifying safety hazards and for conducting environmental rounds in their offices. The safety representative is selected by the employee group and may be a Local 49 member. The safety representative will report concerns to management and the Labor Management Committee.
DATED at Portland, Oregon this 2000.
For the Employer:
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Northwest
Barbe West
Tricia Peters
N. James Pruitt
William Rector
Leslie Carveth
Cal DeCicco
Paulette Keller
Mike Maddy
David McKay
Kristi McWilliams
Mary Moore
Pauline Morin
Gretchen Skeaton
Don Trapasso
John Wood
 Day of,
For the Union:
Service Employees International
Union, Local 49
Denise O’Brien, Acting President
Don Weston
Lee Ingram
Maggie Anderson
Anita Ball
Dave Barrett
Frieda Grieve
Christine Hauck
Sheryl Miller
Nancy Near
Kate Pingo
Rick Prince
Maria Washington
Teresa Winders
Job		Tenure						
Code	Job Title	Step Months	8/20/00	10/1/01	10/1/02	10/1/03	10/1/04	10/1/05
			1.5%	4.0%	4.0%	3.0%	X5%	
						Minimum Minimum Minimum		
Clerical								
0131	Business Office	1	0	$10.59	$11.01	$11.45	$11.79	$12.21	$12.57
	Cashier	2	6	$10.80	$11.23	$11.68	$12.03	$12.45	$12.83
		3	12	$11.01	$11.45	$11.91	$12.27	$12.70	$13.08
		4	24	$11.44	$11.90	$12.37	$12.74	$13.19	$13.59
		5	36	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82	$13.21	$13.67	$14.08
		6	48	$12.28	$12.77	$13.28	$13.68	$14.16	$14.59
		7	60	$12.70	$13.21	$13.73	$14.15	$14.64	$15.08
0807	Class Registration	1	0	$12.43	$12.93	$13.45	$13.85	$14.34	$14.77
	Coordinator	2	6	$12.78	$13.29	$13.82	$14.24	$14.73	$15.18
		3	12	$13.14	$13.67	$14.22	$14.64	$15.16	$15.61
		4	18	$13.49	$14.03	$14.59	$15.03	$15.55	$16.02
		5	24	$13.84	$14.40	$14.97	$15.42	$15.96	$16.44
		6	30	$14.20	$1477	$15.36	$15.82	$16.37	$16.86
		7	36	$14.56	$15.14	$15.74	$16.22	$16.78	$17.29
		8	42	$14.91	$15.51	$16.13	$16.61	$17.19	$17.71
0912	OPD Control Cashier	1	0	$11.12	$11.57	$12.03	$12.39	$12.83	$13.21
		2	6	$11.35	$11.80	$12.27	$12.64	$13.08	$13.48
		3	12	$11.56	$12.02	$12.50	$12.88	$13.33	$13.73
		4	24	$12.00	$12.48	$12.98	$13.37	$13.83	$14.25
		5	36	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
		6	48	$12.90	$13.42	$13.95	$14.37	$14.87	$15.32
		7	60	$13.33	$13.86	$14.41	$14.85	$15.37	$15.83
1471	Dental Member Asst.	1	0	$10.60	$11.02	$11.46	$11.81	$12.22	$12.58
		2	6	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
		3	12	$11.03	$11.47	$11.93	$12.29	$12.72	$13.10
		4	24	$11.48	$11.94	$12.42	$12.79	$13.24	$13.63
		5	36	$11.92	$12.39	$12.89	$13.28	$13.74	$14.15
		6	48	$12.41	$12.91	$13.43	$13.83	$14.31	$14.74
		7	60	$12.91	$13.43	$13.96	$14.38	$14.89	$15.33
1476	Dental Records Relief	1	0	$11.07	$11.52	$11.98	$12.34	$12.77	$13.15
	Specialist	2	6	$11.53	$11.99	$12.47	$12.85	$13.30	$13.69
		3	12	$11.98	$12.46	$12.95	$13.34	$13.81	$14.22
		4	24	$12.47	$12.97	$13.49	$13.90	$14.38	$14.81
	5 6 7	36 48 60	$13.00 $13.71 $14.47	$13.52 $14.26 $15.05	$14.06 $14.83 $15.65	$14.49 $15.28 $16.12	$14.99 $15.81 $16.69	$15.44 $16.29 $17.19
Clerical								
1472 Dental Record Spec.	1	0	$10.60	$11.02	$11.46	$11.81	$12.22	$12.58
	2	6	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
	3	12	$11.03	$11.47	$11.93	$12.29	$12.72	$13.10
	4	24	$11.48	$11.94	$12.42	, $12.79	$13.24	$13.63
	5	36	$11.92	$12.39	$12.89	$13.28	$13.74	$14.15
	6	48	$12.41	$12.91	$13.43	$13.83	$14.31	$14.74
	7	60	$12.91	$13.43	$13.96	$14.38	$14.89	$15.33
1475 Dental Staff Sched.	1	0	$11.44	$11.90	$12.37	$12.74	$13.19	$13.59
Spec.	2	6	$11.79	$12.27	$12.76	$13.14	$13.60	$14.01
	3	12	$12.14	$12.62	$13.13	$13.52	$14.00	$14.42
	4	24	$12.84	$13.35	$13.89	$14.30	$14.80	$15.25
	5	36	$13.55	$14.09	$14.66	$15.10	$15.62	$16.09
	6	48	$14.25	$14.82	$15.41	$15.88	$16.43	$16.92
	7	60	$14.96	$15.56	$16.18	$16.67	$17.25	$17.77
0106 Department Clerk	1	0	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.48	$12.84
	2	6	$11.03	$11.47	' $11.93	$12.29	$12.72	$13.10
	3	12	$11.24	$11.69	$12.15	$12.52	$12.96	$13.34
	4	24	$11.68	$12.15	$12.64	$13.02	$13.47	$13.87
	5	36	$12.12	$12.60	$13.11	$13.50	$13.97	$14.39
	6	48	$12.55	$13.05	$13.57	$13.98	$14.47	$14.90
	7	60	$12.97	$13.49	$14.03	$14.45	$14.96	$15.41
2177 Fee/Benefit Su Spec.	1	0	$12.47	$12.97	$13.49	$13.90	$14.38	$14.81
	2	6	$12.73	$13.24	$13.77	$14.18	$14.68	$15.12
	3	12	$12.96	$13.48	$14.02	$14.44	$14.95	$15.39
	4	24	$13.51	$14.05	$14.61	$15.05	$15.58	$16.04
	5	36	$14.04	$14.60	$15.18	$15.64	$16.19	$16.67
	6	48	$14.63	$15.21	$15.82	$16.29	$16.86	$17.37
	7	60	$15.19	$15.80	$16.43	$16.93	$17.52	$18.05
2066 Health Care Team	1	0	$11.58	$12.04	$12.53	$12.90	$13.35	$13.75
Secretary	2	6	$11.97	$12.45	$12.94	$13.33	$13.80	$14.21
	3	12	$12.35	$12.85	$13.36	$13.76	$14.24	$14.67
	4	24	$12.76	$13.27	$13.80	$14.21	$14.71	$15.15
	5	36	$13.14	$13.67	$14.22	$14.64	$15.16	$15.61
	6	48	$13.53	$14.07	$14.63	$15.07	$15.60	$16.07
	7	60	$13.92	$14.47	$15.05	$15.50	$16.05	$16.53
Clerical
0446	Hospital Business Office Cashier	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	0 6 12 24 36 48 60	$11.12 $11.35 $11.56 $12.00 $12.45 $12.90 $13.33	$11.57 $11.80 $12.02 $12.48 $12.95 $13.42 $13.86	$12.03 $12.27 $12.50 $12.98 $13.47 $13.95 $14.41	$12.39 $12.64 $12.88 $13.37 $13.87 $14.37 $14.85	$12.83 $13.08 $13.33 $13.83 $14.36 $14.87 $15.37	$13.21 $13.48 $13.73 $14.25 $14.79 $15.32 $15.83
1295	ICS Team Member II	1	0	$10.04	$10.44	$10.86	$11.18	$11.57	$11.92
		2	6	$10.24	$10.65	$11.08	$11.41	$11.81	$12.16
		3	12	$10.44	$10.86	$11.30	$11.64	$12.04	$12.40
		4	24	$10.84	$11.27	$11.72	$12.08	$12.50	$12.87
		5	36	$11.24	$11.69	$12.15	$12.52	$12.96	$13.34
		6	48	$11.63	$12.10	$12.58	$12.96	$13.41	$13.81
		7	54	$12.05	$12.53	$13.03	$13.42	$13.89	$14.31
1288	Information Clerk	1	0	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
		2	6	$10.75	$11.18	$11.63	$11.97	$12.39	$12.77
		3	12	$10.93	$11.37	$11.82	$12.18	$12.60	$12.98
		4	24	$11.39	$11.84	$12.32	$12.69	$13.13	$13.53
		5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
		6	48	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.63	$14.10	$14.53
		7	54	$12.64	$13.14	$13.67	$14.08	$14.57	$15.01
0667	KPRR Clerk	1	0	$10.59	$11.01	$11.45	$11.79	$12.21	$12.57
	(OPD Prog.)	2	6	$10.80	$11.23	$11.68	$12.03	$12.45	$12.83
		3	12	$11.01	$11.45	$11.91	$12.27	$12.70	$13.08
		4	24 .	$11.44	$11.90	$12.37	$12.74	$13.19	$13.59
		5	36	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82	$13.21	$13.67 .	$14.08
		6	48	$12.28	$12.77	$13.28	$13.68	$14.16	$14.59
		7	60	$12.70	$13.21	$13.73	$14.15	$14.64	$15.08
0668	KPRR Clerk (Res.	1	0	$11.12	$11.57	$12.03	$12.39	$12.83	$13.21
	Program)	2	6	$11.35	$11.80	$12.27	$12.64	$13.08	$13.48
		3	12	$11.58	$12.02	$12.50	$12.88	$13.33	$13.73
		4	24	$12.00	$12.48	$12.98	$13.37	$13.83	$14.25
		5	36	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
		6	48	$12.90	$13.42	$13.95	$14.37	$14.87	$15.32
		7	60	$13.33	$13.86	$14.41	$14.85	$15.37	$15.83
Clerical									
1584	KPRR Detail Clerk	1	0	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.63	$14.10	$14.53
		2	6	$12.48	$12.98	$13.50	$13.91	$14.40	$14.83
	3 4 5 6 7	12 24 36 48 60	$12.73 $13.22 $13.69 $14.19 $14.68	$13.24 $13.74 $14.24 $14.76 $15.26	$13.77 $14.29 $14.81 $15.35 $15.87	$14.18 $14.72 $15.25 $15.81 $16.35	$14.68 $15.24 $15.79 $16.36 $16.92	$15.12 $15.69 $16.26 $16.85 $17.43
1470 Member Intake	1	0	$10.60	$11.02	$11.46	$11.81	$12.22	$12.58
Specialist	2	6	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
	3	12	$11.03	$11.47	$11.93	$12.29	$12.72	$13.10
	4	24	$11.48	$11.94	$12.42	$12.79	$13.24	$13.63
	5	36	$11.92	$12.39	$12.89	$13.28	$13.74	$14.15
	6	48	$12.41	$12.91	$13.43	$13.83	$14.31	$14.74
	7	60	$13.12	$13.65	$14.19	$14.62	$15.13	$15.59
0964 Med Record Clerk	1	0	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
(OPD)	2	6	$10.75	$11.18	$11.63	$11.97	$12.39	$12.77
	3	12	$10.93	$11.37	$11.82	$12.18	$12.60	$12.98
	4	24	$11.39	$11.84	$12.32	$12.69	$13.13	$13.53
	5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
	6	48	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.63	$14.10	$14.53
	7	54	$12.64	$13.14	$13.67	$14.08	$14.57	$15.01
1290 Medical Records	1	0	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
Floater	2	6	$10.75	$11.18	$11.63	$11.97	$12.39	$12.77
	3	12	$10.93	$11.37	$11.82	$12.18	$12.60	$12.98
	4	24	$11.39	$11.84	$12.32	$12.69	$13.13	$13.53
	5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
	6	48	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.63	$14.10	$14.53
	7	54	$12.64	$13.14	$13.67	$14.08	$14.57	$15.01
0951 Medical Record Spec.	1	0	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	’ $12.51
	2	6	$10.75	$11.18	$11.63	$11.97	$12.39	$12.77
	3	12	$10.93	$11.37	$11.82	$12.18	$12.60	$12.98
	4	24	$11.39	$11.84	$12.32	$12.69	$13.13	$13.53
	5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
	6	48	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.63	$14.10	$14.53
	7	54	$12.64	$13.14	$13.67	$14.08	$14.57	$15.01
Clerical
1289 Number Control Clerk II	1	0	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
	2	6	$10.75	$11.18	$11.63	$11.97	$12.39	$12.77
	3	12	$10.93	$11.37	$11.82	$12.18	$12.60	$12.98
	4	24	$11.39	$11.84	$12.32	$12.69	$13.13	$13.53
	5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
	6	48	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.63	$14.10	$14.53
	7	54	$12.64	$13.14	$13.67	$14.08	$14.57	$15.01
1496	PBX Operator	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	0 6 12 24 36 48 60	$10.96 $11.28 $11.58 $12.20 $12.84 $13.09 $13.15	$11.40 $11.73 $12.04 $12.69 $13.35 $13.62 $13.68	$11.86 $12.20 $12.53 $13.20 $13.89 $14.16 $14.23	$12.21 $12.56 $12.90 $13.59 $14.30 $14.59 $14.65	$12.64 $13.00 $13.35 $14.07 $14.80 $15.10 $15.17	$13.02 $13.39 $13.75 $14.49 $15.25 $15.55 $15.62
2484 Communications		1	0	$10.96	$11.40	$11.86	$12.21	$12.64	$13.02
	Operator	2	6	$11.28	$11.73	$12.20	$12.56	$13.00	$13.39
		3	12	$11.58	$12.04	$12.53	$12.90	$13.35	$13.75
		4	24	$12.20	$12.69	$13.20	$13.59	$14.07	$14.49
		5	36	$12.84	$13.35	$13.89	$14.30	$14.80	$15.25
		6	48	$13.09	$13.62	$14.16	$14.59	$15.10	$15.55
		7	60	$13.15	$13.68	$14.23	$14.65	$15.17	$15.62
0085	Reception/Cashier	1	0	$10.60	$11.02	$11.46	$11.81	$12.22	$12.58
		2	6	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
		3	12	$11.03	$11.47	$11.93	$12.29	$12.72	$13.10
		4	24	$11.48	$11.94	$12.42	$12.79	$13.24	$13.63
		5	36	$11.92	$12.39	$12.89	$13.28	$13.74	$14.15
		6	48	$12.41	$12.91	$13.43	$13.83	$14.31	$14.74
		7	54	$13.12	$13.65	$14.19 *	$14.62	$15.13	$15.59
0163	Support Service	1	0	$11.12	$11.57	$12.03	$12.39	$12.83	$13.21
	Floater	2	6	$11.35	$11.80	$12.27	$12.64	$13.08	$13.48
		3	12	$11.56	$12.02	$12.50	$12.88	$13.33	$13.73
		4	24	$12.00	$12.48	$12.98	$13.37	$13.83	$14.25
		5	36	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
		6	48	$12.90	$13.42	$13.95	$14.37	$14.87	$15.32
		7	60	$13.33	$13.86	$14.41	$14.85	$15.37	$15.83
Clerical									
0298	Surgery Sched. Spec.	1	0	$12.31	$12.80	$13.32	$13.72	$14.20	$14.62
		2	6	$12.56	$13.06	$13.58	$13.99	$14.48	$14.91
		3	12	$12.82	$13.33	$13.87	$14.28	$14.78	$15.22
		4	24	$13.30	$13.83	$14.38	$14.81	$15.33	$15.79
		5	36	$13.79	$14.35	$14.92	$15.37	$15.90	$16.38
		6	48	$14.29	$14.86	$15.46	$15.92	$16.48	$16.97
		7	60	$14.77	$15.36	$15.97	$16.45	$17.03	$17.54
2416	Surgery Sched. II	1	0	$14.40	$14.98	$15.58	$16.05	$16.61	$17.11
		2	6	$14.65	$15.23	$15.84	$16.32	$16.89	$17.39
		3	12	$14.91	$15.51	$16.13	$16.61	$17.19	$17.71
		4	24	$15.39	$16.00	$16.64	$17.14	$17.74	$18.27
	5 6 7	36 48 60	$15.88 $16.35 $16.86	$16.52 $17.01 $17.53	$17.18 $17.69 $18:23	$17.70 $18.22 $18.78	$18.32 $18.85 $19.44	$18.87 $19.42 $20.02
MaintenancefDefivery								
1455 Chart Courier	1	0	$11.40	$11.85	$12.33	$12.70	$13.14	$13.54
	2	6	$11.60	$12.07	$12.55	$12.92	$13.38	$13.78
	3	12	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82	$13.21	$13.67	$14.08
	4	24	$12.32	$12.81	$13.33	$13.73	$14.21	$14.63
	5	36	$12.83	$13.34	$13.88	$14.29	$14.79	$15.24
	6	48	$13.32	$13.85	$14.40	$14.84	$15.35	$15.82
	7	60	$13.86	$14.42	$15.00	$15.45	$15.99	$16.47
1454 Gardener	1	0	$11.05	$11.50	$11.96	$12.31	$12.74	$13.13
	2	6	$11.28	$11.73	$12.20	$12.56	$13.00	$13.39
	3	12	$11.52	$11.98	$12.46	$12.83	$13.28	$13.68
	4	24	$11.98	$12.46	$12.95	$13.34	$13.81	$14.22
	5	36	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
	6	48	$12.94	$13.46	$14.00	$14.42	$14.92	$.15.37
	7	. 60	$13.47	$14.01	$14.57	$15.01	$15.53	$16.00
Main tenancelDelivery								
1457 Large Van Driver	1	0	$13.15	$13.68	$14.23	$14.65	$15.17	$15.62
	2	6	$13.40	$13.93	$14.49	$14.93	$15.45	$15.91
	3	12	$13.68	$14.23	$14.80	$15.24	$15.78	$16.25
	4	24	$14.22	$14.79	$15.38	$15.84	$16.40	$16.89
	5	36	$14.78	$15.37	$15.98	$16.45	$17.04	$17.55
	6	48	$15.37	$15.98	$16.62	$17.12	$17.72	$18.25
	7	60	$16.02	$16.66	$17.32	$17.84	$18.47	$19.02
1458 Messenger	1	0	$9.23	$9.60	$9.98	$10.28	$10.64	$10.96
	2	6	$9.42	$9.80	$10.19	$10.49	$10.86	$11.19
	3	12	$9.62	$10.01	$10.41	$10.72	$11.09	$11.43
	4	24	$10.01	$10.41	$10.82	$11.15	$11.54	$11.89
	5	36	$10.38	$10.80	$11.23	$11.57	$11.97	$12.33
	6	48	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
	7	60	$11.25	$11.70	$12.16	$12.53	$12.97	$13.36
MedicallTechnical								
1480 Certified Nurses Aide	1	0	$10.12	$10.52	$10.95	$11.27	$11.67	$12.02
	2	6	$10.34	$10.76	$11.19	$11.52	$11.93	$12.28
	3	12	$10.52	$10.94	$11.37	$11.71	$12.12	$12.49
	4	24	$10.94	$11.38	$11.83	$12.19	$12.62	$12.99
	5	36	$11.38	$11.83	$12.31	$12.68	$13.12	$13.51
	6 7	48 60	$11.83 $12.30	$12.31 $12.79	$12.80 $13.31	$13.18 $13.70	$13.65 $14.18	$14.06 $14.61
1723 Certified Patient Care	1	0	$11.58	$12.04	$12.53	$12.90	$13.35	$13.75
Asst.	2	6	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81	$13.20	$13.66	$14.07
	3	12	$12.05	$12.53	$13.03	$13.42	$13.89	$14.31
	4	24	$12.53	$13.03	$13.55	$13.95	$14.44	$14.88
	5	36	$13.03	$13.55	$14.10	$14.52	$15.03	$15.48
	6	48	$13.56	$14.10	$14.67	$15.11	$15.64	$16.10
	7	60	$14.08	$14.64	$15.23	$15.68	$16.23	$16.72
Medical! Technical								
2193 Central Sterile	1	0	$10.16	$10.57	$10.99	$11.32	$11.72	$12.07
Processing Tech I	2	6	$10.36	$10.78	$11.21	$11.55	$11.95	$12.31
	3	12	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
	4	24	$10.99	$11.43	$11.89	$12.25	$12.67	$13.05
	5	36	$11.40	$11.85	$12.33	$12.70	$13.14	$13.54
	6	48	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81	$13.20	$13.66	$14.07
	7	60	$12.30	$12.79	$13.31	$13.70	$14.18	$14.61
2194 Central Sterile	1	0	$11.58	$12.04	$12.53	$12.90	$13.35	$13.75
Processing Tech II	2	6	$11.94	$12.41	$12.91	$13.30	$13.76	$14.18
	3	12	$12.29	$12.78	$13.29	$13.69	$14.17	$14.60
	4	24	$12.66	$13.16	$13.69	$14.10	$14.59	$15.03
	5	36	$13;01	$13.53	$14.07	$14.50	$15.00	$15.45
	6	48	$13.37	$13.90	$14.46	$14.89	$15.41	$15.88
	7	60	$13.72	$14.27	$14.84	$15.29	$15.82	$16.30
1477 Dental Aide	1	0	$9.46	$9.84	$10.23	$10.54	$10.91	$11.23
	2	6	$9.68	$10.07	$10.47	$10.79	$11.16	$11.50
	3	12	$9.82	$10.21	$10.62	$10.93	$11.32	$11.66
	4	24	$10.26	$10.67	$11.10	$11.43	$11.83	$12.19
	5	36	$10.64	$11.06	$11.51	$11.85	$12.27	$12.63
	6	48	$11.06	$11.51	$11.97	$12.33	$12.76	$13.14
	7	60	$11.50	$11.96	$12.44	$12.81	$13.26	$13.66
1479 Dental Asst. I	1	0	$9.99	$10.39	$10.80	$11.13	$11.52	$11.86
	2	6	$10.16	$10.57	$10.99	$11.32	$11.72	$12.07
	3	12	$10.38	$10.80	$11.23	$11.57	$11.97	$12.33
	4	24	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
	5	36	$11.22	$11.66	$12.13	$12.49	$12.93	$13.32
	6	48	$11.64	$12.11	$12.59	$12.97	$13.42	$13.83
	7	60	$12.13	$12.61	$13.12	$13.51	$13.99	$14.41
1486 Dental Asst. (EFDA	1	0	$11.00	$11.44	$11.90	$12.26	$12.69	$13.07
Cert)	2	6	$11.19	$11.63	$12.10	$12.46	$12.90	$13.28
3	12	$11.40	$11.85	$12.33	$12.70	$13.14	$13.54
4	24	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81	$13.20	$13.66	$14.07
5	36	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
6	48	$13.04	$13.56	$14.11	$14.53	$15.04	$15.49
7	60	$13.69	$14.24	$14.81	$15.25	$15.79	$16.26
MedicallTechnical
2403	Dental Agency Specialist Assistant	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	0 6 12 24 36 48 60	$14.71 $14.89 $15.10 $15.55 $16.16 $16.75 $17.40	$15.30 $15.49 $15.71 $16.17 $16.81 $17.42 $18.09	$15.91 $16.11 $16.34 $16.82 $17.48 $18.11 $18.82	$16.38 $16.59 $16.83 $17.32 $18.00 $18.66 $19.38	$16.96 $17.17 $17.41 $17.93 $18.63 $19.31 $20.06	$17.47 $17.68 $17.94 $18.47 $19.19 $19.89 $20.66
2404	Dental Agency EFDA	1	0	$14.05	$14.61	$15.19	$15.65	$16.20	$16.68
	Assistant	2	6	$14.23	$14.80	$15.39	$15.85	$16.41	$16.90
		3	12	$14.44	$15.02	$15.62	$16.09	$16.65	. $17.15
		4	24	$14.89	$15.49	$16.11	$16.59	$17.17	$17.68
		5	36	$15.50	$16.12	$16.76	$17.27	$17.87	$18.41
		6	48	$16.09	$16.73	$17.40	$17.92	$18.55	$19.11
		7	60	$16.74	$17.41	$18.11	$18.65	$19.30	$19.88
1530	Dental Prev. Tech	1	0	$11.52	$11.98	$12.46	$12.83	$13.28	$13.68
	Asst.	2	6	$11.75	$12.22	$12.71	$13.09	$13.55	$13.96
		3	12	$11.95	$12.42	$12.92	$13.31	$13.77	$14.19
		4	24	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
		5	36	$13.04	.$13.56	$14.11	$14.53	$15.04	$15.49
		6	48	$13.68	$14.23	$14.80	$15.24	$15.78	$16.25
		7	60	$14.37	$14.95,	$15.55	$16.01	$16.57	$17.07
1484	Home Health Aide	1	0	$10.48	$10.90	$11.34	$11.68	$12.09 ■	$12.45
		2	6	$10.71	$11.14	$11.58	$11.93	$12.35	$12.72
		3	12	$10.88	$11.32	$11.77	$12.12	$12.55	$12.92
		4	24	$11.34	$11.79	$12.26	$12.63	$13.07	$13.46
		5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
		6	48	$12.26	$12.75	$13.26	$13.66	$14.14	$14.56
		7	60	$12.77	$13.28	$13.81	$14.22	$14.72	$15.16
1022	Lab Assistant	1	0	$11.22	$11.66	$12.13	$12.49	$12.93	$13.32
		2	6	$11.54	$12.00	$12.48	$12.86	$13.31	$13.71
		3	12	$11.87	$12.34	$12.83	$13.22	$13.68	$14.09
		4	24	$12.19	$12.68	$13.18	$13.58	$14.06	$14.48
		5	36	$12.51	$13.02	$13.54	$13.94	$14.43	$14.86
		6	48	$12.84	$13.35	$13.89	$14.30	$14.80	$15.25
	7 8		60 72	$13.17 $13.49	$13.70 $14.03	$14.25 $14.59	$14.68 $15.03	$15.19 $15.55	$15.65 $16.02
MedicallTechnical									
1491	LPN	1	0	$13.07	$13.60	$14.14	$14.56	$15.07	$15.53
		2	6	$13.34	$13.87	$14.43	$14.86	$15.38	$15.84
		3	12	$13.60	$14.15	$14.71	$15.15	$15.68	$16.15
		4	24	$14.13	$14.69	$15.28	$15.74	$16.29	$16.78
		5	36	$14.72	$15.31	$15.92	$16.40	$16.97	$17.48
		6	48	$15.31	$15.92	$16.56	$17.05	$17.65	$18.18
		7	60	$15.91	$16.54	$17.20	$17.72	$18.34	$18.89
2195	Materials Tech I	1	0	$10.16	$10.57	$10.99	$11.32	$11.72	$12.07
		2	6	$10.36	$10.78	$11.21	$11.55	$11.95	$12.31
		3	12	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
		4	24	$10.99	$11.43	$11.89	$12.25	$12.67	$13.05
		5	36	$11.40	$11.85	$12.33	$12.70	$13.14	$13.54
		6	48	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81	$13.20	$13.66	$14.07
		7	60	$12.30	$12.79	$13.31	$13.70	$14.18	$14.61
2196	Materials Tech II	1	0	$11.58	$12.04	$12.53	$12.90	$13.35	$13.75
		2	6	$11.94	$12.41	$12.91	$13.30	$13.76	$14.18
		3	12	$12.29	$12.78	$13.29	$13.69	$14.17	$14.60
		4	24	$12.66	$13.16	$13.69	$14.10	$14.59	$15.03
		5	36	$13.01	$13.53	$14.07	$14.50	$15.00	$15.45
		6	48	$13.37	$13.90	$14.46	$14.89	$15.41	$15.88
		7	60	$13.72	$14.27	$14.84	$15.29	$15.82	$16.30
1489	Medical Asst.	1	0	$11.38	$11.83	$12.31	$12.68	$13.12	$13.51
		2	6	$11.60	$12.07	$12.55	$12.92	$13.38	$13.78
		3	12	$11.81	$12.29	$12.78	$13.16	$13.62	$14.03
		4	24	$12.25	$12.74	$13.25	$13.65	$14.13	$14.55
		5	36	$12.71	$13.22	$13.74	$14.16	$14.65	$15.09
		6	48	$13.22	$13.74	$14.29	$14.72	$15.24	$15.69
		7	60	$13.83	$14.39	$14.96	$15.41	$15.95	$16.43
1490	Ophthalmic Tech.	1	0	$13.55	$14.09	$14.66	$15.10	$15.62	$16.09
		2	6	$13.80	$14.36	$14.93	$14.38	$15.92	$16.39
		3	12	$14.05	$14.61	$15.19	$15.65	$16.20	$16.68
		4	24	$14.58	$15.16	$15.76	$16.24	$16.81	$17.31
		5	36	$15.13	$15.74	$16.37	$16.86	$17.45	$17.97
		6	48	$15.75	$16.38	$17.04	$17.55	$18.16	$18.71
		7	60	$16.33	$16.98	$17.66	$18.19	$18.83	$19.40
MedicallTechnical
1482 Orderly	1	0	$10.12	$10.52	$10.95	$11.27	$11.67	$12.02
	2	6	$10.34	$10.76	$11.19	$11.52	$11.93	$12.28
	3	12	$10.52	$10.94	$11.37	$11.71	$12.12	$12.49
	4	24	$10.94	$11.38	$11.83	$12.19	$12.62	$12.99
	5	36	$11.38	$11.83	$12.31	$12.68	$13.12	$13.51
	6	48	$11.83	$12.31	$12.80	$13.18	$13.65	$14.06
	7	60	$12.30	$12.79	$13.31	$13.70	$14.18	$14.61
1492 Ortho Asst. (Certified)	1	0	$11.52	$11.98	$12.46	$12.83	$13.28	$13.68
	2	6	$11.75	$12.22	$12.71	$13.09	$13.65	$13.96
	3	12	$11.95	$12.42	$12.92	$13.31	$13.77	$14.19
	4	24	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	$14.79
	5	36	$13.04	$13.56	$14.11	$14.53	$15.04	$15.49
	6	48	$13.68	$14.23	$14.80	$15.24	$15.78	$16.25
	7	60	$14.37	$14.95	$15.55	$16.01	$16.57	$17.07
1040 Phlebotomist	1	0	$11.76	$12.23	$12.72	$13.11	$13.56	$13.97
	2	6	$12.11	$12.59	$13.10	$13.49	$13.96	$14.38
	3	12	$12.44	$12.94	$13.46	$13.86	$14.35	$14.78
	4	24	$12.79	$13.30	$13.83	$14.25	$14.75	$15.19
	5	36	$13.11	$13.64	$14.18	$14.61	$15.12	$15.57
	6	48	$13.44	$13.98	$14.54	$14.97	$15.50	$15.96
	7	60	$13.78	$14.34	$14.91	$15.36	$15.89	$16.37
	8	42	$14.12	$14.68	$15.27	$15.73	$16.28	$16.77
1481 Surgery Aide	10	$10.16	$10.57	$10.99	$11.32	$11.72	$12.07
	2	6	$10.36	$10.78	$11.21	$11.55	$11.95	$12.31
	3	12	$10.54	$10.96	$11.40	$11.74	$12.15	$12.51
	4	24	$10.99	$11.43	$11.89	$12.25	$12.67	$13.05
	5	36	$11.40	$11.85	$12.33	$12.70	$13.14	$13.54
	6	48	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81	$13.20	$13.66	$14.07
	7	60	$12.30	$12.79	$13.31	$13.70	$14.18	$14.61
1493 TMDAsst.	1	0	$11.52	$11.98	$12.46	$12.83	$13.28	$13.68
	2	6	$11.75	$12.22	$12.71	$13.09	$13.55	$13.96
	3	12	$11.95	$12.42	$12.92	$13.31	$13.77	$14.19
	4	24	$12.45	$12.95	$13.47	$13.87	$14.36	. $14.79.
	5	36	$13.04	$13.56	$14.11	$14.53	$15.04	$15.49
	6	48	$13.68	$14.23	$14.80	$15.24	$15.78	$16.25
	7	60	.$14.37	$14.95	$15.55	$16.01	$16.57	$17.07
Medical! Technical						
1483 Transportation Orderly	1	0	$10.12	$10.52	$10.95	$11.27	$11.67	$12.02
	2	6	$10.34	$10.76	$11.19	$11.52	$11.93	$12.28
	3	12	$10.52	$10.94	$11.37	$11.71	$12.12	$12.49
	4 5 6 7	24 36 48 60	$10.94 $11.38 $11.83 $12.30	$11.38 $11.83 $12.31 $12.79	$11.83 $12.31 $12.80 $13.31	$12.19 $12.68 $13.18 $13.70	$12.62 $13.12 $13.65 $14.18	$12.99 $13.51 $14.06 $14.61
1488 Unit Specialist I	1	0	$11.46	$11.92	$12.39	$12.77	$13.21	$13.61
	2	6	$11.70	$12.17	$12.66	$13.04	$13.49	$13.90
	3	12	$11.92	$12.39	$12.89	$13.28	$13.74	$14.15
	4	24	$12.40	$12.90	$13.42	$13.82	$14.30	$14.73
	5	36	$12.88	$13.40	$13.93	$14.35	$14.85	$15.30
	6	48	$13.41	$13.94	$14.50	$14.94	$15.46	$15.92
	7	60	$13.95	$14.50	$15.08	$15.54	$16.08	$16.56
1617 Unit Specialist II	1	0	$11.90	$12.37	$12.87	$13.25	$13.72	$14.13
	2	6	$12.15	$12.64	$13.14	$13.54	$14.01	$14.43
	3	12	$12.39	$12.89	$13.40	$13.81	$14.29	$14.72
	4	24	$12.87	$13.39	$13.92	$14.34	$14.84	$15.29
	5	36	$13.37	$13.90	$14.46	$14.89	$15.41	$15.88
	6	48	$13.86	$14.42	$15.00	$15.45	$15.99	$16.47
	7	60	$14.36	$14.93	$15.52	$15.99	$16.55	$17.04
Service								
1464 Cafeteria Aide	1	0	$10.00	$10.40	$10.81	$11.14	$11.53	$11.87
	2	6	$10.19	$10.60	$11.02	$11.35	$11.75	$12.10
	3	12	$10.36	$10.78	$11.21	$11.55	$11.95	$12.31
	4	24	$10.81	$11.24	$11.69	$12.04	$12.46	$12.84
	5	36	$11.25	$11.70	$12.16	$12.53	$12.97	$13.36
	6	48	$11.68	$12.15	$12.64	$13.02	$13.47	$13.87
	7	60	$12.15	$12.64	$13.14	$13.54	$14.01	$14.43
Service								
1467 Cookl	1	0	$11.40	$11.85	$12.33	$12.70	$13.14	$13.54
	2	6	$11.60	$12.07	$12.55	$12.92	$13.38	$13.78
	3	12	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82	$13.21	$13.67	$14.08
	4	24	$12.32	$12.81	$13.33	$13.73	$14.21	$14.63
	5	36	$12.83	$13.34	$13.88	$14.29	$14.79	$15.24
	6	48	$13.32	$13.85	$14.40	$14.84	$15.35	$15.82
	7	60	$13.86	$14.42	$15.00	$15.45	$15.99	$16.47
1468 Cook II	1	0	$12.47	$12.97	$13.49	$13.90	$14.38	$14.81
	2	6	$12.73	$13.24	$13.77	$14.18	$14.68	$15.12
	3	12	$12.96	$13.48	$14.02	$14.44	$14.95	$15.39
	4	24	$13.51	$14.05	$14.61	$15.05	$15.58	$16.04
	5	36	$14.04	$14.60	$15.18	$15.64	$16.19	$16.67
	6	48	$14.63	$15.21	$15.82	$16.29	$16.86	$17.37
	7	60	$15.19	$15.80	$16.43	$16.93	$17.52	$18.05
1465 Diet Aide	1	0	$10.48	$10.90	$11.34	$11.68	$12.09	$12.45
	2	6	$10.71	$11.14	$11.58	$11.93	$12.35	$12.72
	3	12	$10.88	$11.32	$11.77	$12.12	$12.55	$12.92
	4	24	$11.34	$11.79	$12.26	$12.63	$13.07	$13.46
	5	36	$11.80	$12.28	$12.77	$13.15	$13.61	$14.02
	6	48	$12.26	$12.75	$13.26	$13.66	$14.14	$14.56
	7	60	$12.77	$13.28	$13.81	$14.22	$14.72	$15.16
1462 Housekeeping Aide	1	0	$9.46	$9.84	. $10.23	$10.54	$0.11	$11.23
	2	6	$9.68	$10.07	$10.47	$10.79	$11.16	$11.50
	3	12	$9.85	$10.24	$10.65	$10.97	$11.35	$11.69
	4	24	$10.24	$10.65	$11.08	$11.41	$11.81	$12.16
	5	36	$10.64	$11.06	$11.51	$11.85	$12.27	$12.63
	6	48	$11.07	$11.52	$11.98	$12.34	$12.77	$13.15
	7	60	$11.52	$11.98	$12.46	$12.83	$13.28	$13.68
1461 Linen Room Worker	1	0	$9.46	$9.84	$10.23	$10.54	$0.11	$11.23
	2	6	$9.68	$10.07	$10.47	$10.79	$11.16	$11.50
	3	12	$9.85	$10.24	$10.65	$10.97	$11.35	$11.69
	4	24	$10.24	$10.65	$11.08	$11.41	$11.81	$12.16
	' 5	36	$10.64	$11.06	$11.51	$11.85	$12.27	$12.63
	6	48	$11.07	$11.52	$11.98	$12.34	$12.77	$13.15
	7	60	$11.52	$11.98	$12.46	$12.83	$13.28	$13.68
Service								
1628 Town Hall Aide	1	0 ■	$11.24	$11.69	$12.15	$12.52	$12.96	$13.34
	2	6	$11.46	$11.92	$12.39	$12.77	$13.21	$13.61
	3	12	$11.70	$12.17	$12.66	$13.04	$13.49	$13.90
	4	24	$12.13	$12.61	$13.12	$13.51	$13.99	$14.41
	5	36	$12.59	$13.09	$13.61	$14.02	$14.51	$14.95
	6	48	$13.04	$13.56	$14.11	$14.53	$15.04	$15.49
	7	60	$13.50	$14.04	$14.60	$15.04	$15.57	$16.03
1473 Warehouse Specialist	1	0	$12.58	$13.08	$13.60	$14.01	$14.50	$14.94
	2	6	$12.84	$13.35	$13.89	$14.30	$14.80	$15.25
	3	12	$13.05	$13.58	$14.12	$14.54	$15.05	$15.50
	4	24	$13.61	$14.16	$14.72	$15.16	$15.69	$16.17
	5	36	$14.17	$14.74	$15.33	$15.79	$16.34	$16.83
	6	48	$14.72	$15.31	$15.92	$16.40	$16.97	$17.48
	7	60	$15.43	$16.05	$16.69	$17.19	$17.79	$18.32
INDEX
Article Page
Abortion Procedure	55.1	53
Access of Union Representatives	7.1	5
Additional Hours		
Departmental Posting	12.1	12
Pre-Scheduled	17.2A	22
Replacement	17.3	23
Distribution of Overtime	17.4	24
Adjustment Board	48.6	48
Annual Raise (See Tenure Step Adjustments)		
Arbitration	48.7	48
BAH Eligibility for On-Call	10.13	9
Benefits		
Dental Plan	39.4	39
Disability Insurance	40.1	39
Group Life Insurance	41.1	39
Health Plan	39.1-3	38
Pension	45.2	41
Retiree	45.3-16	42
Bereavement Leave (See Funeral Leave)	35.1-4	37
Bidding for Jobs	12.1-3	12
Bulletin Boards	4.1	4
Bumping	14.7	17
Call Back Provisions		
5/40 Employees	16.2	19
4/40 Employees	16.7	20
7/70 Employees	16.11	21
Check-off for Union Dues	3.5	3
Child Care	54.1-2	52
Committees		
Safety	50.1	49
Medical and Support Services	50.3	50
Dental	50.4	50
General	50.5	50
Definitions		
Payroll Day and Payroll Week	16.1	19
5/40	16.1	19
4/40	16.6	20
7/70	16.10	20
Probationary Period	10.1	7
Regular Employees	10.2	8
Floater Category	10.6-8	8
Article
Page
Temporary and On-Call 10.9-12		9
Dental Plan	39.4	39
Dental Section	Job Posting 12.4	13
	Scheduling 17.1	22
Safety Committee 50.3		50
Differentials		
In-Lieu of Benefits 10.13		9
	Shifts 28.1-5	30
	Lead person 13.4	14
	Length of Service 26.1	30
	Standby 27.1-3	30
Disability	Insurance 40.1	39
Leave of Absence 46.2		44
Discipline and Discharge	49.1-4	49
Discrimination	6.1-2	4
Disputes (Grievance Procedure)	48.1-8	46
Distribution of Overtime	17.5-6	24
Duration of Agreement	57.1-2	54
Education	Fund 53.3	52
	Inservice 52.1-4	51
Tuition Reimbursement 53.2		52
Emergency Appointments	34.8	36
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)	44.1	41
Employment Security	56.1	53
Employer Indemnification	3.6	3
“Floater” Definition	10.6	8
Floating of Employees	15.1-2	18
Float Holidays	32.4	32
Float Pools	10.15	10
Fringe Benefit Improvement	43.1	41
Full-time Employment	17.8	25
Funeral Leave (Bereavement Leave)	35.1-4	37
Grievance Procedure	48.1-8	46
Health and Safety Hiring Practices	50.1	49
Union Notified of Openings 3.7		4
Bidding Provision 12.1		12
Applying for Extra Hours 17.1-4		22
Article
Page
Holiday Provisions
Non 7/70 Employees	32.1-2 32.3 32.4 , 32.5-7 52.4 25.1	32 32 32 32 52 29
7/70 Employees		
Float		
General		
Inservice Education		
Job Descriptions		
Job Posting (Vacancies & Extra Dept. Hours)	12.1-3	12
Dental	12.3	12
Lead Person Postings	13.1	14
Jury Duty	36.1-2	37
KSMC Time Off Requests	37.1	37
Labor/Management Cooperation	9.1-8	5
Layoff		
Bumped Into	14.7E	17
Clinician Driven Reductions	14.8	18
General	14.3	15
Long-Term Reductions	14.3-6	15
Short-Term Reductions	14.7	17
Lead person	13.1-5	14
Leaves of Absence		
From Bargaining Unit	46.12	46
Funeral (Bereavement)	35.1-4	37
Personal	46.1	43
Disability	46.2	44
Medical	46.3	44
Return from Leave	46.4-5	44
Union Position	46.11	45
General Leave Provision	46.6-9	45
Letters of Understanding		
Union Issue #2, Staffing Levels		74
Union Issue #3, Scheduling		75
‘	Union Issue #4, Health and Safety		76
Union Issue #5, Hiring and Training for Retention		77
Employer Issue #1, Upcoded Employees		79
Long and Short Term Reduction Seniority, Medical Assistants		80
and Member Intake Specialists		
Partnership Activities		81
Article Page
Paid Time Off Pay Rate - Employees Working More Than One
Job Shift Differential - Early and Late Reporting Break Period Proposal Orthodontic Assistant Trainee Regarding Seniority as it Applies to Reduction in Force Short Term Reduction in Force Floating			82 87 88 89 90 91 92 93
	Module Staffing Relationships		
Life Insurance		41.1-3	39
Meal Periods		31.1-5	31
Meeting Pay		52.4	52
New Employee Notification by Employer		3.10	4
No Duplication of Overtime		16.18	22
No Strike No Lockout		48.1	46
Notices of Disciplinary Actions		49.1-4	49
On-Call with Benefits		10.10	9
Open Positions		14.4B	15
Outside Contractor		2.8	2
Overtime Provisions	7/70 Schedule	16.10	20
	5/40 Schedule	16.1	19
	4/40 Schedule	16.6	20
	Day Off Schedule Changes	16.14-18	21
	Days Off Overtime Waiver	16.16	22
Pay Day		20.1	27
Pension Benefits		45.2	41
Posting Procedures	Dental	12.3	12
	Jobs & Department Hours	12.4-7	13
	Lead person	13.1-5	14
	Schedules	17.1-9	22
Prior Experience Pay		21.1	27
Probationary Period		10.1	7
Promotions		30.1-2	31
Reclassification		24.1-8	28
“Red Circle" Pay Rates		23.1	28
Reductions in Force		14.1	14
	Clinician Driven Reductions	14.8	18
	Long-term	14.3-6	15
	Short-term	14.7-8	17
Regular Employees		10.2	8
	Article	Page
Reporting Pay	18.1-3	26
Rest Periods	31.1-5	31
Retirement	Pension 45.2	41
	TSA 38.1-2	38
Return to Former Job	31 Day Rights 12.6	13
	After Transfer 12.7	13
	After Leave of Absence 46.12-13	46
Safety and Health	50.1	49
Scheduling Changes	Change in Existing Schedule 16.3	19
	Posting of Finalized Schedule 16.14	21
Scope of Agreement	2.1	1
Seniority Applications	Definition 11.1	11
	General Bidding 12.2	12
	Applying for Increased Coded Hours 12.1	12
	Reduction in Force 14.1	14
	Shift Start Time Assignments 11.2	11
	After Classification Transfers 46.13	46
	Loss of Seniority 11.3	11
Service Differential	26.0	30
Shift Differential	28.0	30
Sick Leave	34.1	36
Standby Pay	27.1-3	30
Strikes and Lockouts Barred	47.1	46
Supervisory Restrictions	2.5	2
Tax Sheltered Savings	38.1	38
“TEAM”	19.3	26
Technological Changes	51.1	51
Temporary Employees	Prior Notification to Union 3.8	4
	Definition and Usage 10.9	9
	To Replace Regular Employees 10.11	9
Tenure Step Adjustments	22.1-2	28
Time Off for Union Business	46.11	45
Union Security	3.1-11	2
Union Stewards	8.1-5	5
Upcoding	10.14	10
Union Orientation	8.5	5
Article
Page
Vacation Provisions
	Non 7/70 Employees	33.1-17	33
	7/70 Employees	33.18-21	35
Volunteers		2.7	2
Wage Administration Wages, General		19.1-4	26
	No Reduction	19.3	26
	Starting Rate	21.1	27
	Tenure Increases	22.1-2	28
Warning (Discipline) Notices		49.3-4	49
Without Pay Days		37.2-3	37
Work Assignments		51.2	51
Work in Higher Classification		29.1	31
Workload Distribution		17.9	25