Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Mercy Hospital of Buffalo and Communications Workers of America, AFL-
CIO, Service, Technical, & Clerical, Local 1133 (2004)
K#: 8050
Employer Name: Mercy Hospital of Buffalo
Location: Buffalo NY
Union: Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO
Local: 1133, Service, Technical, & Clerical
SIC: 8062	NAICS: 62211
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1300
Effective Date: 06/04/04	Expiration Date: 06/03/08
Number of Pages: 108	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
%05c
l i 3^o «.<Z-COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
AGREEMENT
for
MERCY HOSPITAL OF BUFFALO
and
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS of AMERICA, LOCAL 1133
SERVICE, TECHNICAL MD CLERICAL
June 4, 2004 -June 3, 2008

/ d -h
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
FOR
MERCY HOSPITAL OF BUFFALO
AND
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFUCIO
SERVLCE.TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL
June 4, 2004 June 3, 2008
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article Humber	Article Hame	Page Number
1	Agreement	1
2	Responsible Union Employer Relationship	1
3	Recognition	1
4	Access to Hospital Union Representatives	2
5	Non-Discrimination	2
6	Union Membership	2
7	Dues Deduction	3
8	COPE Deductions	4
9	Union Representation	4
10	Access to Union Representation	6
ft ft	Grievance Procedure	1
12	Corrective Action	10
13	Personnel Fries	11
14	Probationary Period	11
15	Categories of Employees	12
16	Flexible Employees	12
17	Per Diem Employees	15
IB	Temporary Employees	17
19	Job Description	17
20	Hours of Work	17
21	Shift Rotation	23
22	Floating, Resourcing and Downsizing	23
23	Salaries	26
24	Overtime	32 '
25	Supplemental Pay	33
26	Shift Differential	34
27	On-Call Pay	34
28	Call-in Pay	35
29	Paid Time Off	36
30	Long Term Sick Leave	41
31	Leave of Absence	44
32	Military Leave	50
33	Jury Duty	50
34	Bereavement Leave	51
i
Article Number.	ArtidqMie	Pa.q& Number
35	Health Insurance	’	51
36	Prescription Insurance	53
37	Dental Insurance	54
38	Hospital Discounts	55
39	Life Insurance	56
40	Long Term Disability insurance	56
41	Disability and Workers'Compensation	57
42	Restricted Duty Program	58
43	Retirement Plan	60
44	403(b)	62
45	Tuition Assistance	62
46	Bulletin Beards	64
47	Seniority	65
48	Bargaining UnitWork	66
49	Filling (rfVacant Positions	.	67
50	Contracting Out Work	69
51	Management Rights	71
52	Health and Safety	71
53	Layoff and Recall	72
54	No Strike- No Lockout	76
55	Successorship	76
56	Savings Clause	‘	76
57	Extended Shifts	77
58	Parking	79
59	Travel	80
60	Preceptor	80
61	Agency Personnel	81
62	Cafeteria Discounts	81
63	Workload and Staffing Committee	82
64	Employee Assistance	84
65	Uniform Policy	84
66	Students	85
67	Union Printing	85
68	Duration	86
li
J
Artide Number
MOD #1
MQU#2
M0U#3
MOW #4
MW #5
MOI! #6
MOU#7
MOD #8
M0U#9
MOU #10
MOU #11
MOU #12
Article Name	Page Humber
Memorandum of Understanding
Joint Labor Management Committee	87
Memorandum of Understanding
Attendance and Tardiness	88
Memorandum of Understanding
Mercy Hosprtal/OLV/fergaming Unit Consolidation	94
Memorandum of Understanding
Environment Service Workers	94
Memorandum of Understanding
Site Rotation - Imagining Department	95
Memorandum of Understa odi ng
Subpoenaed Employees	%
Memorandum of Understanding
Recognition	96
Memorandum of Understanding
Categories of Employees	97
Memorandum of Understanding
Salaries	97
Memorandum of Understanding
Overtime	98
Memorandu m of Un demanding
On-call and Work in Progress	99
Memorandum of Understanding
Paid Time Off	703
Article 1 Agreement
This Agreement made and entered into this Adi day of June 2004 by and beween Mercy Hospital of Buffalo, hereinafter referred to as the ‘'Employer/HospitaT and the Communications Workers of America, hereinafter referred to as the “Union,”
Article 2
Responsible Union Employer Relationship
Section 1. The Etnpioyer/Hospitai is charged with the public trust of rendering uninterrupted attention and care to the patients of Mercy Hospital. The parties agree to promote and improve the mutual interests of patient care as well as of employees and to set forth herein the Agreement of the parties covering rates of pay, hours of work and conditions of employment.
Section 2, The Employer/Hospital and the Union recognize that it is in the best interest of both parties, the employees and the public that all dealings between them continue to be characterized by mutual responsibility and respect. To insure that this relationship continues and improves, the Employer/ | Hospital and the Union and their respective representatives at all levels will I apply the terms of this contract fairly in accord with its intent and meaning and consistent with the Union’s status as the exclusive bargaining representative of all employees covered by this contract. Each party shall bring to the attention of all employees in the units covered by this contract, including new hires, their purpose to conduct themselves in a spirit of responsibility and respect and of the measures they have agreed upon to insure adherence to this purpose.
Article J
Recognition
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for all employees in the collective bargaining unit certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 3-RC-9777,
UNIT
Included:
All non-professional employees as defined in the Board’s Rules and Regulations, including all technical and business office clerical employees employed by the Employer at its 565 Abbott Road, Buffalo; 515 Abbott Road, Buffalo; 3669 Southwestern Boulevard, Orchard Park; 550 Orchard Park Road, West Seneca; 94 Olean Street, East Aurora, South Park Avenue and Louisiana Street, Buffalo and 55 Melroy Street, Lackawanna.
1
Excluded^
All professional employees, all registered nurses, all employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement, all managerial employees, all supervisors, all confidential employees, guards, and ail statutory exclusions as defined by the Act.
Section 2.	The Employer/Hospital shall provide the Union on a bi-monthly basis a list of all newly hired employees and additions to the bargaining unit, a list of employees who have changed category or status, a list of terminations and deletions from the bargaining unit, a list of name and address changes and an alphabetical bargaining unit list with social security numbers.
Article 4
Access to Hospital-Union Representatives
Section 1.	Accredited Union officers and representatives not employed by the Employer/Hospital, who must visit the Employer/Hospital to discharge the Union’s duties as the employees' collective bargaining representative, may do so at reasonable times by advance notice to the Director of Human Resources or his designee, so long as said officers or representatives do not interfere with the work of the employees in patient care areas and the orderly operation of the Emp loyer/Ho spital.
Section 2.	Advance notice of at least twenty-four (24) hours shall be provided.
Section 3.	The Union will furnish the Employer/Hospital with a list of
accredited officers and representatives as changes occur.
Article 5
Nort-D tscrimination
Neither the Employer/Hospital nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee, in any matter relating to wages and conditions of employment, because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, veteran status, citizenship, disability status, sexuaJ preference, or activity or Jack of activity on behalf of the Union in accordance with applicable State and Federal laws.
Article 6
Union Membership
Section I. Each employee who is a member of the Union on the execution date of this Agreement shall remain a member thereof as a condition of his/her continued employment. Each employee hired on or after the date of this Agreement may elect to join the Union not later than the thirty-first (31st) consecutive day following his/her date of hire. If the employee elects to join the Union, he/she shall remain a member thereof as condition of his/her continued employment. Any member of the Union may act on his/her membership on the anniversary date of this Agree merit or within thirty (30) days thereafter.
2
Section 2. An employee hired after the date of this Agreement not wishing to join the Union shall be required to pay to the Union an agency fee equal to the amount of Union dues as a condition of his/her continued employment. An employee of the Employer/Hospital prior to the signing of this Agreement, may । elect not to join the Union and shall be required to pay an agency fee as a condition । of employment.
Article 7 Dues Deduction
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital agrees to make deductions of proportionate amounts of Union membership dues or agency fees, hereinafter referenced to as “dues or fees,’ each payroll period and initiation fees from the pay of an employee, upon receipt of a dues or fees deduction authorization card, signed by such employee, and to pay to the Union the amounts thus deducted no later than ten (10) days after the end of the preceding month during which deductions were made. Dues or.fees deductions will begin as soon as possible after receipt of the signed authorization card in accordance with the Employer's/Hospital’s normal payroll procedures.The request for dues or fees deduction may be revoked by the employee at any time upon his/her written request to the Employer/Hospital.
Section 2,	The Employer/Hospital agrees to make payroll deductions of Union dues and one (1) initiation fee or agency fees when authorized to do so by the employee on the appropriate form in an amount certified to the Employer/ Hospital by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union and to pay over to the SecretaryTreasurer of the Union any amounts so deducted. Changes in the amount of the initiation fee, dues and agency fees will be certified to the Employer/Hospital thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of the change.
Section 3.	The Employer/Hospital agrees to furnish the Union the following information about each employee covered by this Agreement on a monthly basis and on a computer report or in some other manner agreeable to both Einployer/ Hospital and Union; Social Security number, payroll/employee number, name, sex, category of employee, Union Local number, authorized dues or fees deduction, department code, title code, hourly rate, seniority date, residence address (including zip code), birth date, amount of does deducted, amount of initiation fees deducted by the Employer/Hospital in a prior month. The following information will also be provided: employer name, mailing address, contact person and telephone number, dues month and year and dues deduction frequency, bi-weekly. The information listed above will be taken from Employer/Hospital records and will be sent to the Union with the dues and fees collected no later than ten (10) days after the end of the preceding month during which deductions were made.
Section 4.	The Employer/Hospital assumes no responsibility either to the employee or to the Union for any failure to make or for any errors made in making such deductions, but will correct any errors made in making such deductions in ,
I
3
the payroll period following notice of such errors. The Union further agrees to hold the Employer/Hospital harmless for any and all claims arising out of claims under this article.
Article 8 COPE Deductions
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital agrees that, upon receipt of an individual written request in a form approved by the Employer/Hospital and signed by an employee covered by this Agreement, the Employer/Hospital will deduct twenty-six (26) times per year from such employee’s wages the amount indicated by the employee on the COPE deduction form, and forward the full amount thus deducted to the appropriate union’s committee on political education. The request may be revoked by the employee at any time upon their written request to the Employer/Hospital, and such request should be directed to the appropriate ErKployeo'HospiiaJ representative.
Section 2,	The Employer/Hospital assumes no responsibility either to the employee or io the Union fur any failure to make or for any errors made in making such deductions, but will correct any errors made in making such deductions in rhe payroll period following notice of such errors. The Union further agrees to hold the Employer/Hospital harmless for any and all claims arising out of claims under this article.
Article 9
Union Representation
Section 1.	The Union may select from employees in the bargaining unit union stewards for the purpose of handling grievances or for any other legitimate union business. Union officers, executive board members and chief stewards shall be considered to be stewards for the Union,
Section 2.	The Union shall furnish the Employer/Hospital with a list of designated union stewards inclusive of name, work area and shift on an annual basis. The Union will then give written notice to the Employer/Hospital of any change in stewards as they occur.
Section 3	Stewards shall restrict their activities to the handling of grievances and other legitimate Union business. In this connection, stewards shall be provided a reasonable amount of time. Such time shall be without pay and shall be reflected on the employee’s time card.
Section 4.	The following represents examples for which Union business will be paid by the Employer/Hospital:
4
L
a.) time spent in meetings mutually agreed upon between the Union and the Employer/Hospital;
b.) time spent in processing grievances;
c.) time spent in grievance meetings or arbitration hearings where the steward’s presence is required by the Union;
d,} time spent in representing employees at corrective action investigations and/or meetings;
e.) time spent in the preparation for and/or conduct of negotiations between rhe Union and the Employer/Hospital for a successor to this Agreement.
Section 5.	Such paid time shall be dealt with in a bank of “non-productive” time available to the union for the purposes set forth above and shall be administered by the Union. In all cases, the time shall be arranged by reasonable prior notice, and accounted for through the appropriate time recording system, and shall not exceed the dollar amount outlined in Section 6. below, except that the amounts do not preclude the payment of any additional sums, as determined in the discretion of the Employer/Hospital President for the payment of time spent by union stewards and/or officers meeting with the Employer/Hospital at mutually agreed upon times for matters of mutual interest.
Section 6.	The union business fond shall be non-cumuiative and is available as a joint pool of dollars for the Registered Nurse (RN) and the Service technical and Clerical (STC> bargaining units. The amount of the union business fond shall be sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00) per contract year.
The parties are encouraged to resolve any disputes resulting from the administration of the fond outlined in Sections 4., 5. and 6. above. Where any such resolution is not possible, the matter shall be referred to a joint committee of six (6) members (three [3] Union and three f3] Employer/Hospital) who shall convene upon notice by either party for the purpose of resolving the dispute. The decision of the committee shall be binding upon all parties involved.
Section 7.	The union stewards shall obtain the approval of their supervisors
where appropriate before attending to grievance matters or other legitimate Union business. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 8,	bocal union officers and the executive board members shall be granted unpaid time as outlined below to perform the duties of their offices without loss of category of employment or benefits:	1
'	I
5
.,	a.) union officers up to five (5) days per pay period; and ,	,
■	b.) executive board members, up to'one hundred four (104) unpaid''
days per member, non-cumulative’ is available as a joint pool to represent both the registered nurse and the service, technical and clerical bargaining units each contract year.
The local union shall provide notice of such time off prior to the posting of the schedule for tile date(s) requested. Should notice not be provided prior to the posting of the schedule it will be the responsibility of the Union to obtain a replacement for the individual. Hie replacement may not result in an overtime situation unless approval is obtained from the appropriate manager.
Section 9 The Employer/Hospital may create vacant regular positions for the hours scheduled off for the executive board member. The individual who occupies the replacement position shall be displaced in accordance with Article 53 of this Agreement upon notification from the Union of the return of the executive board member to their regular schedule. The Union shall provide the Employer/Hospital at least thirty (30) calendar days notice of such return.
However, if such Local Union officers and executive board members are granted unpaid time for grievance handling or processing they shall be paid out of the Union business fund as provided for in Sections 4., 5. and 6. above.
Section 10. Employees who are elected or appointed to a bargaining committee, for the purpose of negotiating a successor to this Agreement, will be excused from work for contract negotiations and union bargaining caucus.
Section 11, Employees who are elected or appointed to positions within or on behalf of the Union shall be granted a total of ninety (90) unpaid days tinder the same conditions as outlined in Section 8. above. The cumulative amount of time for the bargaining unit to be provided under this section shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) days in any given contract year.
Section 12. The Employer/Hospital will provide union representatives twenty (20) minutes of time to meet with new employees covered by this Agreement during the initial week of employment at a time and location to be determined by the Employer/Hospital.
Article 10 . Access to Union Representation	,
Section 1.	Where an investigative interview of an employee by a Employer/
Hospital representative could lead to discipline for such employee, the employee is entitled to and shall be offered Union representation during such interview.
6
Section 2.	At any meeting between an employee' and any representative's) of the Employer/Hospital at which discipline is to be administered, the employee is entitled to and shall be offered Union representation.
’	’ Article 11
Grievance Procedure
Section 1. A grievance, under this Agreement, shall be defined as a claim of an employee, the Union or the Employer/Hospital covered by this Agreement, which involves the interpretation of, administration of, or compliance with a specific provisidnofthisAgreement.	-
Section 2. In the event of any grievance the aggrieved employee may, at the employee’s option first discuss the grievance informally with the employee's immediate supervisor, if the grievance is not resolved informally or if the ' employee elects not to discuss the grievance informally, such grievance shall be presented in writing to the Employer/Hospital as provided below:	,
Step 1. a.)	The grievance shall be reduced to writing on forms provided
by the Union, signed by the employee and/or Union representative and presented to the immediate supervisor. The written grievance shall include the name and position of the grievant, ’ the date, the basis of the grievance and relief requested, and the clauses or provisions of the agreement involved.
b,) Such written grievance must be submitted within twenty-five (25) calendar days after the event or events giving rise to the grievance occurred or within twenty-five (25) calendar days after those events should reasonably have been known or the grievance shall be deemed waived however, if the grievance is ’ for any claim, far which the arbitrator directs the payment of
’	overtime, wages and fringe reimbursement to an employee,
siich period shall not limit the period of time for which recovery may be had.
■	c.)	The grievance will be taken up in a meeting within seven CD
■	.	calendardaysafterthegrievanccisfited,betweentiieemplayee,
the Union representative and the immediate supervisor. A written response to the grievance shall be given to the Union representative and the Union within five (5) calendar days after the meeting.
Step 2, If the grievance is not resolved at Step l.,fhe Union may submit the grievance to the appropriate Director/designee within , seven CT) calendar days after receipt of the Step 1. written answer. Within seven CT) calendar days from the receipt of the written grievance, the appropriate Director/designee shall meet at a mutually agreeable time and place with the Union
7
	represents tivc(s), to a maximum of two (2), in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The grievant may be present at the Union’s option. A second management representative may be present at the Employer/Hospital’s option. The Director/designee shall respond in writing to the Union representative and the Union within five (5) calendar days after the Step 2. meeting,
Step 3,	If no mutually satisfactory conclusion is reached at the end of Step 2., the grievance may be appealed to the designated Human Resources representative within ten (10) calendar days of receipt by the Union of the Step 2. answer. A meeting at a mutually agreeable time and place shall be held within seven (7) calendar days with Union representatives, the Director for the department/clinicai area and the designated Human Resources representative. The Employer/Hospital shall render a written answer to the Union within seven (7) calendar days of the Step 3. grievance.
Step 4.	If the grievance is not resolved at Step 3,, either party to this Agreement desiring to move the grievance to arbitration, must give notice of intention to arbitrate to the other party (designated Human Resources representative or CW'A Representative). The party desiring arbitration shall also send a letter to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service requesting arbitration identifying the grievance and including whatever forms are required by the mediation service and requesting the mediation service to send to each party a list of Seven (7) names of arbitrators, within forty-five (45) calendar days of receipt of the Step 3 written answer or the grievance shall be considered to be discontinued.
Section 3.	A representative of each party shall alternately strike a name until one name is left. The determination of who strikes first may be made by a coin toss with the loser making the first strike. The remaining name shall be the arbitrator for that grievance. Either party may reject the first panel of arbitrators and request one additional panel.
Section 4.	The arbitrator shall render his/her decision in writing to the Employer/Hospital and the Union, which decision shall be binding upon both parties and employees covered by this Agreement. The arbitrator shall render a decision within thirty (30) calendar days following the close of the arbitration proceeding unless otherwise authorized by mutual agreement of the Employer/ Hospital and the Union. Authorization to extend time limits on the arbitrator’s decision shall nor be unreasonably withheld by either party
Section 5.	The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, to alter, amend or change in any way the terms and conditions of this Agreement and shall confine
s
his/her decision to a determination of the facts and interpretation of administration of, and compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, The arbitrator shall have the authority to modify corrective action, inclusive of an award to reinstate a discharged employee, with some or all of the time the employee had been terminated being considered as a suspension.
Section C>.	Any time limit imposed on the handling of grievances shall commence
on the date of receipt.
Section 7.	The cost and expense of the arbitrator and the arbitration hearing room shall be shared equally by the incurring parties. All other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring them, and neither party shall be responsible for the costs of the other.
Section 8.	It is the intent of the Employer/Hospital and the Union that grievances be resolved at the lowest possible Step and be processed as rapidly as possible. The number of days indicated at each Step of the procedure should be considered as maximum and every effort should be made to expedite the process. However, when mutually agreed in writing, the time limits may be extended at any Step.
Section 9.	A grievance involving discharge or improper layoff must be initiated in writing and submitted directly at Step 3. within five (5) calendar days of written notice to the Union of the occurrence Failure to initiate and submit such grievance in accordance with this provision shall be deemed a waiver of the grievance.
Section 10.	Any grievance not answered within the specified time periods may be appealed to the next Step of the grievance procedure immediately.
Grievances may be entertained at any Step by the mutual consent of the parties in writing.
Section 11.	UniongrouporgeneralgrievancesandEmployer/Hospitalgrievances
I may be filed in writing by the Union or the Employer/Hospital directly at Step 3.
1	of the grievance procedure provided, however, the twenty-five (25) day provision
' in Step 1. shall continue to apply.
Section 12.	Not more than a single grievance arising under thisAgreement may be arbitrated in a single proceeding before an arbitrator except by mutual agreement in writing signed by the Employer/Hospital and the Union.
Section 13.	The decision of the arbitrator may or may not include “make whole" decisions with respect to lost wages, benefits and other terms of employment. If an arbitrator shall award back wages covering the period of an employee’s separation from the Employer/Hospitai’s payroll, the amount as awarded shall be less any unemployment compensation received.
in addition, the arbitrator shall have the authority to determine what if any oilier interim earnings or other deduction(s> should be appropriately deducted from such back pay awarded.
9
Article 12 Corrective Action
Section 1.	No employee shall be discharged or issued corrective action with-
out fust cause. Copies of ail written notices of discharge and warnings shall be furnished to the involved employee and the Union.	"
Section 2.	Any dispute involving the administration of corrective action may be processed in accordance with the grievance and arbitration procedure set forth herein.
Section 3-	The Employer/Hospital has established a system of progressive corrective action measures that include:
a.) verbal warning (in writing);
b.) written warning;
c.) final written warning; d.) discharge.
Section 4.	It is understood that any of the above steps in progressive corrective -action should, be reviewed and may be repeated rather than progressing to the next step depending on the seriousness of the offense and time lapse between offenses. In cases of serious misconduct the step may be accelerated in proportion to the seriousness of the offense.
Section 5.	The purpose of this system of progressive corrective action is to assist empioyees to correct work behavior and/or work performance. It is meant to aid in improvement of behavior and/or job performance. At the written warning or administrative leave step, corrective actions that are needed will be identified, reduced to writing and a copy will be provided to the employee.
Counseling directed solely at work improvement will nor be considered as corrective action. Counseling whether directed at work improvement or changes in behavior shall not be included in the personnel file.
Section 6.	The documentation of current corrective action measures shall remain in the employee's personnel file for a period of eight (8) months for verbal warnings, twelve (12) months for written warnings and eighteen (18) months for final written warnings after which time such documents shaft be removed.
Section 7.	. If no infraction or perfortnance/behavior problem of the same or similar nature occurs within eight (8) months for verbal warnings, twelve (12) months for written warnings or eighteen (18) months for final written warning from the last imposition of corrective action, future corrective action measures for such infractions shall commence at the beginning of the corrective action process subject to Section 4. above.
Section 8.	It is agreed to and understood by the parties that an employee with an active verbal warning (in writing) in their personnel file shaft be considered as an eligible bidder on a new position or when applying for tuition assistance.
10
Section 9.	An employee with an active written warning in his/her personnel file who has had no further corrective action within six (6) months of receipt of the written warning will be considered to be an eligible bidder on a new position or when applying for tuition assistance.
Section 10.	In cases where serious misconduct is alleged and an investigation is warranted, the employee will be placed on a fully paid administrative leave until the investigation has been completed.
Article 13 Personnel Files
Section 1.	All non-probationary employees have the right, upon written request on a form provided by the Employer/Hospital to the Human Resources representative to inspect and receive copies of documentation from their personnel files. The Employer/Hospital shall provide an employee copies of up to ten (10) pages of documents from his/her personnel file, but any balance over ten (10) pages shall be at the employee’s expense.
Section 2.	All documents placed in the employee's file shall be initialed and dated by the employee at the time of examination. Initialing does not constitute agreement with the contents of any document. The employee shall have the right to respond in writing to any document in the file within ten (10) days of learning of the documents. Such response shall become pan of the employee’s | personnel file.
1 Section 3. Requests for examinations of personnel files shall be reasonable as j to frequency.
Section 4.	Employee files are the property of the 'Employer/Hospital.
Article 14
Probationary Period
Section 1.	All full-time and regular part-time employees shall be probationary for a period of ninety (90) calendar days following their date of hire inclusive of the orientation period, Periods of leaves of absence shall not be counted as days toward the completion of the probationary period Part-time and per diem employees shall be probationary for a period of one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days following their date of hire inclusive of the orientation period.
Section 2.	During this probationary period, the Employer/Hospital may discipline or discharge a probationary employee without recourse to this Agreement.
Section 3-	The probationary period may be extended by thirty (30) calendar days, at the Employer’s/Hospital’s option, by giving notice of extension in writing to the employee seven (7) days prior to the expiration of the ninety (90) day probationary period. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the Union,
11
Section 4.	After successful completion of the probationary period employees shaU have their seniority computed from their last date of hire.
Article 15
Categories of Employees
Section 1.	A regular full-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work thirty-seven and one-haif <37.5) hours per week. The only exception shall be extended shift employees, where a regular full-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work a minimum of thirty-four and one-half (34.5) hours per week.
Section 2.	A regular part-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work less than thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours per week but fifteen (15) hours or more per week.
Section 3.	A flexible employee is defined as one who works in accordance with the provisions of Article 16, Flexible Employees.
Section 4.	A per diem employee is defined as one who works <>n a day to day basis in accordance with the provisions of Article 17, Fer Diem Employees.
Section 5-	A temporary employee is defined as one who is hired for a specific job of limited duration in accordance with the provisions of Article 18, Temporary Employees.
Section 6.	See also Memorandum of Understanding regarding categories of employment.
Article 16 Flexible Employees
Section 1, A flexible employee is one who is hired for a specified number of hours per week for purposes of benefit calculation but works on an as needed basis. Flexible employees respond to variations in work load created by increases or decreases in census and/or acuity. Flexible employees also provide general staffing relief for planned and unplanned absences (i.e., Paid Time Off [PTO]y
Section 2.	DEFINITIONS ;
a.) A flexible full-time employee is defined as an individual regularly scheduled to work thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours per week, who receives benefits for his/her scheduled hours of work, but has no guaranteed hours of work per week. The only exception shall be extended shift employees, where a flexible full-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work a minimum of thirty four and one-half (34.5) hours per week.
b.) A flexible part-time employee is defined as an individual regularly scheduled to work less than thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours
12
per week, but fifteen (15) hours or more, who receives benefits for his/her scheduled hours of work, but has no guaranteed hours of work per week,	■
c.) A core employee is defined as an employee within the Patient Care Services division that is assigned to the areas designated in Section 3. of this article in the categories of regular full-time or regular pantime who may not be involuntarily denied scheduled hours’of work.
Section 3.	LPN’s who are hired as flexible employees will be assigned to or floated within the units that make up that Patient Service Division:
a J Medical/Surgical;
b.) Maternal/Child inclusive of Labor & Delivery; and
c.) Critical Care areas inclusive of the Emergency Department.
| Nursing Assistants and Unit Clerks who are hired as flexible employees will be
I hired into a flex pool.
! This category of employee is only authorized for the Patient Care Services
■ division. The parties agree to discuss further application of this category to areas not specifically mentioned.
Section 4.	If staffing levels exceed work load requirements as determined by
an appropriate manager, flexible employees will be canceled or reassigned, as deemed appropriate. Flexible employees will be given priority for work over per diem employees.
Section 5.
a.)
SHlEXAfiSIGMJE

Flexible employees may be used to cover both full and partial shifts.
b.) Flexible employees may be assigned to a clinical unit/department for less than an entire shift.
c.) Flexible employees on the first shift who are hired with a requirement for rotation hold their position subject to being rotated to cover vacancies on the second and third shifts. Such rotation shall be on an inverse seniority basis from among qualified employees. No employee shall be rotated more than two (2) shifts (days and evenings or days and nights) per pay period. Employees with ten (10) years of seniority shall not be required to rotate more than two (2) shifts (i.e., first and second shift, and first and third shift). Employees with fifteen (15) years of service shall not be required to rotate except on a voluntary basis, Shift rotation shall occur after reasonable alternatives have been considered. Employees holding positions on the second and third shifts shall not rotate.
Section 6.	When an appropriate manager determines that a clinical unit/ department has an excess of flexible personnel, the appropriate management
13
staff will be notified to determine if there is an opportunity for an alternative assignment. If there is no alternate assignment, the flexible employee will be notified by the appropriate manager of the shift cancellation. Reasonable effort will be made to contact the flexible employee prior to the start of his/her scheduled shift.
Section 7.	"When shifts are canceled the flexible employee may choose to take time off without pay or may preserve pay by using available PTO or by using the time bank. The time bank will be utilized as follows:
a.) Employees must establish an “account" in the Employer/Hospital’s time bank.This account will allow employees to be paid for time not worked in a specific pay period if he/she agrees to make up that time at a later date.
b.) The employee’s account must have a zero balance at the end of each quarter.
c.) Employees can reduce his/hei’ balance by working hours beyond their usual work commitment in the same or another pay period within that quarter, if shifts are available, or by using PTO to cover hours paid but not worked.
d.) Time requests to resolve time bank debts should be submitted twenty-one (21) days prior to the posting of the time schedule.
e.) Employees with negative balances in the time bank at the end of the quarter will have those balances brought to zero by the reduction in their PTO bank equivalent to the negative amount in his/her time bank.
f.) Employees who do not have sufficient PTO hours accrued at the end of a quarter to reduce his/her time bank debt to zero will not be allowed further access to the time bank until the negative balance is removed.
g.) Employees who work overtime to reduce/eliminate his/her time bank balance will receive additional pay for the difference between the salary advance and the overtime rate.
Section 8.	Scheduled weekend work shall be evenly divided among employees assigned to a department or unit. Employees shall be entitled to at least every other weekend off. Flexible full-time and flexible regular part-time employees who are scheduled out of Patient Care Services, shall have the option of:
a.) not being required to work more than twenty-six (26) weekends per calendar year; or
b.) shall be entitled to at least every other weekend off. The employee must choose his/her option upon entering this category of employment.
14
Flexible employees who work extended shifts shall have their weekends scheduled consistent with the weekend work schedule of the unit they are assigned to.
Section 9.	An individual may be placed into a full-time position which combines a regular part-time vacancy and a flexible regular part-time vacancy through the layoff and recall procedure or through the job posting procedure. Should an employee hold such a position the individual will be eligible for full-time benefits. The number of such positions will be determined by management.
Section 10.	All provisions of this Agreement shall apply unless otherwise specified in this article.
Article 17
Per Diem Employees
Section 1.	A per diem employee is one who works on a day-to-day, as needed
basis, without a guarantee of set hours per week.
Section 2.	Per diem employees will be required to attend mandatory ireservice programs in accordance with Employer/Hospital policy and shall be paid for such time.
Section 3	A per diem employee can bid on regular full-time, regular part-time and flexible positions through the Job bidding/posting process.
Section 4, A candidate for per diem status must have a minimum of one (1) year experience in the area they are hired for or must have completed six (6) months of employment as a full-time employee or one (1) year as regular parttime employee.An outside candidate for per diem status must have a minimum of one (T) year experience in the area they are hired for. A change to per diem status requires two (2) weeks of advance notice and agreement by the department head. Agreement will not be unreasonably denied.
Section 5.	Scheduling for per diems shall proceed as follows:
a.) Per diems shall communicate with the appropriate managers) one (1) week prior to the posting of the schedule to commit to their required shifts. A minimum of three (3) shifts per month including a minimum of two (2) weekend shifts, must be scheduled and worked in order to maintain per diem status. In addition, per diem employees must work one of the following holidays: New Year’s Day, Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day each calendar year,
b.) A per diem employee will not be permitted to work more than four (4j day shifts per month, except to cover absences, or any portion of absences which are related to disabilities, workers’ compensation, leaves of absence, when the per diem employee is willing to accept the shift and hours of the employee who is on
15
leave, or to cover a position for which the Employer/Hospital is actively recruiting. The other exception would be when adherence to this minimum would result in PTO denial to another employee.
c.) A per diem employee shall work either the evening shift or night shift; or the day shift coupled with either the evening shift or the night shift, at the employee’s discretion.
Section 6.	An employee who is accepted into a per diem position must work the shift length scheduled in that department for all of his/her commitment days. An employee shall also indicate at rhe time of change to per diem status what unites) they are available for.
Section 7.	Employees who change to per diem status shall remain in the salary' grade and step they were in as a regular employee and shall advance on the wage progression scale as outlined in Article 23, Salaries.
Section 8.	Per diem employees are not entitled to paid time off benefits. Employees who transfer to a per diem position shall not lose any paid time off prior to the transfcr The employee shall be paid all accrued, unused paid time off.
Section 9.	A per diem employee who fails to meet the minimum monthly requirements or the holiday commitment as specified above, where opportunities have been offered such employee shall receive written notice of their failure to meet their commitment. Should a per diem employee again fail to meet their minimum monthly requirement within eight (8) months of written notice, such per diem employee shall receive a written termination notice. Copies of written notice sent to per diem employees shall be furnished to the Union.
Section 10	Per diem employees may not be required to take charge responsibility but may do so voluntarily.
Section 11.	Fer diem employees will have seniority as defined in Article 46, Seniority
Section 12.	Per diem employees shall be required to share in the on-call responsibilities for their designated unit/department. A per diem employee shall not be required to assume on-call responsibility more than six (6) times per year.
Section 13. If a per diem employee is regularly scheduled to work fifteen (15) or more hours per week, for a period of six (6) months or more, the position will be converted to a regular position, with the category of employment equal to the hours worked per week. The only exceptions will be per diem employees who are working to cover leaves of absence, workers’ compensation, disability or a position for which the Employer/Hospital is actively recruiting.
16
Article 18
Temporary Employees
Section 1.	A temporary employee is an employee designated as such, hired for a specific job of limited duration not exceeding six (6) months. This period may be extended for up to another six (6) months by mutual agreement of the Employer/Hospital and the Union.
Section 2.	Temporary employees will not be utilized to do bargaining unit work which can be performed by available qualified laid off employees.
Section 3-	If a temporary employee is selected to till a regular position, the employee’s original date of hire will be maintained, but the employee’s probationary period will begin on the date he/she begins work in the regular position.
Section 4.	If the Employer/Hospital desires to permanently fill a position that has been filled by a temporary employee, the position shall be filled through the normal process as outlined in Article 49, Filling of Vacant Positions.
Article 19 Job Description
Section 1.	There shall be a written job description covering each position in the bargaining unit which shall contain a description of duties, requirements for the job,grade and responsibilities. The job description shall be reviewed with an employee during the orientation period and shall be provided to employees upon request.
Section 2.	If the Employer/Hospital is considering a changefs) in an existing job description within the bargaining unit, the Employer/Hospital will provide the change(s) to the Union in writing thirty (30) days prior to the proposed implementation of the change(s) for the purpose of giving the Union an opportunity to discuss the changefs).
If the Union disagrees with the rate of pay as proposed by rhe Employer/Hospital, they may proceed directly to arbitration under the Grievance and Arbitration article of this Agreement, provided it does so within twenty (20) calendar days from the date in which the revision or rate is set and announced.
Article 20
Hours of Work
Section 1,	The work week for all employees covered by this Agreement will begin on Sunday morning at 12:01 a.m. after Saturday midnight, and ends the following Saturday at midnight.
Section 2,	The regular work shifts shall be:
a.) The regular work shifts for employees working twelve (12) hour
17
shifts, including the thirty (30) minute unpaid meal period will be:
(1)	Day Shift:	Majority Of hours worked between 6:30 am to 7:00 pm;
(2)	Evening Shift: Majority of hours worked between 10:30 am toll:00 pm; and '	(3) Night Shift: Majority of hours worked between 6:30 pm to 7:00 am.
b.) The regular work shifts for employees working ten (10) hour shifts, including the thirty (30) minute unpaid meal period will be:
(!) Day Shift: Majority of hours worked between 7:00 am to 5:00 pm;
(2)	Evening Shift: Majority of hours worked between 1:00 pm to 11:00 pm;and (3) Night Shift: Majority of hours worked between 10:00 pm to 8;00 am,
c.) The regular work shifts for employees working eight (8) hour shifts, including the thirty (30) minute unpaid meal period shall be:
(1)	Day Shift: Majority of ho u rs worked between 7:00 am to 3:00 pm ;
(2)	Evening Shift: Majority of hours worked between 3:00 pm to 11:00 ptn;and (3) Night Shift: Majority of hours worked between 11:00 pm to 7:00 am.
The Employer/Hospital reserves the right to determine the hours of work for any vacant position.
Section 3. Due to the nature of the work performed by the Employer/Hospital as an institution which provides around die dock care of patients, all work schedules will be established in the best interest of meeting patient care needs, it is understood that as department needs change, the work schedules may also change.
Section 4, Should it become necessary to make a change in the Work days or hours of an occupied posit ion(s), including the establishment of varying starting and ending times, the Employer/Hospital will request volunteers from within the job classification and department/dinical unit affected. If there are insufficient volunteers, then the position(s) occupied by the least senior employee(s) shall be designated for the change. The Employer/Hospital will provide at least thirty (30) calendar days notice to the affected employees) and to the Union prior to the implementation date.
a ) If the change in hours varies by one (1) hour or less and if the employeefs) chooses not to accept the position, then the employee(s) shall be processed according to the layoff and recall procedure, except that they shall not be allowed to bump.
b.) If the change in hours varies by more than one (I) hour and the employeefs) chooses not to accept the position, the employeefs) shall be placed according to the layoff and recall procedure.
It is further agreed that should an individual employee’s hours be changed in accordance with the preceding paragraph, such employee will not be subject co another change in hours for a twelve f 12) month period from the actual date of movement into the changed hours, Nothing in this section is to be construed to limit the rights of the Employer/Hospital provided in Article 50 of this Agreement.
18
Section 5.	Should it become necessary to make a change in the hours of operation in any clinical unit or department, the Employer/Hospital will produce a suggested change in writing at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to its proposed implementation and give the Union an opportunity to write and present a proposal within seven (7) calendar days for discussion regarding the change prior to die date of implementation.
Section 6.	The responsibility for assigning duties to employees rests with the supervisor and department head. Notice of work schedules shall be given to employees minimally two (2) weeks in advance of the time reflected on the schedule and will cover minimally a two (2) week period. Assignments and work schedules may not be changed without the knowledge and agreement of the responsible supervisor and the affected employee.
Section 7.	An employee may request to have his/her regular scheduled day off routinely scheduled for a specified period of time under specific circumstances (i.e., attending school every Tuesday for a ten [10] week period). Such routine time requests shall be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the posting of the time schedule. The approval or denial of these routine requests shall be communicated to the employee within one (1) week of receipt of the request by the manager. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied. A full-time employee may request and shall receive either the Friday before or the Monday after a scheduled weekend of work as a day off. The employee’s preference will be honored if possible.
Section 8.	An employee may request to have his/her regular day off scheduled on a specific day for a particular special occasion (i.e., child’s college graduation). Such special requests for a regular day off shall be made at least two (2) weeks prior to the posting of the time schedule. The approval or denial of these special requests shall be communicated to the employee within one (1) week of receipt of the request by the manager. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied.
Section 9 Any employee desiring to schedule a day off during the period of the posted schedule must find a qualified employee replacement. Such request must be in writing and may be approved by the appropriate manager. Such requests shall not be unreasonably denied. The employee desiring the time off must utilize available PTO hours for the absence. It is agreed and understood that the employee who has agreed to work to allow the other employee to have off a scheduled day cannot cancel this extra shift.
An employee may switch/trade scheduled shifts on an equal basis with another qualified employee with approval from the appropriate manager. A per diem employee who agrees to work for another employee as provided in this section shall not have that shift counted toward meeting his/her minimum work requirement as specified in Article 17, Section 5.
Section 10.	Flexible work plans involving one or more individuals or extended shift arrangements (i.e., ten [10] or twelve [12] hours) involving individuals in a

specific clinical unit/department may be adopted or discontinued by the Employer/ Hospital. The Employer/Hospital shall provide the Union with forty-five (45) calendar days notice of such adoption or discontinuance .The terms and conditions relative to such plans that are adopted shall be in accordance with Article 57, Extended Shifts. The Employer/Hospital and the Union agree to negotiate with regards to the impact of the Employer/Hospital’s decision to discontinue extended shifts of one or more employees, Such negotiations shall not delay the implementation of the Employer/ Hospital's decision.
Section 11.	Scheduled weekend work shall be evenly divided among employees assigned to a department or unit. Each department/unit will have the option of determining weekend scheduling preference no later than October 15 of each year for the following calendar year. Options will include:
a.) not being required to work more than twenty-six (26) weekends (consecutive days) per calendar year; or
b.) shall be entitled to at least every other weekend off.
Any employee who accepts a position on another unit must adhere to the weekend work schedule of that unit regardless of the number of previous weekends worked prior to the effective start date on the new unit.
Section 12.	If an employee is absent, on any scheduled weekend shift of work, he/she will be required to make up the missed weekend duty according to the staffing needs of the unit or department unless:
a.) the employee, in accordance with established practice, is not scheduled to work weekend duty for which the employee would otherwise be scheduled to work because the employee is taking vacation week(s) immediately prior to or following such weekend duty. It is understood by the parties that employees may be off the weekend shift immediately prior to the start of their vacation and the shift immediately following a vacation;
b.) the employee is on bereavement leave and the missed weekend duty occurs during such leave;
c.) the employee is on disability or workers’ compensation in excess of seven (7) consecutive days;
d.) the employee is not needed according to the staffing requirements of the unit within the next twelve (12) consecutive weekends following the missed weekend;
e.) the employee is hired for a specific weekend requirement or has requested and is regularly scheduled to work weekends;
f.) the employee is scheduled off due to the Easter holiday on what would have normally been a scheduled Sunday to work.
20
Section 13- Weekend coverage in the operating room shall be done on a voluntary basis. If there are no volunteers, then die weekend will be assigned on a rotating basis according to inverse seniority. Any RN's regularly working weekends shall be exempt from weekend rotation.
Section 14. Should the Employer/Hospital decide to require positions that do not currently have a weekend commitment to work weekends, the Employer/ Hospital will provide thirty (30) calendar days notice to the affected employee(s) and to the Union prior to the implementation date, if the position is occupied. The weekend of these employee® shall be governed by the applicable terms of
। this Agreement.
| Section 15. Any employee who has agreed to work an additional consecutive shift may request his/her next scheduled shift off if such shift begins less than
| ten (10) hours from completion of the additional consecutive shift. Such request may not be unreasonably denied.
। Section 16. Employees shall not be scheduled for a shift beginning less than ten (10) hours from the end of their last scheduled shift except on a voluntary basis.
Section 17- Meal and rest period will be scheduled as follows:
a.) employees working at least six (6) or more consecutive hours in a normal work day shall be entitled to a thirty (30) minute unpaid meal period. The meal period shall not be counted as time worked, and if necessary, the Employer/Hospital shall provide for relief from work duties during such time;
b.) employees working at least five (5) or more consecutive hours in a normal work day shall be entitled to a twenty (20) minute rest period;
c.) specific assignments of meal periods and rest periods shall be made by the immediate supervisor;
d.) employees working a twelve (12) hour shift in a normal work day, shall be entitled to one twenty (20) minute and one fifteen (15) minute rest period;
e.) should an employee be required, by virtue of workload, to work through a normal meal period, die meal period shall be treated as work time;
f.) employees who are required to carry a beeper and respond to pages during their meal period shall be paid for their meal period as time worked; and
g.) night shift employees scheduled to work on the switchboard will continue to work and be paid for a regular work shift of eight (8) hours, inclusive of a thirty (30) minute paid meal period. The existing night shift employees shall receive a cold box meal as provide by Emp loyer/Hospita].
21
Section 18. Employees shall record their time worked on an automated system designated by the Employer/Hospital. Employees shall be paid for all time worked.
Section 19 Employees scheduled for an extra shift may be canceled upon notice of two (2) hours prior to the start of the agreed upon shift (ninety [90] minutes for day shift employees). If less than two (2) hours (ninety [90] minutes for day shift employees) notice is provided, the shift may be canceled and the affected employee is to be compensated the equivalent of two (2) hours pay at the employee base rate, except as noted above. Such time will not be considered as time worked for the computation of overtime.
Section 20. An employee may be requested to work an extra shift during the period of the posted schedule with short notice. When an employee is requested to work an extra shift for the subsequent day and verbally agrees to work, such employee may cancel the extra shift not later than two (2) hours prior to the start of the agreed upon shift (ninety [90] minutes for day shift employees). Such cancellation must be made by verbal notification to the employee’s respective department.
Section 21.	An employee who agrees to work an extra shift with short notice and cancels such extra shift on two (2) occasions within ninety (90) calendar days, shall be precluded from working any extra shifts for a period of six (6) pay periods starting with the pay period beginning after the second cancellation.
Section 22.	It is agreed to and understood by the parties that extra available shifts included with the posting of the schedule will be distributed to qualified employees in the following way:
' a.) A needs list with all extra available shifts will be included with the posting of the schedule and will remain posted for seven (7) days.
b.) All department per diem employees who have not met their monthly commitment will be considered first.
c,) All regular part-time and full-time employees for whom the extra hours will not amount to overtime shall be considered next.
d.) All qualified regular part-time, ftdl-time and weekend employees who work outside of the department for whom the extra hours will not amount to overtime, will be considered next.
e.) All department per diem employees for whom the extra hours will not amount to overtime will be considered next.
f.) ' If vacant shifts still remain, full-time employees will be considered next and will not be denied.
g.) Posted extra time wifi be distributed evenly on a rotating basis, beginning with the most senior qualified employee, in accordance with the above steps.
22
Ankie 21 Shift Rotation
Section 1.	Employees on the first shift who were hired with a requirement for rotation, hold their positions subject to being rotated to cover vacancies on the second and third shifts (Patient Care Services). Such rotation shall be on an inverse seniority basis from among qualified employees in the same clinical units. No employee shall be rotated more than two (2) shifts (not days) per pay period. Shift rotation shall occur after reasonable alternatives have been considered. Employees holding regular positions on the second and third shifts shall nor rotate.
Section 2.	The following are guidelines for scheduling employees to shift rotation:
a.) to fill posted but 'unfilled vacancies for which the Employer/ Hospital is actively recruiting;
b.) to replace an employee who is on unanticipated disability or leave due to workers’compensation.
Employees shall rotate shifts only after all other alternatives have been exhausted, such as use of per diems or offering extra time to part-time employees.
Section 3.	Employees with ten (10) years of seniority shall not be required to rotate more than two shifts (i.e., first and second shift, first and third shift),
Section 4.	Employees with fifteen (15) years of service shall not be required to rotate except on. a voluntary basis.
Article 22
Floating, Resourcing and Downsizing
Section 1. The Employer/Hospital and the Union recognize the need for a system to temporarily downsize the staff if the census/workload drops in a unit/department where members covered by this Agreement are employed. If jt becomes necessary to temporarily reduce the number of employees in a particular department or unit,the reduction will be completed as follows:
A.	Floating: The Employer/Hospital will establish appropriate float pools for each shift to provide coverage for nursing units.The following floating procedures are applicable. In the event that circumstances cause consideration of other alternatives, such alternatives may be implemented only after consultation with the appropriate Union Representative.
1	.) LPNs shall be asked to float only within medical/surgical units and MNE
2	.) Nurse Assistants shall be expected to float to any nursing unit.
3	.) Unit Clerks may float to any unit except the Emergency Department.
»
4	.) In MNl- LPNs may be required to take Charge.
5	.) Employees who must float may be assigned to a clinical unit/ department for Jess than an entire shift. An employee may be floated once during his/her scheduled shift.
6,) The Employer/Hospital shall provide for adequate coverage for the home unit prior to assigning an employee to float.
7	J Employees shall be assigned to float on a rotating basis if there are no volunteers.
8	.) An employee shall not be required to accept an assignment that would require that employee to perform work they have not been oriented to or approved to perform or for which they are not credentialed.
9	.) It is understood that if floating is required, it will be done as follows:
a.) Any flex employee assigned to the unit that shift shall float first,
b.) Any per diem employee assigned to the unit shall float next.
c.) A list of regular employees assigned to a unit shall be developed in inverse order of seniority.
d) The least senior employee will float first, with subsequent floating being assigned until all employees in that job classification have been floated.
e.) If an employee volunteers to float.it shall be credited to that employee, and he/she shall not be required to float when the duty rotates to him/her.
f.) Staff who float will work to their level of competence. It is understood that an employee will not be given rhe sole accountability for a patient and/or assignment if floated to a unit which is outside of his/her area of practice.
B.	Resourcing:
1	.) When the opportunity to float to a sister unit is unavailable and staffing needs exist elsewhere in the facility,an employee may be resourced to Patient Care Services (PCS).
2	.) If resourced to PCS, the employee may be assigned to various clinical units/departments during a scheduled shift. The employee shall not be required to accept a specific assign
24
ment that would include a designated patient assignment but may be assigned to assist other employees in the performance of their patient care activities as determined by the appropriate manager.
C.	Downstaffing: If it becomes necessary to further reduce the number of employees in a particular department or unit, the above process on floating (A) and resourcing (B) will be followed: If that fails to adequately reduce the staff on the unit/department, further reduction will be completed as follows:
1	.) any scheduled overtime (time paid at time and one-half) will be canceled;
2	.) per diem time in excess of commitment days will be canceled;
3	.) any scheduled hours in excess of an employee’s normal work week or in the case of regular part-time employees in excess of the minimum weekly hours for which they were hired, will be canceled in inverse order of seniority, with the understanding that such employees shall have the option of utilizing or taking PTO or taking the time without pay;
4	.) core employees shall be provided the opportunity to be excused from work in order of seniority on a rotating basis with die understanding that the employee accepting this opportunity shall have the option of utilizing PTO or taking the time without pay;
5	) per diem commitment days will be canceled; and
6	.) any flex employee assigned to that unit on that shift.
25
Article 23 Salaries
Sectionl, (A) This schedule will I* effective the first full pay period in June,2M4and reflects a 4% general increase:
GRACE	HIRE RATE	15TYEAR ANNIV.	2HDVEAR ANH IV.	3RDVEAR ANNIU.	WEAR ANNIV	STH YEAR AHNIV.	6THYEAR ANNIV.	1ZTHYEAR ANNIV.	16THYEAR ANNIV.
	STEP1	STEP2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	' STEPS	STEP?	STEPS	STEP 9
3	8.93	9,18	9.47	9.72	9.98	10.24	10.50	10.76	11.06
4	* 947	5.76	10.03	1031	10.59	10.87	11.15	17.43	11.71
5	10.06	10.35	10.65	10.95	11.24	11.52	11.64	12.13	12.45
6	1081	11.12	11.43	11.73	1205	12.34	1165	12.97	1333
6.5	11.29	11.61	11.92	12.13	12J6	12.88	13,21	13.52	13.87
7	11.51	1117	11-20	1255	1189	13.24	13.57	13.93	14.26
7.5	11.69	12.05	12-38	12.74	13.08	13.44	13.78	14.14	14.47
8	12.43	1L7B	13.12	13.50	13.84	14.20	14.55	14.90	15.33
9	13.61	13.99	14.38	14.77	15.15	15.52	15.94	16.34	1630
9.5	14.49	14.91	15.33	15.74	16.15	16.57	16.98	17.39	17.82
10	15.76	16.24	1672	17.22	17.70	18.19	1167	19.16	1W
11	17.32	11.16	1820	18.64	19.06	19.51	19.95	20.38	20.94
11.5	17.49	17.94	18.38	18.02	19.25	19.70	20,14	20.58	21,05
12	1145	18-55	19.05	1937	ZCjQF	20.58	21.09	21.61	22.16
12.5	19,16	19.26	19.78	20.32	20.84	2137	21.90	22.44	23.01
13	1936	1991	20.43	2097	21.47	22-01	22.54	J3JDS	23.66
14	20.92	21.49	22.08	2165	2323	23.81	24.39	34.96	25.65
2$
Section 1.(8) This schedule will be effective the fust full pay period in June, 2005 reflects a 4% general increase-.
6RADE	HIRE RATE	15TVEAR ANN IV.	2NDYEAR ANNIV.	3 RD YEAR ANN IV.	4TH YEAR ANN IV,	STH YEAR ANNIV	STHYEAR ANNIV.	12THYEAR ANNIV	16THYEAR ANHIV
	STEP!	STIP2	STEP 3	STEP4	STEPS	STEP 6	STEP?	STEPS	STEP?
3	929	9.55	935	ion	10.38	1045	10,91	11.19	11.50
fl	9.85	10.15	IOC	10.72	1101	11,30	11.59	11JB9	11.18
5	10.46	10.76	1108	11.39	1169	11.98	1131	12,61	1195
6	11.24	11.56	11.119	12.20	12.54	12.84	13.15	13.49	1W
6,5	11,75	12.07	12.40	12.72	no?	13.39	13,74	14.06	1443
7	11.9?	1234	12.69	13.05	13,40	13.77	14.11	1448	14.83
7.5	12.16	12.53	12.84	13.25	13.60	T3.9B	1433	14 71	15.05
8	12.93	1329	Bj65	14.04	14.40	14,76	15.13	15.50	15.94
9	1416	14.S5	14,96	15.36	15.76	1614	1658	1699	17.47
9.5	15.07	15.51	15.94	16.36	16.80	17.23	17.66	11.08	10.53
10	16.35	16.39	1739	17.91	18.41	10.92	19.41	19.92	20.45
11	18.01	18.47	18.91	19.3S	19.83	20.M	20 75	21.20	' 21.68
11.5	18,19	18.«	19.12	1957	2001	20.49	20.95	21 («	21.89
12	19,19	19.30	19J1	2036	20.87	21.40	21.93	22.48	23.05
12.5	19.93	20.03	2037	21.13	21.67	2222	22.7!	23.34	23.93
B	20.14	20.70	21.24	21.81	22J2	22.89	23.44	23.9?	24.61
14	21.76	22J5	22.96	2356	24,16	24.76	25.36	2S.96	26.67
Section 1.(C) This schedule will be effective thefirst full pay period in June, 2006 reflects a4% general increase:
GRADE	HIRE RATE	1STYEAR ANNIV.	2ND YEAR ANHTV.	3RD YEAR anniy.	4THYEAR ANNIV.	STH YEAR ANNIV.	ETH YEAR ANHIV	12TH YEAR ANNIV.	16IHYEAR ANNIV
	STEP!	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	STEP 6	STEP?	STEPS	STEPS
3	966	953	10.25	WS1	10.80	11,08	11.36	11.M	11.96
4	10.25	10.55	IC.84	11.15	11.45	11.75	12.06	1236	12.67
5	10.88	11,19	11 JI	11.84	12.16	12.46	12.80	1312	13.46
6	11.69	12,02	12.36	1269	13.04	1335	13.68	14.03	14.42
6.5	12.22	12.55	12.39	13.23	13.59	13.93	14 29	14.62	15.01
7	124$	12.83	13.19	1158	13.94	14J2	14.68	15.06	15.42
7.5	1264	13.03	13.39	13.7!	14.15	14,54	14.90	15.29	15.65
8	13.44	13.82	1420	1460	14.97	15.35	15.74	16.12	16.58
9	14.72	15.B	1536	15,97	16,39	16.78	17.24	1?.67	18.17
9.5	15.67	16.13	16.58	17.02	17.47	17.92	1837	18.81	19.27
10	17.04	17.57	18.09	18.63	19.15	19.67	20.19	20.72	21 J?
11	18.73	19.21	19j69	10.16	20.62	21.10	21,57	22.05	22.54
11.5	18.92	19.40	19.88	20116	20J2	21_31	21.78	22.26	22.77
11	19.95	20.cn	20.61	21.17	21.T1	22.26	22.81	23.37	23.97
12.5	20.72	20.83	2139	21.98	2254	23.11	23.69	24.27	24.89
13	20.94	21.53	22.09	2168	2322	23,80	24.38	24.93	2S.S9
14	2263	23.24	2348	24J0	25.13	25.75	26.38	27J00	2774
27
Section 1,(0) This schedule will be effective the first full pay period in June, 2007 reflects a 4% general increase:
GRADE	HIRE RATE	1ST YEAR ANNIU,	2NDYEAR ANN IV.	3RD YEAR AW.	4THYEAR ANH IV.	STH YEAR ANNIV.	WEAR AH HIV.	121HYEAR ANNIV	16THYEAR AHMV
	STEP1	STEP2	STEPS	STEP*	STEPS	SIEP6	STEP?	STEPS	STEP 9
3	10.05	10.31	10.46	10.94	1123	11.52	11.02	12.11	12.44
4	W.fo	Ml 97	11.28	11.59	71.91	?2J3	12.M	12.86	13.??
5	11.31	11.64	11.98	12,32	12.65	12.96	13.31	13.64	14.00
6	12.15	12151	12.86	13.20	1356	13^9	142]	14.59	15.00
6.5	12.70	13.06	1141	13.76	14.13	14.48	14.86	15.21	15.61
7	12.95	13.35	13.72	14.12	u.«	1489	1527	15.66	16 04
7.5	13.15	13.55	13.93	14.33	14.71	15.12	1550	15.91	16.28
a	13.90	14.38	14.76	15.18	15.57	15.97	1627	16.76	17.24
9	153?	15.73	16.18	1A61	17JM	17,45	?7.93	13.33	?^39
5.5	16.3d	16.78	17,24	17,70	18.17	18.64	19.10	19,56	20.W
10	17.72	18.27	18.81	19.37	19.91	20.46	2 LOT	21.55	22.12
n	19.48	19.98	20.47	2096	21J4	21.95	22.44	22.91	23.44
11.5	19.67	20.18	20.68	21.17	21.65	22.16	22j65	23.15	23.68
12	20.75	20.87	21.43	22.02	22,58	23,15	23.72	24.31	24.93
12.5	21.55	21.66	22.25	22.86	23.44	24.04	24.63	25.24	25.88
13	21.73	22.39	22 M	2358	24 15	24.75	25,35	25,92	26.6)
14	2354	24.17	24.64	25.48	26.U	26.78	27,43	28,08	2185
Section 2, Progression through the steps of the salary scale shall be automatic and shall become effective on the first day of the next payroll period following the achievement of the time requirement.
Section 3.	Should an employee’s position be upgraded, he/she shall be placed in the same step in the higher grade. Such employee shall maintain his/her previous anniversary date and shall move to the next step based on that date.
Section 4.	Should any employee suffer a downgrade he/she shall be placed on the same step in the lower grade. Such employee shall maintain his/her previous anniversary date and shall move to the next step on that date.
Section 5, The right to begin new employees in Steps 1 through 4 is based upon the Employer’s/Hospital’s assessment of that employee’s prior related experience and is reserved to the Employer/Hospital.
Section 6, All employees shall progress through the steps of the salary scale according to the following time requirements as noted below:
Step 1 - Hire rate;
Step 2 - One (1) year;
Step J ■ Two (2) years;
Step 4 -Three (3) years;
Step 5 - Four (4) years;
Step 6 - Five <5> years;
28
Step 7 - Eight (8) years;
Step 8 -Twelve (12) years; Step 9- Sixteen (16) years.
Section 7. When an employee is promoted, he/she shall be placed in the appropriate step which will not be less than three percent (3 %) or more than a five percent (5“i>) increase and will be not less than Step 1 for the new job. Such employees will continue to move up in Steps as provided in Section 6 above. Except that employees who are in Step 7, Step 8 and Step 9 shall only move back one Step upon receiving a promotion. After such promotion, these employees will be advanced as follows:
a.) the employee with sixteen (16) years of service will advance to '	Step 9 and one (1) year from the date of promotion;
b.) the employee with twelve (12) years of service will advance to Step 8 one (1) year from the date of promotion;
c.) the employee with at least eight (8) years of service but less than twelve (12) years will advance to Step 7 one (1) year from the date of promotion and to Step 8 upon reaching twelve (12) years of continuous service.
Section 8. Employees who bid on and are accepted into a position that commands a higher grade and who subsequently cither retreat front or do not survive the trial period associated with the new position, shall be placed in a pay step that does not reflect a reduction of the hourly rate earned before entering into the bidding process.
Section 9- If an employee is floated to an area, and works in a job title, which is at a higher grade than the position they are floating from, they will be paid at the higher rate of pay.
Section 10.	Employees in other than lead titles, shall be paid an additional one dollar ($ 1.00) per hour when assigned charge/lead responsibilities.
Section 11,	Employees assigned to preceptor responsibilities shall be paid an additional one dollar ($1.00) per hour.
Section 12.	Shift differential shall be:
a.) $1.00 per hour for the evening shift (3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m); and b.) $ 1.10 per hour for the night shift (11 ;00 p.m. - 7:00 a.tn.).
Section 13.	Job titles in the bargaining unit are as follows:
Labor Grade 3
File Clerk
Food Service Attendant
General Clerk
Linen Room Technician
Parking Attendant
45284
49200
45417
49810
29
Porter	49475
Service Worker	49042
Cook’s Assistant	49085
ED Greeter
Grade 4 Clerk
Imaging Service Attendant	49450
MNF Laundry Aide	157
Nurse Assistant	49300
Nutrition Office Clerk	45040
Perioperative Attendant	49585
Rehab Aide	49560
Labor Grade 5
Certified Nurse Assistant	49650
ClerkAnalyst	45167
Grade 5 Clerk	45005
Health Information Clerk	45165
Lead Service Worker	49040
Payment Posting Clerk	45147
Receptionist	45250
Receptionist Clerk/Office Operator	45145
Sterile Processing Technician I	48911
Switchboard Operator - Day and Evening Shift 75	45040
Switchboard Operator - Night Shift SO	45459
Unit Clerk	45415
Labor Grade 6
Anesthesia Tech	49814
Birth Registration/Correspondence Clerk	45128
Cashier	45060
Cook	49080
ED Clerical Coordinator
Grade 6 Clerk	45006
Groundskeeper Assistant	48010
ImmediateTreatment Assistant	49302
Lead Parking Attendant
Patient Service Specialist	45175
Radiology Office Clerk	45180
Receiving Clerk
Rehabilitation Assistant	49060
Secretary (PT, MDTC.WS)
Shift Leader
Sterile Processing Technician II	4981
Supply Clerk
30
Labor Grade 6.5	■
Correspondence Secretary	45125
Medical Assistant	45040
Pharmacy Technician	49540
Receiving/Storage Porter	49090
Labor Grade 7
Materials Clerk	45525
MNF Resident Account Representative	45840
Patient Account Rep resentative	45070
Patient Representative	45185
Payment Voucher Billing Clerk	45150
Pharmacy Purchasing Assistant	45488
Pre-surgical Liaison	43055
Secretary	45050
Scheduling Secretary	45590
Staffing Clerk	45069
Sterile Processing Technician III	49813
Labor Grade 7.5
EKG Technician	43241
Senior Billing Clerk	45390
Labor Grade 8
Activities Assistant	43060
Dietary Technician	43010
Groundskeeper	48020
Library Tech Support Assistant	45080
Pre Ccrt/Verif Representative	45270
Medicaid Representative	45155
Medical Transcrip tionis t	45460
Labor Grade 9
EEG Technician	43140
LPN	43570
LPNTeam Leader	43575
Registration Reimbursement Coordinator	45275
Labor Grade 9.5
Activities Director
Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant	43100
Physical Therapy Assistant	43080
Surgical Technologist	43381
Labor Grade. Ifl
Coder/Analyst	43071
Dental Hygienist	43700
31
Labor Grade 11 Cardiac Abstractor	
Labor Grade 11,5	
ECHO Technologist	43141
Labor Grade 12	
Mammography Technologist	42115
Radiol ogy Technologis t	42109
Labor Grade 12.5	
Respiratory Therapist	42147
Respiratory Th erapist - Sleep Lab	42146
Labor Grade 13	
CT Technologist	42110
Ultrasound Technologist	42111
Labor Grade 14	h.
Csrdi oAiigio Tc chn c*J	42282
Certified Echo Technician	43142
Certified Ultrasound Tech	42112
Registered Vascular Techno legist	42114
Special Procedure Technologist	42113
Article 24
Overtime
Section 1.	Overtime shall be paid to all employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 2.	Paid time off for jury duty, bereavement leave, all union representation time outlined in Article 9, Section 8. and all recognized holidays and PTO days designated as paid time (seven [7] PTO days) in lieu of recognized holidays shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
Section 3. Overtime shall be paid atone and one-half (1.5) times an employees base hourly rare including shift differential, for all hours worked in excess of thirty-seven and one half (37.5) hours per week.
Section 4. Overtime shall not be paid in addition to supplemental pay unless an employee has worked over forty (40) hours in a work week.
Section 5- No employee shall be required to work overtime, but may volunteer to do so.
Section 6. Overtime must be authorized in advance by the appropriate supervisor or designee.
Section 7. Effective the first full pay period in June, 2006, overtime shall be paid at one and one-half (1.5) times an employee's basic hourly rate including shift differential, fbr all hours worked in excess of:
32
a.) an employee’s regularly scheduled shift; or b.) in excess of 37-5 hours per week.
Employees shall not receive daily overtime for working less than seven and one-half (7.5) hours’ per day.
Article 2$ Supplemental Pay
Section 1,	Supplemental pay shall be paid to all employees covered by this Agreement.
Section 2.	Supplemental pay will be paid at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) per hour, for each hour worked in addition to the employee’s regular pay.
Section 3.	To be eligible to receive the supplemental pay the employee must meet the following conditions:
a.) rhe employee agrees to work a full additional shift in addition to having worked their budgeted hours within that workweek; and
b.) the additional hours will be worked on the evening or night shift Monday through Friday or any weekend shift; or
c.) the employee agrees to come in from home on short notice for a work assignment of any duration; and
d.) the employee is asked to stay after.his/her regular scheduled shift on short notice.
The time referred to in d.) above will be offered to the most senior employee who is working and will be rotated on an inverse seniority basis among employees volunteering for the hours. All other extra hours will be assigned as per the collective bargaining agreement.
Section 4,	Supplemental pay will be paid to an employee that is receiving overtime pay for hours worked over forty (40) hours in a work week,
Section 5.	If two (2) eligible qualified employees agree to cover a full additional shift they will be eligible for supplemental pay. The shift can be divided in any division of hours as long as the full shift is covered.
Section 6, If there is a twelve (12) hour shift open and there is no qualified employee willing to work this shift, or two (2) qualified employees to split the entire shift, an employee can sign up for six (6) hours and will receive supplemental pay.
Section 7.	Employees scheduled for training, orientation, and mandatory inservices will not be paid supplemental pay for the hours in such training.
Section 8.	Unscheduled PTO will not count toward supplemental pay on a weekly basis.
33
Article 26
Shift Differential
Section 1.	Shift differential will be paid to all employees for hours worked on a premium shift (evening and night shifts) in accordance with the provisions of this article. ■
Section 2.	Shift differential will be used in the computation of overtime.
Section 5.	Evening shift differential hours are 3:00 p.tn.to 11:00 p.m.and night shift differential hours are 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. or any permanent partial shifts scheduled during those hours (4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.).
Section 4.	Shift differential will be paid when an employee works at least four (4) or more hours on the premium shift. Current employees in the Operating Room (OR) and Post Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) where the employee’s regularly scheduled shift overlaps the evening shift, shall receive shift differential for time worked in the second shift.
Section 5.	An employee who works the night shift, and who is authorized to work into the day shift, will get shift differential for all hours worked.
Section 6.	There shall be no pyramiding of shift differential.
Section 7.	Shift differential premiums shall be defined in Article 23, Salaries.
Article 27 On-call Pay
Section 1.	An employee who is required to be available to receive a call to report to work shall be considered “on-call”. Such employees shall be issued a beeper during all such periods of call.
Section 2.	An employee required to be on-call will be entitled to one (t) hour of pay at the employee’s base rate for every four (4) hours spent on-call. The rate paid will be prorated for hours less than four (4) spent on-call.
Section 3.	An employee shall be entitled to a minimum of three (3) hours pay or pay for time actually worked, whichever is greater, plus any on-call he/she are entitled to.
Section 4.	Pay for time worked when on-call shall be at the rate of time and one-half plus the appropriate shift differential for all hours worked between 3:00 p.m.and 7:00 a.m.
Section 5.	An employee who is called into work shall receive call-in pay but not on-call pay.
34
Section 6.	Hours spent or paid on-call shall not be considered as hours worked fbr the purpose of computing overtime.
Section 7.	Only hours actually worked when the employee is called in wji] be considered for the purpose of calculating overtime.
Section 8.	Employees who are scheduled on-call on the following holidays will be entitled to the on-call pay outlined in Section 2. above, plus an additional ten dollars ($ 10.00) fbr every eight (8) hours spent on-call. The rate paid will be prorated fbr hours less than eight (8) spent on-calk
a.) b.) c.) d.) e.) f.) gO h.) i.)	New Year’s Day; Easter Sunday; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving Day; Christmas Eve (3:00 p.m.- 11:00 p.m.); Christmas Day; and New Year's Eve (3:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m.).
Section 9.	The on-call procedures for the operating room, post anesthesia care unit, labor and delivery, radiology and the cardiac catheter laboratory, are included as attachments to this Agreement.
	Article 28 Call-in Pay
Employees who are not on-call and are not on the schedule to work may be contacted and requested to work. Any employee who reports to work shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours pay at straight time or for all time actually worked, whichever is greater. All hours actually worked shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of computing overtime pay.
35
Article 29
Paid Kime Off
Section 1. All full-time, and full-time flexible employees are eligible for Paid Time Off (PTO) according to the following schedule:
Length of Service	Accrual Rate	Maximum Accrual (Hours/Days)	Maximum Balance in employees' bank (Hours/Days)
Date of Hire to Completion of Third Year	O.OSSXeach hour paid	165.0 Hours (22 Days)	217.50 Hours (29 Days)
Third Anniversary to Completion of Fourth Year	0.089Xeach hour paid	172.5Hours (23 Days)	225 Hours (30 Days)
Fourth Anniversary to Completion of N in th Year	O.IOSXeach hour paid	210.0 Hours (28 Days)	262.50 Hours (35 Days)
Hi nth AnniV'srssry to Completion of Fifteenth Year	0.127X Parti hour paid	2473 Hours (33 Days)	300.0 Hours (40 Days)
Fifteenth Anniversary to Completion ofTwenty-Fo art li Year	0,147 X each hour paid	285.0 Hours (38 Days)	337.50 Hours (45 Days]
Twenty-Fourth Anniversary and Following	0,166 X each hour paid	322.5 Hours (43 Days)	375 Hours (50 Days)
Section 2. All regular part-time and regular part-time flexible employees are eligible for PTO according to the following schedule:
Length of Service	Accrual Rate	Maximum Accrual (Hours/Days)	Maximum Balance in employee bank (Hours/Days)
Date of Hire to Completion of Ninth Year	.069 X each hour paid	150.0 Hours (20 Days)	202.50 Hours (27 Days)
Ninth Anniversary and Following	1O8Xeachhour paid	225.00 Hours (30 Days)	277.50 Hours (37 Days)
Section 3.	Eligible employees accrue PTO from their date of hire but cannot begin using their accumulated time until after completion of three (3) months of continuous service Prior to completion of three (3) months of service an employee may take time off without pay.
36
Section 4.	An employee changing from an ineligible to an eligible status will begin accruing PTO from the date of the change as long as they have met the service requirements mentioned in Section 2. above.
Section 5.	A former employee who is rehired shall not be eligible for PTO unless he/she has met the service requirements mentioned in Sections 2. above.
Section 6.	If an employee changes from full-time to regular part-time status,
the regular part-time employee is able to carry over up to fifty percent (50%) of the PTO maximum accrual. The remaining portion will be paid out to the employee.	.
Section 7.	PTO is accrued for every hour a full-time or regular part-time employee is paid, including worked hours, union representation time under Article 9, Union Representation and paid benefit hours up to a maximum of seventy-five (75) or eighty (80) hours per payroll period but excluding on-call hours.
Section 8.	Vested PTO hours are those hours owned by the employee. Employees may use these hours as PTO or convert them as non-vested hours into their Extended Sick Bank (ESB). Every year during the first payroll period in November, employees may choose to convert up to twenty-two and one-half (22.5) or twenty-four (24) hours of PTO into their ESB. Employees must complete one (1) year of continuous service before they are eligible for conversion privileges.
Section 9.	All vested PTO is paid as a terminal benefit, provided proper notice has been given and employees have met minimum service requirements. The payment will be made on the pay date following the employee’s last day of employment.
Section 10.	To the extent possible and consistent with Employer/Hospital needs and requirements, managers will attempt to recognize the personal preferences of employees with respect to the length and timing of PTO requests. In order to maintain an equitable system of scheduling PTO, the following guidelines must be followed.
a.) An employee’s supervisor must approve the use of all PTO.
b.) All PTO must be requested in advance of the time needed except for instances of illness or other unforeseeable emergencies. One (1) shift of paid time off will be designated for use in instances of compelling personal reasons and will be granted with twenty-four (24) hours notice, in the time period between January 2 and November 15, except on a holiday or before or after a holiday or before or after scheduled PTO.
e.) Unscheduled tardiness of less than one (1) hour will not be paid as PTO
d.) PTO may be requested as single days or in blocks of time.
J7
e.) When there is a conflict in PTO selection between two (2) or more employees, the employee with the highest seniority date shall be given preference.
f.) Requests for PTO weeks shall be submitted two (2) times a year for the time periods below.
Date November 1 March 1
For Time Period
January I to May 31;
June 1 to December 31,
Requests for PTO, after these dates will be considered last.
g.) Each employee shall select his/her vacation weeks from a master calendar posted in the department/clinical unit for vacation scheduling on November I and March 1. Posted with the calendar will be a current seniority list and the number of FTEs allowed off, by shift in each given week An employee shall select vacation weeks by order of seniority and based upon the availability’ of time in the above time periods. A calendar of selected and available PTO shall be maintained within each department/clinical unit,
h.) Due to the nature of the work performed it will be necessary for employees to take time off during other than peak vacation periods. As such, employees must schedule a minimum of the amount of PTO indicated for the entire year in accordance with the following:
Full-time Employees
Length of Service
Dare of Hire CO 4th Anniversary
4 th Anniversary to completion 9th year 9th Anniversary to completion 15years 15th Anniversary to completion 24 years 24th Anniversary and following
January I -Decembers!
1	Vitek (5 days)
2	Weeks (10 days)
3	Weeks (15 days)
4	Weeks (20 days)
5	Weeks (25 days)
Part-time Employees
Length of Service	January 1 - December 31
Date of hire to completion of 9 years	1 Week
(days = to employees'PTE commitment)
9th Anniversary and foil owing	2 We eks
(days - to employees1 FTE commitment)
i	.) PTO cannot be used for less than one (1) hour.
j.) Each employee shall be guaranteed at least one (1) week of PTO between June 1 and September 15. If there are additional weeks after each employee has selected his/her time the remaining weeks may be offered to employees in the department in order of seniority.
k.) The following time periods shall be considered “prime" vacation time: President’s Week, the week prior lo Easter, the week following
38
Easter, Independence Day,Thanksgiving week, Christmas week. Employees in a department / clinical unit may select vacation time for these weeks on a rotating basis within the department/clinical unit based on seniority; The senior employee on the list may opt to select one week during “prime” time or may pass the current year’s selection on to the next employee on the list. At the beginning of each scheduling period the rotation will begin with the most senior employee.
J.) The scheduling and payment of PTO shall be based on an employee's normal work schedule and normal workdays in a work week.
Section 11, In all cases, sufficient PTO time must be available when the approved period of time off arrives. If the employee does not have sufficient time available then he/she may be required to work all or part of a portion for their regularly scheduled hours,as needed.
Section 12. Approved vacations may not be changed when personnel transfer without the consent of the employee (i.e.,in instance of layoff, unit closings or transfers because of an administrative decision), approved vacation requests will be honored. When a transfer to another department/clinical unit or change in status occurs, at the employee's request, approved vacation requests must be resubmitted. However, every attempt will be made to accommodate the employee’s previously approved vacation schedule.
Section 13- If a department or work unit is closed as a result of an Employer/ Hospital recognized holiday, namely New Year’s Day, Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day, an employee must take a PTO day. If an employee is scheduled to work when his/her department or work unit is open, another PTO day can be scheduled at a more appropriate time depending on Employer/Hospital needs. Regular part-time employees scheduled to work on any of the above recognized holidays have the option of taking PTO or time off without pay.
Section 14, The holidays and/or shifts referenced below shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1,5) the employee s base rate for all hours worked:
a.) Christmas Eve from 3:00 p.m.on 12/24 through 7:00 a.m.on 12/25; b.) Christmas Day from 7:00 a.m.on 12/25 through 7:00 a.m.on 12/26; c.) New Years Eve from 3:00 p.m. on 12/31 through 7:00 a.m. on 1/1; d.) New Years Day from 7:00 a.m. on 1/1 through 7:00 a,m, on 1/2;
e.) Easter Sunday from 7:00 a.m. Easter through 7:00 a.m. on the Monday after;
f ) Memorial Day from 7:00 a.m. through 7:00 a.m. the next day;
g.) Independence Day from7:00 a,m. on 7/4 through 7:00 a.m. on 7/5;
h ) La bor Day from 7:00a.m. through 7:00 a. m. the next day; and i.) Thanksgiving Day from 7:00 a.m. through 7:00 a.m. the next day.
39
Employees whose day shifts begin earlier than 7:00 a. m. will continue to receive holiday premium pay for their entire shift.
Section 15- Night shift (i.e., 11:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m.) employees shall observe holidays (New Years Day, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day) on the actual day the holiday is observed.
Section 16.	Where the depart men t/d ini cal unit must remain open for recog-
nized holidays and when staffing requirements demand, employees shall be required to work no more than one (1) holiday in each of the following groups of holidays on a rotating basis:
a.) Christmas Eve or New Years Eve;
b.) Christmas Day or New Years Day;
c.) Memorial Day or Independence Day; d.) Labor Day or Thanksgiving Day.
Section 17.	The above requirement to work a holiday is based upon staffing needs. Should all staff not be required employees may be granted time off on a rotating basis by seniority, Holiday commitments occurring during scheduled vacations shall be met.
Section 18.	In the perioperative service areas, holidays will be covered on a voluntary basis. If there are no volunteers, then holidays will be assigned on a rotating basis according to inverse seniority. If an employee already volunteered for a holiday in a calendar year, he/she would be exempt from the rotation. No employee will be expected to work Easter, Christmas .Thanksgiving, or New Year’s for two (2) consecutive years, unless done on a voluntary basis.
Section 19.	For the purposes of accommodating requests for vacation, only staffing requirements for bargaining unit members in a given clinical unit may be considered. Vacation schedules for other employees including management employees may not interfere with the scheduling of bargaining unit personnel. Except that those non-bargaining unit employees who are listed as exceptions in the bargaining unit work may be considered in scheduling vacations. Requests for vacation shall not be unreasonably denied.
Section 20.	Should an employee desire to change an approved vacation, the employee may submit the change at least thirty (30) days prior to the first day of the month in which the vacation is requested The employee’s request shall be accommodated if possible.
40
J
Section 21.	Full-time and regular part-time employees are eligible to participate in the PTO buy back program on a pro-rated basis according to the following schedule:
Budgeted Pay Period Umi rs	Required Minimum BaUrxe as of March 1st	Maximum fl »gi bit Hours (Ruy Bade)
.4(30.0 Hours)	45.0 Hours	15.0 Hours
.46 (34J Hours!	52.0 Hour	17.25 Hours
J (37.5 Hours!	56.0 Hours	18.75 Hours
.6 (45.0 Hours)	67.0 Hours	22.5 Hours
.61 (45.75 Hours)	69.0 Hours	23.0 Hours
.8 (60.0 Hours)	90.0 Hours	30.0 Hours
.31 [69.0 Hours)	104.0 Hours	34,5 Hours
1.0 (75 Hours)	113.0 Hours	37.5 Horos
PTO buy out requests must be submitted by the employee to the Payroll Department no later than March 1. Employees PTO pay out will be made by the end of March.
Section 22.	When an employee calls off for an unscheduled PTO on the day before,the day after, or on the holiday, the absence will be treated as an absence on a scheduled weekend shift and will he scheduled as a weekend make-up, per Article 20,Section 12.
Article JO Long Term Sick Leave
Section I. All full-time, regular part-time and flexible employees are eligible for long term sick time, which will be banked in the Extended Sick Bank (ESB), according to the schedule below:
LTSB			
Category of Employment	Maximum Days Accrued Annually	Maximum Hours Accrued Annually	Accrual Rate Per Hour
Full Time	9	67.5	.03466
Part Time	S	375	.01933
Section 2. A LTSB will be established for each new employee to provide income, during periods of disability or workers’ compensation and will be accrued as outlined in Section 1. above.
Section J. Employees accrue sick leave time from their date of hire but are not eligible to use their sick leave time until they have completed their probationary period.
41
Section 4.	Employees continue to accrue sick leave for as long as the employee is being paid by the Employer/Hospital.
Section 5.	An employee may use accumulated sick days for all scheduled work days during the first seven (7) calendar days (five [5] working days) of any injury or illness for which the employee qualifies and receives New York State disability benefits. After seven (7) calendar days, payment of sick leave will be made in accordance with Section 8. below.
Section 6.	An employee may use accumulated sick days for all scheduled work days, for on the job injuries covered by workers' compensation according to the following provisions.
a.) If the absence is due to an on the job injury, that does not exceed seven (7) calendar days, sick leave will be paid for up to five (5) working days, or thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours.
b.) If absence exceeds seven (7) calendar days, but less than fifteen (15) calendar days, full sick leave days will be paid for up to five (5) work day's lost during the first seven (7) calendar days. The balance of sick leave payments will be made in conjunction with the workers’ compensation carrier as outlined in Section 8. below.
c.) Absences which exceed fourteen (14) calendar days will be paid jointly by the Employer/Hospital and the workers’ compensation carrier as outlined in Section 8. below.
d.) In the event that an employee’s payments from workers’ compensation combined with the payment from the Employer/ Hospital exceeds the employee's normal base pay, the Employer/ Hospital shall request reimbursement from the New York State Workers’Compensation Board. The employee may then be entitled to have LT5B hours reinstated in his/her bank in proportion to the □mount of the payment from workers’ compensation.
Section 7.	An employee will be paid from the LTSB from his/her first day of absence when the employee does not qualify' for NYSDBL or workers’compensation payments but:
a.) is confined as an in-patient in a hospital;
b.) has outpatient surgery under anesthesia in hospital surgical suite; free standing surgical center, or in a physician or dental office (excluding routine tooth extractions or dental work);
c.) suffers an injury which requires treatment by a physician with a written statement verifying the injury and circumstances;
42
d.) is sent home or is banned from working as tile result of an Infection which is verified to have been contracted at work such as pink eye, scabies, chicken pox, etc.
If an employee who is otherwise eligible is not covered by any of the preceding conditions, sick leave will be paid at the rate of one (1) full sick leave day after the third day of absence through the employees’ fifth day of absence, provided the disability time period is less than or equal to seven (7) calendar days.
Section 8.	An employee's LTSB accumulation shall be reduced as follows as a result of payment to the employee:
a.) one (1) day fbr each day paid for by the Employer/Hospital where the illness or injury is not covered by New York State Disability Insurance or workers’ compensation;
b.) the difference between the employee’s regular basic rate of pay (including shift differentia!) and the actual amount paid to the employee under NYSDBL or workers’ compensation, up to the limit of the employee’s LTSB; and
c.) the difference between the employee’s regular basic rate of pay and the amount paid to the employee while working in a Restricted Duty Program, whose restrictions requires that he/she work less than the normal category of employment requirements.
Section 9.	Employees are required to notify’ his/her clinical unit/department manager or designee, (Patient Care Services employees must notify the Patient Care Services Office) of their inability’ to report for work.
Section 10.	Employees shall be permitted to use accumulated sick time in increments equal to the number of hours in the employee’s regularly scheduled shift.
Section 11, An employee shall not be required to use other than his/her LTSB to cover absences outlined in this article. However, employees may elect to use accumulated PTO to cover days of absence for which they have no sick leave available under the same conditions noted above.
Section 12.	Employees on disability or workers’ compensation shall accrue PTO and sick time for all benefit hours paid by the Employer/Hospital.
Section 13.	An employee who has accumulated mote than one hundred twenty (120) sick leave days will be eligible to receive cash payments of fifty percent (50%) of sick leave days/hours accumulated in excess of one hundred twenty (120) days. The amount of the excess will be calculated at the conclusion of the payroll year and those days/hours if any, will be paid the following February in a separate check. When rhe excess sick leave (sick leave in excess of one hundred twenty [120] days) is paid, the accumulated sick leave will be reduced to one hundred twenty (120) days and the accumulation process will begin for the following year.
43
Article 31 Leave of Absence
Section 1.	A leave of absence without pay may be granted to all employees covered by this Agreement after six (6) months of continuous employment for the following reasons. Employees may not take a leave of absence to work in another capacity.
a.) compelling personal reasons;
b j educational purposes;
c.) union business; and
d.) per the Family Medical Leave Act.
A leave of absence will not be denied arbitrarily.
Section 2.	When an employee requests a leave of absence the following process will apply.
a.) An employee’s application for a leave of absence must be made in writing to Integrated Disability Management (IDM) thirty 00.) calendar days in advance of the leave, except in cases of emergency.
b.) In cases of emergency, the employee shall contact his/her manager and explain the circumstances requiring emergency leave.The leave will either be approved or not approved; the employee must complete the appropriate paperwork within seventy-two (72) hours of the time the leave is approved.
c.) The employee’s application must include the beginning and end dates of the leave, with statement of the employee’s intent to return to work.
d.) IDM will contact the supervisor for recommendations on the approval or disapproval for a personal leave of absence only. IDM will review and issue final decisions in all Leave applications.
e ) The Employer/Hospital will respond in writing to applications for leave within five (5) business days Notification in writing will be made to the employee’s last known address of record. It is the employee’s responsibility to maintain a current address with the Employer/Hospital.
f j Following approval, it is the employee’s responsibility to arrange for coverage of any deductions usually taken for employee benefit programs and the full premium of health insurance. Failure to arrange those deductions in advance of the leave will be cause for the Employer/Hospital to terminate the benefits during the leave.
44
The granting of a leave of absence will protect the employees hire date for all purposes for which a hire date is used.
Section 3.	When an employee is preparing to return from a leave of absence, the following process will apply.
a.) An employee returning from a leave of absence should contact their department head and Human Resources within seven (7) cal* endar days prior to the expected return to work date to determine whether a suitable position is available.
b.) The employee will obtain medical clearance from the Employee Health Service provider prior to returning to work if the leave of absence is greater than thirty (30) days. Such medical clearance shall be at no cost to the employee.
c.) If an employee returns from a personal or educational leave of absence within sixty (60) days, from the effective date of the leave, then he/she will be returned to his/her original position.
d.) If an employee returns from a personal or educational leave of absence after sixty (60) days, from the effective date of the leave, then he/she will be returned to a position of equal pay, category and shift, if his/her original position is not available. Every reasonable effort will be made for an employee to return to the position held when the leave began.
e.) Temporary positions may be established until permanent vacancies become available on a shift. Employees returning from leave of absence placed in such temporary positions shall be transferred to permanent positions as they arise, without need to post such vacancies. If there is no such position, the employee would then be placed on layoff status. It is understood that once an employee is on layoff status, that employee will be entitled to all recall rights ' outlined in Article 53, layoff and Recall, except employees on educational leave shall not be allowed to bump.
Section 4.	Failure to return to work on the first work day following expiration of a leave of absence or an extension thereof, will be considered as a voluntary termination of employment, except in instances when the expiration date of an approved leave of absence falls within a period for which the employee is receiving New York State disability benefits and has followed the process outlined in Article 41, Disability and Workers'Compensation, for receiving those benefits.
Section 5.	Personal Leave;
a). Personal leave of absence shall not exceed six (6) months in duration. Employees may request a three (3) month extension before the end of the initial period of Leave of absence. A request for a leave of absence extension will not be unreasonably denied.
45
Personal leaves of absence shall not be granted for less than seven (7) calendar days and shall be granted for the following reasons:
1	.) paternity;
2	.) child care - granted for that period after delivery during which the employee is no longer disabled;
3	.) care of an adopted child by employeefs); or
4	.) to provide care in the event of an illness or injury of an immediate family member or significant other.
b.). It is understood by the parties that requests for a personal leave of absence, other than the reasons listed above, may be requested. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied.
Section 6.	Educational Leave:
a.) The Employer/Hospital may grant an employee an educational leave of absence for up to two (2) years where such leave is related to Employer/Hospital business, or qualifying an employee for opportunities and advancement within the Employer/Hospital.
b.) Employees on an educational leave shall suffer no loss of seniority but shall not accumulate additional seniority while on such leave.
Section 7.	Union Business:
a.) A leave fbr Union business of up to twelve fl 2) months shall be granted upon written request from the Union. Such leaves shall be extended for additional periods of twelve fl 2) months without limitation upon request of the Union. Such leaves shall be i inti ted to no more than five (5) individuals at any one time.
b.) The Union leaves shall be without pay, however, employees shall '	continue to accumulate seniority' and shall continue to receive
pension benefits under the same employment status as prior to the leave. Date of hire or time spent in the job title held upon the granting of such leave plus all leave time shall determine cate of pay for determination of pension benefits and grade and step assignment at the end of such leaves. Date of hire shall be preserved fbr all purposes. Employees may continue to participate in ail group health insurance plans at the employee’s expense and may continue to participate in all other employee benefit programs under the same terms as prior to the leave.
c.) An employee who is returning from a Union leave under this section shall return to his/her previous position if the leave is for six (6) months or less. If the leave is fbr six (6) months and the employee's previous position is not vacant, such employee shall be placed by layoff and recall.
46
Section 8.	Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA):
a.) FMLA leave of up to twelve (12) weeks during any twelve (12) month period related to a family medical necessity, for employees covered by this Agreement, will be granted under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1995 and this collective bargaining agreement. Medical necessity will be defined as:
1	.) For a birth, or placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster cate and to care for such new child.
2	.) In order to provide care for a son, daughter, spouse or parent who has been diagnosed with a serious health condition.
3	.) For a leave for the employee’s own "serious health condition", if the condition makes the employee unable to perform the daily functions of his/her position.
b.) Leaves of absence will be granted to employees under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, under the same terms and mechanisms outlined in Sections I and 2. and the employee has accumulated one thousand, two hundred fifty hours (1,250) of service, exclusive of all paid time off, (i.e. sick leave, PTO, Jury Duty, etc.),but inclusive of union representation time and/or time spent on a leave of absence for union business during the twelve (12) month period preceding the leave. The form to be utilized in applying for all leaves should be obtained from Human Resources.
c.) The following definitions shall be applicable;
1	.) Son or daughter - a biological, adopted or foster child, stepchild, legal ward or child of a person standing in “loco parentis.”
2	.) Serious health condition - an illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental condition involving either:
A.) Inpatient Care involving at least an overnight stay in a hospital, hospice or residential medical care facility. FMLA leave based on this portion of the definition also extends to any period of‘‘incapacity’(defined as inability to work due to the serious health condition or recovery from that condition), and any subsequent treatment (including examinations to determine the existence of a serious health condition), in connection with the inpatient care.
B.) Continuing Treatment by a health care provider. FMLA leave based on this portion of the definition is available in any one or more of the circumstances described in (i.) -(v.) below:
47
i.) A period of incapacity of more than three (3) consecutive calendar days and any subsequent treatment or period of incapacity relating to the same condition that also involves;
(a.) treatment two (2) or more times by a health care provider (or by others, under the supervision of or on orders of or referral by a health care provider);
or
(b.) treatment by a health care provider on at least one (1) occasion that results in a regiment of continuing treatment (i.e. antibiotics) or therapy requiring special equipment (i.e. oxygen) under the supervision of the health care provider.
(ii.) Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy, or for prenatal care.
(lit.) Any period of incapacity', or treatment for such incapacity, due to a chronic serious health condition, which is defined as one that;
(a.) requires periodic visits to a health care provider;
(b)	continues over an extended period of time; and
(c)	may cause episodic rather than a continuing period of incapacity' (i.e. asthma, diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).
(iv.) A period of incapacity which is permanent or long term due to a condition for which treatment may not be effective. The employee or family member must be under the continuing supervision of, but need not be receiving active treatment by, a health care provider. (i.e.Alzheimer’s, severe stroke, or the terminal stages of a disease).
(v) Any period of absence to receive multiple treatments (including any period of recovery) by a health care provider (or under orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider), either for restorative surgery after an accident or injury, or for a condition Chat if left untreated would likely result in a period of incapacity of more than three (3) consecutive calendar days, such as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation, etc.), severe arthritis (physical therapy), and kidney disease (dialysis).
4«
d.) An eligible health care provider could be a doctor of medicine, an osteopathic doctor, a podiatrist, a dentist, a clinical psychologist, an optometrist, a chiropractor (for certain conditions), a nurse practitioner or nurse midwife, or certain Christian Scientist practitioners listed with the First Church of Christ, Scientist in Boston, Massachusetts.
e.) An employee may take intermittent leave or may work a reduced leave schedule to reduce the usual number of hours per day or work week. Prior approval, for working a reduced leave schedule is required.
f.) The Employer/Hospital will require medical certification of a serious health condition from the employee’s physician. Failure to provide medical certification may result in denial of the leave.
g.) Eligibility for leave based upon tite birth or adoption of a child expires at the end of the twelve (12) month period beginning on the date of birth or placement. A“roliing" twelve (12) month period measured backward from the date an employee uses any FMLA
1	leave is used to determine the “twelve (12) month period’in which
the twelve (12) weeks of leave entitlement occurs.
h.) In cases where the leave is foreseeable, the employee must provide the Employer/Hospital with at least thirty calendar (30) day's advance
l	notice of the leave. In the event FMLA leave is not foreseeable, the
employee is required to provided medical certification within fifteen (15) calendar days from the initial notification to the Employer/ Hospital or as soon as reasonably possible under the particular facts and circumstances. If an employee fails to provide thirty (30) calendar days notice for a foreseeable leave with no reasonable excuse for the delay, the leave may be denied until at least thirty (30) days from the day notice is provided,
i.) For any FMLA leave, employees may substitute any earned PTO or other accrued benefit time as part of the FMLA leave, whether the EMIA leave is consecutive or intermittent nature. Following exhaustion of accrued benefit time while on leave, it is understood the employee may request additional weeks up to a total of twelve (12).
j.) Employer/Hospital will maintain any group health plan under the same conditions as if the employee had continued employment during the leave of absence, provided the employee is a participant of one of the plans at the start of the leave, until the expiration of any paid leave time or for a period of twelve (12) months, whichever is shorter. The Employer/Hospital and the employee will continue to contribute their respective portions of the premium as if the
49
employee were not on leave. Failure to submit payment of the employees part in excess of thirty (30) calendar days may result in the cancellation of insurance, provided the Employer/Hospital has given written notice of the intent to cancel at least fifteen (15) calendar days in advance of the cancellation.
kJ Any employee on a leave of absence granted under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 for a period not to exceed twelve (12) weeks will be returned to his/her job at the end of the leave.
I.) The time period for any period of absence which can be covered by FMLA, including NYS disability or workers' compensation or a personal leave shall include and run concurrent with the time period for any leave required by the Family and Medical Leave Act.
Article 32 Military Leave
Section 1.	Military leave shall be governed by existing State and Federal laws
Section 2.	Military Reserve Duty - Full-time employees called for military reserve duty shall be paid the difference between the military pay and the regular pay actually lost because of such service. The amount to be reimbursed s’hall not exceed two (2) weeks or ten (10) days of service and the responsibility rests with the employee to produce the military pay voucher for examination and approval.
Article 33 Jury Duty
Section 1.	Full-time and regular part-time employees who are summoned and are required to serve on jury duty will be paid the amount of pay for normal hours actually Jost due to the performance of such jury duty for a period not to exceed four (4) weeks or twenty (20) days as a juror. It is the responsibility of the employee to supply verification of the dates served and the amount of pay received
Section 2.	Time spent on jury duty shall be counted as time worked for the employee’s work schedule commitment and for all other purposes.
Section 3.	An employee shall report to work on any day they are not required to report for jury duty.
Section 4.	Employees assigned to work a night shift (7 p.m. to 7 a.m. or 11 p.m. to 7 a.tn.) shall be excused from the shift on the evening before the jury duty assignment begins.
50
Article 34
Bereavement Leave
Section 1.	All regular full-time and regular part-time employees will be excused from work with pay for up to three (3) scheduled working days within seven (7) days beginning with the date of the death. The seven (7) day period may be extended by mutual agreement.
Section 2.	This leave may be exercised in conjunction with the death of a spouse, child, step parent, stepchild, brother, step brother, sister, step sister, parent, legal guardian, grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, life partner, and person who takes the place of a parent.
Section 3.	One (1) day off with pay, under the same conditions as above, will be provided in the event of a death of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-inlaw or son-in-law. Additional time off without pay or available PTO may be requested and shall not be unreasonably denied.
Section 4.	Unless otherwise provided, paid time off under this article will not be charged against an employee’s PTO balance.
Section 5-	Payment for each day of bereavement leave under Sections Land 3. above will be equivalent to the regular hours that the employee was scheduled to work
Section 6,	Part-time and probationary employees shall be granted leave without pay upon request, in the event of a death in the family as covered in Sections Land 3. above.
Section 7. An employee covered by this article that is on an approved Family Medical Leave or a Personal Leave of Absence granted to provide care for an individual, as defined by the Family Medical Leave Act, and the person for whom the leave was granted to provide care passes away, the employee will be eligible to receive bereavement leave in accordance with this article beginning with the date of death.
Section 8. In the event a family member is not defined in Section 2. or 3. above, the Employer/Hospital and employee may mutually arrange coverage for the absence on the day of the funeral. The employee shall use available PTO. If the employee lacks available PTO, the absence may be granted without pay.
Article 35
Health Insurance
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital shall make available to all employees coveted by thisAgreement the following health insurance options:
a.) Traditional Blue/POS 208 Plan 5;
b.) Traditional Blue/POS 298 Plan 2 ;and
51
c.) Traditional Blue/POS 298 Plan 1.
Any changes in the plan, including coverage, co-pays, administration, accessibility, etc, by the Employer/Hospital shall only be by mutual agreement.
Section 2.	An employee may initially select individual or family health plan coverage within sixty (60) days of the date of employment at full cost to the employee. Changes in coverage may be made during open enrollment each year or within thirty-one (31) days of a life qualifying event where the change made Is consistent with the event (i.e., adding a dependent, as a result of getting married).
Section 3,	The Employer/Hospital shall contribute ninety percent (90%) of the cost of single or family coverage (at the employee’s choice) for any health plan for full-time employees.The Employer/Hospital shall contribute fifty-five percent (55%) of the cost of single or family coverage (at the employee’s choice) for any health plan for regular part-time employees.The Employer/Hospital subsidy toward health insurance for full-time and regular part-time employees shall commence on the first day of the month following ninety (90) days of employment.
Section 4.	The Employer/Hospital will offer to employees not eligible for the subsidy, participation in the Employer/Hospitai's group health insurance plans, with the responsibility for the full cost of the plan, being the employee’s, provided premium costs are remitted to the Employer/Hospital in a timely fashion.
Section 5.	Employee contributions shall be made on the basis of twenty-six (26) pay periods.
Section 6. For employees who enroll in the Traditional Blue/POS 298 Plan 1, the Employer/Hospital shall deposit yearly into a Medical Flexible Spending Account the following:
a.) $50.00 for employee’s with single coverage, or
b.) $100.00 for employee’s with family coverage.
Section 7. The Traditional Blue/POS 298 Plan 1 product includes a two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) inpatient deductible. Employees and eligible family members enrolled in this product, that receive services within Catholic Health System (CHS), shall have this deductible waived. The deductible will also be waived in the case of an emergency (deemed as necessary to receive immediate medical treatment at the closest facility or Efe-threatening situation, or a situation where the determination of where treatment is to be provided cannot be provided by the employee or eligible family member), or if the services required are not available within a CHS facility.
Section 8.	Employees who retire from Mercy Hospital of Buffalo will be eligible to participate in the group health plan, at their own expense, until they are eligible for medical coverage under Medicare.
52
Section 9.	The Employer/Hospital and the Union agree to form a Health Insurance Workgroup, to investigate, research and develop health insurance, dental insurance and prescription drug coverage options.
a.) The Committee shall include four (4) representatives from the leadership of the Union and four (4) representatives from the leadership of the Employer/Hospital,
b.) The health, dental and prescription drug coverage developed by the Workgroup must meet the needs of both the Employer/Hospital and the Union,
Article 36 Prescription Insurance
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital shall make available to all employees covered by this Agreement, who are currently enrolled under one of the Employers health insurance plans, a five dollar ($5.00) co-pay for prescription drugs.The Employer/Hospital has contracted with a managed pharmacy drug benefit program a three (3) tier prescription benefit at $7/$l 5/535-
a.) The Employer/Hospital will reimburse employees, the difference between the five dollar ($5.00) co-pay referred to in Section 1. above and the first, second or third tier co-pay when:
1	.) there is verification from a valid formulary or a licensed pharmacy that generic drugs are not available; or
2	.) employees have their physician document that they cannot tolerate the generic alternative or the generic alternative is ineffective and only a second or third tier drug is appropriate.
Reimbursement forms must be submitted within ninety (90) days of purchase.
Section 2.	An employee will be provided prescription coverage at the same time Che health plan is selected.
Section 3-	The Employer/Hospital shall contribute ninety percent (90%) of the cost of single or family coverage for full-time employees. The Employer/ Hospital shall contribute fifty-five percent (55%) of the cost of single or family coverage for regular part-time employees.
Section 4.	The Employer and the Union agree to form a Health Insurance Workgroup. The committee will review and discuss issues related to:
a.) formulary;
b.) pre-authorization;
c.) quantity limits;
d.) plan volume; and
e.) the monitoring of the plan savings/cost effectiveness of the plans.
53
The Union will be provided an accurate financial analysis of the costs of this program.
Article 37 Dental Insurance
Section 1, All employees will be eligible to participate in a voluntary dental program according to the terms and conditions offered by the Employer/ Hospital. Employees are responsible for one hundred percent (100%) of the premium associated with this voluntary plan. Premiums will be deducted on the basis of twenty-six (26) pay periods based on the benefit level and the number and type of dependents for which coverage is elected.
The Employer/Hospital shall make available to all employees covered by this Agreement the following dental insurance options:
Description of services	NOVA Enhanced Plan	NOVA Basic Plan
Type 1 Preventative &Diagnostic	10096	100%
Type II Restorat i ve/Oral Surgery* After Annual Deductible*	70%	50%
Type III Major Restorative* After Annual Deductible*	50%	No Coverage
Orthodontia Lifetime maximum	50% $2,000	No Coverage
Deductibles	. Single Family	$50 $100	$50 $100
Maximum Benefit per Calendar Year	$2,000	$1,000
•Based Upon 'Reasonable and Customary" Charges.
The program consists of a dental Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) in which participants will be charged less for service provided by a participating dentist in the PPO network. Employees may elect to utilize non-participating dentists.
Section 2.	An employee may initially select individual or family dental plan coverage within thirty' (30) days of the date of employment. Changes in coverage may be made during open enrollment each year, Or within thirty (30) days of a life qualifying event, where the change made is consistent with the event (i.e., adding a dependent as a result of getting married).
54
Section 3.	Employees in categories other than regular full-time and regular part-time are eligible to participate in the voluntary dental plan effective January 1,2005. Premium payments will be billed by a third party administrator, which '• will collect a two dollar ($2.00 )per month processing fee from the employee.
Article 38
Hospital Discounts
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital Discount Program will apply to all fulMime employees, regular part-time employees, flexible employees, laid off employees and their spouses and eligible dependents that meet the following criteria:
a.) eligible dependents as defined above must be covered by medical insurance through the Employer/Hospital or any other source and considered eligible participants under the employee’s medical insurance plan; or
b.) eligible dependents as defined above, not covered by medical insurance must qualify as dependents for federal income tax purposes.
Section 2.	Discounts apply to employees and their eligible dependents, as defined in Section 1. above, as follows:
a.) inpatient deductible wifi be one hundred percent (100%) to a maximum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per occurrence;
b.) hospital billed coverage (including outpatient procedures) will have co-payments of up to fifteen dollars ($15,00) waived, and a fifty percent (50%) discount on the balance of the co-payment in excess of fifteen dollars ($15.00) will be applied;
c.) outpatient services (non-covered) will have a discount of fifty percent (50%) exclusive of Emergency Room visits;
d.) private room discount will be one hundred percent (100%) for employee or spouse and a fifty percent (50%) discount fior dcpcndents-
Section 3.	Discounts apply to authorized services only. Discounts do not apply to charges in excess of plan limits, cosmetic surgery, orthodontia or dentures, experimental techniques and medical devices.
Section 4.	The discounts referenced in this article are applicable at any Catholic Health System (CHS) hospital or outpatient facility.
Section 5.	Discounts and waivers will not be applied to Medicare co-payments, deductibles or other patient payment portions of a Medicare beneficiary' claim.
Section 6.	Federal regulations prohibit transactions that could be construed as inducing a referral, or which could result in increased cost to the government
55
under its programs. Therefore, Employer/Hospital employees are prohibited from accepting professional fee waivers and discounts from physicians or other healthcare providers that are in excess of any waiver or discount offered to the general public.
Article 39 Life Insurance
Section 1.	AU regular full-time, regular part-time and flexible employees, who complete their probationary period, are eligible for one hundred percent (100%) employer paid group life insurance in an amount equal to one time their basic annual earnings to the nearest one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Section 2.	In addition to the group life insurance outlined in Section 1., all regular full-time, regular part-time employees and flexible employees are eligible for one hundred percent (100%) employer paid Accidental Death and
। Dismemberment Insurance in an amount equal to one time their annual earnings I to the nearest one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Section 3-	For purposes of calculating the annual benefit amount for the benefits outlined in Section 1. and 2. above, the calculation for each eligible employee shall be based upon the employees’ regularly scheduled hours and wage rate as of November of the previous year. Minimum benefit amount shall be equal to ten thousand dollars ($ 10,000.00),
Section 4.	The Employer/Hospital will continue to offer voluntary optional life insurance to employees who meet plan eligibility requirements.The premiums for such coverage shall be paid by the employee.
Section 5-	Employees who terminate their employment with the Employer/ Hospital, may elect to convert their group life insurance coverage to an individual policy as provided by the carrier, based on the terms and conditions of the policy within thirty-one (31) days of termination. The former employee is fully responsible for the associated premiums.
Article 40
Long Term Disability Insurance
All full-time and regular part-time employees will be eligible to participate in the ' voluntary long-term disability insurance program according to the terms and conditions offered by the Employer/Hospital. The premiums of such program will be paid one hundred percent (100%) by the employees.
56
Article 41
Disability and Workers’ Compensation
Section 1.	Time off the job for absences related to an illness or injury will be granted by the Employer/Hospital upon completion of the appropriate form accompanied by documentation from the employee’s personal physician, which confirms that the employee’s medical condition prevents him/her from performing his/her job. In situations where an employee, because of an unexpected medical condition, is unable to complete the proper form and furnish the appropriate documentation in advance, a disability leave will be granted upon notice.
Documentation from the employee’s physician shall normally be provided within three (3) weeks or as soon as available.	■
Section 2.	Time off the job for an illness or injury shall not exceed thirty-six (36) months.There will be no loss of seniority' while an employee is on disability or workers’compensation leave.
Section 3.	Employees on disability or workers’ compensation shall continue to receive life insurance benefits at no cost to the employee and shall continue to receive health insurance benefits on the same basis as prior to the leave until the expiration of any paid leave time or for a period of twelve (12) months, whichever is short er.Thereafter, the employee may continue to participate in group health insurance at his/her own expense (Cobra), Employees who remain disabled after twelve (12) months will be placed on an inactive employment list and all accrued PTO will be paid out.
Section 4.	An employee returning from disability or workers’ compensation shall contact IDM at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the expected return date. The notice period shall be reduced when an employee is released by her/ his physician on short notice.
Section 5.	Employees may return to work prior to the scheduled expiration date of their leave after complying with the notification requirements and upon producing medical attestation, if applicable.
Section 6.	The Employer/Hospital may require an employee returning from a disability or workers’ compensation leave to submit to a medical examination, at no expense to the employee, before returning to work, Should there be a difference of medical opinion between the employee’s physician and the Employer/ Hospital’s physician regarding the ability' of the employee to return to work, a third medical opinion shall be solicited from a physician chosen by the mutual agreement of the employee's physician and the Employer/Hospitai’s physician. The cost of the additional examination shall be borne by the Employer/Hospital,
Section 7.	Employees returning from disability' or workers’ compensation leave shall be placed in a position as follows:
57
a.) If an employee returns within six (6) months from the effective date of the leave, such employee shall be returned to the position held prior to the effective date of the leave.
b.) If the employee returns after six (6) months from the effective date of the leave, such employee shall he returned to the position held prior to the effective date of the leave, if available.
c.) If the employee’s position is not available, efforts will be made to return the employee to a position of equal pay, category, and shift,
.	d.) Temporary positions may be established until regular vacancies
become available on a shift,
e.) Layoff and recall procedures of this Agreement shall be followed if a position is not available.
f.) If an employee returns after twelve (12) months from the effective date of the leave, such employee shall be placed according to the layoff and recall provision of this Agreement, except that they shall not be entitled to bump.
g.) If the employee has not returned within five (5> months and it is uncertain whether the employee will be able to return at the end of the six (6) months, the job shall be posted on a contingency basis. Should the employee not return after six (6) months, the contingency posting maybe filled.
h.) An employee’s job may be posted on a non-contingency basis prior to the end of the six (6) months if the employee, in consultation with his/her physician and the Union, determines that he/she will not be able to return to work prior to the end of six (6) months.
Section 8, After the expiration of thirty-six (36) months provided in Section 3-above, seniority’ and employment shall terminate in accordance with Article 47, Seniority, Section 5.(h)
Section P- Employees collecting disability or workers’compensation payments, ior lost time as a result of an occupational or non-occupationai injury or illness may be routinely requested to be evaluated by an Employee Health provider, but not more frequently' than once every thirty- (30) calendar days.
Article 42
Restricted Duty Program
Section 1.	A return to work program has been established and shall be available for those employees who become physically unable to perform the full scope of their current job for a specified amount of time due to an occupational or non-
58
occupational illness or injury. It is understood, that employees shall not be pul into a restricted duty position unless there is reasonable expectation the employee will be able to return to their former position without restrictions at the end of the restricted duty assignment.
Section 2.	If an employee’s attending physician and the Employee Health Service provider agree that the employee can be placed in a restricted duty assignment, the following procedure shall be applied.
a.) Based on the medical documentation provided, the Employer/ Hospital may request a return to work physical and the employee must comply.
b.) The Employee Health Service provider will perform the return to ■work physical, the purpose of which is to determine the appropriateness for placement of the employee into restricted duty or fill] duty.
c.) Each department will evaluate and determine if there is work available that will be considered appropriate for restricted duty. An employee who is classified for restricted duty work will be provided such work, which is suitable to his/her physical condition, when it is available. If a restricted duty assignment is not available in the employee’s department, an assignment within his/her bargaining unit will be provided if available. If a restricted duty assignment is not available within their bargaining unit, the employee will have the option of accepting a suitable position outside of their bargaining unit, if available.
d.) The initial assignment of restricted duty will be For a period not to exceed six (6) weeks and renewable for a second period not to exceed six (6) weeks, based on medical evaluation from the employee’s attending physician and the Employee Health Service provider.
e.) Assignment to a restricted duty position will be at the employee’s current rate of pay, category of employment, and in his/her former shift. The employee and the Employer/Hospital may mutually agree to waive the shift requirement.
f.) It is understood that an employee’s restriction may require that he/ she work less hours titan the normal category of employment requirements. In that instance, the category of employment requirements will be waived. If an employee works in a restricted duty capacity and disability or workers’ compensation payments are reduced or eliminated, the employee will be entitled to banked time from their Extended Sick Bank Co ensure a full pay check.
59
g.) The Employer/Hospital shall provide a minimum of two (2) days written notice to the employee of the requirement to return to work for those employees who have been off work from fourteen (14) to forty-nine (49) calendar days and five (5) days written notice for those employees who have been off work fifty (50) calendar days or longer. It is understood that the written notice may be personally given to the employee.
h.) If an employee is classified for restricted duty and the work assignment is made, suitable to his/her physical condition, skill and qualification, tliat employee must report to work in that position. If the employee elects to decline a restricted duty position, supplementary payments from the employee’s extended sick bank wilt be discontinued.
i.) Regardless of the work assignment all benefits and provisions of the employee’s collective bargaining agreement will apply.
Section 3.	If there is disagreement between the employee’s attending physician and the Employee Health Service Provider in regard to capacity to return to work an independent medical exam may be ordered by the insurance carrier the results of which will be the determining factor for return to work Such exam shall be paid for the Employer/Hospital.
Section 4,	An employee on restricted duty will not be counted as staff unless the employee is released to perform all of the assigned duties of that position.
Article 43 Retirement Plan
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital shall provide to all eligible employees in the bargaining unit the Catholic Health System Retirement Plan as follows:
a.) Employees who were employed by the Employer/Hospital prior to June 4,2001 will accrue benefits under the Mercy Hospital of Buffalo Retirement Plan option at no cost to the employee.
b.) Employees who were employed by the Employer/Hospital on or after June 4,2001 and employees, who have elected this option, will accrue benefits under the cash balance option at no cost to the employee.
c.) Employees who are currently covered by the Our Lady ofVictory Retirement Plan option will continue to accrue benefits under this option, at no cost to the employee.
Section 2.	Employees hired prior co June 4,2001 will never be required to move out of the current Mercy Hospital or Our Lady ofVictory retirement option.
6o
Section J. Any changes in the plan shall be subject to mutual agreement between the parties.	,
Section 4. The following changes have been made to the Mercy Hospital of Buffalo Retirement Plan as a result of previous contract negotiations.
a.) Improve the plan formula from one and one-half percent (1.5%) of pay per year of service to one and sixty five hundredths percent (1.65%) of pay, effective June 4,1992.
b.) The thirty-five (35) year limit on years of service is eliminated, thereby increasing pension benefits for employees with more than thirty-five (35) years of service.
c.) The early retirement reduction is changed from actuarial equivalence to one-half (.5) of one percent (1%) per month for each month commencement of payments precedes normal retirement. This increases pension benefits for employees who are eligible for and elect early retirement.
d.) Hours of service required for a year of vesting and benefit service is changed from one thousand hours (1,000) to seven hundred eighty hours (780). This increased vesting years and retirement benefits for employees who work at least seven hundred eight hours (780) hours, but less than one thousand hours (1,000) per year. This improvement was granted retroactively for all years of service with the Employer/Hospital.
e.) Effective January 1,1993, the penalty for early retirement shall be reduced from six (6) percent to three (3) percent per year between age fifty-five (55) and age sixty-five (65).
f.) The eligibility' for the early retirement at age fifty-five (55) is reduced from the current fifteen (15) years of required service to five (5) years of required service effective with ratification of the 1998 collective bargaining agreement.
Section 5- The Mercy' Hospital of Buffalo Retirement Plan option and the Our Lady ofVictory option will be amended by reducing the early retirement penalty from three percent (3%) to one and one-half percent (1.5%) per year between the ages of fifty-five (55) to age sixty-five (65), and will be implemented on January 1,2006.
Section 6.	Employees who at retirement would have had a higher level of benefit under the former pension formula than under the terms described in Sections 4. and 5. above, will receive benefits calculated under that former retirement formula.
61
Section 7.	Recognizing that the Mercy Hospital of Buffalo Retirement Plan has now been determined by the IRS to be a “Church Plan.”, the Employer/Hospital wilt supply to the Union annual updates as to the financial health of the trust funds, copies of actuarial valuations as soon as they are available, and make available to the Union contacts with any financial or actuarial consultant to insure that the Union has no unanswered questions about the financial health of the plan.
Section 8.	The Employer/Hospital shall also provide to the Union on an annual basis the financial performance of the co-mingled retirement assets for all of the retirement plan options in the Catholic Health System Retirement Plan as well as a financial performance report of the portion which is the Mercy Hospital of Buffalo Retirement Plan option.
Article 44 403 (b)
The Employer/Hospital will make available to all employees covered by this Agreement a tax sheltered annuity/4O3(b) plan.
Employees may make voluntary contributions to a 403(b) plan.
Article 45
Tuition Assistance
Section 1. Tuition assistance shall be provided to all full-time, regular parttime and flexible employees after the completion of one (1) year of employment.
Section 2,	The following application process shall be followed:
a.) obtain application form from the Human Resources Department;
b.) complete the application, sign and date the form;
c.) submit the application form a minimum of two (2) weeks from the commencement of the course to the Human Resources Department.
Section 3.	Course must meet one of the following criteria to be eligible for reimbursement:
a.) the course must be of mutual value to the employee and the Employer/Hospital and should reasonably be expected to enhance employee job performance;
b.) the course will prepare the employee to qualify for advancement and opportunities within the Employer/Hospital facilities that are in line with the employee’s abilities and interest and needs of the
, Employer/Hospital;
62
c.) the course is prescribed for the attainment of a certificate or degree in an academic or business area that is compatible to the interest of the Employer/Hospital and the employee;
d.) the institution attended must be accredited for the subject being taught by the appropriate regional or professional accrediting body;	'
e.) classroom courses are the preferred method of educational selfdevelopment (when these are not available or an employee’s workassignment precludes classroom participation, course work involving other forms of instruction may be approved);
f.) educational programs offered through Cornell School of Industrial Relations shall be eligible fbr reimbursement under this program provided all the conditions have been met; and
g.) continuing education units required to receive or maintain certifications up to a maximum of fifteen (15) units per calendar year, not to exceed the dollar limits provided in Section 4. below.	'
Section 4.	Employees who meet the provisions outlined above will be reimbursed as outlined below:
a.) Regular full-time and full-time flexible employees will be reimbursed for the cost of the course up to a maximum of twelve hundred dollars ($1,200.00) per calendar year or six hundred dollars ($600.00) per semester
b.) Regular part-time and regular part-time flexible employees will be reimbursed for the cost of the course up to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per calendar year or three hundred dollars ($300.00) per semester,
c.) Semesters are defined as follows:
1	.) Spring - January 1 to May 31;
2	.) Summer-June I to August 31; and
3	.) Fail -September 1 toDecemberJl.
d.) The program will base reimbursement only on the cost of tuition, laboratory fees and registration. Other expenses such as books, student fees, etc. will not be included,	.
e.) Employees must successfully complete the course and submit the following information within ninety (90) calendar days of course completion before receiving tuition reimbursement:
1	.) evidence of a passing final grade is required; and
2	.) a verified statement of cost from the educational institution.
63
f.) Each year the Employer/Hospital will prepare a budget for tuition assistance. Tuition Assistance will be granted on a first come, first serve basis. All tuition assistance requests are subject to available funding. The Employer/Hospital agrees to budget fifty' thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for each fiscal year of this Agreement, to be available for tuition assistance, for employees represented by the Union in both bargaining units.
g.) An employee on the active payroll at the time a request for reimbursement is approved, who is later involuntarily terminated or placed on layoff due to a workforce reduction, will retain eligibility for reimbursement for previously approved courses.
Section 5.	If a continuing education program, training program, or recertifica-
tion program is mandated by the Employer/Hospital, the Employer/Hospital shall I be responsible for all costs associated with that program. It is understood that I the Employer/Hospital has the right to send employees to such training programs offered by the Catholic Health System before an employee will be sent outside of I the system. The costs associated with these programs shall not he deducted from the bank of dollars referred to in Section 4. f.) above.
Article 46 Bulletin Boards
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital shall provide a glass enclosed bulletin board for the posting of official Union business in a clearly visible location near the cafeteria.
Section 2,	All current bulletin boards shall remain in their current locations.
Section 3,	A bulletin board in a clearly visible location shall be provided for the Union’s use in each outlying facility where represented employees are assigned.
Section 4.	The specific size and location of each bulletin board in Section 2. and 3. shall be subject to agreement with the Union.
Section 5.	The Union will provide Human Resources with an advance copy of all official Union business postings.
, Section 6. Bulletin boards shall be used for factual and non-con troversial materials.The posting of material of a political nature (other than union elections) of any kind is strictly prohibited.
64
Article 47 Seniority
Section 1.	Seniority shall mean the length of unbroken service of an employee covered by this Agreement beginning with their most recent date of hire by the Employer/Hospital in any job title whether or not it is or was in the bargaining uni [.Temporary employees shall not have seniority unless they transfer into another category of employment.
Section 2.	An employee who accepts a non-bargaining unit position and returns to a bargaining unit position shall accrue seniority from their last date of hire or rehire in any job title. The Employer/Hospital retains the sole discretion as to whether or not an employee shall be returned to the Bargaining Unit.
Section 3-	An employee who was employed by the Employer/Hospital for an uninterrupted period of at least twelve (12> months whose employment with the Employer/Hospital terminates for reasons other than those constituting just cause and is rehired within twelve (12) months from the date of termination Shall after completing twelve (12) months of service, receive their most recent date of hire, prior to the termination, adjusted by moving the employee’s most recent date of hire forward for the period of separation from employment, for the purpose of calculating compensation at the applicable step and entitlement to all other benefits in this Agreement.
Section 4.	Any employee hired into the bargaining unit from within the Catholic Health System, Catholic Health East or another Mercy Health System shall receive prior service credit applicable only to benefit programs from their most recent date of hire in the system. For purposes of this section service may be bridged for up to twelve (12) months.
Section 5-	Seniority shall be lost and an employee shall be terminated when the employee;
a.) resigns or quits;
b,) is discharged for just cause;
c.) retires with or without qualifying for benefits under a pension plan or Social Security;
d.) fails to return to work upon expiration of a leave of absence;
e.) engages in gainful employment while on leave of absence without approval of the Employer/Hospital unless the employee is out of the immediate area of Western New York; approval shall not be unreasonably denied;
f.) fails to report to work as directed after being recalled as outlined in Article 53, Layoff & Recall;
65
g.) is absent for two (2) consecutive scheduled work days without notifying his/her supervisor or obtaining permission for such absences, unless beyond the employee's control,
h.) does not return from a leave of absence due to illness or injury as provided for in Article 31, Leave of Absence;
1	.) has exhausted the period of time for which they have recall rights as provided for in Article 53, Layoff and Recall.
Quarterly, the Employer/Hospital shall post and furnish to the Union a seniority list and shall correct such list from time to time as may be necessary.
Section 6. Employees are asked to give at least four (4) weeks notice of resignation, however, employees must give at least two (2) weeks notice of resignation. Resignation notices should be submitted in writing and specify the last day the employee is to be at work.This notice period may be reduced or waived at the discretion of management. An employee may not extend their employment through the utilization of benefit hours or to meet the period of notice.
Article 48
Bargaining Unit Work
Section 1. Non-bargaining unit personnel (except Agency employees as discussed in Article 61,Agency Personnel) shall not perform bargaining unit work except in the following situations:
a.) in emergencies where undue delay would jeopardize a patient's life or in emergencies where patient care would be compromised;
b.) to maintain minimum certification;
c.) to cover unscheduled absences where all attempts at using bargaining unit employees have failed to fill the position including voluntary overtime, use of per diem employees and offers of extra time to foil and part-time employees;
d.) to instruct and supervise employees with specific practice problems;
e.) to cover vacancies, which are in the process of being filled and after all attempts to use bargaining unit employees to fill the position have foiled including voluntary overtime, use of per diem employees and offers of extra time to full and part-time employees;
r f.) bargaining unit work performed on an incidental, casual, isolatetl or sporadic basis.
66
Article 49
Filling of Vacant Positions
Section 1.	When a position in the bargaining unit is vacant, the position shall be posted in an agreed upon location in the main Employer/Hospital and at each location where bargaining unit employees work.
Section 2.	The posting shall include the number of hours, shift, job tide, department/clinical unit, pay grade and qualifications for the position and sufficient information to adequately describe the vacancy. The notice shall remain posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days. An employee, within the seven (7) days ■ posting period, may file a written request on a form provided by the Employer/ Hospital, for the job vacancy in the Human Resources department.
Section 3-	During the posting period, the Employer/Hospital will determine if there are members of the bargaining unit who are on lay off and are eligible for recall to the posted position. If there are employees on lay off who are eligible for recall (i.e. to a position which is in their job title, category of employment, salary grade and shift) to the posted position, the indjvidual(s) shall be added to the list of bidders, as though they applied for the position.
Section 4.	Selection of the successful bidder shall be completed by the appropriate manager within fourteen (14) days of the close of bidding. The employee selected shall be given two (2) calendar days from the notification of his/her selection to accept the new position. Failure to respond within the time specified shall constitute a rejection of the new position. Should the selected employee be unavailable for notification, the fourteen (14) day selection period shall be extended until the second (2nd) day after such employee is available.
Section 5.	The vacancy shall be filled from within the bargaining unit by seniority from among qualified bidders. Any successful employee must satisfactorily complete the critical care courses within ninety (90) days of entry into the specialty units (ICU, CCU) if such courses have not been previously completed within the previous twenty-four (24) months, [f there are no bidders, no bidders qualified, no employees eligible for recall, or no employees who accept recall for the position within the bargaining unit, the Employer/Hospital may seek qualified employees from any available source.
Section 6.	In the event that the staff mix level is inexperienced, as determined by the Vice President of Patient Care Services, the parties agree to meet to discuss a mutually agreeable solution. Mutual agreement shall not be unreasonably denied.
Section 7.	The successful bidder shall be required to serve a trial period of sixty (60) days in the new position during which the employee is actually at work.
a.) If at any time during the trial period the successful bidder does not meet satisfactory performance requirements, he/she will be returned to his/her original position or one of the same category
67
and shift if such a vacancy exists. Employees displaced under this section shall be placed in a position according to Article 53, Layoff and Recall.
b.) If the employee fails to successfully complete the training/education for the new position, the individual will be eligible to reapply for a position with the same requirements after twelve (12) months.
c.) If a successful bidder is dissatisfied during the trial period, such employee may, within twenty one (21) calendar days, return to his/ ' her original position, if vacant, or shall be placed according to the layoff and recall procedure except that they shall not be allowed to bump.
Section 8.	A list of successful bidders for positions that a have been filled through the process provided for in this article, shall be available on the Human Resources Department bulletin board. The list shall be updated on a biweekly basis.
Section 9.	Nursing personnel may not be accepted for posted vacant positions until they are licensed. However, permit eligible employees may bid and be accepted in the absence of licensed employees bidding.
Section 10.	Probationary employees shall not be permitted to bid except for positions within their job classification and department/clinical unit, or a position that would provide for a status change. For purposes of this section, probationary employees hired from any position within the Employer/ Hospital shall have their seniority determined from their most recent date of hire with the Employer/Hospital.
Section 11.	A successful bidder may not bid on another posted vacant position for a minimum of nine (9) months unless the position provides for an increase in hours.
Section 12.	Any employee with seniority, who applies for and is placed in a temporary position, shall continue to accrue seniority and all benefits and shall maintain his/her category' of employment. At the expiration of the temporary position, such employee shall return to his/her previous position, if vacant, or be placed in accordance with the recall procedure.
Section 13.	Should an employee in a regular position be selected to fill a temporary position in his/her same department, that individuals’ regular position may then be filled by the Employer/Hospital on a temporary basis from any available source. Should an employee in a regular position be selected to fill a temporary, position in another department, the manager of the employee shall have the option of filling the vacated position on a temporary basis from any available source or filling the position as outlined in Sections 1,- 10. above.
68
Section 14.	The process provided below shall be utilized when temporary positions become available that are expected to last thirty (30) calendar days or more.
a.) Postings for temporary position to be filled shall be made in designated areas near regular postings.
b.) Postings shall be made for temporary positions of thirty (30) days or more provided the temporary position is vacant.
c.) Positions will be posted for a minimum of three (3) calendar days.
d.) The Employer/Hospital may select from among qualified regular employees who have expressed interest.
e.) in order to be eligible for selection an employee must be available to begin in the position on the date needed.
Article 50 Contracting Out Work
Section 1.	Contracting out of work, which is normally and customarily performed by the bargaining unit shall be subject to the following.
a.) Contracting out work is defined as the use of another employer to perform the work as described above.
b.) Employer/Hospital will not contract out bargaining unit work if such contracting out will cause, currently and directly, layoffs from employment with Employer/Hospital, part-timing of present employees, or any reduction in regular hours of work.
c.) Employer/Hospital will not use independent contractors and/or agency employees to permanently fill vacant positions in the bargaining unit. While such persons are in use, Employer/Hospital will actively recruit to fill the position.
Section 2.	In the event the Employer/Hospital decides to contract out work that is normally and customarily performed by the bargaining unit, but will not result in lay offs, part-timing, or reduction of regular hours, the Employer/Hospital will:
a.) notify the Union of their intent three (3) months prior to the proposed implementation date; and
b.) meet with the Union, within ten (10) days from the date of the Employe r/Hospital’s notice to discuss the impact of the Employer/ Hospital's decision on the employees in the bargaining unit.
Section 3- If an agreement is reached between the Union and the Employer/ Hospital with respect to the impact of the Employer/Hospital's decision to contract or subcontract, that agreement shall be reduced to writing.
69
Section 4. If no agreement is reached within fourteen (14) days from the beginning of discussions as set forth in Section 2. above, the parties shall seek the assistance of a mediator designated by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and shall meet with the designated mediator within ten (10) days from the date that a mediator has been assigned.
Section 5- If an agreement is reached as a result of mediation, the agreement shall be reduced to writing.
Section 6. If no agreement is reached within twenty (20) days from the date that mediation first occurs, the parties agree to the following.
a.) If the implementation of the decision to contract or subcontract will not result in the layoff of any bargaining unit employees, then the Employ er /Hospital may unilaterally implement the decision to contract or subcontract, regardless of the identity of the party performing the contracted or subcontracted work.
b.) If the implementation of the decision to contract or subcontract will result in the layoff of bargaining unit employees, but the contracted or subcontracted work is to be performed by a participant in the Catholic Health System, the Employer/Hospital may unilaterally implement the decision to contract or subcontract, but will agree to place any bargaining unit employee who is impacted as a result of the Employer/Hospital’s decision to contract or subcontract into a position either with the Employer/Hospital or with another participant in the Catholic Health System with comparable hours, and wages and benefits that represent at least ninety percent (90%) of the wages and benefits of the bargaining unit employee who has been impacted and benefits that are qualitatively (but not necessarily quantitatively) similar to that individual’s job classification and category of employment. The Employer/Hospital will make its best reasonable effort to protect the seniority of the impacted employees with the new Employer.
c.) If the implementation of the decision to contract or subcontract will result tn the layoff of bargaining unit employees, but the contracted or subcontracted work is to be performed by other than a participant in the Catholic Health System or the conditions identified in Section 6. b.) above are not met,the Employer/ Hospital shall not implement the decision to contract or subcontract without prior written agreement of the Union. Such written agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Union and the issue of whether the Union is unreasonably withholding permission shall be subject to grievance and arbitration.
70
Article 51 Management Rights
Section 1.	Except to the extent expressly abridged by a specific provision of
this Agreement, the Employer/Hospital reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, ah of its rights to manage its business in an efficient and orderly manner. These rights include, but are not limited to, the right to hire, to promote and demote, to layoff, terminate or otherwise relieve employees from duty for lack of work or other legitimate reasons. The Employer/Hospital maintains the right to maintain, change or discontinue the hours of work; to establish work schedules and assignments and to make changes therein; and to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations.
Section 2,	The Employer/Hospital maintains the right to decide the number and location of its business and service operations, the business and service operations conducted and rendered, the method, process and means used in operating its business and service, and to control buildings, real estate, materials, parts, tools, machinery, and all equipment which may be used in the operations of its business and supplying services. The Employer/Hospital also maintains the right to determine whether, and to what extent, its business and operations will continue or be discontinued, temporarily or permanently, in whole or in part.
Section 3-	It is recognized that the foregoing rights as stated within this section , are not all inclusive, but indicate the types and matters or rights, which are inherent to the Employer/Hospital,
Article 52
Health and Safety
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital will observe all applicable health and safety1 laws and regulations, and will provide and maintain safe working conditions and a safe and healthful work environment.
Section 2.	The Employer/Hospital agrees to maintain a joint Health and Safety Committee composed of eight iff) employees selected by the Union from among all of the units of the employees represented by the Union, and an equal number of individuals selected by the Employer/Hospital.
Section 3.	The Health and Safety Committee shall meet at least once every other month or as mutually agreed by the members of the Committee, The Committee shall determine the nature of all projects and assignments and the amount of time and individuals to be involved with such projects and assignments. Union representatives shall be compensated as time worked for time spent in committee meetings and for time spent on assignment to projects as may be determined by the Committee.
Section 4.	All employees are encouraged to identify and report unsafe conditions or potential health hazards to their immediate supervisor. If the supervisor
71
does not respond, or is not able to address and/or correct the condition within a reasonable period of time or immediateiy as conditions warrant, the employee may direct this concern to the Health and Safety Committee
Section 5.	Any employee may address health and safety concerns to the Committee.The Committee shall investigate any health or safety issue brought to its attention. The Committee shall make recommendations for action by the Employ er/H ospital.
Section 6.	No employee shall be expected or permitted to work tinder conditions which will create an immediate and unduly hazardous threat to his/her safety or health.
Section 7.	The Local Union’s designated Health and Safety Director, or qualified designee, shall receive seven hundred and eighty (780) hours or six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) per contract year (for both contracts) as an Employer/ Hospital paid excused absence for activities related to that position. The Health Safety Director shall investigate grant options, write grant proposals individually or as part of a group grant application, and shall provide additional safety training to employees of Mercy Hospital.	.
Article 53 Layoff and Recall
Section 1.	In the event it becomes necessary' to layoff or permanently eliminate * a filled position, the Employer/Hospital will give the Union advance notice of its intention to layoff or to eliminate a filled position at least fourteen (14) days prior to layoff, The Union shall be afforded reasonable opportunity to discuss the matter including a meeting with the Vice President/designee responsible for the affected department/clinical unit(s). Only the Employer/Hospital shall advise employees selected for layoff in accordance with Section 3. below.
Section 2.	The Union shall receive information including the number of positions to be Reduced, the department/clinical units affected, the job titles, categories and shifts to be affected by the layoff and/or elimination of positions.
Section 3.	Employees selected for layoff shall be given at least seven (7) calendar days notice of layoff.
Section 4.	Once the department(s)/clinical unit(s), job title of positionfs), category(ies) and shift(s) are determined, the procedure for layoff shall be accomplished in the following order:
a.) all probationary and temporary employees in such job title(s) categorytjes), and shifts, in the department(s)/clinical unit(s) affected shall be removed;
72
b.) per diem employees shall not be included in the schedule in the job titlefs), category(ies) and shift(s) in the department(s)/clinical unit(s) affected;
c.) the vacancy list that will be used during the lay off process, will be comprised of all positions in the bargaining unit that have been posted and not filled or that are open to the outside;
d.) it is understood that the placement of employees identified for layoff into vacancies under the provisions of this article shall not constitute a violation of this Agreement;
c.) when it is necessary to permanently change the number of employees on a shift within a clinical unit/department, such . change shall be made first by requesting volunteers from within the clinical unit/department, Absent volunteers, the layoff and recall provisions of this Agreement shall be applicable.
Section 5.	If, after compliance with the provisions in Section 4. above, an employee with seniority is subject to layoff, such employee, in accordance with his/her seniority rights, shall be entitled to pursue a position in the bargaining unit in the following sequence. It is understood that in all placements under Layoff and Recall situations, the employees must meet the requirements of the job description. Should unusual circumstances produce a staffing mix level that could negatively impact on patient care, the parties agree to meet to discuss a mutually agreeable solution. Mutual agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld. In the event that more than one employee is subject to layoff, a committee of equal representatives from each party will be formed for the purpose of administering the provisions of this article.The committee shall determine the appropriate way to develop the pool of employees, taking into account grade, job title, category and shift.The committee shall also determine the available options using the steps provided in this Section.
Step 1 The employee subject to layoff may select any vacant position in the bargaining unit, which is in their category of employment, job title and shift. If the employee opts to drop shift, category and/or job title and maintain grade as requirement placement, they may do so at any of step. However, a part-time employee may not be placed in a full-time position.
Step 2 If no such vacancy exists, they will be permitted to displace any probationary employee in their category of employment, job title and shift.
Step A If there are no probationary employees who may be displaced, then the employee subject to layoff may bump the least senior employee in their category of employment, job title and shift.
7J
Step 4 If the employee cannot be placed in a position within their job title, they may select any vacant position in their category of employment, grade and shift.
Step S If no such vacancy exists, the employee may displace any probationary employee in their category of employment, grade and shift.
Sten 6 If there are no probationary employees who may be displaced in five (5) above, then the employee may bump the least senior employee in their category of employment, grade and shift provided the employee has more seniority than the least senior employee.
Step 7 If the employee cannot be placed in a position in their category of employment, grade and shift, they may select any vacant position in their category of employment and grade.
Step 8 If no such vacancy exists, the employee may displace any probationary employee in their category of employment and grade.
Step 9 If there are no probationary employees who may be displaced in Step 8. above, the employee may bump the least senior employee in their category of employment and grade provided the employee has more seniority than the least senior employee.
Step 10 If the employee cannot be placed within a position in their ■ category of employment and grade by Step 9. above, then the above steps four (4) through nine (9) shall be repeated in the next lower grade and then to subsequent lower grades until placed into a position or laid off.
Employees who have been given notice of layoff and are in the process of being placed shall be given up to four (4) hours to make a decision regarding their placement.
Section 6.	When the least senior employee is bumped, he/she shall be placed as if he/she were originally subject to layoff as described above.
Section 7.	If no vacancy, as described above, exists, such employee targeted for layoff may elect a layoff instead of bumping a less senior employee without jeopardizing unemployment benefits, subject to New York State regulations and where the cost of unemployment to the Employer/Hospital would not differ.
Section 8, For employees who are laid off, payment for accrued PTO leave shall be made at the pay date next following the conclusion of the Last severance payment.
74
Section 9-	Employees on layoff shall not accrue seniority.
Section 10.	Employees shall be considered for recall by seniority to vacancies in their grade if they possess the ability to perform the job with preference to vacancies in their tide. In the event that an employee is recalled to a different title within higher grade, such employee shall have preference to vacancies which may subsequently arise within the title from which such employee was laid off, with the understanding that such shall not constitute a violation of the posting and bidding provisions of this Agreement. Regular full-time employees, at their option, may accept recall to a regular part-time position and remain on recall to a regular full-time position.
Regular part-time employees who are displaced shall be eligible for recall, during such period of recall under Section 14., until such time as they have been recalled to a position equal in FTE hours to the position from which they were Originally displaced.
Section 11.	If any employee refuses a recall to a job vacancy, as described above, on a shift other than the one the employee held at the time of layoff, the employee will be maintained on the recall list in order of seniority during the stated recall period.
Section 12.	Employees on layoff shall be entitled to two (2) weeks of severance pay. In the event an employee is recalled to work within the two (2) week severance period, severance pay shall be reduced by hours actually worked, Employees may continue to participate in the Employer’s/Hospital’s group life and group health insurance programs until the end of the month in which the layoff occurred and for an additional two (2) months with the employee paying only his/her share of the cost. After this point, employees may continue in the Employ ers/Ho spirals group life and group health insurance program but at their own expense.
Section 13. Recalls from layoff will be by certified mail to the employee’s last known address on file with the Employer/Hospital. It shall be the employee’s responsibility to insure the Employer/Hospital has a current address.Any employee recalled must notify the Employer/Hospital of intent to return within three (3) working days after receipt of due certified notice unless prevented from doing so by verifiable illness or death in the family or current employment where notice is required, in which case the employee must report within fifteen 05) days of recall notice.
Section 14.	Non-probationary employees who are laid off shall be subject to recall as follows:
a.) employees having fess than one (I) year of seniority, shall have recall rights for a period of twelve (12) months; and
b.) employees having one (1) or more years of seniority, shall have recall rights or a period of twenty-four (24) months.
75
Section 15.	An employee placed into a position though the layoff and recall process.Whether by filling a vacant position or displacing another employee, will serve a job trail period as defined in Article 49, Filling ofVacant Positions, Section 7.
The placed employee shall have twenty-one (21) calendar days in which to decide whether to remain in the position. Should the employee choose not to remain in the position the employee will be placed on layoff on the recall list. The employee will be eligible for recall tn accordance with this article but shall not have additional bumping rights.
Should the Employer/Hospital decide within the job trial period that the employee is not performing at satisfactorily Level, the employee will be placed through the layoff and recall process.The employee will be allowed one (1) additional bumping option if necessary.
Article 54 No Strike - No Lockout
The Union, its officials, affiliates and members and each employee-member, individually and cuiiectivcly, agree that they will not directly or indirectly call, authorize, sanction, or take part in any strike action (sympathy or otherwise) while thisAgreement is in effect.
The Union, its officers, agents and representatives, shall refuse to aid or assist in any way, employees participating in any of the foregoing prohibited practices, and shall, in good faith, use reasonable efforts to have such practices terminated.
The Employer/Hospital agrees that it shall not take any action during the term of thisAgreement which would constitute a lockout of employees in the unit covered by thisAgreement.
Article 55 Successorship
ThisAgreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors and assigns. In the event the Employer/Hospital facilities are sold or assigned the Employer/Hospital will give notice to the purchaser or assignee of the existence of, and operations covered by th is Agreement. The Employer/Hospital agrees not to sell or assign its facilities without expressly providing in the contract of sale or assignment that the purchaser or assignee shall be bound by all of the obligations encompassed by the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Article 56
Savings Clause
Should any article,section, or portion thereof, of thisAgreement be held unlawful and unenforceable by an administrative agency or court of competent jurisdiction.
76
such decision shall only apply to the specific article, section or portion thereof directly specified in the decision.
Ail remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be maintained in full force and effect to the extent not invalidated by such determination.
Article 57 Extended Shifts
Section 1, Extended shifts shall be defined as those shifts that are more than the regularly scheduled eight (8) hour shift, inclusive of the thirty (30) minute unpaid meal period.
Section 2.	Employees working extended shifts must take ail paid time off benefits in amounts equal to their regular extended shifts.
Section 3	Scheduled weekend work shall be evenly divided among employees assigned to a department or unit. Each dep artmen t/unit will have the option of determining weekend scheduling preference no later than October 15 of each year for the following calendar year. Options will include;
a.) for shifts up to ten (10) hours;
(1.) not being required to work more than twenty-six (26) weekends (consecutive days) per calendar year; or
(2.) shall not be required to work more than every other weekend;
b.) for shifts greater than ten (10) hours;
(1.) not being required to work more than eighteen (18) weekends (consecutive days) per calendar year; or
(2.) shall not be required to work more than every third weekend.
Employees may work more than the above on a voluntary basis.
Any employee who accepts a position on another unit must adhere to the weekend work schedule of that unit regardless of the number of previous weekends worked prior to the effective start date on the new unit.
Section 4, A manager will not schedule an employee for more than two (2) consecutive days unless voluntarily requested, exclusive of on-call requirements.
Section 5.	A holiday commitment shall be established for the nine (9) major holidays defined as New Year’s Day, Easter Sunday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve.
a.) Tlie holidays and/or shifts referenced below shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1.5) the employee’s base rate for all hours worked:
77
(1.) Christmas Eve from 3:00 p.m. on 12/2-4 through 7:00 a.m.on 12/25; .	(2.) Christmas Day from 6:00 a.m. on 12/25 through 7:00 a m. on 12/26;
(3.) New Years Eve from 3:00 p.m. on 12/31 through 7:00 a.m.on 1/1;
.	(4.) New Years Day from 6:00 a.m. on 1/1 through 7:00 a.m. on 1/2;
(5.) Easter Sunday from 6:00 a.m. through 7:00 a.m. the next day,
,	(6.) Memorial Day from 6;00 a.m. through 7:00 a.m. the next day;
(7.) Independence Day from 6:00 a.m. on 1/4 through 7:00 a.m.on 7/5;
(8.) Labor Day from 6:00 a.m. through 7:00 a.m. the next day; and (9.) Thanksgiving Day from 6:00 a.m. through 7:00 a m. the next day.
b.) For scheduling purposes only, each employee will be assigned to one (1) of the following holiday rotations:.
(1 .) "A" weekend/holiday rotation - New Year’s Eve, Christmas Day and Memorial Day;
(2.) "B" weekend/holiday rotation - Christmas Eve, New Year's Day and Independence Day; or
(3.) "C” weekend/holiday rotation - Easter Sunday, Labor Day and Thanksgiving Day.
Any employee may volunteer to work more than two (2) holidays.
c.) Employees shall not be required to work more than one of Christmas and/or New Year’s Eve per year. Assignments to work these days shall be made on a rotating basis as needed to meet staffing requirements.
d.) In the event that staffing remains insufficient for holiday coverage, volunteers will be requested. If the staffing remains insufficient, it shall be provided from a seniority list with the least senior employee being utilized first. Once the list has been rotated through, the process will then begin again with the least senior employee.
e.) Switching of shifts or partial shifts between employees may occur after the schedule is posted with the manager’s approval. Written requests must have the signature of the affected employees. The initially scheduled holiday shall be considered the holiday commitment.
Section 6.	Employees occupying a position comprised of twelve (12) hour shifts exclusive of a one-half ( 5) hour unpaid tneal period may address the reduced hours in one of the three (3) following ways;
a.) The employee may utilize available PTO for the reduced hours on a pay period basis. This use would be an exception to Article 29, Section ll.g).
7»
1
b.) The employee may choose to request to work an extra shift to compensate for the lost time once in every five (5) pay periods and such requests shall not be unreasonably denied. Should the employee make such a request and a need exists, as determined by Management, the employee shall be scheduled to work an extra shift every fifth pay period until such request is rescinded by the employee. Such employee(s) shall have preference for the extra hours over other employees requesting additional hours.
c.) The employee may choose not to be compensated for the time.
Section 7.	Shift differential will be paid as follows:
a.) for the day shift, evening shift differential for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m.;
b.j for the evening shift, evening shift differential for all hours worked after 3:00 p.m.; and
c.) for the night shift, evening shift differential for all hours worked before 11:00 p.m. and night shift differential for all hours worked after 11:00 p.m.
Section 8. An employee assigned to an extended shift as of June 4,1998 shall not have their extended shift involuntarily modified or discontinued for the purpose of creating a non-extended shift for the duration of thisAgreement, so long as the same individual occupies the position.
Section 9. Ail provisions of thisAgreement shall apply unless specified in this article.
Article 58 Parking
Section 1. The Employer/Hospital shall maintain its current parking discount . program for employees coveted by thisAgreement which is as follows:
a.) full-time employees shall pay $7.75 per payroll period, not to
I	exceed $155.00 per year;
।	b.) all other categories of employees are charged $3.90 per payroll
period, not to exceed $77.50.
| Section 2.	Full-time employees, who work at off sites shall pay the parking
। rate outlined in Section l.b.) above.
I
79
Article 59 Travel
Section 1. Employees who are required to travel in their personal vehicle, in rhe performance of routine duties, or between sites within a scheduled shift will be fully reimbursed for:
a)	parking;
b)	tolls; and
c)	automobile mileage at the existing IRS rate.
Article 60
Preceptor
Section 1.	The parties agree that there ate job titles within the bargaining unit where precepting is required for newly hired employees and employees who transfer to a new position.
Section 2.	Precepting will be assigned when the new or transferred employee requires teaching, instruction or guidance in order to do the job. Precepting is considered a process separate from orientation, which is defined as familiarizing employees or helping them adjust to a new unit.
Section 3. Job titles designated by the appropriate manager and in conjunction with the Workload and Staffing Committee are eligible for preceptor pay, The job titles listed below will receive preceptor pay, when assigned as a preceptor.	
CT Technologist	Medi cal Assi stant
Cardio-An gio Te chnologist	Nurse Assistant
Certified Nurse Assist ant	Nutrition Office Clerk
Certified Echo Technologist	Radiol ogy Te chnologist
Dental Hygienist	Rehab Assistant
Dietetic Te chnic ian	RespiratoryTherapist
ECHO Technologist	Scheduling Secretary
EEG Technic ian	Special Procedure Technologist
EKG Technician	Sterile Processing Technician
Endoscopy Nurse Assistant	Su rgical Te chnologist
Grade 6 Clerk	Switchboard Operator
Immediate Treatment Assistant	Ultrasound Technologist
Licensed Practical Nurse Mammography Technologist	Unit Clerk
Section 4. Preceptor programs within the departments shall function as fallows: a.) preceptors shall be assigned on a one to one basis;
80
b.) during the period of precepting, the new or transferred employee shall not be counted in the staffing allotment for that unit and shift;
c.) precepted employees shall share a work assignment with their preceptor for the precepted period;
d.) assignment as a preceptor shall be on a voluntary basis;
e.) employees shall be assigned the same preceptor for the length of the precepted period;
f.) each department shall establish a specific length of time for the precepted period consistent with the needs of the individual being precepted;
g.) preceptor training classes shall be offered on all shifts, semi-annually or quarterly, based on need and number of interested personnel.
Section 5.	The period of time an employee is assigned to a preceptor, shall be determined by the needs of the individual employee, not the schedule. The manager, in consultation with the preceptor, instructor, and the employee involved shall determine such needs.
Section 6.	Preceptor pay shall be defined in Article 23., Salaries. No employee shall be required to precept a new or transferred employee if they will not be paid the preceptor pay.
Article 61 Agency Personnel
Section 1,	Agency personnel may be used when:
a.) All reasonable attempts to fill the position have failed including voluntary overtime, use of per diem employees, offering extra time to full and part- time employees,
b.) There is an open position for which the Employer/Hospital has posted a vacancy or is actively recruiting.
Section 2.	Otin quarterly basis, the Employer/Hospital and the Union shall review the use of Agency personnel.
Article 62
Cafeteria. Discounts
The Employer/Hospital shall provide a discount to members of this bargaining unit that is twenty-five percent (25%) less than the posted price.
81
Article 63 Workload and Staffing/Committee
Section 1.	High quality patient care and achieving optimal staffing are the mutual goals of the Employer/Hospital and the Union.
Section 2.	Within thirty (30) calendar days of ratification of thisAgreement, representatives of the bargaining unit will begin with the Workload and Staffing Committee. The Committee shall consist of five (5) Employer/Hospital representatives, plus the Vice President of Patient Care Services or his/her designee, and two (2) Union representatives from the bargaining unit, plus the President of the Local Union or his/her designee. The Committee representatives for both the Employer/Hospital and the Union shall have representatives from the following areas;
a.) Critical Care;
b.) Maternal Child (inclusive of Labor and Delivery);
c.) Medical -Surgical;
d.) Perioperative Services; and
e.) A cute Ancillary Services, where the employees provide direct patient care and report through Patient Care Services,
Other individuals may be invited to meetings as need for information purposes.
Section 3.	The goals of the Workload and Staffing Committee are to continually improve the quality of patient care and the quality of work life for the employees. Agenda items for regular committee meetings will be submitted to the Vice President of Patient Care Services at least one (1) week prior to the scheduled meeting. Standing agenda items for the Committee meetings will be:
a.) review of current staffing needs inclusive of scheduling and absences (i.e., call-ins, disabilities, workers’compensation absences, ■ tardiness, etc.);
b.) review of staffing forms;
c.) retention strategies inclusive of:
i	.) Peer Support Network
ii	.) Review of exit interviews;
d.) turnover and vacancy rates;
e.) employee satisfaction;
f;) use of agency/supplemental staff; and
g.) hours of work, workloads, shift assignments, shift rotation, on-call utilization, and floating.
82
Section 4.	The Workload and Staffing Committee shall review staffing plans/ templates and will make recommendations for adjustments. The staffing plans/ templates will be developed with consideration of the following:
a.) average daily census inclusive of admissions, discharges and transfers;
b.) review of patient acuity (i.e. patient care requiretnents/scope of ■ services);
c.) patient safety , inclusive of coordination of care, ability to provide continuity of cate, patient education and proper discharge education;
d.) staff mix;
e.) available support systems;
f.) patient care delivery models and hours of care;
g.) internal standard compliance/benchmark;
h.) facility characteristics (geography of depart men t/unit, square footage, etc.);
i	.) patient satisfaction and compliant summary; and
j.) available financial resources.
Section 5, An employee questioning the staffing level on a specific shift,on their unit/ciinic/department shah notify the charge nurse who will contact the designated manager/supervisor on duty. The manager/supervisor will attempt to resolve the problem. If the employee's concern is unresolved the employee will so indicate on a form mutually agreed to by the Employer/Hospital and the Union. A copy of the form will be sent to the appropriate manager/supervisor and to the Union for review. The manager/supervisor will forward the form to the Workload and Staffing Committee who will review and investigate the incident documented on the form.
Section 6. If over a six (6) month period a shortfall in budgeted staffing exists and results in hours paid over budget for a job title, and the shortfall is not a result of vacancies or unusual circumstances, the Employer/Hospital or the Union shall submit the short fell in staffing to the Committee as an agenda item for review at the next scheduled meeting. This review will include the use of per diem and part-time employees.
Section 7.	The Workload and Staffing Committee shall have the authority to carry out the work outlined in Section 3. and 4. above, and to implement the recommendations of a majority of the Committee members. The only exceptions shall be that if there is a financial and/or organizational wide impact associated with the recommendations, a proposal will be drafted by the Committee and presented to the Senior Administrative Team for Mercy Hospital for review and consideration,
83
Section 8.	It is agreed to and understood by the Union and the Employer/ Hospital that if a vote is scheduled on the adoption of recommendations by the Workload and Staffing Committee, no more than five (5) union members shall be eligible to vote.
Section 9- For areas that report outside of Patient Care Services or for issues, concerns or opportunities tor improvement that are not appropriate for resolution by the Workload and Staffing committee as outline above, the parties agree to convene a joint committee to address the situation. The Employer/Hospital contingent shall consist of the appropriate Vice President and others selected by the Employer/Hospital The Union contingent shall consist of union representatives and bargaining unit members from the involved unit(s) selected by the Union, Meetings shall be scheduled with the intent of resolving the identified staffing issue.
Article 64
Employee Assistance
Section 1.	The current Employee Assistance Program shall be maintained.
Section 2.	The parties agree to meet to discuss improvements in the program including improved services and availability.
I
I	Article 65
Uniform Policy
Section 1.	The Employer/Hospital shall maintain the Uniform Policy which became effective on 1/fH/Ol.
Section 2,	Should either party desire to modify the existing Uniform Policy, such party shall notify the other party of its desire to negotiate modifications to the existing Uniform Policy.
If the request to modify the Policy is made by the Employer/Hospital and the parties are not able to reach agreement, the Employer/Hospital may implement its last proposal. Should rhe Employer/Hospital implement its last proposal, the Union may challenge the reasonableness of the Policy by proceeding directly to arbitration under the Grievance and Arbitration article of this Agreement, provided it does so within twenty (20) calendar days from the date in which the revised Policy is implemented.
If the request to modify the Policy is made by the Union and the parties are not able to reach agreement, the Union may challenge the reasonableness of the Employer/HospitaTs refusal by proceeding directly to arbitration under the Grievance and Arbitration article of this Agreement, provided it does so within twenty (20) calendar days from the Employer/Hospital’s final response.
84
; Article 66 Students
Section 1,	Instructors are responsible for patient care delivered by students. Students shall not be left in a department/clinical unit without an instructor present unless they (the students) are only observing as their clinical experience. The only exception shall be that students in a service department may occasionally be left in the department without an instructor present for periods of time.
Section 2.	Employees are responsible in their department/clinical unit when directly observing the delivery of patient care. In the event of an alteration from the standard of care, the employee shall report such to the instructor first and to the manager/supervisor second. Employees may assist students in the learning process when able, not to the detriment of their patient care responsibilities.
Article 67 Union Printing
The Employer/Hospital and the Union will share equally in the cost of printing the Union contracts.
85
Article 68
Duration
This Agreement shall be effective as of June 4,2004 and shall remain in full force until anti including June 3,2008, and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter, unless either party shall notify the other in writing on or before ninety (90) days prior to the termination date of this Agreement of its desire to terminate or modify thisAgreement. In the event such notice is given, within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice to terminate or modify, the Employer/Hospital and the Union shall commence collective bargaining with respect to a succeeding Agreement,
Executed at Buffalo, New York This 4th day of June, 2004. Mercy Hospital of Buffalo . f	> — ri WWi L Baaxi^re, PftgJ |	Director of Human Resources	Communication Workers of America, APL-CIO ■ rYlp^-e, OmJ Margaret Chadwick, R..N. FresidenlfloWA LocjtQl L33 / Debora M. Hayes	/I CWA Staff Representative	</ K	■	 Carol Eisennmenger	J3 * Bargaining Committee Member	J J	 rtrtricia warncs Bargaining Committee Member
86
Memorandum of Understanding #1 Joint Labor Management Committee
During the course of negotiations, the parties discussed, at length, the desire to establish a new relationship between CWA Local 1133 and the management of Mercy Hospital of Buffalo.
To this end, Mercy Hospital of Buffalo and CWA Local 1133 agree, subsequent to ratification of the Agreement to launch a new cooperative business partnership, The parties will begin dialog on the establishment of a formalized joint Labor Management Committee. The purpose will be to educate each other on the critical business operating issues affecting Mercy Hospital’s financial viability, welfare of our customers, and associates.
The committee shall mutually agree to the agendas to be covered and the frequency of meetings. The committee shall also be charged with the formation of sub committee as necessary, to address specific issues.
Given the new leadership within the organization, the organization, this committee shall endeavor to support the core values of the Catholic Health System, strive towards a mutually respectable relationship and align itself to address the competitive challenges with the marketplace.
87
Memorandum of Understanding #2 Attendance and Tardiness
During the negotiations that resulted in this collective bargaining Agreement, the Employer/Hospital provided the Union with a copy of the Human Resources Policy and Procedure .Attendance and Tardiness.
The Union and the Employer/Hospital agree that the Attendance andTardiness policy revised on June 6,2004 and attached to this Agreement will remain in effect for the life of this Agreement.
PURPOSE:
To establish a uniform policy and set of procedures in order to maximize the regular attendance and punctuality of employees of Mercy Hospital, Regular attendance and punctuality are considered essential ingredients in the continuity of Hospital operations and, ultimately, in providing the highest standards of care to our patients.
SCOPE:
All regular full-time, regular part-time, part-time, flex full-time, flex part-time, weekend and per diem employees of Mercy Hospital with the exception of employed physicians.
GENERAL STATEMENT OF POLICY:
To ensure fair, impartial equitable and consistent treatment for all employees, an attendance and tardiness policy has been developed.The main objective of this policy is to improve overall attendance and punctuality in a constructive manner. Reducing absenteeism and tardiness will decrease unnecessary costs, increase efficiency and contribute toward higher standards of quality patient care.
PROCEDURE:
1.	Employees are expected and required to be in regular attendance and be prepared to commence work activities at designated work locations, days and assigned hours. Employees are also expected to remain at work for the entire period excluding rest and meal periods. Late arrival, early departure and other personal absences are disruptive and should be avoided whenever possible.
2.	The policy of Mercy Hospital is to make a fair and reasonable allowance for employees’ absences, recognizing that a reasonable amount of absence due to bona fide sickness or emergency situations is often
88
beyond the control of the employee. Conversely, our Hospital and its patients are entitled to a reasonable degree of regularity in the attention of our employees to their responsibilities.
3.	Mercy has established and/or recognizes a number of programs to provide for both regularly scheduled time off from work, and for certain other types of absences which may reasonably be expected to occur. The absences related to the programs below are not applicable under this policy, provided the absence meets the requirement for proper notification, prior approval, documentation and/or eligibility as set forth in this policy or in the applicable programs noted. These programs are:
•	Scheduled Paid Time Off (PTO);
•	Approved Leave of Absence pursuant to applicable hospital policy
or collective bargaining agreements;
•	Absences associated with workers’ compensation claims;
•	Excused absence with pay for bereavement, jury duty, and military service;
*	Low census days/lack of work (e g., down staffing),
•	Holiday;
•	Emergency conditions, as determined by the Hospital, caused by natural disasters (i.e., snowstorm, flood, etc.);
•	Absences covered by the Family & Medical Leave Act;
•	Absences associated with New York State (NYS) disability;
•	Employee is confined as an inpatient in a hospital;
•	Outpatient surgery under anesthesia in hospital surgical suite, physician’s or dentist’s office.
Note: With respect to the exercise of disciplinary action in regard to NYS disability absences, patterns of absence, or when an employee's overall lost time is sufficient enough to present a question about the employee’s continued suitability for employment, corrective action shall be taken. Corrective action shall only be taken after department managerial and supervisory personnel consult with the Director of Human Resources and respective Administrative Vice President. Departmental management shall impress upon the employee the unfair burden that is placed on the Hospital and the employees’ co-workers when an employee is involved in periodic extended absences and, that the failure to improve upon his/her attendance, will result in disciplinary action even if the absences are largely or entirely the result of illness or injury,
4.	In instances of tardiness, absences, fidlure to report to work as scheduled or where employees are found to abuse benefit time from
89
work, Mercy Hospital may find it necessary to attempt correction by counseling, corrective action measures or termination.
5.	In the event an employee cannot report to work as scheduled, the employee must personally notify, their supervisor as early as possible. Employees are expected to notify their supervisor/manager, or designee, of their inability to report to work according to the following:
Ninety (90) minutes prior to their scheduled starting time for day shift, four (4) hours for evening shift and four (4) hours for night shift. If such notice is not possible due to the scheduled opening time of the department, the employee shall notify' the department as soon as the department is open.The exceptions to the above shall be the inability of the employee to make the telephone call.
6.	In all cases of an employee's absence or tardiness, the employee shall provide management personnel with a truthful reason for the absence and, if applicable, the probable duration of absence. If circumstances render the absence duration speculative or unknown, the absent employee will be required to notify management personnel to report on the status of his/her absence on a daily basis.
7.	Management and supervisory personnel have the ultimate responsibility for monitoring employee attendance and managing absenteeism and tardiness through appropriate action.The supervisor’s attitude and actions toward absenteeism and tardiness will directly affect the attitudes of employees regarding regular and timely attendance.
Definition of Terms:
1.	Absence - Failure to report to work as scheduled or to work less than one-half of the scheduled work shift,
2.	Tardiness - Failure to punch in by the start of the scheduled shift or failure to complete your assigned shift but having worked at least half the scheduled shift.
3.	Consecutive Days of Absence - One (1) day of absence equals one (1) absence occurrence.Absence of two (2) or more consecutive scheduled work days equals two (2) absence occurrences.
A.	Attendance - Counseling
1.	Attendance and punctuality patterns are established early and tend to persist, therefore, orientation of new employees concerning
90
their responsibility for regular and timely attendance is a vital obligation of each supervisor. Each employee must understand what is expected of him/her in this regard from the very first day on the job.	1
2.	Supervisors are encouraged to promptly handle all absenteeism and tardiness problems at their earliest stages.Toward this end, it is suggested that regarding absenteeism and tardiness, a counseling session be initiated. Counseling is not part of the formal corrective action process. Counseling sessions should be informative in nature and used for the following purposes:
a,) to bring to the employee’s attention that a potential problem exists regarding his/her attendance or punctuality record;
b ) to demonstrate that you take an active interest in your employee’s health and well being and are willing to listen to any problems adversely affecting attendance or punctuality;
c.) to let the employee know what is expected of him/her in the future with respect to attendance and punctual attendance;
d.) to support any future corrective action, if necessary.
3.	Management and supervisory personnel have discretion and latitude in deciding when a counseling session is necessary.
B.	Attendance - Formal Disciplinary Action
When attempts at counseling have failed and repeated employee absences reach certain preselected points, management and supervisory personnel will take the following action.
C.	Absenteeism;
The following progressive counseling will occur for instances of absenteeism in any rolling twelve (12) month period, At each step below the employee may be advised of the availability of EAP counseling:
1	.) five (5) occurrences: verbal counseling;
2	.) six (6) occurrences: verbal warning;
3	.) seven (7) occurrences: written warning; at this point, the employee will also participate in mandatory counseling sessions outside of work hours with a Hospital Employee Assistance Program counselor; this option may be utilized once within an eighteen (IS) month period;
91
4	.) eight (8) occurrences: final written warning;
5	.) nine (9j occurrences: Managerial/Human Resources review will include;
a.) attendance record for the prior calendar years;
b.) other outstanding corrective actions;
c.) overall performance;
d.) extenuating circumstances and ability to make accommodations for such circumstances.
Managerial/Human Resources review will recommend termination absent strong evidence of factors which would support continued employment. Should managerial administrative review result in continued employment, further incidence of absence within the next ninety (901 calendar days wilt result in automatic termination (with no further warning).	.
6	.) An employee’s use of unscheduled PTO, including the production of a doctor's note, for any absences shall not be construed to mean an employee’s absence has been excused from the provisions of this policy,
7	.) An employee in his/her probationary period shall be excluded from the progressive discipline procedure. In instances where the attendance of such an employee is unsatisfactory; appropriate action up to, and including termination, may be taken.
8	.) An employee absent from work without notifying his/her supervisor, NO CALL/NO SHOW, and without an explanation satisfactory to the organization, will be given a final written warning with mandatory-counseling with the organization’s Employee Assistance Program Coordinator. This option may be utilized once within an eighteen (18) month period.
A second incident of NO CALL/NO SHOW within a rolling twelve (12) month period will result in immediate termination.
9	.) If an employee is absent from work without notifying his/her supervisor for two (2) consecutive scheduled work shifts without an explanation satisfactory to the organization, the employee will be considered to have voluntarily abandoned his/her job and will be automatically terminated.
91
D.	Tardiness/Leavlng Work Early - Formal Disciplinary Action
We expect and encourage our employees to be on time for work on a daily basis.The following corrective action procedures are to be implemented in situations where attempts at counseling have failed. We also realize there will be unforeseen circumstances that will offset the timeliness of employees and these circumstances should be taken into account by department management,
As employee tardiness reaches certain preselected levels, management and supervisory personnel will take the following action:
1	.) A counseling session may be initiated with an employee by the manager on or before tardiness reaches twelve (12) occurrences in any rolling twelve (12) month period.
2	.) A verbal written warning will be issued when tardiness occurrences reach thirteen (13) in any rolling twelve (12) month period or less.
3	) After an employee receives a verbal written warning, a written warning will be issued when tardiness occurrences reach fourteen (14) in any rolling twelve (12) month period or less.
4	.) After an employee receives a written warning, a final written warning will be issued when tardiness occurrences reach sixteen (16) in any rolling twelve (12) month period or less.At this stage, the employee will be required to attend mandatory counseling with the hospital Employee Assistance Program Coordinator.
5	.) After an employee receives a final written warning, he/she will be placed on Administrative Leave to consider termination, when tardiness occurrences reach eighteen (18) within a rolling twelve (12) month period or less.
6	.) Any tardiness that has been excused in advance by an employee’s supervisor shall not be counted as an occurrence.
93
Memorandum of Understanding #3
Mercy Hospital of Biiffalo/Our Lady ofVictory Hospital j	Bargaining Unit Consolidation
' Ti	L ' ।	'	>	I •	b	'	I J '	•	.	.
1.	Mercy Hospital of Buffalo (MHB) and Our Lady ofVictory Hospital(OLVH) intend to complete a full asset merger. 1	' ‘	’
2.	It is the understanding of the parties, that there will be a consolidation of employees from both facilities post-merger.	.	.	,
3.	The'employees, at OLV currently represented by Service Employees' International Union (SEIU) desire to cease representation by SEIU and be represented by the Communications Workers of America (CWA) effective upon the completion of the full asset merger. ' ‘
4.	SEIU is willing to disclaim representation of the employees in question, and CWA is willing to represent such employees. The Employer will recognize CWA as. the exclusive bargaining representative of such employees effective upon the completion of the lull asset merger,
5.	CWA and the Employer will consider these employees, SEIU Service Workers and LPNs, to be part of the same bargaining unit as the existing MHB/CWA STC bargaining unit. The Employer and the Union agree that such employees shall have seniority based upon their original date of hire at
' OLVH or MHB whichever is greater and shall have their wages, benefits and working conditions as outlined in the MHB/CWA collective bargaining agreement.
<	Memorandum of Understanding^
L Environmental Service Workers
It is understood by the parties that the Environmental Service Workers named below shall continue to perform their duties and responsibilities as is the current practice until such time as they may change positions through the job posting procedure contained in this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Marian Carluzzo Deborah Cherie o Margaret Clifford Linda Dzierba Mary Eckam Sandra Hristovski Eileen O’Connor
Dorothy Waszkielewicz
94
|	Memorandum Of Understanding #5
j ? .. Site Rotation-Imaging Department,
| Section 1. Imaging department employees are hired to work at Mercy Hospital, 565 Abbott Road, with a requirement,to rotate to at least one off-site Imaging area. If site rotation is required, the Employer/Hospitaiand the Union ‘ agree that the rotation will be assigned as evenly as possible. “	‘
Section 2.	If it is determined that there is a need for additional staff to be trained at an off-site due to increased workload or decreased qualified staff, volunteers will be sought ona seniority basis, if there are no volunteers, the least senior employeefs) will be oriented and rotated to the site. Employees may rotate to more than one off-site on a voluntary basis. Lf there is still a need fbr staff and there are no volunteers, staff will be assigned in inverse seniority, then on a rotating basis,	'
Section 3.	Requests to be scheduled at a specific site are accommodated when possible, but may be limited by skill requirements and available staff. Once a rotation site has been designated it will remain the employee's off-site rotation, unless the site is closed, site volume changes or the employee requests a rotation site change.Advance thirty (30) day written notice will be given to the employee to define his/her new off site location.
Section 4.	Employees may be requested to change work sites after the posting of the schedule to accommodate emergent staffing needs. Employees are expected to make every effort to comply with the site change. Management will consider and attempt to accommodate transportation hardships, which may result from short notice site changes.	'
Section 5.	Staff shall rotate from one site co another during the course of a scheduled working day in emergency situations. Qualified volunteers will be sought to travel during a shift as needed on a seniority basis, [f there are no volunteers, then the least senior qualified employee will be required to travel. Employees shall be reimbursed for travel as per Article, 59,Travel.
Section 6.	The management of the Imaging Department agrees, they will meet monthly prior to the posting of the schedule, and then quarterly with .
• representatives of the Union, for the purpose of evaluating the feir and even assignment of site rotation.
95
Memorandum of Understanding #6 Subpoenaed Employees
It is agreed that an employee shall be excused from work, without loss of pay, when subpoenaed to testify as part of a judicial proceeding arising from the duties of his/her employment with Mercy Hospital of Buffalo.
If the employee is not scheduled to work when required to appear, he/she will be compensated for the hours of required attendance at their base compensation rate (i.e., no differentials, premiums, etc,/. These hours shah not count as hours worked for purposes of calculating overtime unless the hours occur during the employee's normally scheduled work hours.
An employee who, due to an approved court appearance, is excused from a scheduled evening or night shift shall receive compensation for the excused scheduled hours of work at his/her base rate. These hours shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
To be eligible an employee must:	,
a.) be served with a legally valid subpoena;
b.) provide a copy of the subpoena to his/her manager as soon as possible prior to the scheduled court appearance, but no less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled appearance unless the subpoena is served with less than twenty-four hours notice;
c.) upon receipt of a copy of the subpoena the manager will make the necessary scheduling arrangements with the employee to provide for the court appearance, inclusive of excusing the employee from a scheduled work shift, if appropriate;
d.) return the original subpoena to their manager with Che time excused noted there on and initialed by the Court Clerk or Attorney issuing the subpoena.
Memorandum of Understanding #7 Recognition
It is agreed to by the parties, that the bargaining unit with the job title Parking Attendants, certified by the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 3-RC-l 1203, will be included in the existing STC bargaining unit at Mercy Hospital of Buffalo.
It is further agreed that the wages, benefits, hours and other conditions of employment will be governed by this collective bargaining agreement.
96
Memorandum of Understanding #8 Categories of Employees
Section 1.	A part-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work less than fifteen (15) hours per week. This category of employment shall apply only to students working in the Food and Nutrition Department and the Dental Hygienists in the Skilled Nursing Facility.
Section 2.	There are approximately seven (7) people in the STC bargaining unit that were hired for and are working in a part-time position, it is the Union's proposal that each of these individuals be placed in a regular part-time or per diem position based upon their preference.
The employees may remain grandfathered in their current position if this is their preference. Those employees are:
Employee Name	lob Title	Hours Per Pay Period
Anna DeChellis	Rad. Technician	15
Elizabeth Malloy	CCU Secretary	24
Amy Ratchuk	ER/MACC	15
Becky Reichert	Clerk	15
Diane Tedesco	Rad. Technician	15
Joan Zelasko	Dental Hygienist	15
Michelle Browne	Rad .Technician	15.
Memorandum of Understanding #9
Salaries
The Employer/Hospital and the Union will convene, within forty-five (45) days following ratification, to examine the following jobs for the purpose of determining if a wage upgrade is appropriate:
Job Code 45165 45147 45415 45175	Description Health Information Clerk Payment Posting Clerk Unit Clerk Patient Service Specialist.
The Employer/Hospital will provide the Union with an updated position description.
The Employer/Hospital will provide the Union with a recommended wage rate based on local market data.
97
Memorandum of Understanding #10 Overtime
This is to document the understanding of the parties as it relates to the scheduling assignment of overtime referenced in Article 24 of our collective bargaining agreement.
1.	Overtime shall be worked only when authorized in advance, by the appropriate supervisor.
2.	The Employer/Hospital and Union agree that overtime shall be assigned on a voluntary basis and that such assignments be equally distributed. As a prerequisite to prevent unusual event or crises in the coverage of health services, the following steps should be undertaken by the Empl oyer/Hospi tai.
a.) Appropriate staffing complements shall be established and maintained.
b.) Schedules shall be posted complete and in accordance with appropriate staffing complements.
c.) Appropriate float pools, voluntary overtime lists, call-in lists, per diem fists, and a needs list shall be established and utilized.
3.	Mandatory overtime may only be considered tn cases of an unusual event or crisis situation. Should such an event occur after all other alternatives, including management staffing and use of agency personnel, have been tried and still have failed to meet patient care needs, the appropriate department manager shall call and inform the designated Union representative. The following shall then apply:
a.) The least senior qualified employee shall be designated to work the assignment.
b.) Such employee shall be paid for all hours worked on such assignment at a rate of time and one-half the employee’s regular rate of pay.
c.) The assignment shall generate a meeting between the Union and appropriate Director and manager within forty-eight (48) hours to review rhe incident to:
i	.) verify’ the crisis state of the event;
ii	.) attempt to resolve the problem to prevent such future events;
iii	.) to determine the appropriateness of the penalty, if applicable, and pay the employee at the rate of double time for avoidable events;
iv	.) review any anticipated disciplinary action. Refusal of a mandatory overtime assignment shall not be just cause for termination.
?8
Memorandum of Understanding #11 On-Call and Work in Progress
During the negotiations that resulted in this collective bargaining agreement, the Employer/Hospital and the Union agreed to contract language regarding on-call. The following attachment is the procedure/®) that will be followed in assigning employees to be on-call, as agreed Co Article 27,Qn-Call Pay a nd Work in Progress.
A.) Work In Progress:
Work in progress is defined for the purposes of this Memorandum of Understanding as an employee being engaged in a surgical or non-surgical procedure, or the care of a post-surgical patient at the scheduled end of the employee’s shift. The following process will be followed to staff at the end of Che employee’s work shift.
1	.) Every effort will be made to solicit volunteers from the available staff at work to stay to complete the care of the patient.
2	.) If there are no volunteers, the individual on-call will be contacted and required to report to work or remain at work to perform the assignment.
3	.) The scheduled employee may be required to remain at work until the individual on-call reports to work,
B.) On-Call Procedure: Operating Room
Section 1.	All employees, upon completion of orientation, and with the approval of Staff Development and the Director of Perioperative Services are required to take a minimum of two (2) shifts of on-call per month subject to the procedures outlined below. Call shall be evenly distributed between qualified staff. Weekend shift hours are defined as 7:00 am. to 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m, to 7:00 a m. Weekday shift hours are defined as 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m, - 7:00 a.m. Per diem employees shall be required to share in the on-call responsibilities of the operating room with the understanding that the per diem employee shall not be required to take call more than six (6) times per calendar year.
Section 2.	The employee assigned on-call will begin call at the conclusion of their weekday shift (i.e., 6:00 p.m., etc.). In the event that an employee signs for call and is scheduled to work after the hour of 3:00 p.m. the hours after 3:00 p.m. until the end of the employee’s assigned shift may be covered as extra call time, by employees already fulfilling their required call obligation.
Section 3.	Sign up for call:
a.) on a voluntary basis, any volunteer signing for a weekend call shift will not be required to take call another weekend shift that month;
99
b.) any work involving open-heart procedures will be covered by the open-heart team; including call for open-heart procedures;
c.) the scheduling employee or management will post a blank monthly on-call sign up calendar on the first weekday of the preceding month at 7:00 a.m. (i.e., the March on-call sign up list will be posted the first weekday of February);
d.) employees who are not able to be physically present at the time of posting may give on-call preference to another peer to sign them up for call when the list is posted; employees may sign for two (2) on-call shifts up to and including the fifteenth of the month; after that, extra time may be signed for and no bumping will be allowed.
Section 4.	If an employee is unable to cover his/her on-call time on a posted schedule, it is his/her responsibility to get coverage. The only exceptions shall be a death in the family, workers’ compensation leave, disability leave, and extenuating circumstances beyond their control. In these circumstances, the manager is responsible to find coverage for the call. The employee agreeing to cover call at that time will then assume all responsibility for that call. In the event an employee calls in for their scheduled shift and is oncal! that day, the employee will indicate whether he/she is calling in for the on-call as well.
Section 5.	In the event that there remains vacant shifts on the on-call list by the twentieth of the month, (i.e. February 20, for the March on-call sign up) call will be assigned according to the following guidelines:
a.) first to the employee or employees who have not fulfilled their commitment of two (2) shifts as in Section 1. above;
b.) per diem employees shall be required to share in the on-call responsibilities in the operating room with the understanding that the per diem employee shall not be required to take call more than six (6) times per year;
c.) on-call vacancies will be assigned by rotation on an inverse seniority basis, designated by an (a) symbolizing “on-call assigned’on the posted schedule; when an employee is scheduled to work the 7'00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. shift on a Saturday or Sunday they cannot be assigned on-call the preceding shift (11:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m ).
Section 6.	In the event that an employee calls in for a scheduled weekend shift, the on-call person will cover their shift and the secretary or management will call for volunteers to cover the on-call vacancy for emergency surgeries.
Section 7.	If an employee signs for call on a particular shift and the schedule is then posted with the employee on a regular shift that day.it is the management’s responsibility to replace the on-call shift.
too
In order to provide a complete record and maintain fairness among the employees, the following symbols will be used on the posted to schedule.
a.) Assigned on-call (a>;
b.) Down staffed, (ds) which is defined as completing less than four (4) hours of the shift;
c.) Early out, (eo) which is defined as completing four (4) or more hours of the shift.
These symbols will be placed beside the employee’s name designating the status of their call if applicable.
Section 8.	Holiday on-call shall be assigned on a voluntary basis. If there are no volunteers to cover the holiday it will be assigned on a rotating basis, in inverse order of seniority until the complete list has been rotated through. Employees will be notified two (2) weeks prior to the holiday they have been assigned to cover.
Section 9-	If an employee is scheduled to work the eve or the day of a holiday, they shall not be assigned on-call for that holiday. Employees working the holiday have the option to request the day after a holiday off, and shall be given preference to any other employee requesting off.
Section 10.	If an employee is assigned to work during one holiday weekend shift that employee is not to be assigned another weekend holiday shift that year, (i.e. if the employee is assigned to work the Saturday prior to Easter, that employee cannot be assigned the proceeding Saturday or Sunday when Monday is the Holiday such as Fourth of July, Memorial Day, etc.)
C.) On-Call Procedure: Radiology
Section 1.	Employees’ call shall be evenly distributed between qualified staff.
Section 2.	On-cali shall not be used to cover vacancies or for call-ins. It is only to be utilized in situations where an employee is needed to assist in the Special Procedures treatment of an unscheduled patient or when follow-up is required as part of the continuation of a procedure.
D.) On-Call Procedure: Cardiac Catherization Lab
Section 1. All employees, upon completion of orientation and with the approval of the nurse manager are required to take part in the on-call team subject to the procedures outlined below.Weekday shift hours are defined as 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a,m. Weekend shift hours are defined as 6:00 a.m. Saturday to 5:00 a.m. Monday. Per diem employees shall have the option to share on-call responsibilities.
101
Section 2, The employee assigned on-call will begin call at the conclusion of the cases for the day. The employees on-call will be the last stalf members left to finish the last case of the day.
Section 3- In the event an employee calls in on a scheduled on-call shift, management will ask for volunteers; it will be assigned in inverse order of seniority on a rotating basis,
a.) A calendar for on-call will be posted with each new schedule.
b.) On-call may be split between two (2) or more employees as long as on-call hours are covered accordingly.
Section 4.	Holiday on-call shah be assigned on a volunteer basis. If there are no volunteers to cover the holiday it will be assigned on a rotating basis in inverse order of seniority until the complete list has been rotated through.
Employees may volunteer for multiple holidays. In the case that two (2) or more employees want the same holiday off, it will be awarded to the highest senior on a rotating basis whereby an employee will not work that same holiday the next year unless they volunteer to do so.
Section 5.	'XTicn taking call, if an employee is called into work 4*nc! j s on ttic posted schedule for the next morning, the following options will be available:
a.) report to work at their scheduled time or;
b ) report for duty up to six (6) hours after they punch out.
In each case, the employee must inform the manager by leaving a voice mail at the nurses station in the holding room.
Section 6.	When taking call, if an employee is called into work and is on the
posted schedule for the next morning, that employee shall be considered first for early out/downstaffing considerations for that day.
Section 7.	In accordance with the increased caseload of cardiac interventions and the emergence of primary interventions, an employee may be engaged in a case or the care of a post intervention patient at the end of the employees scheduled shift. The following process will be followed to ensure proper staffing and flow of the cardiac cath lab:
a.) Personnel shall be required to cover the cases at a rate of two (2) times the base pay until the time the employee can complete their assignment and the lab can function with the remaining call team only
b.) The employees on the call team will begin call and receive their on-call pay upon total completion of that days cases and closure of the cath lab.
102
Memorandum of Understanding #12 Paid Time Off (PTO)
Effective the last full pay period in June, 2005, all employees covered by this Agreement, will use the date of hire with the Employer/Hospital, as outlined in accordance with Article 47, Section 1in determining their PTO accrual rate.
Any employee who is accruing PTO based upon a date other than his/her most recent date of hire with the Employer/Hospital, shall have the most recent date of hire with the Employer/Hospital restored, and will begin accruing PTO based upon his/her most recent date of hire, with the Employer/Hospital.
All paid time off and long term sick bank accruals, shall be included on the employees pay stub, listing the total number of hours that are accrued, unused leave.
103