0
AGREEMENT
Between
SWIFT & COMPANY GRAND ISLAND, NEBRASKA
LOCAL UNION NO. 22 UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO & CLC
From January 31, 2005 to February 28, 2010
£o pa
INDEX
Article 1	- Purpose of Agreement..................................................2
Article 2	- Recognition...........................................................2
Article 3	- Safety and Ergonomics............;....................................2
Article 4	- Management Rights.....................................................4
Article 5	- Hours of Work.........................................................5
Article 6	- Meal Periods and Rest Periods.........................................6
Article 7	- Guarantee.............................................................7
Article 8	- No Strike, No Lockout.................................................7
Article 9	- Seniority.............................................................8
Article 10	- Bulletin Boards.....................................................14
Article 11	- Union Representation................................................14
Article 12	- Deduction of Union Dues.............................................15
Article 13	- Grievance and Arbitration...........................................15
Article 14	- Multicultural ......................................................18
Article 15	- No Discrimination................................................   18
Article 16	- Military Service....................................................20
Article 17	- Military Summer Encampment..........................................20
Article 18	- Safety Equipment, Tools, and Clothing...............................20
Article 19-	Benefits.............................................................21
Article 20	- Holiday Pay.........................................................24
Article 21	- Vacation..........................................................,.25
Article 22	- Jury Duty........................................................... 28
Article 23	- Funeral Leave.......................................................28
Article 24	- Leave of Absence....................................................29
Article 25	- Wages.............................................................. 31
Article 26	- Shift Differential..................................................35
Article 27	- Work Schedules......................................................35
Article 28	- Waiver, Entire Agreement and Severability...........................36
Article 29 - Term of Agreement.....................................................37
Memorandums of Understanding
Group Rate Changes and Group Rate Pay Protection for Named Employees...............38
Exhibit A - Group Classifications for Production Jobs Fabrication Groups.................................................................39
Slaughter Groups...................................................................39
AGREEMENT
This Agreement has been made and entered into by Swift & Company Grand island, Nebraska facility (hereinafter the Company), and the United Food and Commercial Workers AFL-CIO,CLC, Local Union No. 22 (hereinafter the Union).
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 1.
It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that we shall, by this Agreement and through its terms, promote and improve the industrial and economic relationships between the Company, the Union, and the employees. We have established here the rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment to be observed between the parties.
SECTION 2.
It is recognized by both parties that we have a mutual interest and obligation in maintaining friendly cooperation between the Company and Union which permits safe, economical, and efficient operation.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all full-time and regular part-time production-and maintenance employees,. including janitors, knife sharpeners, freezer inventory control clerks, and production trainers employed by the Company at its facility located in Grand Island, Nebraska, but excluding office clerical employees, professional employees, console operators (selectors), beef graders/coordinators, cattle buyers, nurses, emergency medical technicians, managerial employees, computer operators, CRT operators, maintenance superintendents (engineers), administrative employees, quality control employees (pifs), scale operators, storeroom employees, electronic scale technicians, maintenance instructors, classroom instructors, knife room technicians, inventory control coordinators, employees of independent contractors, guards, and supervisors as defined in the Act.
ARTICLE 3
SAFETY AND ERGONOMICS
SECTION 1.
A.	The Union and the Company agree that accident prevention, the elimination of personal injuries, and the safety of all employees is our foremost goal. We dedicate ourselves to providing the safest possible work environment for all. We will therefore support the Safety Program in all that we do in order to achieve and maintain this goal.
2
B.	The Company agrees that it has the sole responsibility to provide a safe and healthy workplace and to correct safety and health hazards. Nothing in the Agreement shall imply that the Union has undertaken or assumed any portion of that responsibility.
C.	it is the responsibility of each management employee and each hourly employee to follow and support the Safety Programs and Safe Operating Procedures.
SECTION 2.
A.	The Company and the Union will establish a Safety Steering Committee. This Steering Committee will consist of five management members (General Manager, Engineer, Fabrication and First Processing Operations Managers and the Safety Manager). Four bargaining unit Safety Committee members and a minimum of two Union Officials. They shall meet at least monthly, on company time, not to exceed two (2) hours.
B.	In addition to the Steering Committee, there will be four production Safety Committees. These production Safety Committees will represent A shift First Processing, B shift First Processing, A shift Fabrication and B shift Fabrication. Each of these committees will consist of one of the bargaining unit Safety Committee members from the Steering Committee, four rotating production employee appointed by the Union and two management members. They shall meet at least weekly, on company time, not to exceed one (1) hour. Production Safety Committee members will be assigned by the Safety Steering Committee, to perform work area safety inspections and other activities in company time of at least thirty (30) minutes per week to be taken in one thirty (30) minute increment. Time will be reviewed with the approval of the committee member's supervisor. Findings will be with the appropriate Superintendent and Safety Manager or designee. The Safety Committee will review findings.
C.	An Ergonomics Advisory Group for production and maintenance shift consisting of five (5) management employees and five (5) employees appointed by the Union shall operate with the guidance of the Steering Committee. This group shall meet at least once each month and the group shall have at least two (2) members attend the monthly Steering Committee meeting. The Ergonomics Advisory Group will provide recommendations for safety and ergonomic improvements, based on their training, work site inspections, reviews with employees, and information from engineers and ergonomic consultants.
SECTION 3.
A designated Union Committee member shall be notified promptly of the occurrence of any illness or accident resulting in serious injury or death. The designated Union Safety Committee member and the Company’s Safety Director shall review the circumstances causing the accident.
SECTION 4.
Time for Safety Committee meetings; Ergonomic Advisory Group meetings, work site inspections, and Company sponsored training shall be considered time worked. Such
3
meetings, inspections, and training shall be conducted during the employee's regular work-shift to the extent possible.
SECTION 5.
The Company shall provide training to the committees, not to exceed a total of five (5) days per member, which shall be consistent with their responsibiiities in safety or ergonomics. Annual training updates of at least one (1) day per member will be provided thereafter.
SECTION 6.
The Company shall make available tor review by the committees and groups, applicable information and analysis regarding air and noise monitoring, hazardous chemicals, OSHA 300 Logs, and analysis of CTD cases and the job functions where the cases originated.
SECTION 7.
The Ergonomic Advisory Group will work with management, affected employees, and consultants to analyze, evaluate and implement safety and ergonomic changes and the redesign of work stations. The group will utilize the input from employees, the Medical Management Program, and ergonomic job analysis. A group of alternate duty jobs may be established with the recommendation of the Ergonomic Advisory Group.
SECTION 8.
Meeting minutes and an ergonomic activity log or similar working documents will be available for review by the Union and members of the respective committees or groups.
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
SECTION 1.
The management of the operation and the direction of the working force - including the right to hire, suspend, discipline or discharge for cause; to assign jobs; to transfer, promote or demote employees; to increase or decrease the working force; to determine job loads, production standards, and rules applicable to employees; to determine the location of the business, products to be handled, produced or manufactured; the scheduling of production, and the methods and changes to processes and means of production or handling; to place work with contractors or subcontractors, provided the provisions of Section 5 of this Article are followed; to determine those with whom it will do business; as well as the right to determine the qualification and ability of employees, are vested exclusively with the Company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.
Supervisors and other personnel may perform duties that are necessary in the conduct of the business, provided they do not replace bargaining unit employees on a permanent basis.
SECTION 3.
The Company may establish, add to, modify or change work rules, absentee policies, and drug and alcohol rules and programs subject to the Union's right to utilize the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Agreement.
4
SECTION 4,
It is mutually agreed that the Company retains all previously held management rights and prerogatives, except those rights specifically relinquished in this Agreement
SECTION 5.
Before subcontracting any operation which will result in the layoff of employees, the Company will notify the Union in order that the Company and the Union may discuss and minimize the effects of the layoff. The Company agrees to delay any layoffs which are a direct result of subcontracting for up to two weeks following such notice to the Union in order that alternatives to laying off employees can be suggested, and agreeable solutions, if any, can be initiated.
ARTICLE 5
HOURS OF WORK
SECTION 1.
The workweek for payroll purposes shall start at 12:01 A.M. on Monday and end at Midnight Sunday evening.
SECTION 2.
The basic workday of an employee will be eight (8) hours except for employees who are scheduled to work four (4) ten-hour days. The basic workweek of an employee will be forty (40) hours. It is understood and agreed that the basic workday and the basic workweek are not to be interpreted as either a daily or weekly guarantee, nor do they restrict the amount of time an employee can be required to work.
SECTION 3.
One and one half times the regular rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any workday or for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one workweek. Employees who are scheduled to work four (4) ten-hour days are excepted from the eight hour requirement for daily overtime and shall be paid at one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours in one workday.
SECTION 4.
One and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate of pay shall be paid for work performed on the sixth (6th) day of work within a workweek provided an employee has worked all hours on the first five (5) days of that workweek or has requested and has received written approval fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of the date (s) requested off or is hospitalized. Benefit hours for which employees are paid, but are not hours worked, will not be counted as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime, except that overtime will be paid to an employee for work performed on the sixth (6th) day of a workweek in which a holiday occurs, provided the employee is eligible and qualifies for holiday pay, and has worked ail scheduled work hours during that workweek.
SECTION 5.
Double the regular rate of pay shall be paid for all hours worked on Sunday, except for those employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday. These employees shall be scheduled for a day off in lieu of Sunday, and if required to work their scheduled Sunday lieu day, the hours worked will be paid at double their regular rate of pay.
5
SECTION 6.
Shifts commencing one day and ending the following day shall be considered to have been worked on the day the shift commences.
SECTION 7.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime.
SECTION 8.
Employees reporting to work as scheduled or notified to report will receive a minimum of four (4) hours of work or the equivalent in straight time pay, unless the plant is unable to operate because of reasons enumerated in Article 7 Guarantee, Section 1.
SECTION 9.
The Company will post notification of work scheduled for Saturday by noon on Thursday.
SECTION 10.
A.	When overtime work requires the assignment of employees, the required overtime work shall be assigned as fairly and equally as possible, over a reasonable period of time, to qualified employees.
B.	When overtime work opportunities occur, which are outside the normal department’s work or work schedule, the overtime work will be offered to employees, with the opportunity to work distributed as fairly and equally as possible, over a reasonable period of time, to qualified employees.
SECTION 11.
Employees called to work outside their regular work schedule after once going home for the day and at a time when such work does not merge into their regular shift shall receive at least four (4) hours pay at one and one half (1 1/2) times their straight time hourly rate. However, in the event an employee is called back after clocking out and before leaving the premises, they shall be paid “straight through" as though they had not punched out and without the four (4) hour guarantee for such work.
ARTICLE 6 MEAL PERIODS AND REST PERIODS
SECTION 1.
Employees will receive one (1) paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes, approximately two and one half (2 1/2) hours after the start of their shift. The Company may vary the start ol the rest period by up to thirty (30) minutes to adjust for production needs or emergencies.
SECTION 2.
Employees will receive a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period approximately five (5) hours after the start of their shift. The Company may vary the start of the lunch period by up to thirty (30) minutes to adjust for production needs or emergencies. If the shift does not exceed five and one half (5 1/2) hours, no lunch period will be provided.
6
SECTION 3.
Employees will receive a second paid rest period of fifteen (15) minutes if the day’s work schedule exceeds eight (8) hours and fifteen (15) minutes. This provision is exclusive of time paid for donning and doffing personal protective equipment.
SECTION 4.
Employees required to work beyond ten and one half (10 1/2) hours on any shift will receive five ($5.00) dollar meal allowance.
SECTION 5.
Employees will not be required to work in excess of three and one-half (3 1/2) hours without a meal or rest period.
ARTICLE 7 GUARANTEE
SECTION 1.
The Company will guarantee to each regular full-time employee who has completed the probationary period by the start of the work week, thirty-six (36) hours of work or pay equivalent at the straight time hourly rate of pay for each week of employment, barring acts of God, civil commotion, power or other utility failure, explosion, fire, flood, storm, strikes or boycotts by any labor union, government acts that prevent the Company from operating, or other unusual emergencies. The Guarantee will be reduced by eight (8) hours for each day on which the plant is unable to operate because of the above. Hours employees are absent for any reason will be deducted from such thirty-six (36) hours. Hours of work (or pay) for the purpose of the Guarantee will include all hours paid, including paid rest periods, vacations, holidays, funeral leave, and jury duty.
SECTION 2.
The Guarantee referenced in Section 1 of this Article may be reduced to thirty-two (32) hours in thirteen (13) weeks per calendar year in each department and/or shift, subject to the same qualifications and conditions enumerated in Section 1. The Company shall notify the employees of a short week on or before Friday of the week proceeding the short week. If thirty-six (36) hours or more are worked in the week, that week shall not count against the thirteen (13) week allowance.
SECTION 3.
Employees displaced or recalled because of operations of the seniority provisions of this Agreement shall receive pay for only those hours worked in the week of such displacement or recall.
ARTICLE 8 NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
SECTION 1.
During the term of this Agreement there shall be no strike, stoppage, picketing, honoring of any picket line, sympathy strike, slowdown, deliberate withholding of production or
7
suspension of work on the part of the Union, its members, or any individual covered by this Agreement, for any reason whatsoever. In the event of a breach of the provision, the Union shall immediately declare publicly that such action is unauthorized and shall promptly order its members to resume their normal duties notwithstanding the existence of any picket line. The Union further agrees that it will not, in any way, interfere with the business of the Company by sanctioning or conducting a boycott on the handling of goods procured from a source or destined to a point where a labor controversy or dispute may exist
SECTION 2.
The Company shall have the right to determine the discipline given an employee or employees for breach of this Article. The severity of the discipline imposed for such violation shall not be subject to arbitration; the Union shall, however, have the right to grieve the question of fact as to whether or not an employee or employees have breached any provisions of this Article.
SECTION 3.
The Company agrees that neither it nor its representatives will put into effect any lockout during the term of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.
The Company will not enter into any agreement on an individual basis with any employee covered by this agreement.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
SECTION 1.
SENIORITY ATTAINMENT
A. This Agreement defines Plant Seniority, Division Seniority, and Department Seniority as an employee's period of unbroken service with the Grand Island plant since the employee's most recent date of hire. Prior to attaining seniority, an employee is known as a probationary employee for a period of thirty (30) days. The Company may, at its sole discretion, discipline or terminate the employment of probationary employees, and no grievance concerning such discipline or termination shall be filed on their behalf. After such probationary period, an employee becomes a regular employee, and shall have seniority commencing as of the employee's most recent date of hire. The Company may extend the probationary period, for work performance purposes only, an additional thirty (30) days.
SECTION 2.
SENIORITY DIVISIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
A.	Divisional units for seniority purposes:
1.	Slaughter Production Division
2.	Fabrication Production Division
3.	Maintenance Division
8
B.	Departments within the Slaughter Production Division:
1.	Kill Floor
2.	Offal
3.	Coolers
4.	Pens
5.	Inedible Rendering/Blood Plasma
6.	Hides
7.	Wastewater
C.	Departments within the Fabrication Production Division:
1.	Fabrication
2.	Material Handling / Storage
3.	Edible Rendering
4.	Packaging / Box Shop
5.	Ground Beef
D.	Departments within the Maintenance Division:
1.	Slaughter
2.	Fabrication
3.	Electrical
4.	Refrigeration
5.	Rendering / Gelbone
SECTION 3.
SENIORITY LISTS
Seniority lists of all bargaining unit employees shall be maintained by the Company and shall be posted every six (6) months. A copy shall be furnished to the Union. Any protest as to the correctness of the seniority list must be made in writing to the Company within thirty (30) days after the list is posted and delivered to the Union or the list will be deemed final. Employees who are absent from work for the entire thirty (30) day period following posting of the seniority lists because of illness, vacation, or leave of absence shall have an opportunity to protest the correctness of the seniority list within two (2) workdays after they return to work. Additions and deletions to the seniority list shall be provided to the local Union monthly. The information provided shall include the name of the employee, date of hire or termination, Social Security number, and assignment.
SECTION 4.
LOSS OF SENIORITY
A.	Termination of seniority and employment shall occur upon:
1.	Date of voluntary resignation or retirement.
2.	Overstaying vacation or granted leave of absence without justifiable cause.
3.	Failure to report from layoff within five (5) days after written notice has been sent by certified mail to the last known address on the Company records.
4.	Layoffs or leaves of any kind or remaining off the active payroll for more than twelve (12) months. However leaves for more than eighteen (18) months do to occupational and / or non-occupational illness and / or injury are the exception.
9
5.	Absence from work tor three (3) consecutive working days without proper notification to management.
6.	Discharge for cause.
7.	When it has been determined that the employee is medically totally and permanently disabled.
B.	An employee who accepts a position with the Company which is outside the bargaining unit as defined by Article 2, Recognition, and who remains away from the bargaining unit for more than sixty (60) working days will lose all seniority.
SECTION 5.
FILLING VACANCIES
A.	When job vacancies occur within the plant (except temporary vacancies as provided in Section 6, and except Lead person and Production Trainer as provided in Section 7), either by creation of a new job or by a vacancy, the job shall be posted to the plant on Wednesdays and Fridays shall remain posted for two (2) consecutive work days. The vacancy will be awarded to the senior bidding employee in that department, provided that person is able to perform the work. The successful bidder must own an assigned or regular full time bid job. Additionally the successful bidder must have completed the probation period and must be able to perform the work.
B.	If no employee in the department bids or qualifies for the job; it shall be awarded to the senior non-bid job owner in that division, provided that person is able to perform the work.
C.	if no employees in that division bids or qualifies for the job, it shall be awarded to the senior non-bid job owner from the remaining divisions, provided that person is able to perform the work.
D.	The Company may assign an unassigned employee from within the department, division or from outside the Company. Where there are two or more qualified and unassigned employees available to fill the open job vacancy, the Company will follow the principle of “Senior may Jr. must”. Any Company assigned job will not count against the employee as a bid, for the purpose of bid restrictions as outlined below in paragraph H. The Company has the right to fill any job on any shift during the bidding procedure.
E.	In an effort to keep bid jobs awarded and employees moved in a timely fashion, the Company will develop and maintain an “Aging Report”. This Aging Report will list the status of all job bids until there is a final disposition. The report will include the division, department, employee’s name, job title and grade they are bidding to, job title and grade they are bidding from, date of the award and their current status. The Aging Report will be maintained by the Human Resources department, updated on a weekly basis and made available to the Union. The report will also be made available for review by inquiring employees
10
F,	An employee shall be placed on the new job no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the job has been awarded through bid. Employees, who are not moved within the thirty (30) calendar day period referenced above, shall receive the higher rate of pay (if applicable) plus twenty five cents (.25) on the thirty-first (31*') calendar day and thereafter. Subsequently disqualified bidders will cease to receive the additional incentive pay. Employees shall have a reasonable number of days to demonstrate their ability and qualifications to perform the job to the satisfaction of the Company and become qualified on the job.
G.	Employees achieving six (6) months of seniority may bid from one shift to another shift.
H.	There shall be a limit of one (1) successful bid each year for each employee to a lateral or lower job opening. However, there will be no limit on upward bidding. The successful bidder on the job posting will be required to accept the iob. The bidder accepting the job posting shall make a sincere effort to learn the job; however, in the event he/she can not, in the judgment of the Company, perform the work in a satisfactory manner, they shall be permitted to return to his/her former department and will be assigned an open job. An employee who is returned to their previous department will not be allowed to bid for three (3) months. Employees who bid and are awarded a job may not disqualify themselves from the job. If an employee signs for more than one (1) bid job, they must rank the jobs by number in accordance to which job they would prefer to have first, second, third, etc. The employee shall be awarded the job that his/her seniority allows by the order in which they are ranked.
I.	Maintenance job vacancies will be posted by shift and divisions (Fabrication / Slaughter, Electrical-Refrigeration & Rendering I Gel bone). Maintenance employees will be limited to three (3) bids each year. If an employee signs for more than one (1) bid job, they must rank the jobs by number in accordance to which job they would prefer to have first, second, third, etc. The employee shall be awarded the job that their seniority allows by the order, in which they are ranked. Employees who fail to indicate their preferred choices wilt be subject to the Company's selection.
With regards to employees in the Maintenance pool or those transferring from the production division the following shall apply.
Those employees awarded Electrical & Utility job vacancies must meet all of the following entry-level requirements.
1)	. Must have completed four (4) approved maintenance training classes (one of which must be “Concepts of Electronics" or pass a company approved proficiency exam, and
2)	. Hold a level four (4) or higher mechanic rating, and
3)	. Receive acceptance approval from the Company / Union review committee.
J.	Job postings shall be typed and shall state the job title, a brief description of the principal job duties, rate of pay, shift, date the job is open and previous owner. All jobs posted will be numbered.
ii
K.	In an effort to make reasonable accommodation to current employees and Employee candidates with restriction as outline in "Article 15 Section 6 Non-Discrimination" the following shall apply. A list of jobs (Alternate Duty) mutually developed by the Company and the union shall be used to accommodate those with documented permanent restrictions. The list may be mutually modified if need be during the life of the labor agreement. Temporarily restricted and non-restricted employees may occupy the "Alternate Duty" jobs but will be displaced by those with a documented permanent restriction. Bump rights for those displaced employees Will not apply.
Memorandum of Understanding This letter of understanding is entered into by and between Swift & Company for its Grand Island, Nebraska facility and the United Food and Commercial Workers, AFC-CIO, CLC, Local Union no 22 and is incorporated by reference and made part of the agreement dated May 8th 2003.
Individuals who have reached Maximum Medical Improvement and are placed on Medical Leave will have 18 months to apply for any available full time positions that match any permanent restrictions they may have. The individual’s seniority at Swift & Company will continue for those 18 months. The Company, Union and affected employee will have mutual responsibility in monitoring open job opportunities. If placed into a position during those 18 months there will be no consideration for back pay. If they have not resumed full time employment by the end of those 18 months their employment and seniority at Swift & Company will end.
SECTION 6.
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS AND TEMPORARY VACANCIES
A. The Company shall post temporary job vacancies for those employees taking leaves of absence at a minimum of 12 weeks. The posting shall indicate that the vacancy is temporary only. The vacancy previously held by the employee awarded the temporary bid job will be assigned by the Company. Employees awarded temporary vacancies will hold the bid job until the employee on leave returns to work. In the event the employee fails to return to work at the end of the leave, the job will be posted as a regular full time bid job. The employee previously filling the temporary vacancy will return to his/her originally held regular full time bid job. The Company wilt assign temporary jobs that are not signed for bid.
SECTION 7.
LEADPERSON AND PRODUCTION TRAINER VACANCIES
When job openings for Lead person and Production Trainer occur, an informational posting shall be made for a period of seven (7) days. Interested employees may complete an application tor the position at the Human Resources Office? The vacancy will be awarded to the best qualified of the five (5) senior applicants. Qualifications will be evaluated by management using candidate interviews and using information from a Union-appointed panel of employees experienced in the classification. Evaluation criteria will include work skills, work record, work experience, attendance, safety, communication, and education or training which is related to the position.
12
SECTION 8.
LAYOFF
A. Layoff within a department/division caused by a reduction in force will be done according to plant seniority among the employees working in the department/division, provided that employees who remain are capable of performing the remaining jobs.
Employees who are displaced by a reduction in force will move to the jobs they held previously, provided they have more plant seniority than the employees they displace.
If an employee's seniority will not allow the displacement of an employee in a previously held job then that employee may be retained elsewhere, provided they are able to perform the job duties to the satisfaction of the Company where the work is available.
However, it the job elimination or the reduction in the workforce is not expected to last more than eight (8) weeks, the original displaced employee will not have the right to displace in reverse order of their progression and may only displace the junior employee, based on plant seniority, within the plant.
0. Employees shall receive the rate of pay for the job where they are retained by their seniority.
C.	Employees in the Maintenance Division may not be displaced by employees from other divisions.
D.	In a recall, employees layed off from a division who have the greatest plant seniority will be the first recalled, provided they are qualified to perform the work available.
E.	Probationary employees shall be first to be layed off before regular employees, provided that the employees who remain are qualified and capable of performing the remaining jobs.
F.	The Company shall consider requests from employees who volunteer to be layed off in place of other employees, provided such request does not impair the efficient operation of the plant. If such request is granted by the Company, the volunteer, shall be eligible to apply for Unemployment Benefits without challenge from the Company due to the voluntary nature of the employee's request.
G.	Employees shall furnish the Company in writing their address for the purposes of giving required notices. When recalling employees from layoff, a certified letter will be sent to the employee's last address on the company records. Employees so notified shall return as soon as possible, but no later than five (5) calendar days from the date of notification or all seniority and recall rights shall be forfeited. It is agreed that notification will have been made based on the date of first attempted delivery of the certified letter by the post office. A copy of the recall letter will be sent to the Union.
13
ARTICLE 10 BULLETIN BOARDS
SECTION 1.
The Company will provide separate, enclosed bulletin boards where the Union may post notices of recreational and social affairs, notices of Union elections, appointments and results of Union elections, and notices of Union meetings and functions. The bulletin boards will be placed in or near the plant cafeterias and box shipping. No scandalous or defamatory materials, nothing of a personal attack or anything critical of the Company shall be posted. All such notices or postings must be signed by an officer of the Union and/or a business agent of the Union.
ARTICLE 11
UNION REPRESENTATION
SECTION 1.
PLANT VISITATION
Local Union officers and designated service representatives shall have the right to visit the Company's Grand Island plant at any time during normal working hours for the purpose of investigating grievances or for reviewing the operations with notice to the Plant General Manager or the manager's representative, and shall not interfere with production. The duly authorized representatives of the Union shall have the right to visit welfare areas as approved by the Company.
SECTION 2.
LIST OF REPRESENTATIVES
The Union shall maintain an up to date listing of all authorized officers, representatives, and stewards of the local Union with the Plant General Manager or the manager's designee.
SECTION 3.
ORIENTATION
The Company agrees to allow, during orientation, Union representatives the opportunity to discuss the Union's role at the Grand Island plant and solicit signatures on application and dues authorization forms. Such presentations will not normally exceed one half (1/2) hour.	/
SECTION 4.
LOCKER INSPECTION
The Company will notify the Union and allow a Union Steward to be present during locker inspections or in the event padlocks need to be cut or removed from occupied lockers.
SECTION 5.
TIME STUDIES
14
The Union may perform time studies at the plant upon reasonable advance written notice to the Plant General Manager or the manager's designee.
SECTION 6.
STEWARDS FOR DISCIPLINE INVESTIGATIONS
The Company will arrange to have a Union Steward present, if one is available, when requested by an employee, when investigations leading to discipline are conducted. If an employee requests a steward who speaks the employee’s first language, the Company will attempt to comply with the request to the extent practical.
SECTION 7
NOTICE OF DISCIPLINE
The Company will provide a copy of written forms of disciplinary action to the affected employee and the Union's designated on site communications receptacle on a daily bases...
SECTION 8
WALKING STEWARD
A,	The Union may designate one (1) Walking Steward to cover A, B and C shifts Among the Company’s employees who shall have as their job duties administration of the agreement including safety assignments and the processing of grievances. The Company will pay the Walking Steward his/her regular rate of pay, or at a minimum of group rate level 5, up to forty (40) hours on a weekly basis upon receiving a signed and dated form from the Walking Steward setting forth a summary of issues addressed with the status. The Walking Steward will punch in and out for attendance purposes. The Walking Steward will continue to receive benefits on the same terms following designation as a Walking Steward.
B.	the Company shall review the Walking Steward program and the Union as needed to recommend needed adjustments, if any. If the program has not served the intent and purpose of Article 1 of this Agreement, the Company may discontinue the program with a ninety (90) day written notice.
ARTICLE 12 DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
SECTION 1.
The Company will withhold from the employee’s pay such amounts for Union dues and initiation fees as the employee has authorized in writing. Such amount shall be withheld weekly and be remitted to the office of the Local Union on a monthly basis.
SECTION 2.
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, judgments, attachments, and from any other form of liability as a result of making any deduction in accordance with the above authorization and assignment.
ARTICLE 13 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
J5
SECTION 1.
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
A Grievance Committee of not more than three (3) members shad be designated by the Union. The Union shall advise the Company of the names of this Committee in writing. Employees who are members of this Committee and stewards designated in section 2 of this Article, when required to attend any regular scheduled meeting with the Company’s designated representatives to process grievances in Second Step and Third Step, shall be excused with pay from their work duties, and shall suffer no loss of pay from their scheduled or gang time hours, as applicable.
SECTION 2.
STEWARDS
The Union shall designate a reasonable number of stewards, and shall maintain an up to date listing of these stewards and the departments or divisions represented by each. This listing shalf be maintained with the Plant Manager or Human Resources.
SECTION 3.
STEPS IN THE GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCESS
Employees, stewards, and supervisors are encouraged to informally discuss questions or issues which may then be resolved without a grievance. Should grievances arise between (he Company and the Union, or between the Company and employees, pertaining to matters involved in this Agreement or incident to the employment relationship, the following procedure shall apply:
FIRST STEP
The employee involved, with or without the appropriate steward shall, within five (5) working days of their knowledge of the incident or issue, discuss the matter with the immediate supervisor for the purpose of resolving the grievance. If no grievance is received within the two (2) days specified above, the matter shall be considered closed.
The supervisor’s answer is due within two (2) working days of the discussion and receipt of the grievance. If the matter is not settled at First Step, the Union may, through a steward or other recognized official, advance the grievance to the Second Step, provided the written notice is received within five (5) working days of the discussion and receipt of the First Step answer. Grievances involving a suspension or the termination shall be filed in writing within five (5) working days of their knowledge, at the Second Step.
SECOND STEP
Grievances filed in the step must be in writing. The timely notice in writing to the Plant Human Resources Manager shall cause the scheduling of a meeting with the Chief Steward and/or other Union Representatives, with or without the employee arid any witnesses, to discuss the matter with the Plant Human Resources Manager, affected Operations Manager or Plant Engineer or their designated representatives for the purpose of resolving the grievance. The Company's written response is due within five (5) working days of the conclusion of this Second Step meeting.
16
If the matter is not settled at Second Step, the Union may advance the grievance to the Third Step, provided the written notice is received by the Human Resources Manager within five (5) working days of the receipt of the Second Step answer.
THIRD STEP/PRE-ARBITRAT1ON
The timely notice shall cause a meeting with the Union Grievance Committee, the Human Resources Manager, the Plant Operations Managers or Plant Engineer, and the Vice President of Human Resources or their designees for the purpose of resolving the grievance. Meetings of this committee shall be scheduled each month if necessary, in order to assure timely processing. Any additional evidence will be brought forward and shared at this Third Step meeting. The Company’s written response is due within fifteen (15) working days of the conclusion of this Third Step meeting. Any agreement of settlement at this step of the grievance procedure shall bo final and binding on both parties.
If the matter Is not settled at Third Step, the Union may advance the grievance to Arbitration, provided the written notice of the Union’s intent to proceed to Arbitration is received within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of the Company’s Third Step answer.
ARBITRATION
The Union’s timely notice of intent to proceed to arbitration at this stage shall provide the opportunity for the parties to select an arbitrator by mutual agreement. If the parties do not agree on the selection of an arbitrator, either party may make a written request for five (5) names from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Upon receipt of the list, the parties shall alternately strike names from the list to determine which arbitrator will hear and decide the case.
The arbitrator’s fee and expenses, the cost of hearing facilities, and any Other costs required by the arbitrator shall be paid equally by the Company and the Union. All other expenses shall be paid by the authorizing party. The authority of the arbitrator shall be limited to the terms and conditions specifically contained within this Agreement. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on employees, the Company, and the Union.
SECTION 4.
SCHEDULING
No employee shall leave their job to participate in any grievance or other representational activities on behatf of themselves or other employees without first receiving permission from their supervisor. Grievances will be presented and Step meetings will be scheduled at times which cause the least inconvenience to operations.
SECTION 5.
TIME LIMITS
17
The parties agree that the time allowed to process grievances at each step is adequate. If the Union fails to process a grievance within the time limits, the grievance is ended. If the Company fails to answer a grievance within the time limits, that grievance is automatically advanced to the next step of the procedure. Time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties, with any such agreements expressed in writing and signed by Company and Union representatives.
SECTION 6.
UNION AUTHORITY
The Local Union Executive Board has final authority to determine whether or not a grievance shall be processed through any step of the grievance procedure, or arbitrated. That decision shall be binding upon the employee.
ARTICLE 14 MULTICULTURAL
SECTION 1.
The Company and the Union shall appoint a committee, to meet af least quarterly for the purpose of recommending communication, translation, and education improvements.
SECTION 2.
The Company shall publish the Agreement and key policies in translation to languages which are the first languages of large hourly production and maintenance employee populations. The parties agree that the signed, English language Agreement shall be the controlling document for legal and administrative purposes.
Section 3
The Company agrees to contribute $25,000 to a joint Multicultural Educational Trust Fund in the initial year of the new Agreement. Each year thereafter the Company will contribute an amount necessary, up to $25,000, to bring the uncommitted balance of the Trust up to $25,000.
ARTICLE 15 NO DISCRIMINATION
Section 1,	No Discrimination, The Company and the Union are committed to maintaining a work environment that is free from discrimination. In the administration of this agreement and, in accordance with applicable federal and state law, neither the Company nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee because of that employee's race, color, religion, national origin, age, material status, veteran or disability.
Section 2,	Harassment Prohibited, Harassment of any employee due to that employee's race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, veteran's status, or disability is also prohibited by this Agreement as well as federal and state law. Harassment consists of unwelcome conduct, whether verbal, physical, or visual, that is based upon a person's protected status, such as sex, race, color, ancestry, religion, national origin, age, disability, marital status, or other protected status. The Company will not tolerate harassing conduct that affects tangible job benefits; that interferes unreasonably with
18
an individuals work performance; or that creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment
a. Sexual Harassment. Sexual harassment includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other physical, verbal or visual conduct based on sex, when:
(i)	Submission to the conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of employment;
(il)	Submission to or rejection of the conduct is used as the basis for an employment decision; or
(lii)	The conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
Prohibited sexual harassment may include explicit sexual proposition, sexual innuendo, suggestive comments, jokes, obscene language or gestures, displays of obscene material, and physical conduct. Harassment on-the basis of other protected status may include comments based on race, religion, age, disability, nation origin, etc., jokes, offensive language or gestures, or displays of material offensive to members of the above described groups.
Sections, Use of Grievance Procedure, If any employee feels that they have been subjected to prohibited discrimination, including harassment, they may file a grievance under the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement. If the employee feels they have been the subject of discrimination or harassment whether by other employees, supervisors, venders, customers, or a union agent or steward, they should immediately notify their immediate supervisor. If the supervisor is unavailable or if the employee believes it would be inappropriate to contact their supervisor, the employee should immediately contact the Human Resource Department. The company will investigate all such complaints and terms of their resolution confidential. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take corrective action, up to and including immediate termination of employment of any employee found to have violated the provisions of this Article. The company forbids retaliation against anyone who has truthfully reported harassment.
Under the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement. If the employee feels they have been the subject of discrimination or harassment they should immediately notify their immediate supervisor. If the supervisor is unavailable or if the employee believes it would be inappropriate to contact their supervisor, the employee should immediately contact the Human Resources Department. The company will investigate all such complaints. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take corrective action, up to and including immediate termination of employment of any employee found to have violated the provisions of this Article. The company forbids retaliation against anyone who has truthfully reported harassment.
J9
Section 4,	Waiver of Contractual Rights, If any employee claiming a violation of this Article elects to proceed to an administrative agency or to court during the pendency of the grievance or at any time prior to the issuance of the written opinion and award of an arbitrator, the grievance will be considered to have been withdrawn without prejudice.
Section 5,	Contract Remedies, An arbitrator hearing a grievance that alleges violation of this Article has no authority to award any monetary damages other than back-pay and a make whole remedy.
Section 6,	Reasonable Accommodation, In the administration of this Agreement, the Company and the Union will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with a disability and to employees based upon their religious tenets. Any employee who seeks such an accommodation must so inform the Company, in writing, and cooperate with the Company and the Union in seeking to identify reasonable alternatives. The need for the extent of such accommodation shall be determined by the Company in accordance with its interpretation of the requirements of die Americans with Disabilities Act and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, even if such accommodation may necessitate the modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, however, in the event a reasonable accommodation may necessitate the modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss same.
ARTICLE 16 MILITARY SERVICE
A regular, full time employee who leaves or has left a position in the employ of the Company to enter active service in the Armed Forces ol the United States has the right to be re-employed by the Company when such employee has completed the military obligation with full seniority and rights as provided by Federal Law.
ARTICLE 17 MILITARY SUMMER ENCAMPMENT
SECTION 1.
Employees leaving work for military service in the uniformed services shall be accorded all rights to which they are entitled under provisions of the Uniformed services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA).
SECTION 2.
Leaves without pay for short-term active training are in addition to the normal vacation to which the employee is entitled, but employees may take vacation at the same time.
ARTICLE 18 SAFETY EQUIPMENT, TOOLS, AND CLOTHING
SECTION 1.
The Company shall furnish:
A. Such safety equipment as required by the Company.
20
8. Maintenance hand tools and equipment as required.
C.	Knives, scabbards and chains, steels, aprons, cotton gloves, rubber gloves, earplugs, ear muffs, hairnets, beard nets, rubber sleeves, laundry bag and pin, padlocks for employee lockers, freezer suits, raingear, hooks as required.
D.	Uniforms where designated by the Company, and coveralls when required for outside work.
E.	Prescription safety glasses will be furnished to employees where required as designated by the Company.
F.	Winter clothes will be provided by the company for employees when required to work out doors.
SECTION 2.
The Company shall provide laundry service for employee's outer work clothing.
SECTION 3.
The employee shall he responsible for the safe ano efficient <jse nf on equipment and tools furnished by the Company, and if such equipment is lost or maliciously destroyed, the employee shall be accountable and the Company may then charge the employee and deduct the cost from the employee’s wages.
SECTION 4.
A. Effective Sept 1, 2001, each employee will receive an annual clothing allowance of ninety ($90.00) dollars in the form of a credit to offset the cost of the bulk of their required white uniforms i frocks and steel-toed boots.
ARTICLE 19 BENEFITS
SECTION 1.
GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE
The Swift & Company comprehensive Health Plan will be available to eligible employees. Regular, full time employees will become eligible on the first day of the calendar month, after completing six (6) months of service, to enroll in the Employee Group Medical Plan. Employees who elect to enroll for coverage will pay, by payroll deduction, the following applicable amount:
Employee Only $6.00
Employee & Family $9.00
Effective May 1, 2005
Employee Only $ 8.25
Employee & Spouse $12.25
Employee & Child $12.25
Employee & Fam. $ 13.50
January 1,2007
Employee Only $9.25
Employee & Spouse $15.30
Employee & Spouse $15.30
Employee & Fam. 18.00
January 1,2009
Employee Only $ 10.25
Employee & Spouse $18.50
Employee & Child $18.50
Employee & Fam. $ 22.50
Effective May 1,2005
In Network vs. Out of Network Exceptions
If the covered person receives initial short term (48 hours or less) outpatient care at a non-preferred hospital, by a non-preferred physician or other non-preferred provider for
21
an emergency medical condition, benefits for those covered services will be subject to the preferred deductible and co-insurance. Benefits for in-patient sendees will continue to be paid at the preferred level, as long as the services are for an emergency medical condition.
Clarification; Preferred equates to in-network - in order to be a preferred provider or facility you must be part of the network - so this essentially means that network benefits would be made available.
The prescription drug coverage which has been part of the Grand Island Production and Maintenance Employees Group Health Plan will be continuing with a Prescription Drug Card Plan. This plan will provide a retail benefit and a mail order benefit.
The retail benefit, for prescriptions which are needed immediately, will require participants to use their ID card at a participating pharmacy. The retail option provides up to a 30 day supply with a generic drug prescription or refill cost of $7 each or a brand name prescription or refill cost of $15 each.
The mail order benefit, for maintenance (on-going), prescriptions, provides mailer envelopes in which the participant encloses their prescription, method of payment, and mailing information. Up to a 90-day supply of the prescription will be delivered to the address given in approximately two weeks. The mail order option provides generic drug prescriptions or refill costs of $15 or a brand name prescription or refill cost of $30.
Plan benefit details are contained in the Plan Document.
Effective May 1, 2005
Retail	Generic $7.00 Formulary $ 15.00	Brand name $ 30.00
Mail Order 90 day Script	Generic $ 15	Formulary $ 30	Brand Name $ 60
Life Style: 50 % (Includes SPD Adjustments).
SECTION 2.
DENTAL INSURANCE
Regular, full time employees will become eligible on the first day of the calendar month, after completing six (6) months of service, to enroll in the Group Dental Plan.
Employees who elect to enroll for coverage will pay, by payroll deduction, the following applicable amount:
Employee Only $2.75
Employee & Family $6.00
Effective May 1,2005 Employee only $ 2.38 Employee & Spouse $4,78 Employee & Child $4.78 Employee & Fam. $ 7.16
January 1,2007
Employee only $ 2.61
Employee & Spouse $5.25
Employee & Child $5.25
Employee & Fam. $ 7.87
January 1,2009
Employee only $ 2.90
Employee & Spouse $5.80
Employee & Child $5.80
Employee & Fam. $ 8.65
SECTION 3.
GROUP VISION CARE PLAN
22
Regular, full time employees will become eligible on the first day of the calendar month, after completing six (6) months of service, to enroll in the Group Vision Care Plan,
Employees who elect to enroll for coverage will pay, by payroll deduction, the following applicable amount:
Employee Only $1,75
Employee & Family $4,35
Effective May 1,2005
Employee only $ 1.73
Employee +1 $3,41
Employee +2 or more $4,85
Employee & Fam, $ 4.85
January 1,2007
Employee only $ 1.85
Employee +1 $3,75
Employee +2 or more $5.30
Employee & Fam. $ 5.30
January 1, 2009
Employee only $ 2.05
Employee +1 $4.10
Employee +2 or more $5.85
Employee & Fam. $ 5.85
SECTION 4.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
Regular, full time employees will become eligible on the first day of the calendar month, after completing six (6) months of service, to enroll in the Long Term Disability Insurance Plan.
Employees who elect to enroll for coverage will pay, by payroll deduction, the premium cost for the coverage they select.
SECTION 5,
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
The Company will provide to all regular, full time employees, on the first day of the calendar month after completing six (6) months of service, Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance benefit in the amount of $15,000.
Employees may elect additional life insurance by enrolling for Supplemental Life, Supplemental Accidental Death and Dismemberment, or Dependent Life insurance and paying, through payroll deduction, the premium cost for the coverage the select.
SECTION 6.
SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT POLICY
A.	When regular lull-time employees, who have completed one year or more ot service are absent because of a disability due to sickness or accident not covered by Worker’s Compensation, and when such absences and their continuation are supported by acceptable medical evidence, payments shall be made as described in this Article.
B.	Payment will begin with the eighth (8th) full scheduled workday lost due to an illness, or the first (1W) scheduled workday lost due to an accident or the employee's hospitalization, and will continue while the employee remains disabled for up to thirteen (13) weeks of benefits for any one (1) absence, if the employee has continued to provide acceptable medical evidence to verify the continuing disability. The benefit amount will be reduced by payments made for any other absences occurring during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the start of the current absence.
23
C.	The benefit amount to be paid shall be $200.00 per week for up to thirteen (13)
weeks.
D.	It is agreed that the purpose of this Policy is to provide income for employees who qualify for benefits as described only when they are physically unable to work.
E.	No employee shall be eligible for benefits under this Policy unless the employee has promptly notified the Company of their inability to report for work.
SECTION 7.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ELIGIBILITY AND ENROLLMENT
Employees who are currently eligible must re-enroll for coverage during open enrollment by completing and returning the enrollment materials, whether they elect or decline coverage. Employees, who decline coverage or fail to complete enrollment materials and later become eligible to participate in the plans, are subject to the pre-existing conditions (imitations in the respective plans. Employees who become eligible may become plan participants by submitting a completed Election/Enroliment form and providing appropriate documentation to their Human Resources Department within thirty-one (31) days of the employee’s eligibility date. Changes in elections are limited as defined in the Plan Document.
SECTION 8.
It is agreed, the employee contributions amounts outlined in Sections 1, 2 and 3 above will be frozen during the life of this Agreement.
SECTION 9.
The Company agrees to make available a 401 (k) retirement savings program, the Swift & Company 401 (K) savings plan (for union Employees) (the “plan"). The features of plan governed by the Plan Document and are subject to all IRS requirements and regulations. The major features of this program are:
1.	The company will contribute a 66 2/3 % match of the first 6 % of qualifying pay an employee saves in the plan.
2.	The company contribution will be invested in the same manner that the employee directs his contribution.
3.	The company contribution is vested at 20 % per year of service beginning after one full year of service and is 100 % vested after five years of continuous service by the employee.
4.	Employees are eligible to participate in this plan after one year of service.
5.	An employee may contribute up to 75 % of qualifying pay in any combination of pretax basis and after-tax basis, but the employee’s total contribution cannot exceed 75 % of the employee’s qualifying pay.
ARTICLE 20 HOLIDAY PAY
SECTION 1,
24
The following will be observed as paid holidays in each calendar year:
New Years Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Christmas Eve or New Years Eve (alternating)
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Employee’s Birthday
When a holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday,
Those maintenance and other employees regularly scheduled to work a holiday as a normal operating procedure shall be paid at two (2) times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked on the holiday. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, these employees shall observe the holiday on that day.
SECTION 2.
A.	The employee's birthday holiday will be observed within the same month of the employee’s birth date and must he requested in writing by no less than one (1) week in advance of the requested rate. Written requests will be responded to in no less than three (3) days from the date of the request. Written requests approved by the supervisor in writing will not be cancelled, except by mutual agreement between the supervisor and employee.
B.	The Christmas Eve or New Years Eve (alternating) holiday will be scheduled to provide Christmas Eve as the holiday for one shift and New Years Eve as the holiday for the other shift with the holiday assignment rotating between the shifts each year, with the exception of the 2000 season.
2005 Season	12/24 Christmas Eve 12/31 New Years Eve	B Shift holiday A Shift holiday
2006 Season	12/24 Christmas Eve 12/31 New Years Eve	A Shift holiday B Shift holiday
2007 Season	12/24 Christmas Eve 12/31 New Years Eve	B Shift holiday A Shift holiday
2008 Season	12/24 Christmas Eve 12/31 New Years Eve	A Shift holiday. B Shift holiday
2009 Season	12/24 Christmas Eve. 12/31 New Years Eve	B Shift holiday A Shift holiday
SECTION 3.
To be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must be on the payroll as a regular full-time employee in the continuous service of the Company for a period of thirty (30) days, and work the full scheduled work day before and the full scheduled work day following a holiday, unless absence is the result of a death in the immediate family, or is accompanied by a written medical excuse from a physician or agreed to in writing in advance by the supervisor. However, if the employee is on an authorized leave of absence caused by illness or injury and worked during any part of the week before the holiday, the week of the holiday, or the week after the holiday, the employee is eligible for holiday pay. Employees who are late due to Acts of God or other unusual
25
emergencies which are excused by the supervisor shall be eligible tor holiday pay it all other conditions are met.
SECTION 4.
Holiday pay will be calculated at eight (8) hours straight-time pay and may be considered pan ot the guaranteed pay. The hours will be paid at the employee’s regular rate of pay and may be considered as part of the guaranteed pay
SECTION 5.
If one of the holidays, covered by Section 1 above, occurs within an employee’s vacation period, they shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at the regular straight-time hourly rate of pay in addition to the vacation pay or an additional day off with pay. The option of taking the additional day oft may only be taken when scheduled and approved by management in advance. It is understood that the additional day off is not automatically Taken as an extension of the vacation week without advance approval.
SECTION 6.
Work performed on a holiday shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s regular straight-time pay for hours worked on the holiday.
ARTICLE 21
VACATION
SECTION 1.
To be eligible for a paid vacation the regular full-time employees must (a) pass their anniversary date; and (b) have worked forty (40) weeks in the preceding anniversary year. These employees will receive one (1) week of vacation with pay which must be taken in the year following their anniversary date of employment. Employees who have been employed for at least three (3) years will receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay each year. Employees who have been employed for al least ten (10) years will receive three (3) weeks of vacation with pay each year. Employees who have been employed for at least twenty (20) years will receive four (4) weeks of vacation with pay. To be eligible for vacation pay a person must still be employed on their anniversary date ol employment. Vacation pay shall be calculated on a forty (40) hour work week times the rate ot pay based on the employee’s regular hourly rate at the time of the vacation or two (2%) percent of the employees prior year's W-2 earnings with Swift & Company, whichever is greater.
SECTION 2.
The rate of pay for each vacation week wilt be forty (40) hours at the regular straight-time rate at the employee’s anniversary date of hire, and a vacation will only be earned and taken after the anniversary date.
SECTION 3.
Weeks worked for consideration of the forty (40) weeks required will include each week during which the employee received a pay check, including up to thirteen (13) weeks on Worker's Compensation, pay for vacation, jury duty and funerals, but excluding weeks off under paid or unpaid sick leave.
SECTION 4.
26
Employees will be paid for vacation time earned only after anniversary date of employment. (Vacation pay will not be paid at any other time.) There is no pro rata vacation pay upon termination of employment or at any other time. An employee may obtain vacation pay at the start of vacation by requesting this at least one week in advance.
SECTION 5.
Employees may be required to take unused vacation all at one time, as with a shutdown of operations. With a shutdown of operations, those employees who are not needed to work may be required to take vacation time earned.
SECTION 6.
Insofar as it is practical, seniority will be observed in the assignment of vacation periods; however. Management will schedule vacations so as not to interfere with efficient plant operations. Generally, where employees are performing similar work on the same department shift, those with greater seniority will be given preference as to time of vacation, except on the second pari of split vacations. Department managers shall determine how many employees in each work group may be permitted to be on vacation at the same time without jeopardizing the efficiency of the plant or shift.
SECTION 7.
Employees are expected to make vacation choices no later than February 1 of each year so that the department manager can post them by March 1. Vacations for the months of January and February of the following year should be requested so that the year (for scheduling purposes) runs from March through the following February. Vacation time may be taken in no less than one-week (1 -week) increments.
SECTION 8.
If a paid holiday falls during a vacation, the employee will receive, as an option, an additional day's pay or an additional day off with pay. The option of taking the additional day off may only be taken when scheduled and approved by management in advance. It is understood that the additional day off is not to be automatically taken as an extension of the vacation week without advance approval. Vacation weeks begin on Monday unless employee received written permission from Management to begin vacation on another day of the week. Unless excused, employees are expected to work weekends preceding their vacation if they are scheduled to work.
SECTION 9
Employees with more than one (1) week of vacation may take one (1) week, one (1) day at a time with the prior approval of their supervisor. Pay for each such day will be calculated on eight (8) hours straight time pay based on the employee's regular hourly rate at the time of the vacation day or two (2%) percent of the employee’s prior year's W-2 earnings with Swift & Company, whichever is greater.
One day vacation requested must be submitted in writing by no less than one (1) week in advance of the requested date. Written requests will be responded to in no less than three (3) days from the date of the request. Written requests approved by the supervisor in writing will not be canceled, except by mutual agreement between the supervisor and employee.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
VACATION
27
This letter of understanding Is entered Into by and between Swift & company for Its Grand Island, Nebraska Facility and the United Food and Commercial Workers, AFC-CIO, CLC, Local Union No, 22 and Is incorporated by reference and made part of the Agreement dated January 31, 2005
in reference specifically to Article 21 Section 9 Vacation:
Employees who are eligible to request one (1) week of vacation, one (1) day at a time will be compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay for work performed on the six (6tfl) day of work within a workweek provided the employee has requested and has received written approval fourteen (14) calendar days In advance of the date (s) requested off.
SECTION 10
Employees with two (2) weeks or more of vacation may request one (1) week, of their vacation be paid in lieu of taking the time off with the prior approval of their Supervisor.
ARTICLE 22 JURY DUTY
SECTION 1.
Employees called to jury duty in the county, state or federal courts shall be excused for jury service on presenting the summons requiring such duty to their supervisor.
SECTION 2.
Regular, full-time employees will be paid the difference between their jury pay and the hours they would have worked up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, unless such employee has a normal work day in excess of eight (8) hours, for each full day of jury service when It falls on a scheduled work day. Employees excused and not serving on the jury may be required to work their regularly scheduled shift, or the remainder of their shift.
SECTION 3.
Employees who are paid by the Company during jury duty will remit to the Company an amount equal to any compensation received from jury duty other than travel, meal and room allowances.
ARTICLE 23 FUNERAL LEAVE
SECTION 1.
When a regular full-time employee is absent from work for the purpose of attending the funeral of a member of the employee’s immediate family, the Company will pay the employee the hours they would have worked, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours, unless the employee has a normal workday in excess of eight (8) hours, at the employee’s regular rate of pay for up to three (3)_consecutive days, provided that:
A.	The employee's supervisor is notified of the purpose of the absence no later than the first day of such absence, and
B.	The days off with pay will be a maximum three (3) consecutive days, one of which must be the day of the funeral.
28
SECTION 2.
Funeral leave, as noted above, is provided for the purpose of attending the funeral and is granted for that purpose only. Employees not able to attend the immediate family funeral will be granted one (1) day of funeral leave.
SECTION 3.
The immediate family is defined as employee’s spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, grandparents, grandchildren, mother-in-law, and father-in-law. When requested, the employee is expected to provide proof of date of funeral and relationship.
SECTION 4.
One day of paid funeral leave, as described above, will be allowed to attend the funeral for the brother-in-law or sister-in-law, and nieces or nephews of the employee.
ARTICLE 24
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
SECTION 1.
The Company may grant leaves of absence without pay to employees who request same for personal or emergency reasons. The employee's service record, circumstances requiring the leave, staffing requirements and previous commitments to other employees will be considered when granting this leave. Such leaves will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an employee to take another position temporarily, try out new work, or venture into business for themselves. The company reserves the right to require employees to use accrued paid leave prior to taking unpaid leave when requesting a qualified leave of absence under FMLA.
SECTION 2.
Employees may be granted leaves of absence to attend Union functions including focal union executive board meetings and conventions for periods of less than two weeks with prior written notice to the General Manager or his designee. Such absences shall be without pay and limited to the number agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
SECTION 3.
In the event the Union appoints or elects an employee to a full-time position with the Union, the Company upon proper notification shall grant a leave of absence without pay and benefits, not to exceed the life of this Agreement, individuals on such Union leave who wish to return to work for the Company shall be placed on a job in the Division they previously held without loss of seniority rights, provided they are capable of performing the work. No more than two (2) employees will qualify for such leave of absence at any one time.
SECTION 4.
It is further understood that any employee granted a leave of absence under Section 3 of this Article shall not be eligible for vacation pay under such leave of absence except where the employee qualified and became eligible for a vacation prior to the leave. Any unexercised vacation rights shall be satisfied by a cash payment equal to the amount the employee would have been paid for the vacation.
SECTION 5.
29
The Company and Union will comply with the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
A Leave Entitlement An employee who has been employed by the Company for 12 months and who has completed 1,250 hours of work during the 12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of such leave, will be entitled to leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ("FMLA”) In accordance with its provisions and the provisions of this Section 2.
B.	Year for Purposes of Determining Leave Entitlement. For purposes of determining an employee's leave entitlement under the Act, the 52-week period immediately preceding the commencement of leave under the Act shall be the applicable measuring period.
C.	Employee Responsibilities.
(i)	Physician’s Certification. In order for an FMLA leave to be approved, it is the responsibility of the employee to obtain from his or her physician a fully executed Physician’s Certification form, which will be provided to the employee by the Company. The Application for Leave. An eligible employee must complete a written application for an FMLA leave. Where the need for a leave was not known in advance due to accident, illness, or circumstances beyond the employee’s reasonable knowledge or control, an application may be completed upon the employee’s first reasonable opportunity to do so. In all other cases where FMLA leaves are known in advance, the application should be completed and submitted thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of the leave.
(ii)	Failure of the employee to obtain and submit the completed Physicians certification form may result in the delay or denial of an FMLA leave, in which event; the leave may be treated as an unexcused absence.
(iii)	Cooperation. An employee on an approved FMLA must provide periodic reports as requested by the Company in order to keep the Company informed as to the employee's status and expected date of return. This requirement may be waved or modified by the Human Resources Manager depending on the circumstance.
(iv)	Fitness for Duty, Prior to returning from an FMLA leave involving their own serious health condition, an employee may be required to successfully pass a fitness for duty examination to be paid for by the Company.
(v)	Failure to Return. An employee who.fails to return upon the expiration of an approved FMLA leave will be considered a voluntary quit.
30
(A) Payment of Group Insurance Premiums During Leave
(i) Each employee on unpaid leave under the Act shall remain responsible for paying the employee’s share of the premium for coverage elected by the employee. The employee who desires to continue coverage shall directly submit to the Company, not later than the employee’s normal payday, the amount of premium owed by the employee (“Employee Contribution").
If the employee shall fail to timely remit premium payments, the Company shall make such payments on behalf of the employee and,. ..after the employee’s return from such leave, shall deduct (from each wage payment made to the employee) two times the Employee Contribution, until the entire amount paid by the Company on behalf of the employee, has been repaid.
If the employee fails to return to work upon the expiration of an approved FMLA leave, any payments made by the Company toward the premium cost of benefits provided (including both Company and Employee Contributions), shall be legal debt due and owing from such employee to Company, which the Company may institute appropriate legal action to collect.
ARTICLE 25 WAGES
SECTION 1.
BASE LABOR RATE FOR PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES
The base hourly labor rates for production employees during the term of the Agreement Shall be:
$ 11.25 - Effective at the start of the pay period following date of ratification
$11.50 - Effective 1-30-2006
$11.75- Effective 1-29-2007
$12.00 - Effective 1-28-2008
$12.25 - Effective 1 -26-2009
SECTION 2.
STARTING RATES FOR PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES
For the first ninety (90) days following an employee’s hire date, the employee will receive a starting rate below the base rate as follows:
Progression Schedule: Start Rate
$10.85
$11.00
$11.15
31 days
61 days
31
91 days
$11.25
When an employee reaches ninety-one (91) days of employment service from their date of hire, the employee shall be paid no less than the base labor rate of pay for production employees. In addition, if an employee qualifies on a production job during the ninety (90) day period referred to above, they shall receive the base pay plus the applicable Group pay for the job they are qualified on.
SECTION 3.
GROUP CLASSIFICATIONS FOR PRODUCTION EMPLOYEES
Group pay rates, if applicable to the employee's job, will be added to the base rate of pay when the employee is qualified on their job according to the terms of the Agreement. Group Classifications for Production jobs are listed in Exhibit A.
Group 1 -Base Rate + $ .25/hour Group 2 -Base Rate + $ .45/hour Group 3 -Base Rate + $ .70/hour Group 4 -Base Rate + $1.00/hour Group 5 -Base Rate + $1,35/hour Group 6—Base Rate + $1.65/hour Group 7--Base Rate + $1.85/hour Group 8 -Base Rate + $3.10/hour
SECTION 4.
MAINTENANCE PAY LEVELS
A. Maintenance Qualification Levels
	Upon Ratification	01/30/06	01/29/07	01/28/08	01-26-09
Level 1	$11.85	$12.10	$12.35	$12.60	$12.85
Level 2	$12.35	$12.60	$12.85	$13.10	$13.45
Level 3	$13.60	$13.85	$14.10	$14.35	$14.60
Level 4	$14.35	$14.60	$14.85	$15.10	$15.35
Level 5	$15.10	$15.35	$15.60	$15.85	$16.10
Level 6	$15.85	$16.10	$16.35	$16.60	$16.85
Level 7	$16.35	$16.60	$16.85	$17.10	$17.35
Level 8	$16.85	$17.10	$17.35	$17.60	$17.85
32
'Level E/8	$17.35
(* Electrician only)
$17.60
$17.85
$18.10
$18.35
Maintenance Qualification Levels
Level " 10 *9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1	Level Pay $0.25 $0.25 $0.50 $0.50 $0.75 $0.75 $0.75 $1.25 $0.50 $ 0.60 Over Production Base
** Two (2) Technical classes (A Total of four (4) classes) Must hold an electrician job.
* Two technical classes. Must hold an electrician job.
Current E/8 employees will be red circle and are not required to complete the four (4) technical classes to qualify for level 10.
Current and future MS maintenance mechanics may bid to an electrician job vacancy provided they have successfully completed all required electrical training classes.
These individuals will not be required to complete the four (4) technical classes to qualify for level 10.
Level 5 and above mechanics as well as level 5 and above electrician pool mechanics may bid to an electrician job vacancy provided they have successfully completed all required electrical training classes and shall enroll in two (2) of the four (4) technical classes, both of which must be electrical technical classes. These individuals will be compensated at the level MB pay rate until the additional classes are successfully completed. Additionally these individuals will be required to continue participating in the maintenance training program, as are all maintenance mechanics.
Newly hired maintenance mechanics will be required to attend the technical classes outlined above.
Mechanics who have been awarded an electrician bid job vacancy may elect to test out and if successfully pass the pre test will not be required complete to the technical classes for level 9 and level 10.
B.	Add twenty cents ($ .20) per hour for Lead person.
C.	Production employees bidding into the maintenance department will be paid at their maintenance skill level or their production rate, whichever is greater, upon entry into the department. Should the production grade be higher, the employee will be required to obtain the equivalent maintenance level within six months or revert to the maintenance pay level commensurate with their skill.
D.	Maintenance "Entry Bid" Program:
33
The following is a general guide to provide an efficient and reliable bidding program tor promoting production team members into the maintenance department via The Maintenance Labor Poof
1)	. Maintenance Bid:
a)	. Each posting shall consist if one or more positions for the maintenance department as a general mechanic.
b)	. The postings shall follow the normal bid procedures, except it shall be posted as a position into the maintenance labor pool.
i.	These postings will be for any position which may be in any of the following three departments of maintenance; Slaughter, Fabrication, and Rendering J Gel Bone.
ii.	These positions shall not apply to a specific shift or designated department.
ill.	This entry level postings do not apply to the specialty areas of Electrical & Utilities. These designated departments "Electrical & Utilities" have specific requirements which must be met to become an acceptable candidate, part of which is time in the job as a general mechanic.
c)	. Following the duration of a one week posting, the employees have placed their name on the bid sheet are then eligible to take the maintenance concepts test and go through the review process.
i.	Senior bidder (s) that has placed their name on the bid sheet shall take the test within 1 (one) week after the bid has come down.
ii.	Each team member shall contact the maintenance trainer to set a specific time to accomplish the test.
iii.	Each team member shall also set p the times available to be reviewed by the company / Union Committee.
iv.	Both the test and review process should take place ASAP.
v.	Failure on the part of the candidate to take the test and set up and committee review schedule within one week of the posting closing will eliminate the candidate from further processing until another bid posting.
d)	. Upon successful completion of the maintenance concepts test and review process, the most senior person shall be placed into the maintenance labor pool. This person will receive his Trainee start date” upon his first day reporting to the labor pool.
e)	. Once an employee is placed into the "Maintenance Labor Pool" he will undergo a series of training and testing to ensure he is adequately prepared to become an entry level general mechanic. During this 90 calendar day or less probationary, trainees are expected to meet the minimum requirements. In the event that a trainee fails to do so will result in disqualification from the maintenance department.
f)	. When regular bid openings become available within the maintenance department the bid will be first posted the general maintenance department and follow the present bid process. The opening that remains within the maintenance department will be filled by one of the trainees within the labor pool. The successful "Labor Pool
34
Trainee' with the earliest start date as a trainee, will be assigned the next regular bid job opening. At this time, he will receive his department seniority for the department he is assigned to work i
SECTION 5.
RATES OF PAY/COMPENSATION FOR TIME
The rates of pay include compensation for time spent in all preliminary and postliminary activities such as clothes changing, knife sharpening, changing into, out of, and cleaning safety clothing and equipment, etc.
SECTION 6.
WAGE RATE CLASSIFICATION - NEW OR CHANGED JOB.
When the Company establishes a new job classification, combines or separates the duties of existing classifications, or substantially changes the work content of an existing classification, it will establish an appropriate hourly rate for the classification and notify the Union of such rate. If the Union disagrees with that hourly rate, it may file a written grievance at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) days of such notification, The lest uf fairness of the Company's rate determination is whether it is in line with the existing rate structure of other jobs in the department, giving proper consideration to the job content and skill involved.
ARTICLE 26 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
SECTION 1.
Second Shift. All regular full-time production and maintenance employees will be paid ten cents ($ .10) per hour over their regular rate for the entire second shift. Such pay starts at the employee’s starting time when the job is classified as a second shift position and continues through the shift.
SECTION 2.
Third Shift. All regular full-time production employees will be paid fifty cents ($ .50) per hour over their regular rate lor the entire third shift. Such pay starts at the employees starting time when the job is classified as a third shift position and continues through the shift. All regular full-time maintenance employees meeting the above requirements will be paid fifty cents ($ .50) per hour on the third shift.
ARTICLE 27 WORK SCHEDULES
The Company and Union agree to meet and jointly examine the application of alternative work scheduling systems which would improve the productivity of the Grand island plant.
35
If modifications of the Agreement are required to implement alternative work scheduling systems, the Company and .Union agree to meet and discuss regarding those modifications. Neither party shall be obligated to agree to the other’s demands in such discussions.
ARTICLE 28
WAIVER, ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND SEVERABILITY
SECTION 1.
This is the complete Agreement providing all benefits to which any employee may be entitled, and it is expressly understood and agreed that the Company has no obligation to any employee or employees other than those provided herein.
SECTION 2.
The parties acknowledge that, during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by taw from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, the Company and the Union, for the term of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waive the right, and as each agrees that the other shall not be obligated io bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement.
SECTIONS.
if any part of this Agreement is held invalid by a proper court or administrator of law, the remainder shall not be affected and the parties shall meet to try to agree on a proper alternative.
SECTION 4.
Any modification or supplement to the Agreement will be reduced to writing and signed by proper representatives of each party.
36
ARTICLE 29
TERM OF AGREEMENT
Thia Agreement shall become effective on the day following rati flea tian and shall remain in full force and effect until midnight on, February 28. 2010, and from year to year thereafter unless It Is terminated by either party with not less than 80 days prior written notice. Nc'Jco wit! bo detlvorad by certified mail.
37
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
GROUP RATE CHANGES AND GROUP RATE PAY PROTECTION FOR NAMED EMPLOYEES
This Letter of Understanding is entered into by and between Swift & Company for its Grand Island, Nebraska Facility and the United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local Union No. 22 and is incorporated by reference and made part of the Agreement dated January 31, 2005
Only those current employees listed below who were effected by the "Group Rate Changes and Group Rate Pay" Memorandum of understanding outlined in the Grand Island, NE 01/31/04 • 02/28/10 labor Agreement will continue to be protected upon ratification of this labor Agreement.
High Trim
Cooler Leadperson
Vicenta Adame-Luna
Todd Kobler
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING LINE SPEED ADJUSTMENTS
This letter of understanding is entered into by and between Swift & company for its Grand Island, Nebraska facility and the United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO, CLC, Local Union No. 22 and is Incorporated by reference and made part of the Agreement dated January 31, 2005.
In an effort to resolve concerns with the daily line speed adjustments, the following will apply.
Management employees responsible for the periodic adjustments of line speed will document and sign off in the line speed adjustments on a line speed log. Employees designated by the Union, as line speed monitors will have the opportunity to review the line speed log, check the actual line speed against the log and sign off. Line speed variances may be address with Management employees responsible for setting the line speed to resolve any variance issues. Union line speed monitors will be advised of the scheduled line speed adjustments on a daily basis.
38
EXHIBIT A
GROUP CLASSIFICATIONS FOR PRODUCTION JOBS
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL SUPPORT	13300	CUSTODIAN	0
KILL SUPPORT	13301	PAINTER	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10120	DRIVE CATTLE INSIDE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA J	10045	WASH BUNG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	12714	SPRAY 114*003	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10560	CUTOFF 1ST HIND LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA I	IJ 370	CUTOFF TAIL SWITCH	0
KILL FLOOR AREA t	12000	CUTOFF DEW CLAW	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10860	SANITIZE 1ST HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10642	HANG OFF hi LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	11781	BAG TAILS	0
KiLL FLOOR aREa 1	00425	REMOVE SHACKLE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10741	CUT OFF 2nd HINDLEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10880	SANITIZE 2ND HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	J0760	HANG OFF 2nd LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10472	STEAM VACUUM AREA 1	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	22704	: STEAM VACUUM HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	22705	STEAM VACUUM ROUND	0
KILL FLOOR AREA J	10840	BLOW OFF HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11060	COVER BRISKET	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10471	STEAM VACUUM	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12021	HOOK ± HOLD DOWN FRONT SHANKS	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12040	CUT OFF FRONT HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	J1540	FLUSH MOUTH	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	00304	PLACE CARCASS TAG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11979	operate OPTI-BRAND	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11560	MARK/CLIP IDLE BONE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11520	FLUSH HEAD	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11865	T1EWEASAND	D
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	14641	SAVE SPLEEN/LIVERS	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11350	HANG HEARTHAIL/L1VER	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12100	REMOVE/SAVE SPINAL CORD	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	11610	WASH NECK BEFORE CARCASS WASH	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	10471	STEAM VACUUM	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	14139	OPERATE MIS-SPLIT SAW	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12160	SCALER TAGGER	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12165	TRANSFER SCALE TAG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	13361	HANG TROLLEY	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	20900	POP FEATHER BONES	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 5	15280	SEPARATE LARGE INTESTINE	0
KILL FLOOR AREAS	12.300	SQUEEGEE	0
WINTER CREW	10545	JARVIS SAW 1ST LEG	0
39
WINTER CREW	10505	JARVIS KNIFE MIDLINE	0
WINTER CREW	10945	APPLY PLASTIC TO RUMP	0
WINTER CREW	11761	STUFF BUNG	0
VARIETY MEATS	14530	RACKJPACK LIVER	0
VARIETY MEATS	14285	TONGUE SQUEEZER	0
VARIETY MEATS	14280	PACKTONGUE	0
VARIETY MEATS	14120	BOX FRESH OFFAL	0
VARIETY MEATS	14440	TRUCK PRODUCT	0
VARIETY MEATS	14540	BOX WEASAND MEAT	0
VARIETY MEATS	14545	WASH/TRIM AND PACK SWEETBREAD	0
VARIETY MEATS	14160	BAG BOX KIDNEYiTENDON	0
VARIETY MEATS	14040	BOX ADD DRY ICE/LID	0
VARIETY MEATS	13790	. STRAPPER/LABEL RECORDER	0
VARIETY MEATS	13800	MAKE BOXES	0
VARIETY meats	13646	BAG CASE READY CHEEK MEAT	0
variety MEATS	J ,3647	BOX CASE READY CHEEK MEAT	0
VARIETY meats	14155	SCAN BOXES	0
variety meats	13305	TRUCK & WASH RACKS	0
VARIETY MEATS	13302	WASH SPACERS	0
variety meats	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
OFFAL TRANSFER	14505	COMBO LIVERS & LOAD TRUCK	0
OFFAL TRANSFER	14200	COMBO PET FOOD	0
OFFAL TRANSFER	14280	PACK TONGUE	0
TRIPE	15020	HANG PAUNCH	0
TRIPE	15120	OPERATE scalded/hc TRIPE WASHER	0
TRIPE	15101	BOX SCALDED HC TRIPE	0
TRIPE	10227	REMOVE OMASUM	0
TRIPE	00229	WASH OMASUM	0
TRIPE	0022 B	PACK OMASUM	0
TRIPE	15107	BAG CASE READY TRIPE	0
TRIPE	13800	MAKE BOXES	0
INTESTINE	14620	TIE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	14621	PULL OFF LARGE INTESTINE	D
INTESTINE	15280	SEPARATE LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15410	FLUSH LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15405	UNROLL LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15300	OPERATE stripper/splitter	0
INTESTINE	15320	BOX LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15150	RINSE ABOMESUM	0
INTESTINE	14070	BOX ABOMESUM	D
COOLER TRANSFER	15820	HOTCATTLE SPACER	0
COOLER TRANSFER	16265	TR IM Y-4 AND DOWNERS	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15840	HOT BOX OUT FEEDER	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15860	LIFT/DOUBLES MONITOR	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15945	STAMP ANGUS (USDA)	0
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	33060	CLEAN UP GEL OPERATOR	0
WASTE water	35000	PAUNCH OPERATOR	0
HIDE FLESHING	26820	CLEANUP	0
FAB SUPPORT	13301	PAINTER	0
VALUE ADDED	3JD64	MAKE BOXES	0
VALUE ADDED	32860	OPERATE SLICER	0
VALUE added	14440	TRUCK PRODUCT	0
value added	85840	SORT & BAG FINGER MEAT	0
value added	22140	PICKER	0
40
BREAK UNE	26820	CLEANUP	0
BREAK LINE	15300	CUSTODIAN	0
BREAK UNE	33360	LAUNDRY OPERATOR	0
CHUCK CHAIN	00209	DROP ARM BONE	0
ARM LINE	22140	PICKER	0
ARM LINE	26820	CLEAN UP	9
CHUCK LINE	26640	PICK PRODUCT-CONVEYOR	0
CHUCK UNE	26820	CLEANUP	0
RIB LINE	26820	CLEANUP	0
ROUGH UNE	22140	PICKER	0
ROUGH LINE	85370	BAG NAVEL ANGER MEAT	0
ROUGH UNE	26820	CLEAN UP	a
LOIN LINE	26S2O	CLEAN UP	0
LOIN LINE	22)40	PICKER	d
STRIP LINE	22140	PICKER	0
ROUND UNE	25520	BONE THROWER	0
ROUND LINE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
TRIM UNE	26141	PICK 73127	t>
TRIM UNE	26265	BOX TRIM/SMALL BOX 85/15	0
TRIM I INE		r)CK 85/i5	0
TRIM LINE	26101	COMBO MONITOR	a
TRIM LINE	26120	PICK 50/50	0
TRIM UNE	26261	BOX TRIM/SMALL BOX 50/50	0
TRIM LINE	26360	COMBO MAKER	0
TRIM LINE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
TRIM LINE	26382	COMBO WATCHER BPI	0
TRIM LINE	00064	OPERATE SIX SHOOTER	0
WH IZZARD LINE	26770	PACKER	0
WH IZZARD LINE	26640	PICK PRODUCT-CONVEYOR	0
WH IZZARD LINE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
WHIZZARD LINE	22140	PICKER	0
BOX & SEALER	29)60	REWORK	0
BOX & SEALER	26820	CLEAN UP	0
BOX A SEALER	22706	HANG EXPORT BOXES	0
FRONT PACK OFF	2716)	STAGE PRODUCT	0
FRONT PACK OFF	27920	LEAKER AUDITOR	0
FRONT PACK OFF	27470	OPEN LEAKERS	0
FRONT PACK OFF	26820	CLEAN UP	0
BACK PACK OFF	29160	REWORK	0
GROUND BEEF	26820	CLEANUP	0
GROUND BEEF	31261	PALLETIZE BOXES	0
GROUND BEEF	22150	BELT MONITOR	0
GROUND BEEF	58430	BOX CHUB	0
GROUND BEEF	29160	REWORK	0
GROUND BEEF	29040	SEALER ROOM	0
GROUND BEEF	26581	TEAR DO WN/SETUP OPERATOR	0
GROUND BEEF	00199	UNBOX PRODUCT	0
GROUND BEEF	22140	PECKER	0
GROUND BEEF	26240	OPERATE GRINDER	0
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
YARDS	10060	DR IVE CATTLE OUTSIDE	i
YARDS	10040	WASH PENS	i
YARDS	10045	WASH CATTLE	i
41
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10605	1 ST HANG OFF TRIMMER
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10765	2ND HANG OFF TRIMMER
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	J2745	TRIM MIDLINE/ UDDER
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11341	CUT OFF CARCASS EARS/TAG
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11320	DEHORN
KILL FLOOR AREA!	13000	TRIM MIDLINE
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11205	TIP TAIL
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12120	SAVE TENDON
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11000	STAMP ANGUS/CAP BUNG
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11320	DEHORN
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11340	CUTOFF EYEL1DS/EAR CART/L1PS
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11225	MARK BRISKET/TRIM CONTAMINATION
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	15900	PRESENTER (USDA)
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	00027	STRIP WE AS AND
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	1 IMO	REMOVETAIL
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12865	TRIM NECK/ARMPIT
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	I25OO	TRIM NECK
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12060	POP KIDNEY
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	34200	REMOVE KIDNEY
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	00227	SAVE SWEET BREAD
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	14760	SEPARATE HEART/LUNG
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	00010	DROP HEAD OF TENDER
KILL FLOOR AREAS	14800	PULL OFF PAUNCH/INTEST1NE
KILL FLOOR AREA 5	14640	SAVE INEDIBLE PRODUCT(N SIDE)
KILL FLOOR AREAS	14622	TRIM LUNG LOBE
KILL FLOOR AREAS	00323	SAVE TRACHEA
KILL FLOOR AREA 5	1754)	CONDEMN ROOM
WINTER CREW	10045	WASH CATTLE
variety meats	10610	TRIM/B RAN D/PACK/HE ARTS
VARIETY MEATS	15095	TRIM BAG/BOX TAILS
VARIETY MEATS	13980	PALLETIZE PRODUCT
TRIPE	14100	REMOVE PECK
TRIPE'	15040	DUMP PAUNCH
TRIPE	15050	TRIM TRIPE/SPLIT HONEYCOMB
TRIPE	26542	OPERATE PALLET IACK
INTESTINE	15305	CUT 1NTEST1NETO LENGTH
INTESTINE	14060	TRIM A BOM ESUM
COOLER TRANSFER	12880	TRIMMER
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	33130	LAB TECH/DATA ENTRY
HIDE TA KE UP	[6620	TANK PULLER
VALUE ADDED	23430	BAGGERS
VALUE ADDED	58430	BOX PRODUCT
VALUE ADDED	32950	OPERATE MULT1VAOBOX PRODUCT
VALUE ADDED	27291	BAG RIBLET
SOUGH LINE	27411	BAG LOOSE MEAT
STRIP LINE	24950	OPERATE LOIN TAIL SKINNER
ROUND LINE	24560	REHANG ROUND
TRIM LINE	26542	.OPERATE PALLET JACK
TRIM LINE	13822	WEIGH PALLETS/OPERATE FORKLIFT
BOX & SEALER	29180	OPERATE TRAY FORMER
BOX & SEALER	29000	OPERATE CASE SEALER
BOX & SEALER	29290	CARDBOARD BALER
FRONT PACK OFF	23430	BAGGERS
FRONT PACK OFF	27411	BAG LOOSE MEAT
42
FRONT PACK OFF	85840	BAG FINGER MEAT	J
FRONT PACK OFF	27871	BAG TERES MUSCLE	1
FRONT PACK OFF	27320	BAG SHORT RIBS	J
FRONT PACK OFF	00040	BAG CHUCK FLAP	
back pack off	27480	BOX BACK RIB	1
BACK PACK OFF	27211	BOX NAVEL	1
back pack off	27800	BOX BUTT	J
BACK PACK OFF	27880	BOX TENDERLOIN	f
BACK PACK OFF	27561	BOX STRIP	1
BACK PACK OH5	27560	BOX BRISKET	1
BACK PACK OFF	27720	BOX RIB	1
BACK PACK OFF	27680	BOX BAG MEATS	I
BACK PACK OFF	27965	BOX SMALL BOX PACKERS	1
BACK PACK OFF	29261	LABEL ROOM	1
MATERIAL HANDLING	00005	GROUND BEEF LOAD CONTROLLER	I
GROUND BEEF	29260	LABELER	1
DEPARTMENT Name	Job^Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
YARDS	10020	RECEIVE CATTLE	2
KILL FLOOR AREA Z	j 07av	RIP BELLY	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	moo	OPERATE SIDE PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	IH60	LOW BACKER/TAIL PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11180	LOW NECKER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11200	OPERATE TAIL PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12020	MARK FORESHANK	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	into	DOWN PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11920	SAW BRISKET	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	M650	TRIM TONGUE	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11600	TRIM HEAD (USDA)	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	20920	MARK INSIDE SKIRT	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	21MO5	MARK CLOD	2
WINTER CREW	11100	OPERATE SIDE PULLER	2
VARIETY MEATS	13505	SPLIT LIPS	2
VARIETY meats	16640	TRIM FACE PLATE	2
TRIPE	00226	SAW OMASUM	2
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17600	LOAD OUT	2
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	>7605	MOBILE TRACK OPERATOR	2
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17621	BLOOD COOKER OPERATOR	2
HIDE FLESHING	26080	TRIM SHANKS	2
HIDE FLESHING	00004	HANG HIDE AFTER FLESHER	2
HIDE FLESHING	16700	TRIM FINAL	2
VALUE ADDED	00200	CUT PRODUCT	2
VALUE ADDED	26543	PALLET MCK/FEED TABLE	2
VALUE ADDED	00150	OPERATE SKINNER	2
VALUE ADDED	23480	TRIM OUTSIDE SKIRT	2
value added	10492	VA UTILITY	2
BREAK LINE	20101	TRIM CONTAMINATION H.Q.	2
BREAK LINE	32480	MARK ROSE MEAT	2
BREAK LINE	20100	TRIM CONTAMINATION F.Q.	2
BREAK LINE	20405	MARK CLOD '	2
BREAK LINE	20790	SWING OFF CHUCK	2
43
BREAK LINE BREAK LINE CHUCK CHAIN CHUCK CHAIN CHUCK CHAIN CHUCK CHAIN CHUCK CHAIN CHUCK CHAIN ARM LINE ARM UNE ARM UNE ARM LINE CHUCK LINE CHUCK LINE CHUCK LINE CHUCK LINE CHUCK LINE RIB LINE RIB LINE RIB UNE RIB LINE RIB LINE RIB LINE RIB LINE ROUGH UNE ROUGH LINE ROUGH LINE ROUGH UNE ROUGH UNE ROUGH UNE ROUGH LINE ROUGH LINE ROUGH LINE ROUGH LINE LOIN LINE LOtN LINE LOIN LINE STRIP UNE STRIP LINE STRIP LINE STRIP UNE STRIP UNE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE ROUND UNE ROUND UNE ROUND UNE ROUND UNE TRIM LINE TRIM LINE TRIM LINE TRIM UNE
24025	CUT DOWN (REM HANGING TENDER)	2
24100	PULL ROSE MEAT	2
00326	TRIM CONTAMINATION	2
21561	DROPCLOD	2
20525	PULL CHUCK COVERZMOCK TENDER	2
21600	TRIM CLOD	2
21541	TRIM MOCK TENDER	2
16697	TRIM TERES MUSCLE	2
21040	SAW ARM	2
22742	TRIM FLATS/PO1NTS	2
000)8	RETRIMMER	2
23022	TRIM BRISKET DECKLE	2
21080	TRIM CHUCK	2
21562	TRIM CHUCK SQUARE	2
00018	RETRIMMER	2
26020	UPGRADE SPECIAL TRIM	2
22715	TRIM/PACK BACK STRAP	2
22580	SAW WING	. 2
22562	SAW MEATY BACK RIB	2
24121	FLANK PULLERS	2
22641	TRIM UFTER MEAT	2
2)530	TRIM LENGTH ON RIB	2
24140	TRIM HANGING TENDER	2
00018	RETRIMMER	2
22500	DROP WING	2
22680	SAW SHORT RIB	2
23440	TRIM INSIDE SKIRT	2
23480	TRIM OUTSIDE SKIRT	2
23400	TRIM PLATE	2
22686	TRIM RIBLET	2
00150	OPERATE SKINNER	2
22685	SAW RIBLET	2
00018	RETRIMMER	2
22720	TRIM RIB CAP EXTENSION MEAT	2
24660	SEPARATE TOP BUTT	2
24840	TRIM TOP BUTT	2
24845	TRIM CAP	2
24800	TRIM BOTTOM BUTT	2
20130	TRIM FLAP MEAT	2
24720	TRIM STRIP	2
24740	TRIM LOIN TAIL	2
00018	RETRIMMER	2
00326	TRIM CONTAMINATION	2
25200	SAW HOCK	2
OOQ55	TRIM EYEOFROUND	2
00310	TRIM KNUCKLE	2
25430	TRIM INSIDE ROUND	2
25245	TRIM DENUDED TOP ROUND	2
00018	RETRIMMER	2
00139	RECONDITION MEAT	2
26060	TRIMMERS	2
0012?	AUDITOR aql	2
26065	ROSEMEAT SKINNER	2
31041	SCALER	2
44
WHIZZARD LINE	26680	WHIZ-NECK BONE	2
WHIZZARD LINE	26686	PICK BPI TRIM	2
WH IZZARD LINE	26780	TEST BONE	2
WHIZZARD LINE	22683	SAW RIBLET	2
WHIZZARD LINE	25200	SAW HOCK	2
FRONT PACK OFF	27870	BAG PERSON	2
BACK PACK OFF	27740	BOX ROUND	2
BACK PACK OFF	27600	BOX CHUCK	2
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10300	KNOCKER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA I	10320	SHACKLER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA I	10380	STICKER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	11220	MARK PATTERN	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11580	DROP AND HANG TONGUE	3
KILL FLOOR AREAS	11780	DROP BUNG7DEJOINTTAIL	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11820	CLEAR GULLET	3
KILL FLOOR AREAS	11840	WEASAND RODDER	3
KILL FLOOR AREAS	10590	REMOVE UVER, SPREAD VISCERA	3
VARIETY MEATS	13501	TRIM GLANDS/TONGUES/GULLETS	3
VARIETY MEATS	15090	TRIM TONGUES/BEEFMEAT	3
VARIETY meats	13530	UPGRADE TONGUE TRIM	3
VARIETY MEATS	13510	TRIM NACHOS	3
VARIETY MEATS	11652	CUT CROWN TONGUE	3
VARIETY MEATS	14140	OPERATECRYOVAC	3
VARIETY MEATS	13540	TEMPLE HEAD	3
VARIETY MEATS	13580	CHISEL HEAD	3
VARIETY MEATS	00333	TRIM JAW BONE/HEAD	3
VARIETY MEATS	13640	CHEEKER	3
COOLER TRANSFER	16085	SHRINK TEST/ROLL	3
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17560	OPERATE COOKER	3
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17740	OPERATE HAMMERMILL	3
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17560	OPERATE COOKER	J
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	15043	LOAD VERTABRA BONES	3
BLOOD PLASMA	17620	BLOOD PLASMA OPERATOR	3
WASTE water	33700	WASTE WATER OPERATOR	3
HIDE TAKE UP	16802	GRADER	3
HIDE FLESHING	16805	GRADE GREEN	3
VALUE ADDED	14140	OPERATE CRYOV AC	3
BREAK LINE	20020	COOLER OPERATOR	3
BREAK LINE	20120	MARK/PULL SKIRT	3
BREAK LINE	20360	SAW RIB/CHUCK	3
BREAK UNE	24001	DROP FLANK	3
BREAK LINE	20860	UNHOOK ROUND	3
CHUCK CHAIN	20480	PULL PADDLE BONE	3
CHUCK CHAIN	20740	DROP CHUCK/BONE SHIN	3
ARM LINE	22000	BON&TRIM ARM/BABY BONECLEANER	3
ARM UNE	23001	MARK/PRETRIM BRISKET	3
ARM LINE	23040	CLEAN BRISKET BONE	3
CHUCK LINE	21060	SAW CHUCK	3
ROUGH UNE	22700	TRIM SHORT RIB	3
ROUGH LINE	23340	CLEAN PLATE BONE	3
ROUGH UNE	23380	SQUARE NAVEL	3
ROUGH LINE	22740	CLEAN SHORT RIB BONES	3
45
LOIN LINE	24680	TRIM TENDERLOIN
LOIN LINE	00191	R ETRIMMER-LOIN
STRIP UNE	24280	BONE LOIN WING
STRIP LINE	24741	SEAM FLAP/LO1N WING
ROUND UNE	20431	MARK/PULL EYE
ROUND LINE	25460	DROP GOOSENECK
ROUND LINE	25220	BONE HIND SHANK
ROUND UNE	20485	PULL HEEUTRIM FLAT
BOX A SEALER	30062	FORKLIFT BOX SHOP
front Pack off	14140	OPERATE CRYOVAC
GROUND BEEF	31201	VAT DUMPER OPERATOR
GROUND BEEF	1382)	FORKUFT GROUND BEEF
Job_Code JOB TITLE
Paygrade
DEPARTMENT Name KILL SUPPORT KILL FLOOR AREA I KILL FLOOR AREA 1 KILL FLOOR AREA I KILL FLOOR AREA 2 KILL FLOOR AREA 2 KILL FLOOR AREA 2 KILL FLOOR AREA 3 KILL FLOOR AREA 3 KILL FLOOR AREA 3 KILL FLOOR AREA 4 KILL FLOOR AREA 4 KILL FLOOR AREA 4 KILL FLOOR AREA 4 KILL FLOOR AREA 4 WINTER CREW OFFAL TRANSFER INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS WASTE WATER hide take up HIDE FLESHING HIDE FLESHING HIDE FLESHING HIDE FLESHING VALUE ADDED BREAK LINE BREAK LINE BREAK LINE BREAK LINE
RIB UNE
ROUGH LINE ROUGH LINE STRIP UNE STRIP UNE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE ROUND LINE
13340	GROUNDS KEEPER
10500	1ST BUTTER
10680	2ND BUTTER
J2900	TRIM HIGH HOCK/ROUND
12405	REMOVE P1ZZ1E/UDDER
11120	LOW BACKER
12800	TRIM BEFORE PRE WASH
11420	DEJOINT HEAD
11440	HANG HEAD
12820	BAG ABCESSED CARCASS
12620	TRIM HIGH
12625	TRIM PIZZLE
12360	TRIM LOW
12320	TRIM FINAUL'SDA)
I2O8S	TRIM OUTRAIL
12360	TRIM LOW
13820	FORKLIFT VARIETY MEATS
10000	LEAD PERSON
10000	LEAD PERSON
J0000	LEAD PERSON
16920	FORKLIFT HIDE TAKE UP
30300	HANG HIDE BEFORE FLESHER
16880	LOAD OUT HIDES
16641	TRIM FACE (HIDES)
16601	FLESHER OPERATOR
31280	FORKLIFT OPERATOR
20200	SPLIT FOREQUARTER
20380	BONE FORESHANK
20045	PULL DOWN TRI TIPS
24500	SAW HIND SPLIT
22560	SAW RIB
23300	BONE PLATE
00054	BONE SHORT RIB
24*00	SAW SHELL
24580	SAW CHINE
25260	MARK KNUCKLE
25280	PULL KNUCKLE
25450	SEAM INSIDE ROUND
25400	BONE AITCH
25240	BONE/PEEUDROP KNUCKLE
46
TRIM UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
WHIZZARD UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
BOX 4 SEALER	29300	UNLOAD TRUCK	4
BOX A SEALER	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	4
FRONT PACK OFF	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
BACK PACK OFF	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
MATERIAL HANDLING	30121	LOAD TRUCK	4
MATERIAL HANDLING	30060	FORKLIFT SHIPPING	4
MATERIAL HANDLING	30201	STACKER	4
GROUND BEEF	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
FAB KNIFE ROOM	33460	KNIFE ROOM STRAIGHT	4
DEPARTMENT Name	Jcb_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10920	FLANKER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11040	RIMOVER BRISKET	5
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10900	RUMPER	5
COOLER TRANSFER	22361	SAW RIB (COOLER)	5
COOLER TRANSFER	13940	RIB BEEF	5
LOIN UNE	24920	BONE TOP BUTT	5
STRIP LINE	24700	BONE STRIP	5
PERSONNEL	96250	WALKING steward	3
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
YARDS	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10440	1ST LEGGER	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10640	2ND LEGGER	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
KILL FLOOR AREAS	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 5	00003	BASEMENT CLEANUP	7
WINTER CREW	10440	1ST LEGGER	7
WINTER CREW	10640	2ND LEGGER	7
VARIETY MEATS	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
COOLER TRANSFER	ioooo	LEAD PERSON	' 7
KILL KNIFE ROOM	13323	KNIFE ROOM STRAIGHT KNIFE	7
VALUE ADDED	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	7
BREAK UNE	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	7
ARM UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
RIB UNE	22600	BONE RIB	7
RIB LINE	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	7
ROUGH UNE	toooo	LEAD PERSON	7
STRIP LINE	ioooo	LEAD PERSON	7
ROUND LINE	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	7
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL FLOOR AREA t	toooo	LEAD PERSON	s
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11960	GUTTER	a
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	8
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	11980	OPERATE SPLIT SAW	8
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	IOOOO	LEAD PERSON	8
HIDE FLESHING	00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
HIDE FLESHING	33360	HIDES TRAINER HOURLY	8
KILL TRAINING	12260	TRAINER HOURLY	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	83530	MAINTENANCE PLANNER	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
47
KILL MAINTENANCE	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00305	EiE MECHANIC	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00121	HACCP EQUIPMENT MONITOR	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00120	PRODUCTION MECHANIC	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	18280	TOOL CRIB A	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	88000	TOOL CRIBB	8
CO PRODUCTS MAINTENANCE	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
CO PRODUCTS MAINTENANCE	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
CO PRODUCTS MAINTENANCE	00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
BOILER & REFRIGERATION	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
BOILER & REFRIGERATION	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
BOILER & REFRIGERATION	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
BOILER A REFRIGERATION	83550	MAINTENANCE PLANNER	8
CHUCK CHAIN	20420	PULLCLOEWMARK PADDLE BONE	8
CHUCK CHAIN	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
CHUCK UNE	21500	BONECHUCK	8
CHUCK UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
LOIN LINE	24620	BONE TENDERLOIN	8
LOIN UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
FAB TRAINING	12260	TRAINER HOURLY	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	83550	maintenance planner	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	18440	LEAD PERSON A	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	80888	LEAD PERSON B	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	18280	TOOL CRIB A	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	88000	TOOL CRIB B	8
GB MAINTENANCE	00)19	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
GB MAINTENANCE	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
FAB MAINTENANCE	00305	E&E MECHANIC	10
48
CONTRACTO
Entre
SWIFT & COMPANY GRAND ISLAND, NEBRASKA
LOCAL UNION NO. 22 UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION AFL-CIO & CLC
31 de Enero, 2005 a 28 de Enero, 2010
INDEX
Articulo 1-Proposito Del Contrato.................................3
Articulo 2-Reconocimiento.........................................3
Articulo 3-Seguridad Y Ergonomia..................................4
Articulo 4-Derechos De Los Manejadores............................5
Articulo 5-Horas De Trabajo..................................  ...6
Articulo 6-Periodos De Comidas Y De Descansos.....................8
Articulo 7-Garantia...............................................8
Articulo 8-Huelga Y Cierre Patronal...............................9
Articulo 9-Senoria...............................................10
Articulo 10-Boletin (Pizarrones).................................16
Articulo 11-Representacion De Union..............................17
Articulo 12-Deduccion De Cuotas..................................18
Articulo 13-Quejas Y Arbitrages..................*...............18
Articulo 14-Lenguaje (Idioma)Y Cultura...........................21
Articulo 15-No Discriminacion....................................21
Articulo 16-Servicio Militar.....................................21
Articulo 17-Campamento Militar De Verano.........................21
Articulo 18-Equipo De Seguridad, Herramienta Y Vestuario.........22
Articulo 19-Beneficios...........................................22
Articulo 20-Dias Festivos........................................26
Articulo 21-Vacaciones...........................................28
Articulo 22-Servicio De Jurado...................................30
Articulo 23-Permiso De Funeral.;.................................30
Articulo 24-Permiso De Ausencia................................  31
Articulo 25-Sueldos..............................................32
Articulo 26-Diferencia9 En Turnos................................37
Articulo 27-Horario De Trabajo...................................37
Articulo 28-Suspension, Contrato Complete Y Severabilidad........38
Articulo 29-Duracion De Este Contrato............................39
2
CONTRATO (AGREEMENT)
Este contrato a side hecho y asentado entre la Compania Swift, Grand Island, Nebraska. Llamada (“La Compania”) y el sindicato de trabajadores de alimentation y de comercio, AFL-CIO, Local 22 (Llamada “La Union").
ARTICULO 1 PROPOSITO DE ESTE CONTRATO
SECCION 1.
Se intenta por ambas partes que por este contrato y estos terminos, promover y mejorar las buenas relaciones industriales y economicas entre la Compania y la Union y sus miembros. Hemos establecido para asentar los sueldos, horas de trabajo y otras condiciones de empleo que deberan ser observadas entre las dos partes mencionadas.
SECCION 2,
Reconocen ambas partes que tienen interes mutuos y obligation en mantener cooperacion amistosa entre la Compania y la Union, lo cual permite, seguridad, buena economia y una operation efitiente en la planta.
ARTICULO 2 RECONOCIMIENTO
La Compania reconoce a la Union como unico y exclusive agente negociador para todo empleado de production y mantenimiento, incluyendo (Janitors) trabajador de limpieza, afilador de cuchillos, persona encargada de control de refrigeration, entrenadores de production, empleados por la Compania localizada en Grand Island, Nebraska. Y excluyendo Empleados oficinistas, empleados profesionales, operadores (Seletionados) coordinador/grador de came, compradores, enfermeras, persona medica de emergencies, manejador de empleados, operador C.R.T., supervisors (ingenieros) de mantenimiento y empleados de administration, empleados de control de calidad (pifs), operador de escala, pesas, cuarto de almacen, electricistas, instructorsde mantenimiento, maestro de clases, cuchillero tecnicos, coordinadores de inventario, contratista independiente, guardias y supervisors.
3
ARTICULO 3 SEGURIDAD Y ERGONOMIA
SECCION 1.
A.	La Union y la Compaiiia acuerdan que la prevencion de los accidentes, la elimacion de las lastimaduras personales y la seguridad de los empleados es nuestra meta principal. Debemos dedicamos a proveer un ambiente mas seguro de trabajo para todos. Ambas partes insistiran continuar en esta meta comun apoyando un programs de seguridad.
B.	La Compania de acuerdo tiene la responsabilidad de proveer un iugar de trabajo seguro y correjir peligros o riesgos. De ningun modo en este acuerdo insinua que la Union tiene parte en esta responsabilidad.
C,	Es la responsabilidad de los manejadores y empleados de seguiry apoyar las operaciones y procedimientos de seguridad.
SEgCIQN 2.
A.	Un comite de seguridad de production y mantenimiento de cada turno; (2) dos cnmites, consiste de cinco (5) a siete (7) empleados de manejantes y cinco (5) a siete (7) empleados seleccionados por la Union para representar production de la planta y operaciones de mantenimiento. Este comite se reunira mensual durante boras de trabajo para revisar seguridad y recomendar prevenciones de situaciones y haran recomendaciones respecto a la seguridad.
B.	Un grupo de consejero ergonomista de cada turno (dos-2 grupos) de produccion y mantenimiento, consiste de cinco (5) manejantes y cinco (5) empleados puestos por la Union operaran con las guias del comite de seguridad. Estos grupos se juntaran mensuaimente con dos (2) mi'embros de cada grupo para la junta de comite de seguridad. El grupo de consejero de ergonomia proveera recomendaciones de seguridad y proceso de mejorar, base al entrenamiento, inspecciones, revistas de empleados, y de information de ingenieros y consejos de ergonomistas.
SECCION 3.
Un miembro del comite designado sera informado si ocurre una enfermedad o accidente que resulte en algo serio o muerte. El miembro designado de la Union y el director de seguridad de la Compania revisaran las circunstancias que haya causado el accidente.
SECCION 4.
Tiempo de juntas del comite de seguridad, juntas del grupo de ergonomia, inspecciones de trabajo, y entrenamiento por la Compania sera considerado como tiempo de trabajo. Tales juntas, inspecciones, entrenamiento seran conducidas al tiempo regular de trabajo del empleado.
4
SECQIQN 5,
La Compania proveera entrenamiento a los comites que no excedera mas de cinco (5) dias por miembro. Que consiste de sus responsabilidades en seguridad y ergonomia. Entrenamiento anual con fechas por un (1) dia por miembro habra mas adelante
SECC1ON6.
La Compafiia estara disponible para revistas por los comites y grupos, informacion y analisis referiendo al aire y ruidos, quimicos peligrosos, OSHA 300 logs, y analisis de CTS y las unciones de trabajo donde los casos se crearon.
section 1.
El grupo de ergonomia trabajara con los manejadores y empleados afectados y consejeros para analisar, evaluar e implementar seguridad y ergonomia en cambios de trabajo. El grupo utilizara su informacion de los empleados, del programs medico de manejadores, y analistas de ergonomia. Un grupo de tareas de altemar trabajos pueden establecer con recomendacion del grupo consejero de ergonomia.
SECCIQK.8.
Tendran los minutes y un libro de actividades de ergonomia disponible para revisar por la Union o por cualquier miembro del comite o grupo.
ARTICULO 4
DERECHOS DE LOS MANEJADORES
SEQCIOJU,
Los manejadores de la operaci on y direction de la fuerza laboral-incluyendo el derecho de emplear, suspender, disciplinar, o despedir por causa; asignar trabajos; transferir, promover o depromover, de aumentar o disminuir trabajo; de controlar la calidad de trabajo razonable y reglas aplicadas al empleado, determinar la localization de la negotiation, de los productos que deben ser manufacturados y determinar con quien quiere negociar sus productos. Poner trabajo con contratistas o sub contratista, simpre que las provisiones de Seccion 5 de este Articulo son obedecidas; igual el derecho determinar las calificaciones y capatidad de los empleados, son invertidos exclusive con la Compafiia, entendido que esto no se usara para el proposito de discriminar contra ningun empleado o para evitar cualquier provisiones de este contrato.
5
SECCION 2.
Supervisors y empleados de personal pueden hacer sus tareas que son necesarias en un conducto de negocio, siempre que no reemplazen empleados unionizados en una base regular de tiempo completo.
SECCION 3.
La Compania puede establecer, agregar, modificar o cambiar reglas de trabajo, poliza de faltas, reglas de drogas y alcohol y programas sujeto a los derechos de la union para utilizer los agravios y arbitraje de este acuerdo.
SECCION 4,
Es mutuo el acuerdo de que la Compania continue sus derechos administrativos y pregorativos, menos los derechos aclarados en este acuerdo.
SECCION 5,
Antes de subcontratar cualquier operacion que resulte en despedida temporal de empleados, la Compania avisara a la Union en orden de que la Compaiiia y la Union discutan los efectos de la despedida temporal. La Comn&nia esta de acuerdo de retrasar cualquier despedida temporal que es resultado directo de subcontratista por dos semanas despues de dar aviso a la Union en orden de que alternatives de despedir empleados puedan ser sugeridas, y soluciones puedan ser iniciadas.
ARTICULO 5
HORAS DE TRABAJO
SECCION 1.
La semana de trabajo para el proposito de pagos debera empezar a las 12:01 a.m. El lunes y terminara a la media noche del domingo.
SECCION 2.
Un dia de trabajo basico para un empleado sera de ocho (8) horas menos los trabaj adores que tienen un horario de cuatro (4) dias de diez (10) horas. Las horas basicas de una semana de trabajo para un trabajador sera cuarenta (40) horas. Y queda claro que la semana basics o el dia basico de trabajo no signifies ni debera ser interpretado como semana o dia garantizado ni tampoco que el trabajador necesariamente tenga que trabajar diariamente dichas horas.
SECCION 3.
Se pagara a tiempo y medio (1 1/2) del sueldo regular por cada hora trabajada despues de ocho (8) horas trabajadas o por cada hora trabajada despues de cuarenta (40) horas de la semana. Empleados quienes su horario son de cuatro (4) diaz de diez (10) horas se sopone de las ocho (8) horas requeridas por diario de sobre tiempo se les pagaran tiempo y medio (1 1/2) del sueldo regular por horas trabqjadas en exceso de diez (10) horas de un dia de trabajo.
6
SECCION 4,
Se pagara tiempo y medio (1 1/2) de su sueldo regular cuando un trabajador tenga que trabajar el sexto (6) dia de la semana, y que haya trabajado las horas requeridas en los cinco (5) dias de la semana o ha solicitado y ha recibido la aprobacion por escrito con catorce (14) dias calendario de anticipacion de la fecha (o fechas) que ha pedido estar libre o esta hospitalizado.
Horas por cuales empleados son pagados, pero no son o horas trabajadas, no seran contadas como horas trabajadas por la razon de calcular sobre tiempo. Excepto el sobre tiempo ser pagado a un empleado por haber trabajado en el sexto (6) dia de una semana de trabajo en que un dia festive hubiera occurido tai que el empleado es elejible y califique para pago del dia festivo y haya trabajado su horas de horario durante la semana de trabajo.
SECCION 5.
Se pagara doble tiempo por cada hora trabajada en domingo excepto aquellos trabajadores que regularmente tienen que trabajar el domingo y que reciben diferente dia de la semana para descanso en lugar de el domingo. Si se requiere trabajar en su dia de descanso entonces se les pagara doble tiempo de su sueldo regular.
SECCION 6.
Turnos empezando un dia y terminando el siguiente sera considerado como ver empezado el dia que empezo el tumo.
SECCION 7.
No habra piramides en tiempo extra. (No se permite acumular sobre tiempo)
SECCION 8,
Trabajadores reportando a su trabajo o haber sido avisados de reporter a su trabajo recibiran un pago de cuatro (4) horas de sueldo o equivalente de tiempo derecho, a menos que la planta este incapaz de trabajar por las razones mencionadas en Articulo 7, Garantia, Seccion 1.
SECCION 9.
La Compania pondra un aviso de horario de trabajo para el dia sabado al medio dia del jueves o antes.
SECCION IQ,
A.	Cuando ocurra horas extras (sobre tiempo) para los empleados, el sobre tiempo sera asignado en una manera justa y compartida como sea posible, sobre un horario razonable, a empleados capacitados.
B.	Cuando ocurra horas extras (sobre tiempo) que son fuera del departamento normal o horario de trabajo, el sobre tiempo sera ofrecido a los empleados, con la oportunidad de trabajar sera distribuida justa y compartida como sea posible sobre un horario razonable, a empleados capacitados.
7
SECCION 12,
Empleados liamados a trabajar fuera de su horario despues de haber salido y haber llegado a su casa, cuando tai trabajo no junto en el horario regular recibiran cuatro (4) horas de tiempo y medio (11/2) de su pago regular. En el evento que un empleado es Ilamado a regresar despues de verse apuntado para fuera y no a salido del edificio (planta) se les pagara tiempo derecho a como si no hubiera apuntado (hubiese ponchado) para fuera sin las cuatro (4) horas de garantia por tai trabajo.
ARTICULO 6
PERIODOS DE COMIDAS Y DE DESCANSOS
SECCION 1.
Los Empleados recibiran un periodo de quince (15) minutes, aproximadamente cuando ha pasado dos horas y media (2 1/2) despues de la primera porcion de su turno. La Compania puede variar el comienzo del descanso a treinta (30) minutes para ajustar por necesidades de produccion o por emergencia.
SECCION 2.
Los trabajadores recibiran treinta (30) minutos para su comida (sin pago) aproximadamente cinco (5) horas despues de haber comensado su turno. La Compania puede variar el comienzo de la comida de treinta (30) minutos por ajustes de por produccion o por emergencia. Si el turno no pasa de cinco y media horas (5 1/2) no habra periodo de comida.
SECCION 3.
Los Empleados tendran un segundo periodo de descanso de quince (15) minutos en su dia de trabajo cuando hayan pasado de ocho horas y quince minutos trabajadas.
SECCION 4.
Los Empleados requeridos a trabajar mas de diez ymedia (10 1/2) horas en cualquier turno, recibiran cinco dolares ($5.00) para su comida.
SECCION 5.
Los Empleados no deberan de continuar trabajando sin alimentacion por mas de tres horas y media (3 1/2) en un dia de trabajo.
ARTICULO 7 GARANTIA
SECCION 1.
La Compania garantiza a cada empleado regular que haya cumplido su periodo de provisional en la semana un pago de treinta y seis (36) horas de tiempo complete o pago equivalente atiempo derecho de pago regular por cada semana de empleo excluyendo por razones de un acto de dios, falta de energia electrica, explosion, fuego, inundacion, tormenta, huelga o boycot de Union laboral o Acto del
8
gobiemo que impide que la Compania funcione, o cualquier.emergencia no usual. Las horas que se ausente por cualquier razon seran descontadas de sus treinta y seis (36) horas. Horas de trabajo (o page), incluyendo el descanso pagado, vacaciones, dias festivos, permiso de funeral y deber de jurado.
SECCION 2,
La garantia referida en Secci on 1 de este Articulo 1, puede reducir a treinta y dos (32) horas en trece (13) semanas por ano en cada departamento o turno. Con las mismas calificaciones y condiciones en Seccion 1. La Compania dara aviso cuando vaya a tener una semana corta de trabajo antes del viemes de la semana anterior. Si treinta y seis (36) horas o mas son trabajadas en esa semana, esa semana no se contara como una de las trece (13) semanas en cuenta.
SECCION 3.
Los trabajadores desplazados o vueltos a llamar debido a operaciones en las provisiones de la senoria de este contrato deberan recibir pago solamente por esas horas trabajadas en la semana donde ocurrio dicho desplazamiento o rellamada.
ARTICULO 8
HUELGA Y CIERRE PATRONAL
SECCION 1,
Durante el termino de este acuerdo no causar huelgas, manifestation de brazos caidos, retrasos, huelgas de simpatia, reduction de production o suspender trabajo por parte de la Union, sus miembros o cualguier jndividuo cubierto en este acuerdo, por culquier razon. En caso de un fallo de esta provision, la Union declara publicidad inmediatamente de tai action no autorizada y ordena sus miembros que continuen sus obligaciones (tareas) sin existir una manifestation. La Union esta de acuerdo que en ninguna manera interferiece con los negotios de la Compania en permitir o conducir una manifestacion en manejar los productos de algun fuente al punto donde exista una disputa o controversia laboral.
SECCION 2.
La Compania tendra el derecho de determinar diciplina a un empleado quien estimule en este acuerdo. Si el intento de la diciplina impone a tai violation no es objeto para arbitraje, sin embargo, la Union tiene el derecho de poner queja aun si o no el empleado o empleados fallaron cualquier provision de este Articulo.
SECCION 3,
La Compania esta de acuerdo que la Compania ni sus representantes pondran en efecto ningun cierre patronal durante este acuerdo.
SECGIQB 4.
La Compania no hara ninguna clase de arreglo en una manera base individual con ningun empleado cubierto en este acuerdo.
9
ARTICULO 9 SENORIA
SECCION 1, LOGRAR LA SENORIA
Este acuerdo aclara la senoria en la planta, senoria en division, senoria por departamento a como el periodo del empleado sin quebrar su servicio con la planta en Grand Island de su mas reciente fecha de haber sido empleado. Antes de haber logrado la senoria, el empleado es considerado empleado de probation por treinta (30) dias. La Compania a su discretion puede, disciplinar o terminar el empleo a los empleados. Despues de tai periodo de prueba, un empleado se convierte en un empleado regular, y tendra senoria; la cual comenzara en la fecha de empleo mas reciente.
SECCION 2. SENORIA POR DIVISIONES Y DEPARTAMENTOS
A. Grupo Divisionales Para El Proposito De Senoria
1.	Matanza
2.	Fabricacion
3.	Mantenimiento
B. Departamentos Dentro La Division De Matanza
1.	Kill Floor
2.	Offal
3.	Coolers
4.	Pens
5.	Inedible Rendering/Blood Plasma
6.	Hides (Cueros)
7.	Waste Water
C. Departamentos Dentro De La Division De Producion De Fabrication
1.	Fabricacion
2.	Material Handling / Bodega
3.	Edible Rendering
4.	Empaque / Box shop
5.	Carne Molida
D. Departamentos Dentro La Division De Mantenimiento
1.	Slaughter
2.	Fabrication
3.	Electrico
4,	Refigeracion
5.	Rendering / Gelbone
SECCION 3. LISTA DE SENORIA
Una lista con la senoria de todos los empleados cubiertos por este contrato sera mantenida por la Compania y puesto cada seis (6) meses. Habra una copia para la Union. Alguna protesta para correjir la lista de senoria tendran que ser
10
hecha por escrito a la Compania dentro de treinta (30) dias despues de haber puesto la lista y entregada a la Union y sera considerada final.
Empleados que estan ausentes de su trabajo por treinta (30) dias completes despues de haber publicado la lista de senoria; debido a una enfermedad, vacaciones, o permiso de ausencia, tendra la oportunidad de solicitar la correccion de la lista de senoria dentro de dos (2) dias de trabajo despues de haber regresado a trabajar.
Lista de senoria de empleados nuevos, y empleados terminados se proveera a la Union mensual. La informaci on incluye el n ombre del empleado, fecha de empleo o terminacion, numero social y asignacion.
SECCION 4, PERDIDA DE LA SENORIA
A. Terminacion De Senoria Y Empleo Ocurre En Las Siguientes Razones 1. Renuncia voluntaria o retiro.
2.	Por permanecer mas tiempo despues de su tiempo de vacaciones o permiso de ausencia; sin causa justificada.
3.	No reportarse a trabajar despues de un despido temporal de trabajo dentro de cinco (5) dias, despues que una noticia por escrito haya sido enviada por correo certificado a la ultima direcci on en los archives de la Compania.
4.	Despidos temporales; ausencias de cualquier clase o permanecer fuera de la nomina de pago por mas de doce (12) meses. Sin embargo, ausencias por mas de diez y ocho (18) meses, por enfermedades ocupacionales y no ocupacionales, o accidente son la exepcion.
5.	Faltar al trabajo por tres (3) dias consecutivos de trabajo sin notificar a la Compania.
6.	Despido por razon.
7.	Cuando es determinado que el empleado esta medicamente, y totalmente deshabilitado.
B.	Un trabajador, quien acepta una pocision dentro de la Compania la cual esta fuera de la unidad de negociacion, como lo define el Articulo 2, Reconocimiento, y quien permanece fuera de la unidad de negociaciones por mas de sesenta (60) dias; perdera toda su senoria
SECCION 5. FORMA DE OCUPAR TRABAJOS VACANTES
A. Cuando hay un trabajo abierto dentro de la plants con exepcion de la persona guia (casco rojo) y entrenadores de produccion como lo dice la Seccion 7. abajo, ya sea por creacion de un nuevo trabajo o por una vacante, el trabajo sera anunciado (puesto) en la planta los Lunes y permanecera puesto por cinco (5) dias de trabajo. El trabajo vacante se le otorgara al trabajador apostador con mas senoria en el departamento; con la condicion que esa persona pueda dempefiar el trabajo.
11
B Si nadie en el departamento apuesta, acepta o califica para el trabajo, se le dara al apostador con mas senoria en esa division; con la condition que esa persona pueda realizar el trabajo.
C.	Si nadie en esa division apuesta, acepta o califica para e) trabajo; se le dara al empleado apostador con mas senoria de las diviciones restantes, si esa persona puede realizar el trabajo. No mas del cinco (5) por tiento de los empleados dentro una division se les permitira apostar de una division a otra durante un ano de contrato.
D.	Ningun empleado podra apostar de un turno a otro, hasta que haya acumulado seis (6) meses de senoria. No mas del cinco (5) por ciento de los empleados dentro de una division le sera permitido apostar a un diferente turno durante un ano de contrato.
E.	Si la compania determina que el movimiento de empleados, por medio del proceso de apuestas; entre las divisiones o tumos; reduce la efitiencia de produccion, la Compania buscara la manera de programar un plan para realizar estos movimientos los cuales exedan el limite de (30) treinta dias, a los que se refiere la parte I de esta secci on; sin tener que pagar la tarifa mas alta de pago, a menos que este plan sea exedido. La Compania revisara y discutira este plan con la Union antes de ponerlo en efecto.
Si la Compania determino que el movimiento de empleados por apuestas entre divisiones o tumos puede pasar de cinco (5) por tiento por ano de contrato sin reducir la eficiencia de la produccion, la Compania le notificara a la Union y continuara con las apuestas por encima del limite de cinco (5) por ciento y lo extenders hasta donde la Compania lo encuentre practico.
F.	Habra un limite de una (1) sola apuesta ganada cada ano para cada empleado a trabajos abiertos de igual o mas bqjo grado (nada mas una de las dos). De cualquier manera, no habra limite en apuestas para arriba, el empleado que gana el trabajo sera requerido que acepte el nuevo trabajo. El empleado que acepta el trabjo ganado de la apuesta tenda que hacer un sincero esfuerzo para aprender el trabajo ; Sin embargo en el caso de que El/Ella no pueda desempenar el trabajo en una manera satisfactoria en el criterio de la Compania, El empleado sera permitido a regresar a su departamento anterior y se le asignara un trabajo abierto. El empleado que es regresado a su departamento anterior no podra apostar para ningun trabajo por un periodo de tres (3) meses. Empleados que apuestan y ganan el trabajo no podran descalificarse. Si un empleado firma (apuesta) mas de un (1) trabajo debera de numerar basado en cual trabajo quiere primero (ejemplo -primero, segundo, tercero , etc.).El empleado ganador le dara el trabajo, basado en su antiguedad y arden en que selecciono los trabajos.
12
G,	Lob trabajos para apostar deveran contener el titulo del trabajo, una pequena descripcion de las principales actividades del trabqjo, page, grado, y la fecha que el trabajo esta abierto.
H.	Habra un limite de una (1) sola apuesta ganada cada afio para cada empleado a trabajos abiertos de igual o mas bajo grado (Nada mas una de las dos). De cualquier manera, no habra limite en apuestas para arriba. El ganador de una apuesta de trabajo va ha ser exegido de aceptar el trabajo. El apostador debe de hacer un gran esfuerzo para aprender el trabajo que a ganado ; en case de que el empleado no pueda en la opinion de la compana hacer el trabajo en una manera satisfactoria, ellos seran permitidos a regresar a su departamento anterior y asigndo a un trabajo disponible. Si el empleado fue regresado a su departamento anterior no podran apostar un trabajo por (3) meses. Empleados que han firmado/ apostado y ganado un trabajo no.se podran descalificar de ese trabqjo._Si un empleado firma mas que un trabajo en una apuesta de trabajos, deben de escribir primero, segundo, o tercero haciendo preferencia acerca del trabajo que esta apostando. El empleado ganara el trabajo por su senonia en el orden que erscribio su preferencia.
I.	Trabajos vacantes para manteneimiento seran anunciados (Postados) por tumo y divisiones (Fabicacion y Matanza) Electrical, Refrigeracion & Rendering / Gel-Bone. Empleados de mantenimiento estan limitados a firmar (apostar) tres (3) veces cada ano. Si un empleado firma mas de un trabajo, deve de poner prioridad (Marcar- Primero-Segundo-Tercero, etc.) en los trabajos que esta firmando. El empleado que gane e) trabajo sera por su senoria, y tambien por la prioridad que selecciono. Aquellos empleados que firmen mas de un trabajo y no le pogan prioridad, seran sujetos a la discrecion de selection de la compania.
Con respecto a empleados en la reserva de Mantenimiento (Pool), o aquellos que van a ser transferidos del departamento de production lo sigiente aplicara :
Aquellos empleados que se han ganado trabajos vacantes de Electicidad y Utilidades deberan se Jlenar Jos siguientes requisitos para entrar.
1)	. Deberan de haber terminado cuatro (4) cursos de manteniminto aprovados ( uno de los cuales de ser « Concepto de Electronica », o pasar un examen de aptitud aprovado por la compania, y
2)	. Debe de tener un nivel cuatro (4) o mas alto de progresion de mecanicos, y. 3). Recibir aprobacion aceptable del comite de revision de la compania e union.
J.	Un empleado a quien se Je otorga un trabajo por el proceso de apuestas, pero no puede realizarlo o calificar dentro del tiempo permitido, el empleado sera descalificado unicamente por su Supervi sor inmediato y regresara a su departamento anterior a cual quier position que este abierta. (No al trabajo que desempenaba anteriormente).
13
K.	En un esfuerzo para hacer acomodaciones razonables para los actuates empleados y candidates con restricciones como esta escrito en el « Articulo 15, seccion 6 no descriminacion » sera aplicado como lo siguiente : Una lista de trabajos (Trabajos Altmativos) sera hecha de acuerdo entre la compania y union para los que tengan restricciones ■ permanentes documentadas y sean colocados apropiadamente. La lista podra ser modificada por la Compania y union si es necesario durante el contrato. Empleados con restricciones temporales o sin restricciones pueden ocupar el trabajo alternative, pero si llega un empleado con restricciones permanentes, ya no podra seguir ocupando ese lugar. Los derechos de cambiar un empleado no se aplican cuando tenga restricciones permanentes.
Memorandum de Entendimiento Articulo 9 (Senoria) Seccion 5-K
Poliza para trabajo Restingido
Esta carta de Entendimiento es incorporada en por y entre La Compania Swift de Grand Island, Nebraska, y el Sindicato (Union) UFCW-CIO, CLC Local No. 22, y esta carta es incorporada como referenda con fecha de Enero 29, 2001.
Individuos que han alcansado la maxima mejoria medica, y se ponen en ausencia medica, tendran diez y.ocho meses (18) para solicitar cualqier pocision de tiempo complete disponible que empareje con cualesquiera restriccion que pueda tener. La senoria de estos individuos con la compania Swift continua por esos 18 meses. La Compania, La Union y los empleados afectados tendran responsabilidad mutua en la supervision de trabajos abiertos. Si un individuo es puesto en una posicion durante esos 18 meses, no habra consideracion por pago atrasado. Si estos individous no han resumido el empleo de tiempo complete para el final de esos 18 meses el empleo (Trabajo) y senoria terminaran.
SECCION 6. ASIGNACIONES TEMPORALES Y VACANTES TEMPORALES
A. La Compania pondra puestos de trabajo temporales por aquellos empleados que
esten en ausencias de trabajo por un minima de 12 semanas.
Los puestos (Anunicios de trabajo) vacantes indicaras que solamente son temporales. Cuando el trabajo vacante sea ganado por un empleado, su trabajo anterior sera ocupado por un empleado que la compania asigne.
El empleado que ha ganado el trabajo temporal, estara en este trabajo hasta que el empleado que esta fuera regrese. En caso que el empleado que esta en
14
ausencia no regress a trabajar, la vacante sera anunciada como un puesto de tiempo complete regular.
El empleado que estaba ocupando el puesto temporal, regresara a su trabajo original de tiempo complete complete. La compania asignara trabajos temporales que no se hayan firmado cuando fueron anunciados.
SECCION 7, VACANTES DE LEADPERSON (CASCO ROJO) Y ENTRENADORES DE PRODUCCION
Cuando surgen trabajos abiertos para leadperson (casco rojo) y entrenador de produccion, formas de informacion seran puestas por un periodo de siete (7) dias. Empleados interesados podran llenar una aplicacion para la pocision en la oficina de Recursos Humanos. La vacante sera otorgada a la mas calificada de los cinco (5) aplicantes con mas senoria. Las calificaciones seran evaluadas por la gerentia usando entrevistas con los candidates y usando informacion de un panel de empleados con experiencia en esta clasificacion; senalados por la Union.
El criterio de la evaluation incluira, habilidades para el trabajo, record en el trabajo, experiencia en el trabajo, asistencia, seguridad, comunicacion, y educacion o entrenamiento que es relacionado a la pocision.
SECCION 8, DESPIDO TEMPORAL
A.	Despido temporal dentro de una division causada por la reduction en fuerza, va a ser hecha de acuerdo a la senoria de la plants de todos los empleados trabajando en la division, con la condicion que los empleados que se queden, sean capaces de realizar los trabajos restantes.
Empleados quienes son desplazados por la reduction en fuerza se moveran a los trabajos que tenian anteriormente siempre y cuando ellos tengan mas senoria en la planta que los empleados que ellos desplasen.
Si la senoria de un empleado no le permite el desplasamiento de un empleado de el trabajo que tenia anteriormente entones ese empleado puede ser retenido en cualquier otro lugar, siempre y cuando sea capaz de realizar las actividades del trabajo a la satisfaction de la Compania don de el trabajo este disponible.
Sin embargo, si la elimination del trabajo o la reduction en la mano de obra y no se espere que dure mas de ocho (8) semanas, los empleados originales desplazados no tendran derecho de desplazar en orden de reversa de su progression y pueden desplazar solamente al empleado menor, basado en precedencia (senoria), dentro de la planta.
B.	Los empleados deberan recibir la tarifa de pago del trabajo donde sean retenidos por su senoria.
C.	Empleados de la division de mantenimiento no podran ser desplazados por empleados de otras divisiones.
15
D.	Al llamarlos para atras, a empleados descansados temporalmente de una division, quienes tengan mas senoria en la planta seran los primeros en llamar, siempre y cuando esten calificados para realizar el trabajo disponible.
E.	Empleados de probacion deben de ser los primeros en descansar temporalmente, antes que a empleados regulares, siempre y cuando los empleados que permanezcan sean calificados y capaces de realizar los trabajos restantes.
F.	La Compania debe considerar peticiones de empleados que voluntariamente pidan ser puestos en descanso temporal en lugar de otros empleados, siempre y cuando esta peticion no redusca la eficiente operacion de la planta. Si esta peticion es autorizada por la Compania, el voluntario debe ser elegible para aplicar por beneficios de desempleo sin opocision de parte de la Compania devido a la forma voluntaria de la peticion del empleado.
Nuevo Parrafo:
G.	Los empleados proporcionaran a la compania por escrito su direction para los propositos de dar avisos requeridos.
Cuando se vaya a llamar a los empleados que han side despedidos temporalmente, una carta certificada sera enviada a la ultima direction (registrada) en los expedientes de la compania.
Los empleados asi notificados deberan de regresar a trabajar lo mas pronto posible, pero no a mas tardar de cinco (5) dias calendario a partir de la fecha de notification, de lo contrario toda la antiguedad y derechos sera perdidos.
Es un acuerdo que dicha notification sera hecha y basada en la fecha de la primera entrega de la carta certificada por ei correo. Tambien una copia de la carta del llamado sera enviada a la union.
ARTICULO 10
BOLETIN (PIZARRONES)
SECCION 1.
La Compania utilizara boletines (pizarrones) separados con cierre donde la Union pueda poner noticias de recreo y asuntos sociales, noticias de eleccion, citas y resultados de elecciones de Union, noticias para juntas de Union y funciones. Los boletines seran puestos en o cerca de la cafeteria y de box shipping. Ningun material de escandalo, nada de atacar o criticar contra la Compania. Toda noticia puesta sera firmada por un oficial o agente de la Union.
16
ARTICULO 11
REPRESENT A CION DE UNION
SECCIQNI.
VISITACION DE LA UNION EN LA PLANTA
Los oficiales y representantes de la Union tendran el derecho de visitar la planta de Grand Island a cualquier tiempo durante horas normales de trabajo con el proposito de investigar agravios o para revisar operaciones dando aviso al gerente de la planta o al representante del gerente y no interferir las operaciones de la planta. El representante de la Union tiene el derecho de visitar areas aprobadas por la Compania.
gEGGIQN2.
LISTA DE REPRESENTANTES
La Union mantendra una lista de oficiales, representantes y delegados de la Union con el Gerente General de la planta o la persona designada.
SECSI.QELk
ORIENTACION
La Compania de acuerdo, permite, durante orientation, a representantes de la Union tener la oportunidad de discutir la parte que toma la Union dentro la planta Swift & Compania en Grand Island y solititar firmas en una taijeta de autorizacion de Union y cuotas. Los representantes no tomaran mas de media (1/2) hora.
SECCIOMX
INSPECCION DE CASILLEROS (LOCKERS)
La Compania dara aviso a la Union de permitir un delegado de la Union de estar presente durante inspection de los (lockers) o en el evento que un candado tenga que ser abierto o removido cuando un locker (casillero) esta ocupado.
SECCION 5,
ESTUDIOS DE TIEMPO
La Union puede hacer estudios de tiempo en la planta despues de haber dado aviso con tiempo razonable al gerente de la planta o a la persona encargada.
gECCIQNe,
DELEGADOS PARA INVESTIGACIONES DE DICIPLINA
La Compania hace arreglos de tener un delegado de Union presente, si uno esta disponible, cuando un empleado lo pide, cuando investigaciones son necesarias para conducir en caso de ditiplina. Si el empleado pide un delegado que hable su idioma, la Compania tratara de cumplir su pedido a un alcance practice.
17
SECCION 7,
AVISO DE DICIPLINA
La Compania proveera una copia de la action de la diciplina al delegado, al empleado, y a la oficina de Union en el mismo dia de tai action.
SECCION 8.
DELAGADO DE LA UNION (Walking steward)
A.	La compania podra designer a un delagado de la union para cubrit los tumos A,B,C, entre los empleados de la compania, que tendra como trabajo funciones administrativas del acuerdo, incluyendo asignationes de seguridad, y el procesamiento de agravios. La compania pagara e este delagado de la union su salario regular o el minimo pago de grupo cinco (5). con una limitation de 40 horas por semana. Este delegado de la union estara sujeto a marcar su taijeta para su entrada y salida para propocitos de asistencia. El delegado de la union continuara recibiendo beneficios en los mismos terminos despues de la designation de delagado
ARTICULO 12
DEDUCCIONES DE CUOTAS
SECCION 1,
La Compania hara deducciones semanales de cada cheque de pago. De cuotas y pago de initiation autorizado por escrito por el empleado. Tal cantidad se sostiene semanal y remitido a la oficina de Union mensualmente.
SECCION 2,
La Union reembolsara y ahorrara tiempo a la Compania en sus reclamos, demandas, juicios, y cualquier otra responsabilidad que resulte de alguna deduction de acuerdo con la autorizacion y asignatura.
ARTICULO 13 QUEJAS Y ARBITRAJES
SECCION 1. COMITE DE AGRAVIOS
Habra un comite de agravios de no mas de tres (3) miembros que sera designado por la Union. La Union se encarga de dar a conocer los nombres de estos miembros a la Compania por escrito. Empleados que son miembros de este comite y delegados designados en Section 2. de este Articulo, Cuando Se Requiere atender una junta con representantes designados por la Compania para procesar quejas al segundo escalon o tercer escalon, seran excusados con pago de sus tareas, y no perderan pago de su horario o horas de trabajo como aplica.
SECCION 2, DELEGADOS
La Union designara un numero razonable de delegados y mantenera al corriente una lista de delegados y de departamentos y divisiones representados por cada uno de ellos. Esta lista sera mantenida con el gerente de operaciones de la
18
planta o otra persona encargada y con el Vice-Presidents de los recursos humanos de la Compania.
SECCION 3. ESCALONES PARA EL PROCESO DE AGRAVIOS Y ARBRITAJE Empleados, delegados y supervisores con confianza pueden discutir preguntas o asuntos que se pueden resolver sin tener que Hegar a una queja. Si alguna queja resulta entre la Compania y la Union, o entre la Compania y empleados que tenga que ver con algo de este acuerdo o incidente en relacion al empleo, se aplicara los siguientes procedimientos;
Primer Escalon
El empleado envuelto, con o sin delegado debe, entre cinco (5) dias de trabajo de que sucedio el incidente, discutir con su supervisor para el proposito de resolver la queja. Toda queja tendra que ser por escrito y firmada por el delegado y el empleado cuando se presents al primer escalon. Si la queja no se recibio por escrito entre los cinco (5) dias como se esplica, la causa se considera cerrada.
La respuesta por escrita del supervisor deve ser en cinco (5) dias trabajables del dia que se discutio la queja. Si el asunto no se arreglo en el primer escalon. La Union puede, con un delegado u otro oflcial, pasar la queja al segundo escalon, aunque la noticia fue recibida por escrito entre los cinco (5) dias trabajables de la discusion de la repuesta del primer escalon.
En caso de suspension o despido de una persona empleada por razones diciplinarias. Puede con la discrecion de la Union, brincar el primer escalon, firmado por el delegado y ei empleado. Por escrito entre cinco (5) dias trabajables por sus hechos en el segundo escalon.
Segundo Escalon
Un aviso por escrito con tiempo al superintendente o al gerente de recursos humanos de la planta para una junta con ei jefe de delegados y otro (a) representante de Union. Con o sin el empleado o testigos. Para discutir el asunto con las personas mencionadas con el proposito de resolver la queja. La repuesta de la Compania por escrita sera entre cinco (5) dias trabajables de la conclusion del segundo escalon.
Si el asunto no se arreglo en el segundo escalon, la Union puede seguir el agravio al tercer escalon. Aunque el aviso sea por escrito entre cinco (5) dias trabajables de la repuesta del segundo escalon.
Tercer Escalon/Pre-Arbitral e
Un aviso por escrito a tiempo apropiado al gerente de operaciones de la planta para una junta con el comite de agravios de Union. El gerente de operaciones o ingeniero de la planta y el Vice-Presidente de recursos humanos o representante designado con el proposito de resolver el agravio. Reuniones mensuales se tomaran acabo si es necesario para segurar tiempo de procedimiento. Adicional evidencias se podran presenter en el tercer escalon. La repuesta por escrita de la Compania sera entre quince (15) dias trabajables de conclusion de la junta del tercer escalon. Cualquier acuerdo o arreglo en este escalon del procedimiento de agravio sera final y cubierto por los dos partidos.
19
Si el asunto no se arreglo en el tercer escalon, la Union avanza el agravio a arbitraje, dando por escrito un aviso de las intenciones de la Union de seguir a arbitrqje entre quince (15) dias trabajables por la repuesta de la Compania del tercer escalon.
Arbitraje
Un aviso con el intento y siendo preparado para llevarse a arbitraje, las partes interesadaa deberan seleccionar un arbitrador por mutuo acuerdo, si las partes no son capaces de Hegar a un acuerdo con un arbitrador, cualquier de las partes debe solicitar por escrito cinco (5) nombres del servicio federal de conciliation y mediation y escojer nombres para determinar cual de ellos se sentara durante la arbitracion.
Los gastos de arbitraje, los costos de las facilidades y otros costos requeridos por el arbitrador deberan ser pagados por igual entre la Compania y la Union. Otros gastos se pagaran por la parte que haya autorizado tai cosa.
Todos los limites de tiempo se extenderan pero de mutuo acuerdo y por escrito.
La autoridad del arbitrador debera estar limitada a los terminos y condiciones espetificamente como esta en el acuerdo. La decision del arbitrador es para dar fin y cubrir al empleado, la Compania, y la Union.
SECCION 4, HORARIO
Ningun empleado debe abandonar su trabajo para participar en una queja o otra actividad por parte de si mismo o por otro empleado sin tener permiso de su supervisor. Todas las quejas deben ser presentadas y se pondran juntas para escalones (steps) cuando no cause molestia en la operation de la Compania.
SECCION 5, TERMINO DE TIEMPO
Las dos partes estan de acuerdo del tiempo permitido y adecuado para procesar una queja a cada escalon. Si la Union falla en procesar una queja entre el tiempo limitado, esa queja se termina. Si la Compania falla para dar una repuesta entre el tiempo limitado, la queja avanza al siguiente escalon del procedimiento. Tiempo limitado puede ser extendido por mutuo acuerdo por las dos partes, con tai acuerdo por escrito y firmado por la Compania y representante de la Union.
SECCION 6. AUTORIDAD DE UNION
La administration ejecutiva de la Union tiene la autorizacion final de determinar si el caso sigue el procedimiento por escalon de tai queja o arbitraje, la decision sera por medio del empleado.
20
ARTICULO 14 LENGUAJE (IDIOMA) Y CULTURA
SECCION 1.
La Compania y la Union nombraran un comite parajuntarse a lo menos cuatro periodos por ano con el proposito de recomendar comunicaciones, traducciones y mejorar educacion.
SECCION 2.
Los acuerdos laborales y polizas seran publicadas en el primer lenguaje (idioma) de todo empleado de produccion y mantenimiento. Los partidos estan de acuerdo que la firma de acuerdo en ingles sera el documento de control para un proposito legal o administrative.
ARTICULO 15
NO DISCRIMINACION
SECCION 1,
La Compania y la Union estan de acuerdo de no discriminar a ningun trabajador o aplicante por su edad, color, raza, incapacidad, origen national, religion, creencia, estado de veterano, o por ser miembro de la Union.
SECCION 2.
La Union reconoce las obligaciones de la Compania de hacer razonables acomodamientos a aplicantes y empleados con disabilidades en acuerdo bajo el acto de am erican os con disabilidades. En un evento que hay conflicto en cualquier provision de este contrato, la Compania y la Union se juntaran para discutir las comodidades.
ARTICULO 16
SERVICIO MILITAR
Todo empleado regular de tiempo complete que deja su posicion en la Compania para entrar al servicio activo de las fuerzas armadas de los estados unidos tiene el derecho a ser re-empleado por la Compania cuando el empleado completa su servicio obligatorio y entrara con teda su senoria y derechos como lo provee la ley Federal.
ARTICULO 17 CAMPAMENTO MILITAR DE VERANO
SECCION I,
Empleados que dejan su empleo por Servicio Militar, sus garantias de trabajo seran otorgadas de las cuales tienen derecho bajo las provisiones del decreto (USERRA). Acto de Servicios Militares de Empleo y Re-Empleo.
21
SECCION 2,
Permiso de ausencia sin pago por corto tiempo de entrenamiento active son adiciona! de sus vacaciones normales que les pertenece, pero los empleados pueden tomar sus vacaciones al mismo tiempo.
ARTICULO 18
EQUIPO DE SEGURIDAD HERRAMIENTA Y VESTUARIO
SECCION 1,
La Compania Proveera!
A:	Eguipo de seguridad requerido por la Compania
B.	Mantenimiento de herramienta y equipo como requerido
C.	Cuchillos, chairas y cadenas, delantares, guantes de algodon, guantes de plastico, tapones para los oidos, cubridores para los oidos (orejas), redes para el pelo, redes para la barba mangas de plastico, maleta con broche para la ropa, candado para el casillero (locker) trajes impermeables, engranqjes, ganchos como se requiere.
D.	Uniformes designados por la Compania, y sobretodo (coveralls) que es requerido para trabajo de afuera.
E.	La Compania proveera los lentes de seguridad donde se requieren por la Compania
F.	Ropa de invierno sera proporcionada por la compania para empleados que requieren trabajar afuera.
SECCION 2.
La Compania tendra servicio de lavanderia para la ropa de trabajo.
SECCION 3.
Los empleados seran respon sables de cuidar eficientemente el uso de todo el eguipo que reciban de la Compania, si se pierde a proposito, o danado o destruido, se le cargara al empleado y posiblemente se le deduzca de su sueldo.
SECCION 4.
Empezando el dia primero (I) de Septiembre, 2001. Todo empleado recibira una cantidad de ($90.00) anual para ropa en forma de credito para que usted pueda compensar el costo del volumen de su ropa y betas con puniera.
ARTICULO 19 BENEFICIOS
SECCION 1. GRUPO DE ASEGURANZA
El plan de aseguranza estara disponible a todo empleado elejible.
22
Un empleado regular de tiempo complete estara elejible en el primer dia del mes despues de haber cumplido seis (6) meses de servicio, para inscribirse en el grupo de aseguranza (Employee Group Health Plan).
Empleados quien se inscri ban para la aseguranza, pagaran por deduction de su pago, la portion del costo que haya seleccionado.: los siguientes costos aplicables Empleado solamente	$ 6.00
Empleado y Familia	$ 9.00
Plan Medico
Efectivo Mayo 1, 2005-
Empleado solamente $8.25
Empleaso Y Esposa $12.25
Empleado Y Nino(05) $12.25
Empleado Y Familia $13.50
Enero 1, 2009
Empleado solo $10.25
Empleaso Y Esposa $18.50
Empleado Y Nirio(05) $18.50
Empleado Y Fam. $22.50
Enero 1, 2007
Empleado solamente $9.25
Empleado Y Esposa $ 15.30
Empleado Y Nino(05) $15.30
Empleado Y Fam. $18.00
Efectivo Mayo 1, 2005
Excepciones dentro de la red y fuera de la red para el Plan Medico.
Si un empleado cubierto bajo el plan medico recibe cuidados medicos a corto tiempo (48 horas o Menos), paciente de cuidados medicos en clinica/ hospital de , o Medico que no este cubierta por la red medica o cualquier otro provedor medico que no este en la red, por una condition medica de emergentia, los benefitios para estos servicios cubiertos seran sujetos al deducible y co-pago, beneficios para pacientes que son admitidos seran pagados como dentro de la red medica siempre y cuando estos servicios sean para una condition medica de emergentia.
Clarification : Preferido significa dentro de la red- para ser considerado como provedor preferido dentro de la red medica, el paciente tiene que estar dentro de la red medica- esto esencialmente significa que los beneficios dentro de la red medica seran disponibles.
Beneficio de Meditinas
Efectivo Mayo 1, 2005
Farmacia Generico $7.00	Formulario $ 15.0	Medicina de marca $ 30.00
Orden por correo de 90 dias
Medicina Generica $ 15.00	Formulario $ 30.00	Medicina de marca $ 60.00
Medicina de estilo de vida	50 % de descuento (incluye ajuates de SPD)
SECCION 2. ASEGURANZA DENTAL
Empleados regulares de tiempo complete seran elejibles en el primer dia del mes, despues de haber cumplido seis (6) meses de servicio, para inscribirse en el grupo de aseguranza dental.
Empleados quien se escriben para la aseguranza, pagaran por deduccion de su pago, la portion del costo que haya seleccionado.
23
Plan Dental
Efectivo Mayo 1, 2005 Enero 1, 2007
Empleado Y Esposa $4.78 Empleado Y Esposa $5.25
Empleado Y Nino(05) $4.78 Empleado Y Nino(05) $5.25
Empleado solo $ 2.38 Empleado solo $ 2.61
Empleado Y Fam $ 7.16 Empleado Y Fam $ 7.87
Enero 1, 2009
Empleado Y Esposa $5.80
Empleado Y Nifio(05) $5.80
Empleado solo $ 2.90
Empleado Y Fam. $ 8.65
SECCION 3, PLAN DE CUIDADO VISUAL (VISION)
Empleados regulates de tiempo complete seran elejibles en el primer dia del mes, despues de haber cumplido seis (6) meses de servicio, para inscri birse en el grupo del plan de vision.
Empleados quien se escriben para el plan de vision, pagaran por deduccion de su pago, el costo del plan que haya seleccionado.
Plan de Vision
Efectivo Mayo 1, 2005 Empleado solo $ 1.73
Empleado +1 $3.41
Empleado +2 o mas $4.85 Empleado Y Fam. $ 4.85
Enero 1, 2007
Empleado solo $1.85
Empleado +1 $3.75
Empleado +2 o mas $5.30
Empleado y Fam. $ 5.30
Enero 1, 2009 Empleado solo $ 2.05 Empleado +1 $4.10 Empleado +2 omas$5.85 Empleado y Fam. $ 5.85
SECCION 4, DESABILIDAD DE LARGA DURACION
Empleados regulates de tiempo complete seran elejibles en el primer dia del mes, despues de haber cumplido seis (6) meses de servicio para inscribirse en el plan de desabilidad de larga duration.
Empleados quien se escriben para esta aseguranza, pagaran por deduction de su pago, el costo del plan que haya seleccionado.
SECCION 5. GRUPO DE ASEGURANZA DE VIDA
Empleados regulates de tiempo complete seran elejibles en el primer dia del mes, despues de haber cumplido seis (6) meses de servicio, enrolarse en el grupo de vida y muerte accidental o perdida de alguna parte del cuerpo por la cantidad de $10,000, pagada por la Compania.
Empleados pueden escribirse para mas aseguranza adicional de vida, accidente, por perdida de una parte del cuerpo, o para aseguranza de vida para sus dependientes y pagar por deduccion de su pago el costo que selecciono.
SECCION 6. POLIZA DE ENFERMEDADES Y ACCIDENTES
A.	Cuando un empleado regular de tiempo complete, y a cumplido un ano o mas de servicio esta ausente por una disabilidad, por una enfermedad o accidente no cubierto por compensation de obreros (Worker’s Compensation), y cuando tai ausencias y continuation son respaldadas por evidentias medicas, pagos seran hechos a como se describen en este Articulo.
24
B.	Los pagos comenzaran en el octavo (8) dia laboral por una desabilidad o en el segundo (2) dia si se es hospitalizado y sigue mientras el empleado esta desabilitado hasta dies (10) semanas de beneficios por cualguier ausencia, si el empleado continua con evidencias medicas para seguir su desabilidad. La cantidad de beneficios se reducira por pagos por cualquier otra auscencia ocurida durante el periodo de doce (12) meses inmediatamente cuando haya comenzado la auscencia que esta alcorriente.
C.	La cantidad de beneficios se pagara $165.00 por semana hasta dies (10) semanas. Efectivo en enero 1,2000, la cantidad de beneficios de pago seran $170.00 por semana hasta dies (10) semanas.
D.	Esta de acuerdo que el proposito de esta poliza es para proveer beneficio economicos para empleados que califican en estos beneficios como se describen solamente cuando no puede trabajar.
E.	Ningun empleado podra ser elejible bajo esta poliza a menos que haya dado aviso a la Compania de su inabilida de reporter a su trabajo.
SECCION 7, REQUERIMIENTOS (REQUISITOS) PARA SER ELEJIBLE Y PARA ENROLARSE
Empleados que estan elejibles tienen que re-inscribirse para estar cubiertos durante inscripcion, completando y regresar el material de inscripcion, aunque hayan elejido o rechazar la cubertura. Empleados quien rechazan la cubertura o no entregan el material para inscribirse y luego son elejibles para participar en los planes, seran sujetos condiciones pre-existentes limitadas en estos planes. Empleados que son elejibles seran participantes de este plan despues dever completado la forma de eleccion/enrolarse y proveer los documentos apropiados al departamento de recursos humanos dentro de treinta y un (31) dia de la fecha elejible del empleado. Cambios en elecciones son limitados como se entiende en el documento del plan.
SECCION 8.
Es un acuerdo, que las contribuciones del empleado para las cantidades en secciones 1,2, y 3 seran los mismos mientras este contrato este activo.
SECCION 9
La Compafiia acuerda hacer disponible un programs del plan de ahorros de retiro el plan 401 (K) programa de ahorros para retiro, para empleados del sindicato (Union). Las caracteristicas de este plan son gobemadas por el documento de este plan, y estan con forme a todos los requisites y a las regulaciones del departn manto de (IRS). Las carecteristicas principals de este plan son :
1.	La Compania contribute un 66 2/3% para igualar en el primer 6% de pago que un empleado ahorre en este plan.
25
2.	La contribucion de la Compania sera invertida de manera semejante que el empleado diriga su contribucion.
3.	La contribucion de la Compania concede un 20 % por ano de servicio, y este ahorro es concedido a un 100 % despues de 5 aiios continues de servicio del empleado.
4.	Empleados son elegibles de participar en este programs despues de un ano de servicio.
5.	Empleados pueden contribuir hasta un 75 % del pago calificaden cualquier combinacion de antes o despues de los impuestos federates, pero las contribuciones del empleado no pueden exceder mas del 75 % del pago calificado del empleado.
ARTICULO 20
DIAS FESTIVOS
SECCIQN 1,
Los siguientes seran observados como di as festivos pagados en cada ano:
New Years Day (Dia De Ano Nuevo)
Memorial Day (Dia Memorial De Los Caidos) Independence Day (Dia De La Independencia) Labor Day (Dia Del Trabajador) Christmas Eve or New Year’s Eve (Altemativo) (Noche Buena Y Ultimo Dia Del Ano Tomaran Turnos) Thanksgiving Day (Dia De Accion De Gracias) Christmas Day (Dia De Navidad)
Employee’s Birthday (Dia Del Cumple Anos Del Empleado)
Cuando un dia festivo cae en domingo, sera observado el dia siguiente que es el lunes.
Los de mantenimiento y otros empleados que tienen su horario regular de trabajo en un dia festivo como procedimiento normal de operaci on recibira (2) veces mas de su pago regular por toda hora trabajada en este dia festivo. Si el dia festivo cae en domingo, los empleados observaran el dia festivo en ese dia.
SECCIQN2,
A.	El dia del cumpleanos sera observado dentro del mismo mes del cumpleanos del empleado y tendra que ser pedido por escrito por no menos de una (1) semana de anticipacion de la fecha que pidio estar libre. Peticiones por escrito seran contestalias a no mas tardar de tres (3) dias de la fecha que se solicito. Peticiones aprobadas por escrito por el supervisor no podran ser canceladas, excepto por concentimiento mutuo del empleado y el supervisor.
B.	La noche buena o el ultimo dia del ano (por turnos) seran programados para dar la noche buena como dia festivo a un tumo y el ultimo dia del ano como dia
26
festivo al otro tumo como dia festive tomando tumos entre los dos tumos por cada ano.
Temporada del 2005	12/24 Noche Buena
12/31 Ultimo Dia Del Ano
Temporada del 2006	12/24 Noche Buena
12/31 Ultimo Dia Del Ano
Temporada del 2001	12/24 Noche Buena
12/31 Ultimo Dia Del Ano
Temporada del 2008	12/24 Noche Buena
12/31 Ultimo Dia Del Ano
Temporada del 2009	12/24 Noche Buena
12/31 Ultimo Dia del Ano
Turno “B”-Dia Festivo Tumo “A”-Di a Festivo
Tumo “A”-Dia Festivo
Tumo “B”-Dia Festivo
Tumo “B”-Dia Festivo Tumo “A”-Dia Festivo
Tumo “A”-Dia Festivo
Tumo i‘B”-Dia Festivo
Turno *B” Dia Festivo Tumo “A” Dia Festivo
SECCION 3,
En orden de ser elegible para el dia festivo pagado, el empleado debe de estar en la planilla de pago y ser empleado regular en servicio con la Compania en un periodo de 90 dias, ver trabajado el dia completo un dia antes y despues del dia festivo, amenos en ausencia debida al fallecimiento de familia inmediata, o es acompanada por una excusa medica escrita por un medico, o haber sido en acuerdo por escrito por su supervisor. Sin embargo, si el empleado esta en permiso de ausencia por enfermedad o dano y trabaja durante cualquicr parte de la semana antes del dia festivo. La semana del dia festivo, o la semana despues del dia festivo, el empleado sera elejible para el dia festivo con pago. Empleados que uvieren llegado tarde por un acto de dies, o emergencia rara que son excusadas por el supervisor seran elejibles para el dia festivo con pago con acuerdo de todas condi ci ones.
SECCION 4,
Dias festivos con pago seran calculadas a ocho (8) horas, tiempo derecho y consideradas como parte de pago de garantia.
SECCION 5,
Si uno de los dias festivos, cubiertos en Seccion 1, ocurre en el tiempo que un empleado este en vacaciones se le pagara ocho (8) horas a tiempo regular de su pago adicional a su pago de vacaciones.
SECCION 6,
Trabajo echo en un dia festivo recibira dos (2) veces el tiempo del pago regular por las horas trabajadas en ese dia festivo.
27
ARTICULO 21 VACACIONES
SECCION 1.
Trabajadores regulares de tiempo complete o haber trabajado un horario de cuarenta (40) semanas durante su aniversario sera elegible para una (1) semana de vacaciones con pago en seguida de cumplir su primer aniversario. Empleados de haber laborado por tres (3) anos y haber trabajado las cuarenta (40) semanas durante su aniversario anterior sera elegible para dos (2) semanas de vacaciones con pago. Trabajadores haber trabajado por diez anos y trabajo las cuarenta (40) semanas durante su aniversario anterior sera elegible para tres (3) semanas de vacaciones con pago. Para ser elegible para vacaciones con pago los trabajadores deberan estar empleados cuando llegue la fecha de su aniversario.
SECCION 2,
El pago de vacaciones de cada semana sera de cuarenta (40) horas con el sueldo de ese momenta que tiene y las vacaciones son elegibles y tomadas despues del dia del aniversario.
SECCION 3.
Semanas trabajadas por consideracion de las cuarenta (40) semanas regueridas incluyen cada semana que el empleado reciba cheque, incluyendo hasta trece (13) semanas de compensacion de obrero, pago de vacaciones, deber de jurado, permiso de funeral, pero excluyendo semanas fuera sin pago o ausencia de enfermo sin pago.
SECCION 4.
Los empleados recibiran su pago de vacaciones despues de su aniversario de empleo. (Pago de vacaciones no se pagaran en ningun otro tiempo). No recibe pago de vacaciones si es terminado del empleo ni a cualquier otro tiempo. El trabajador puede obtener su pago de vacaciones al comenzar las vacaciones pidiendolo una semana antes.
SECCION 5.
Los trabajadores pueden ser requeridos que tomen vacaciones que no han usado en un tiempo como; si no esta operando la planta. Si no esta operand©, los empleados que no son necesitados a trabajar pueden ser requeridos a tomar sus vacaciones.
SECCION 6.
Como es practice, la senoria sera observada para el periodo de vacaciones; Los manejantes daran las vacaciones en una manera que no interfere las operaciones de la planta. Empleados del mismo turno y hacen el mismo trabajo, esos con mas senoria tendran preferencia al tiempo de vacaciones, menos cuando haya dividido sus vacaciones. Los manejantes del departamento determinan
28
cuantos empleados de cada grupo pueden tomar vacaciones en el mismo tiempo sin perjudicar la operacion o el turno de la planta.
SgOCIQNZ
Los trabaj adores deberan elejir sus vacaciones no antes de febrero 1 de cada ano. Vacaciones para el mes de enero y febrero del siguiente ano deben ser pedidas para que el ano corra de marzo al siguiente febrero. Vacaciones seran de una semana complete, (no menos de una semana).
STOIQN_&
Si un dia festivo cae durante sus vacaciones, el empleado recibira un dia adicionai pagado. Esto no quiere decir que tiene un dia adicional libre. La semana de vacacion empieza el lunes a menos que el empleado haya recibido penniso por escrito de su manejante de comenzar su vacacion en otro dia de la semana. A menos que haya excusa, empleados deben trabqjar el fin de semana antes de sus vacaciones si estan en horario de trabajo.
MEMORANDUM DE ENTENDIMIENTO PARA BENEFICIOS DE VACACIONES.
SECCION 9.
Esta carta de entendimineto es incorporada entre / y la Compania Swift de Grand Island, Ne. Y el Sindicato (Union) de trabqjadores (UFCW) Local 22, y como referenda y es parte del acuerdo con fecha del 31, de Febrero 2005.
En referenda al articlo 21 section 9 (Vacaciones).
A)	. Empleados que son elegibles para solicitar una (1) semana de vacaciones, un (1) dia a la vez, seran compensados a tiempo y medio (1 1/2) del pago regular por trabajo realizado en el sexto (6th) dia dentro de esa semana de trabajo, siempre que el empleado ha solicitado y ha recibido aprobacion por escrito con catorce (14) dias calendario de anticipation de la fecha que ha solicitado estar libre.
B)	. Empleados con mas de una semana de vacaciones, pueden tomar una semana, de un dia a la vez, con la aprobacion del supervisor por adelantado. El pago por cada dia de vacaciones sera calculado en ocho (8) basado en horas de tiempo regular, en el tiempo de del dia de vacaciones.
El dia de vacaciones solicitado debe ser presentado por escrito, no menos de una semana de anticipation de la fecha que ha solicitado. Peticiones por escrito seran contestadas en no menos de tres (3) dias de la fecha que ha solicitado.
Peticiones por escrito y aprobadas por el el supervisor no podran canceladas. Execepto por el concentimiento mutuo del supervisor y el empleado.
SECCION 10.
Empleados con dos (2) o mas semanas de vacaciones pueden pedir una (1) semana de sus vacaciones pagadas y trabqjarlas , en lugar de tomar el tiempo libre, con aprobacion previa de su Supervisor.
29
ARTICULO 22 SERVICIO DE JURADO
-SECCION 1,
Empleados llamados a servir en un jurado en el condado, estado o corte federal seran excusados para servir presentando la notification a su supervisor.
SECCION 2.
Empleados regulares de tiempo complete se les pagara la diferencia del pago por el jurado y las horas que hubiera trabqjado a un maximo de ocho (8) horas, a menos que tai empleado tenga un dia normal de mas de ocho (8) horas por cada dia de servicio cuando cae en un dia de trabajo. Empleados excusados y no sirvieron en el jurado deben regresar a su horario de trabajo o al resto de su turno.
SECCION 3.
Los empleados que son pagados por la Compania durante el deber de jurado le prison torn a ia Compania la cantidad de compensation recibida de deber de jurado tai que no sea otra; como pension de viaje, comida o habitation.
ARTICULO 23 PERMISO DE FUNERAL
SECCION 1.
Cuando un empleado de tiempo complete se ausenta de su trabajo para
atender un funeral de un miembro de su familia inmediata, la Compania pagara al -empleado (8) ocho horas de sueldo regular por cada dia que el empleado se ausenta hasta un maximo de (3) tres dias Consecutivos, siempre que ;
A.	El empleado notificara a su supervisor del por que necesita ausentarse y que no sea despues del primer dia de su ausencia y.
B.	Los dias fibres con pago Seran a un maximo de tres (3) dias consecutivos, el cual uno de esos dias debe ser el dia del funeral.
SECCION 2,
Permiso de funeral se concede con el proposito de atender el funeral y es otorgado con ese proposito solamente. Empleados que no puedan atender el funeral de familia inmediata se le permite (1) un dia de ausente de funeral.
SECCION 3,
La familia inmediata signifies solamente como el esposo (a), hijos, madre, padre, hermana, hermano, abuelos, nietos, suegra y suegro. Cuando se requiere, el empleado debe de proveer una prueba del dia del funeral y la relation.
30
SECCION 4,
Se pagara un dia de sueldo para asistir al funeral de una cunada o cunado del empleado.
ARTICULO 24
PERMISO DE AUSENCIA
SECCION 1,
La Compania permitira permiso de ausencia sin pago a los empleados que solicitan para algo personal o razones de emergencia. El expedients de servicio del empleado, compromises con otros empleados, y circunstancias que requieren el permiso sera examinados para considerar el conocimiento del permiso. Estos permisos de ausencia no se conceden con el fin de cual el empleado adquiera otro trabajo temporal, probar otro trabajo o para poner su propio negocio.
La Compania tiene el derecho de pedir a sus empleados que usen tiempo acumlado (Con Pago-vacaciones) antes de pedir una ausencia Medica Familiar calificada.
SECCION 2.
La Compania permitira permiso de ausencia a empleados para atender funciones de Union incluyendo juntas de consejo ejecutivo y convenciones por un periodo de menos de dos semanas cuando haya dado un aviso por escrito al Gerente General de la planta. Tai permisos seran sin pago y con numeros limitados con el acuerdo de la Compania y la Union.
SECCION 3,
En caso que la Union selections un empleado para position de tiempo complete en la Union, la Compania concedera la ausencia, habiendosele notificado por escrito, dicha ausencia es sin pago y sin beneficios y no excedera del termino de este contrato. Individuos del sindicato en dicha ausencia de trabajo que desean regresar a trabajar por la compania, deberan ser acomodados en un trabajo en la division que previamente han trabajado, sin perdida de senoria y derechos, siempre y cuando estos individous sean capaces de hacer el trabajo. No mas de dos (2) empleados a la misma vez calificaran para esta ausencia de trabajo.
SECCION 4.
Esta entendido que cualquier empleado con permiso de ausencia bajo Seccion 3 no sera elegible para pago de vacaciones mientras este bajo permiso de ausencia, excepto al empleado que califique y sea elegible a sus vacaciones antes de salir a prestar el servicio, si el empleado tiene derecho a vacaciones se le pagaran al contado la cantidad exacta por ellas.
SECCION 5.
La Compania y la Union cumpliran con el family and medical act (FMLA) (Acto de permiso medico familiar).
31
ARTICULO 25 SUELDOS
SECCION 1,
Sueldo base laboral para empleados de produccion. El sueldo base por hora para empleados de produccion durante este termino de acuerdo seran:
Salaries
Ratification	01-30-2006 01-29-2007 01-28-2008 01-26-2009
$0.50	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25	$0.25
$ 11.25 - Efectivo en el periodo de pago despues de la ratificacion del contrato.
$ 11.50 - Efectivo 01-30-2006
$ 11.75 - Efectivo 01-29-2007
$ 12.00 - Efectivo 01-28-2008
$ 12.25 - Efectivo 01-26-2009
SECCION 2,
Pago al comenzar para empleados de produccion por los primeros noventa (90) dias despues del dia de contratation. El empleado recibira un salario base estipulado en la siguiente forma : estipulada.
Salario de Progresion : Al Empezar $ 10.85
Dia 31	- $ 11.00
Dia 61	$11.15
Dia 91	$11.25
Cuando el nuevo empleado completa 91dias de servicio de empleo de la fecha que empezo se le pagara no menos del salario base de produccion. Ademas si el empleado califica en un trabajo de production durante los noventa (90) dias, estos empleados recibiran el salario base mas el salario applicable por el trabajo que estan desempenando.
SECCION 3.
Clasificacion de grupos para empleados de production. Sueldo de pago por grupo, si aplica al trabajo del empleado, se agregara al sueldo base de pago cuando el empleado califique en su trabajo a como lbs terminos de este acuerdo. Clasificaciones de grupo para trabajos de produccion estan escrito en exhibe “A";
Grupo 1 - Base + $ .25/Hora Grupo 2 - Base + $ ,45/Hora Grupo 3 - Base + $ ,70/Hora Grupo 4 - Base + $1.00/Hora
Grupo 5 - Base + $1.35/Hora Grupo 6 - Base + $1.65/Hora
Grupo 7 - Base + $1.85/Hora
Grupo 8 - Base + $ 3.10/Hora
32
SECCION 4,
NIVEL DE PAGO PARA MANTENIMIENTO
A. NIVELES DE CALIFICACION DE MANTENIMIENTO
Ratification	01-30-06	01-29-07	01-28-08	01-26-09	
Level 1	$ 11.85	$ 12.10	$ 12.35	$ 12.60	$ 12.85
Level 2	$12.35	$ 12.60	$ 12.85	$13.10	$ 13.45
Level 3	$ 13.60	$ 13.85	$ 14.10	$ 14.35	$ 14.60
Level 4	$ 14.35	$ 14.60	$ 14.85	$ 15.10	$ 15.35
Level 5	$ 15.10	$ 15.35	$ 15.60	$ 15.85	$ 16.10
Level 6	$ 15.85	$ 16.10	$ 16.35	$ 16.60	$ 16.85
Level 7	$ 16.35	$16.60	$ 16.85	$ 17.10	$ 17.35
Level 8	$ 16.85	$ 17.10	$ 17.35	$ 17.60	$ 17.85
* Nivel E/8 $ 17.35 (Electricistas Solamente)		$ 17.60	$ 17.85	$ 18.10	$ 18.35
NIVELES DE CALIFICACION PARA MANTENIMIENTO
NIVEL	NIVEL DE PAGO
** 10 * 9 * 8 * 7 * 6 * 5 * 4 * 3 * 2 * 1	$ 0.25 $0.25 $0.50 $ 0.50 $0.75 $0.75 $ 0.75 $ 1.25 $0.50 $ 0.60 Sobre base de production.
** Dos (2) Clases tecnicas (Un total de cuatro (4) clases )
(debe de tener un trabajo de Electricista)
• Empleados que ya esten en el nive) E/8 seran protejidos y no seran requeridos a terminar las cuatro (4) clases tecnicas para calificar en el nivel 10.
33
Mecanicos de Mantenimiento que actualmente estan en el nivel E/8, y aquellos que alcansaran ese nivel E/8 en un futuro pueden firmar (apostar) a una vacante para electricistas, siempre y cuando hayan terminado todas las clases de entrenamiento electrico requerido.
Mecanicos en el nivel 5 y mas alto y tambien aquellos candidates que estan en la reserva de electricistas en el nivel 5 o mas alto pueden firmar a una vacante para electricistas, siempre y cuando hayan terminado sus clases y todo el entrenamiento de electricistas requerido y con exito, y tambien se deberan matricular en dos (2) de las cuatro (4) clases tecnicas, las cuales deben de ser clases tecnicas para electricistas. Estos individuos seran compensados al nivel de pago de M/8 hasta que terminen las clases adicionales con exito. Clases adicionales seran requeridas para seguir participando en el programa de entrenamiento, al igual que mecanicos de mantenimiento.
Mecanicos de mantenimiento recien reclutados seran requeridos a asistir a las clases tecnicas como especifica el parrafo de anterior.
Mecanicos que han ganado una vacante de electricista , pueden elejir de tomar la prueba, y si pasan con exito el examen requerido. No sera necesario tomar las clases tecnicas para los niveles 9 y 10.
B,	Agregar veinte centavos $ .20 por hora para el casco rojo.
C.	Pago de vacaciones seran calculadas al pago acelerado, a un que
। el empleado califique para el sueldo acelerado la semana. anterior de su vacaciones.
D.	PROGRAMA DE OFERTA DE TRABAJOS DE ENTRADA PARA MANTENIMIENTO.
(Maintenance Entry Bid Program)
Lo siguiente es una guia general para proporcionar un programa que hace una oferta eficiente y confiabie para promover a miembros del equipo de production al departamento de mantenimiento via “Reserva de Mantenimiento”
a)	. Oferta/Anuncio para Mantenimiento : Cada oferta/anuncio consistira en una o mas posicones para el departamento mecanico general.
b)	. La oferta/anuncio seguira los procedimientos normales de la oferta/anuncio al menos que sea anunciada como position en la reserva para mantenimiento.
i)	. Estos anuncios/apuestas de trabajo seran para qualquier position que pueda estar en los tres departamentos siguientes de mantenimiento. Matanza,Fabrication y Rendering/Gel Bone.
ii)	. Estas posiciones no se aplicaran a un cambio especifico o a un departamento senalado.
iii)	. Estos anuncios / apuestas de trabajo de nivel de entradanose
34
aplican a las areas de especialidad de electricistas y utilidades.Estos departamentos serial ados « Electricos Y utilidades » tienes requisites especificos, los cuales se deben de pasar para ser un buen candidate, parte de estos requisites es el tiempo en el trabajo come mecanico general.
c)	. Despues de una semana de duration de la apuesta de trabajo y aquellos empleados que se hayan firmado, seran elegibles a tomar la prueba de conceptos de mantenimiento y pasar el proceso de revision.
i)	. Aquellos empleados que se han firmado y que tienen mas antiguedad / senoria, deberan de tomar laprueba dentro de una semana, despues de que se a quitado el trabajo.
ii)	. Cada miembro del equipo debera ponese en contacto con el entrenador de mantenimiento, para hacer una cita para la prueba.
iii)	. Cada miembro del equipo tambien debera hace una cita con el comite del la Compania y union, para ser evaluado.
iv)	. La prueba y la evaluation deberan ser conducidas tan pronto como sea posible, Si el aplicante falla en tomar la prueba dentro de una semana de que se haya cerrado la oferta, el candidate sera eliminado hasta otra proxima vacante.
d)	. Despues de haber terminado la prueba de conceptos de mantenimiento y la evaluation con exito, el aplicante con mas senoria sera puesto en la reserve de mantenimiento. Esta persona recibira la fecha de aprendiz de entrenamiento, cuando comienze a trabajar en la reserve de mantenimiento.
e)	. Un vez que el empleado haya sido puesto en la reserve de mantenimiento empesara una serie de entrenamiento y pruebas para asegurar que este empleado esta listo y capacitado para el nivel de aprendiz de mecanico general. Durante los siguientes 90 dias calendario o menos del periodo de probation. Estos aprendizes deberan de tener los minim os requisites. En cual quier caso que dichos empleados que no den o tengan los minimos requisites seran descalificados del departamento de mantenimiento.
f)	. Cuando hay vacantes regulares dentro del departamento d mantenimiento, estas vacantes primero se anunciaran al departamento de mantenimiento en general y se sigue el proceso normal. Las vacantes restantes seran llenadas con candidates de la reserva de mantenimiento, y el siguiente candidate calificado se le asignara la siguiente vacante, asi el empleado recibira senoria del departamento que ha sido asigando.
35
SECCION 5,
NIVELES DE PAGO DE LOS MECANICOS
A.	Comenzando el primer pago despues de la fecha de firma aceptacion, cada TPC nivel de entrenamiento complete, despues de comenzar la 5 semana de un trabajador se le aumentara $.25 centavos al nivel base de mantenimiento, maximo $2.00/hr. adicional. A ningun empleado de mantenimiento que tenga mas alto pago, siguiendo los aumentos generales en el ano inicial del contrato, se le reducira el pago.
Empleados de mantenimiento que pueden lograr un pago mas alto del nivel por aplicar en la tarea anterior de TPC de mantenimiento en adicional de ios $.15 centavos de aumento a su pago recibiran el beneficio del pago de nivel mas alto que resulte.
Este TPC programs de salario se termin ar a con la adoption de la calificacion de mecanicos nivel C abajo.
B.	Dentro de 210 dias de la aceptacion del contrato, las niveles de calificacion de los mecanicos se adoptaran para reemplazar los TPC niveles de entrenamiento.
Niveles De Calificacion De Los Mecanicos
Q Nivel 1.
Q Nivel 2.
Q Nivel 3.
Q Nivel 4.
Q Nivel 5.
Q Nivel 6.
Q Nivel 7.
Q Nivel 8.
$ .25 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $ .50 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $ .75 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $1.25 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $1.75 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $2.25 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $2.50 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar $2.75 arriba del nivel base o pago al empezar
D. Mecanicos Laborero Mecanico de Trolley Persona de los Rounds Persona de aceite y Lubrication PIP (Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Pl anta)
Mecanico
Mecanico de Refrigeration
Nivel Maximo	M Base 1
Nivel Maximo	Q Nivel 3
Nivel Maximo	Q Nivel 4
Nivel Maximo	Q Nivel 4
Nivel Maximo	Q Nivel 5
Nivel Maximo	Q Nivel 8
Nivel Maximo	Q Nivel 8
E. $.20 adicionales por hora para el casco rojo.
SECCION 6,
TARIFA DE PAGO/COMPENSACION POR TIEMPO
36
Los sue)dos estan incluyendo compensacion por tiempo utilizado antes y despues de trabajo en actividades como para el cambio de ropa, afilar cuchillos, poner y quitar y limpiar ropa y equipo de seguridad, y etc.
SECCION L
CLASIFICACION DE SUELDO-TRABAJO NUEVO O CAMBIADO
Cuando la Compania establece un trabajo nuevo, combina o separa tareas que existen en clasificacion o cambia la tarea contante de una clasificacion que existe, establecera un sueldo por hora apropiado por la clasificacion y dar aviso de tai sueldo a la Union. Si la Union no esta de acuerdo con el sueldo por hora, puede poner una queja en el segundo escalon del procedimiento de quejas entre cinco (5) dias de tai aviso. Para ser justos en la determinacion de los sueldos en la Compania se usara la misma estructura de otros trabajos en el departamento, dando propia consideracion al contenido del trabajo y a las habilidades que envuelva.
ARTICULO 26 DIFERENCIAS EN TURNOS
SECCION L
Segundo turno: todo trabajador de tiempo complete de production y mantenimiento recibira un pago adicional de (.10) diez centavos por hora en su sueldo regular para todo segundo tumo. Esta compensacion comienza junto con su turno cuando el trabajador pertenece al segundo turno.
SECCION 2.
Tercer turno: todo trabajador de tiempo complete de produccion recibiran un pago adicional de (.20) veinte centavos por hora de tiempo regular en su sueldo para todo su tercer tumo. Ese pago comienza al mismo tiempo que su turno siempre y cuando usted esta asignado al tercer tumo. Todo trabajador regular de tiempo complete de mantenimiento recibira una compensacion adicional de (.50) cincuenta centavos por hora de su sueldo regular en el tercer tumo con los mismos reglam ent os mencionados.
ARTICULO 27
HORARIOS DE TRABAJO
La Compania y la Union estan de acuerdo en juntarse y en conjunto examinar la aplicacion de sistemas alternatives en los horarios de trabqjo; las cuales podrian mejorar la productividad de la planta de Grand Island.
Si modificaciones al contrato son regueridas para implementar sistemas alternatives en los horarios de trabajo, la Compania y la Union estan de acuerdo en juntarse y discutir acerca de esas modificaciones. Ninguna parte debera ser obligada a aceptar las demandas de la otra parte en estas discusiones.
37
ARTICULO 28
SUSPENSION CONTRATO COMPLETO Y SEVERABILIDAD
SECCION 1.
Este es el contrato complete que provee y menciona todos los beneficios para un trabajador y qveda entendido y de acuerdo que la Compania no tiene ninguna obligacion extra con ningun trabajador o trabajadores con la misma pero solo las contenidas en este contrato.
SECCION 2,
Ambas partes reconocen que durante las negociaciones que resultaron en este contrato, que cada una tiene derecho limitado y oportunidad de hacer propuestas con respecto a cualquier asunto o Articulo no removido por la ley en la area de negociaciones colectivas y los acuerdos que tomaron por ambas partes despues de ejercitar (practicar) los derechos y oportunidad de format este contrato. Por lo tanto, la Compania y la Union por el termino de este contrato suspenden sus derechos y cada uno con acuerdo de no negociar colectivamente con respeto a ningun asunto referido o cubierto por este contrato.
SECCION 3,
En caso que cualquier provision de este contrato se declare in valid o por alguna corte o administracion de ley, el resto del contrato no se afectara y las dos partes pueden juntarse y tratar de Hegar a un acuerdo en una manera apropiada.
SECCION 4.
Cualquier modificacion o suplemento a este contrato sera transformada por escrito y firmada por representantes apropiados por cada una de las partes.
38
ARTICLE 29
TERM OF AGREEMENT '
This Agreement shall become effective on the day following ratification and shall remain in full tores and effect until midnight on. February 26,2010, and from year to year thereafter unless It Is terminated by either party with not less than 60 days prior written notice. Notice will be delivered by certified mail.
39
MEMORANDUM DE ENTENDIMIENTO
CAMBIOS DE TARIFA EN EL PAGO Y TARIFA DE PAGO PROTECCION PARA EMPLEADOS NOMBRADOS
Esta carta de entendimiento es incorporada por La Compania Swift de Grand Island, Ne., y por el Sindicato UFCW Local # 22 de trabajodores procesadores de Came, y esta carta es incorporada como referenda y hecha parte del acuerdo fechado Enero 31,2005.
Solamente los empleados escritos en el parrafo siguiente, que fueron afectados por el « Cambio de tarifa y Tarifa de Pago * y por el Memorandum de Entendimiento escrito en el Acuerdo Laboral en Grand Island, Ne. El 01-27-97 al 01-28'01 continuaran protegidos hast auna nueva ratification Laboral.
HIGH-TRIM	VICENTA ADAME-LUNA
COOLER LEADPERSON	TODD KOBLER
MEMORANDUM DE ENTENDIMIENTO
AJUSTES DE LA VELOCIDAD DE LA CADENA DE PRODUCCION.
Esta carta de entendimiento es integrada entre y por la Comapania Swift Y el Sindicato Union UFCW Local No.22, y es icorporado como referencia y hecho parte de este acuerdo laboral con fecha de Enero 31, 2005.
Con la intencion para resolver preocupaciones con la velocidad diaria de la cadena de produccion lo siguiente aplicara :
E] empleado responsable de la compania de hacer Justes de la cadena de produccion durante varios periodos documentara y firmara un libro de control cada vez que haga estos Justes. Empleados designados por la Union, como monitores de la velocidad de la cadena de produccion tendran la oprotunidad de revisar el libro de contol, verificar la velocidad y tambien documentar y firmar. Si en tai caso que haya discrepancies en la velocidad de la cadena de produccion, estos monitores asignados por la union podran hablar de las diferencias con el personal responsable la de la compania y Hegar a una resolution. Los monitores asignados por la union seran avisados de horario de ajustes de la velociada de la cadena de produccion en bases diarias.
40
Grand Island
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL SUPPORT	13300	CUSTODIAN	0
KILL SUPPORT	13301	PAINTER	. 0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10120	DRIVE CATTLE INSIDE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	IOO43	WASH BUNG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	22714	SPRAY (NtOCI)	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10500	CUTOFF 1ST HIND LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	11370	CUTOFFTAIL SWITCH	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	12000	CUTOFF DEW CLAW	0
KILL FLOOR AREA (	1OS6O	SANTTIZE 1ST HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10642	HANG OFF 1st LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	11781	BAG TAILS	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	00225	REMOVE SHACKLE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10741	CUT OFF 2nd HIND LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	108 K0	SANITIZE 2ND HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA i	10760	HANG OFF 2nd LEG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA I	10472	STEAM VACUUM AREA 1	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	22704	STEAM VACUUM HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	22705	STEAM VACUUM ROUND	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10X40	BLOW OFF HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11060	COVER BRISKET	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10471	STEAM VACUUM	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12021	HOOK & HOLD DOWN FRONTSHANKS	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12040	CUT OFF FRONT HOCK	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11540	FLUSH MOUTH	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	00304	PLACE CARCASS TAG	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11979	OPERATE OPTI-BRAND	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11560	MARK/CLIP IDLE BONE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11520	FLUSH HEAD	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11X65	TIEWEASAND	0
KILL FLOOR AREAS	14641	SAVE SPLEEN/LI VERS	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11350	HANG HEART/TAIL/UVER	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12100	remove/save spinal cord	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4 .	11610	wash neck before carcass wash	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	10471	STEAM VACUUM	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	14139	OPERATE MIS-SPLTT SAW	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12160	SCALER TAGGER	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	>2165	TRANSFER scale tag	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	13361	HANG TROLLEY	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	20900	POP FEATHER BONES	0
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
KILL FLOOR AREAS	152X0	SEPARATE LARGE INTESTINE	0
41
KILL FLOOR AREA 5	12300	SQUEEGEE	0
WINTER CREW	10545	JARVIS SAW 1ST LEG	0
WINTER CREW	10305	JARVIS KNIFE MIDLINE	0
WINTER CREW	10945	APPLY PLASTIC TO RUMP	0
WINTER CREW	11761	STUFF BUNG	0
VARIETY MEATS	14530	RACK/PACK UVER	0
VARIETY MEATS	14285	TONGUE SQUEEZER	0
VARIETY MEATS	14280	PACK TONGUE	0
VARIETY MEATS	14120	BOX FRESH OFFAL	0
VARIETY MEATS	14440	TRUCK PRODUCT	0
VARIETY MEATS	14540	BOX WEASAND MEAT	0
VARIETY MEATS	14545	WASH/TRIM AND PACK SWEETBREAD	0
VARIETY MEATS	14160	BAG BOX KIDNEY/TENDON	0
VARIETY MEATS	14040	BOX ADD DRY 1CETJD	0
VARIETY MEATS	13790	STRAPPER/LABEL RECORDER	0
VARIETY MEATS	' 13800	MAKE BOXES	0
VARIETY MEATS	13646	BAG CASE READY CHEEK MEAT	0
VARIETY MEATS	13647	BOX CASE READY CHEEK MEAT	0
VARIETY MEATS	14155	SCAN BOXES	0
VARIETY MEATS	13305	TRUCK & WASH RACKS	0
VARIETY MEATS	13302	WASH SPACERS	0
VARIETY MEATS	i23Gu	jQuttGbt	0
OFFAL TRANSFER	14505	COMBO LIVERS A LOAD TRUCK	0
OFFAL TRANSFER	14200	COMBO PET FOOD	0
OFFAL TRANSFER	14280	PACK TONGUE	0
TRIPE	15020	HANG PAUNCH	0
TRIPE	15120	OPERATE SCALDED/HC TRIPE WASHER	0
TRIPE	15101	BOX SCALDED HC TRIPE	0
TRIPE	10227	REMOVE OMASUM	0
TRIPE	00229	WASH OMASUM	0
TRIPE	00228	PACK OMASUM	0
TRIPE	15107	BAG CASE READY TRIPE	0
TRIPE	13800	MAKE BOXES	0
INTESTINE	14620	TIE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	14621	PULL OFF LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15280	SEPARATE LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15410	FLUSH LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15405	UNROLL LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15300	OPERATE STRIPPERS PUTTER	0
INTESTINE	15320	BOX LARGE INTESTINE	0
INTESTINE	15)50	RINSE ABOMESUM	0
INTESTINE	14070	BOX ABOMESUM	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15820	HOT CATTLE SPACER	0
COOLER TRANSFER	16265	TRIM Y-4 AND DOWNERS	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15840	HOT BOX OUT FEEDER	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15860	UFT/DOUBLES MONITOR	0
COOLER TRANSFER	15945	STAMP ANGUS (USDA)	0
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	33060	CLEAN UPGELOPERATOR	0
WASTE WATER	35000	PAUNCH OPERATOR	0
HIDE FLESHING	26820	CLEANUP	0
FAB SUPPORT	13301	PAINTER	0
VALUE ADDED	31064	MAKE BOXES	0
VALUE ADDED	32860	OPERATE SLICER	0
VALUE ADDED	14440	TRUCK PRODUCT	0
VALUE ADDED	85840	SORT & BAG FINGER MEAT	0
VALUE ADDED	22)40	PICKER	0
42
BREAK LINE	26820	CLEANUP	0
BREAK LINE	13.100	CUSTODIAN	0
BREAK UNE	33360	LAUNDRY OPERATOR	0
CHUCK CHAIN	00209	DR OP ARM BONE	0
ARM UNE	22140	PICKER	0
ARM UNE	26820	CLEANUP	0
CHUCK UNE	26640	PICK PRODUCT-CONVEYOR	0
CHUCK UNE	26820	CLEANUP	0
RIB UNE	26820	CLEANUP	0
ROUGH UNE	22140	PICKER	0
ROUGH UNE	85570	BAG NAVEL FINGER MEAT	0
ROUGH UNE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
LOIN UNE	26820	CLEANUP	0
LOIN UNE	22140	PICKER	0
STRIP UNE	22140	PICKER	0
ROUND UNE	25520	BONE THROWER	0
ROUND UNE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
TRIM UNE	26141	PICK 73/27	0
TRIM UNE	26265	BOX TRIM/S MALL BOX 85/15	0
TRIM UNE	26040	PICK 85/15	0
TRIM UNE	26101	COMBO MONITOR	0
TRIM UNE	26120	PICK 50/50	0
TRIM UNE	26261	BOX TRIM/SMALL BOX 50/50	0
TRIM UNE	26360	COMBO MAKER	0
TRIM UNE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
TRIM UNE	26382	COMBO WATCHER BPI	0
TRIM UNE	00064	OPERATE SIX SHOOTER	0
WHIZZARD LINE	26770	PACKER	0
WHIZZARD UNE	26640	PICK PRODUCT-CONVEYOR	0
WHIZZARD UNE	26820	CLEAN UP	0
WHIZZARD UNE	22)40	PICKER	0
BOX & SEALER	29160	REWORK	0
BOX A SEALER	26820	CLEAN UP	0
BOX £ SEALER	22706	HANG EXPORT BOXES	0
FRONT PACK OFF	27161	STAGE PRODUCT	0
FRONT PACK OFF	27920	LEAKER auditor	0
FRONT PACK OFF	27470	OPEN LEAKERS	0
FRONT PACK OFF	26820	CLEAN UP	0
BACK PACK OFF	29160	REWORK	0
GROUND BEEF	26820	CLEAN UP	0
GROUND BEEF	31261	PALLETIZE BOXES	0
GROUND BEEF	22)50	BELT MONITOR	0
GROUND BEEF	58430	BOX CHUB	0
GROUND BEEF	29)60	REWORK	0
GROUND BEEF	29040	SEALER ROOM	0
GROUND BEEF	26581	TEAR DOWN/SETUP OPERATOR	0
GROUND BEEF	00199 '	UNBOX PRODUCT	0
GROUND BEEF	22140	PICKER	0
GROUND BEEF	26240	OPERATE GRINDER	0
DEPARTMENT Name	job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
YARDS	10060	DRIVE CATTLE OUTSIDE	i
YARDS	10040	WASH PENS	i
YARDS	10045	WASH CATTLE	i
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	<0605	1ST HANG off trimmer	i
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10765	2ND HANG OFF TRIMMER	i
43
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12745	TRIM MIDUNE/ UDDER
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	H34I	CUT OFF CARCASS EARS/TAG
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11320	DEHORN
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	13000	TRIM MIDLINE
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	J1205	TIP TAIL
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	I2J2O	SAVE TENDON
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11000	STAMP ANGUS/CAP BUNG
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11320	DEHORN
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11340	CUTOFF EYEUDS/EAR CART/UPS
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11225	MARK BR1SKET/TRIM CONTAMINATION
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	13900	PRESENTER (USDA J
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	00027	STRIP WEAS AND
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	11680	REMOVE TAIL
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12863	TRIM NECK/ARMPIT
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	J 2500	TRIM NECK
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12060	POP KIDNEY
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	34200	REMOVE KIDNEY
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	00227	SAVE SWEET BREAD
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	I41ffi	separate heartiwng
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	00010	DROP HEAD OF TENDER
KILL FLOOR AREAS	14800	PULL OFF PAUNCHHNTEST1NE
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	14640	SAVE INEDIBLE PRODUCT (N SIDE}
KILL FLOOR AREAS	14622	TRIM LUNG LOBE
KILL FLOOR AREAS	00323	SAVE TRACHEA
KILL FLOOR AREA S	17541	CONDEMN ROOM
WINTER crew	10045	WASH CATTLE
VARIETY MEATS	10610	TRIM/BRANtVPACK/HEARTS
VARIETY MEATS	13095	TRIM BA&BOX TAILS
VARIETY MEATS	13980	PALLETIZE PRODUCT
TRIPE	14100	REMOVE PECK
TRIPE	15040	DUMP PAUNCH
TRIPE	15050	TRIM TR1PE/SPUT HONEYCOMB
TRIPE	26342	OPERATE PALLET JACK
INTESTINE	15303	CUT INTESTINE TO LENGTH
INTESTINE	14060	TRIM ABOMESUM
COOLER TRANSFER	12880	TRIMMER
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	33130	LAB TECH/DATA ENTRY
HIDE TAKE UP	16620	TANK PULLER
VALUE ADDED	23430	BAGGERS
VALUE ADDED	58430	BOX PRODUCT
VALUE ADDED	32950	OPERATE MULTIVAOBOX PRODUCT
VALUE ADDED	27291	BAG RIBLET
ROUGH UNE	27411	BAG LOOSE MEAT
STRIP LINE	24950	OPERATE LOIN TAIL SKINNER
ROUND LINE	24360	REHANG ROUND
TRIM UNE	26342	OPERATE PALLET JACK
TRIM UNE	13822	WEIGH PALLETS/OPERATE FORKLIFT
BOX A SEALER	29180	OPERATE TRAY FORMER
BOX A SEALER	29000	OPERATE CASE SEALER
BOX A SEALER	29290	CARDBOARD BALER
FRONT PACK OFF	23430	BAGGERS
FRONT PACK OFF	27411	BAG LOOSE MEAT
FRONT PACK OFF	85840	BAG FINGER MEAT
FRONT PACK OFF	27871	BAG TERES MUSCLE
FRONT PACK OFF	27320	BAG SHORT RIBS
FRONT PACK OFF	00040	BAG CHUCK FLAP
44
BACK PACK OFF	27480	box back rib	1
BACK PACK OFF	27211	box navel	1
BACK PACK OFF	27800	BOX BUTT	1
BACK PACK OFF	27880	BOX TENDERLOIN	I
BACK PACK OFF	27561	BOX STRIP	
BACK PACK OFF	27560	BOX BRISKET	1
BACK PACK OFF	27720	BOX RIB	1
BACK PACK OFF	27680	box bag meats	1
BACK PACK OFF	27965	BOX SMALL BOX PACKERS	1
BACK PACK OFF	29261	LABEL ROOM	1
MATERIAL HANDLING	00005 .	GROUND BEEF LOAD CONTROLLER	I
GROUND BEEF	29260	LABELER	1
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
yards	itxao	RECEIVE CATTLE	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10780	RIP BELLY	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11100	OPERATE SIDE PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11160	LOW BACKEIVTAIL PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11180	LOW NECKER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11200	OPERATE TAIL PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12020	MARK FORESHANK	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11260	DOWN PULLER	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11920	SAW BRISKET	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11650	TRIM TONGUE	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11600	TRIM HEAD (USDA)	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	20920	MARX INSIDE SKIRT	2
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	20405	MARK CLOD	2
WINTER CREW	11100	OPERATE SIDE PULLER	2
VARIETY MEATS	13505	SPLIT UPS	2
VARIETY MEATS	16640	TRIM FACE PIATE	2
TRIPE	00226	SAW OMASUM	2
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17600	LOAD OUT	2
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17605	MOBILE TRACK OPERATOR	2
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17621	BLOOD COOKER OPERATOR	2
HIDE FLESHING	26080	TRIM SHANKS	2
HIDE FLESHING	00004	HANG HIDE AFTER FLESHER	2
HIDE FLESHING	16700	TRIM FINAL	2
VALUE ADDED	00200	CUT PRODUCT	2
VALUE ADDED	26543	PALLET JACK/FEED TABLE	2
VALUE ADDED	00150	OPERATE SKINNER	2
VALUE ADDED	23480	TRIM OUTSIDE SKIRT	2
VALUE ADDED	>0492	VA I/TILTTY	2
BREAK LINE	20101	TRIM CONTAMINATION HQ.	2
BREAK LINE	32480	MARK ROSE MEAT	2
BREAK LINE	20)00	TRIM CONTAMINATION F.Q.	2
BREAK UNE	20405	MARK CLOD	2
BREAK UNE	20790	SWING OFF CHUCK	2
BREAK UNE	24025	CUT DOWN (REM HANGING TENDER)	2
BREAK UNE	24100	PULL ROSE MEAT	2
CHUCK CHAIN	00326	TRIM CONTAMINATION	2
CHUCK CHAIN	21561	DROP CLOD	2
CHUCK CHAIN	20525	PULL CHUCK COVEFUMOCK TENDER	2
CHUCK CHAIN	21600	TRIM CLOD	2
45
CHUCK CHAIN	21541	TRIM MOCK TENDER	2
CHUCK CHAW	16697	TRIM TERES MUSCLE	2
ARM UNE	21040	SAW ARM	2
ARM UNE	22742	TRIM FLATS/PO1NTS	2
ARM UNE	00018	RETRIMMER	2
ARM UNE	23022	TRIM BRISKET DECKLE	2
CHUCK UNE	21080	TRIM CHUCK	2
CHUCK UNE	21562	TRIM CHUCK SQUARE	2
CHUCK UNE	00013	RETRIMMER	2
CHUCK UNE	26020	UPGRADE SPECIAL TRIM	2
CHUCK UNE	22715	TRIM/PACK BACK STRAP	2
RIB UNE	22580	SAW WING	2
RIB UNE	22562	SAW MEATY BACK RIB	2
RIB UNE	24121	FLANK PULLERS	2
RIB UNE	22641	TRIM LIFTER MEAT	2
RIB LINE	21530	TRIM LENGTH ON RIB	2
RIB UNE	24)40	TRIM HANGING TENDER	2
RIB LINE	00018	retrimmer	2
ROUGH UNE	22500	DROP WING	2
ROUGH LINE	22680	SAW SHORT RIB	2
ROUGH UNE	23440	TRIM INSIDE SKIRT	2
ROUGH UNE	23430	tpim OUTSIDE SKIRT	2
ROUGH UNE	23400	TRIM PLATE	2
ROUGH UNE	22686	TRIM RIBLET	2
ROUGH UNE	<30(50	OPERATE SKINNER	1
ROUGH LINE	22685	SAW RIBLET	2
ROUGH UNE	00018	RETRIMMER	2
ROUGH UNE	22720	TRIM RIB CAP EXTENSION MEAT	2
LOIN LINE	24660	SEP ABATE TOP BUTT	2
LOIN UNE	24840	TRIM TOP BUTT	2
LOIN UNE	24845	TRIM CAP	2
STRIP UNE	24800	TRIM BOTTOM BUTT	2
STRIP UNE	20130	TRIM FLAP MEAT	2
STRIP UNE	24720	TRIM STRIP	2
STRIP UNE	24740	TRIM LOIN TAIL	2
STRIP LINE	00018	RETRIMMER	2
ROUND UNE	00326	TRIM CONTAMINATION	2
ROUND UNE	25200	SAW HOCK	2
ROUND UNE	00055	TRIM EYE OF ROUND	2
ROUND UNE	00310	TRIM KNUCKLE	2
ROUND UNE	25430	TRIM INSIDE ROUND	2
ROUND UNE	25245	TRIM DENUDED TOP ROUND	2
ROUND LINE	00018	RETRIMMER	2
ROUND UNE	00139	RECONDITION MEAT	2
TRIM UNE	26060	TRIMMERS	2
TRIM UNE	00127.	AUDITOR AQL	2
TRIM UNE	26065	ROSEMEAT SKINNER	2
TRIM UNE	31041	SCALER	2
WHIZZARD LINE	26680	WHIZ-NECK BONE	2
WHIZZARD UNE	26686	PICK BPI TRIM	2
WHIZZARD UNE	26780	TEST BONE	2
WHIZZARD UNE	22685	SAW RIBLET	2
WHIZZARD LINE	25200	SAW HOCK	2
FRONT PACK OFF	27870	BAG PERSON	2
BACK PACK OFF	27740	BOX ROUND	2
BACK pack off	27600	BOX CHUCK	2
46
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Coda	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	1031X1	KNOCKER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10320	SHACKLER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10380	STICKER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	>1220	mark pattern	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11580	DROP AND HANG TONGUE	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11780	DROP BUNG/DEIOINTTAIL	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11820	CLEAR GULLET	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11840	WEASAND RODDER	3
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	10590	REMOVE LIVER. SPREAD VISCERA	3
VARIETY MEATS	13501	TRIM GLANDS/TONGUES/GULLETS	3
VARIETY MEATS	15090	TRIM TDNGUES/BEEF MEAT	3
VARIETY MEATS	13530	UPGRADE TONGUE TRIM	3
VARIETY MEATS	13510	trim nachos	3
VARIETY MEATS	11652	CUT CROWN TONGUE	3
VARIETY MEATS	14140	OPERATE CRYOV AC	3
VARIETY MEATS	13540	TEMPLE HEAD	3
VARIETY MEATS	13580	CHISEL HEAD	3
VARIETY MEATS	00333	TRIM IAW BONEIHEAD	3
VARIETY MEATS	13640	CH EEK ER	3
COOLER transfer	16085	SHRINK TESTI ROLL	3
INEDIS LE CO PRODUCTS	17560	OPERATECOOXER	3
INEDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17740	OPERATE HAMMERMILL	3
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	17560	OPERATE COOKER	3
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	15043	LOAD VERTABRA BONES	3
BLOOD PLASMA	17620	BLOOD PLASMA OPERATOR	3
WASTE WATER	33700	WASTE WATER OPERATOR	3
HIDE TAKE UP	16802	GRADER	3
HIDE FLESHING	16805	GRADE GREEN	3
VALUE ADDED	14140	OPERATE CRYOV AC	3
BREAK LINE	20020	COOLER OPERATOR	3
BREAK LINE	20120	MARK/PULL SKIRT	3
BREAK LINE	20360	SAW RIB/CHUCK	3
BREAK LINE	24001	DROP FLANK	3
BREAK LINE	20860	UNHOOK ROUND	3
CHUCK CHAIN	204 Ml	pull Paddle bone	3 .
CHUCK CHAIN	20740	DROP CHUCK/BONE SHIN	3
ARM UNE	22000	BONETRIM ARM/BABY BONE CLEANER	3
ARM UNE	2300)	MARK/PR ETRIM BRISKET	3
ARM LINE	23040	CLEAN BRISKET BONE	3
CHUCK LINE	21060	SAW CHUCK	3
ROUGH LINE	22700	TRIM SHORT RIB	3
ROUGH UNE	23340	CLEAN PLATE BONE	3
ROUGH LINE	23380	SQUARE NAVEL	3
ROUGH LINE	22740	CLEAN SHORT RIB BONES	J
LOIN UNE	24680 ‘	TRIM TENDERLOIN	3
LOIN UNE	00191	RETRIMMER-LOIN	3
STRIP UNE	24780	BONE LOIN WING	3
STRIP LINE	24741	SEAM FLAP/LOIN WING	3
ROUND LINE	20481	MARK/PULL EYE	3
ROUND UNE	25460	DROP GOOSENECK	3
ROUND UNE .	25220	BONE HIND SHANK	3
ROUND UNE	20485	PULLHEEL/TRIM FLAT	3
BOX* SEALER	30062	FORKLIFT BOX SHOP	3
FRONT PACK OFF	14140	OPERATE CRYOV AC	3
47
ground beef	31201	VATDUMPER OPERATOR	■3
GROUND BEEF	13821	FORKLIFT GROUND BEEF	3
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL SUPPORT	13340	GROUNDS KEEPER	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10500	1ST BUTTER	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10080	2ND BUTTER	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	12900	TRIM HIGH HOCKIROUND	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12405	REMOVE PI2ZLE/UDDER	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11120	LOW BACKER	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	12800	TRIM BEFORE PREWASH	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11420	DEJOINT HEAD	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11440	HANG HEAD	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	12820	BAG ABCESSED CARCASS	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12620	TRIM HIGH	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12625	TRIM FIZZLE	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12360	TRIM LOW	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12320	TRIM FINAU USDA)	4
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	12085	TRIM OUTRA1L	4
WINTER CREW	12360	TRIM LOW	4
OFFAL TRANSFER	13820	FORKUFF VARIETY MEATS	4
INEDIBLE co products	1000(1	J FAD PERSON	4
EDIBLE CO PRODUCTS	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
WASTE WATER	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
HIDE TAKE UP	16920	FORKUFF HIDE TAKE UP	4
HIDE FLESHING	30300	HANG HIDE BEFORE FLESHER	4
HIDE FLESHING	16880	LOAD OUT HIDES	4
HIDE FLESHING	16641	TRIM FACS (HIDES)	4
HIDE FLESHING	16601	FLESHER OPERATOR	4
VALUE added	31280	FORKUFF OPERATOR	4
BREAK LINE	20200	SPLIT FOREQUARTER	4
BREAK LINE	20380	BONE TOR ESHANK	4
BREAK UNE	20945	PULL DOWN TRI TIPS	4
BREAK LINE	24500	SAW HIND SPLIT	4
RIB LINE	22560	SAW RIB	4
ROUGH LINE	23300	BONE PLATE	4
ROUGH LINE	00054	BONE SHORT RIB	4
STRIP LINE	24600	SAW SHELL	4
STRIP UNE	24580	SAW CHINE	4
ROUND UNE	25260	MARK KNUCKLE	4
ROUND UNE	25280	PULL KNUCKLE	4
ROUND UNE	25450	SEAM INSIDE ROUND	4
ROUND LINE	25400	BONE A ITCH	4
ROUND LINE	25240	BQNEIPEEL/DROP KNUCKLE	4
TRIM LINE	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
WHIZZARD UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
BOX & SEALER	29300	UNLOAD TRUCK	4
BOX & SEALER	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
FRONT PACK OFF	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
BACK PACK OFF	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
MATERIAL HAN DUNG	30121	LOAD TRUCK	4
MATERIAL HAN DUNG	30060	FORKUFF SHIPPING	4
MATERIAL HANDLING	30201	STACKER	4
GROUND BEEF	10000	LEAD PERSON	4
FAB KNIFE ROOM	33460	KNIFE ROOM STRAIGHT	4
48
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10820	FLANKER	5
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	11040	RIM OVER BRISKET	5
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10900	RUMPER	5
COOLER TRANSFER	22501	SAW RIB (COOLER)	5
COOLER TRANSFER	15940	RIB BEEF	5
LOIN UNE	24820	BONE TOP BUTT	5
STRIP LINE	24700	BONE STRIP	5
PERSONNEL	86250	WALKING STEWARD	5
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
YARDS	10000	LEAD PERSON	?
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10440	1ST LEGGER	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10640	2ND LEGGER	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 2	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
KILL FLOOR AREA 5	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
KILL FLOOR AREAS	00003	BASEMENT CLEANUP	7
WINTER CREW	10440	1ST LEGGER	7
WINTER CREW	10640	2ND LEGGER	7
VARIETY MEATS	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
COOLER TRANSFER	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
KILL KNIFE ROOM	13.125	KNIFE ROOM STRAIGHT KNIFE	7
VALUE ADDED	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
BREAK UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
ARM LINE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
RIB UNE	22600	BONE RIB	7
RIB LINE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
ROUGH LINE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
STRIP LINE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
ROUND UNE	10000	LEAD PERSON	7
DEPARTMENT Name	Job_Code	JOB TITLE	Paygrade
KILL FLOOR AREA 1	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
KILL FLOOR AREA 3	11960	GUTTER	8
KILL FLOOR AREA,!	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	11980	OPERATE SPLIT SAW	8
KILL FLOOR AREA 4	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
HIDE FLESHING	00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
HIDE FLESHING	33560	HIDES TRAINER HOURLY	8
KILL TRAINING	12260	TRAINER HOURLY	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	83550	MAINTENANCE PLANNER	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	10000	LEAD PERSON	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00305	EAE MECHANIC	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00121	HACCP EQUIPMENT MONITOR	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	00120	PRODUCTION MECHANIC	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	18280	TOOL CRIB A	8
KILL MAINTENANCE	88000	TOOL CRIB B	8
CO PRODUCTS MAINTENANCE	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
CO PRODUCTS MAINTENANCE	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
CO PRODUCTS MAINTENANCE	00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
BOILER A REFRIGERATION	00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
BOILER A REFRIGERATION	18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
49
BOILER & REFRIGERATION BOILER & REFRIGERATION CHUCK CHAIN CHUCK CHAIN
CHUCK UNE CHUCK UNE LOtN LINE LOIN UNE FAB TRAINING FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE GB MAINTENANCE GB MAINTENANCE FAB MAINTENANCE
loan	LEAD PERSON	8
83550	MAINTENANCE PLANNER	8
20420	PULL CLOCVMARK PADDLE BONE	8
I (XXX)	LEAD PERSON	8
21500	BONECHUCK	8
10000	LEAD PERSON	8
24620	BONE TENDERLOIN	8
10000	LEAD PERSON	8
12260	TRAINER HOURLY	8
00116	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC A	8
18300	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC B	8
00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
83550	MAINTENANCE HANNER	8
18440	LEADPERSONA	8
80888	LEAD PERSON B	8
18280	TOOLCRIB A	8
88000	TOOLCRIB B	8
00119	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	8
10000	LEAD PERSON	8
00305	E&E MECHANIC	10
50