______.Q2/06/04 FRI 07;11 FAI 812 484 8747
B&W MEV,SERVICES
@002
Brown & Williamson Tobacco
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
2600 We.wttr ito.tJ Maw>n, GA 31217 P,0. Bni 10S6
Macon. GA 3)202-1056
(<7«)
The parties agree to the following Memorandum of Agreement relating to the Basic Collective Bargaining Agreement:
BASIC LABOR AGREEMENT
The current Basic Labor Agreement will be extended in its entirety to September 1,2005.
liach active employee on die payroll covered by this agreement at the time of ratification (July : 8, 2003) will receive a Lump Sum Bonus of $3,000,
Additionally, each active employee on the payroll covered by this agreement on February 4, 7-004, will receive a Lump Sum Bonus of $2,000. Furthermore, each active employee on the payroll covered by this agreement at the time of ratification of this agreement that elect to retire prior to February 4, 2004, will also be eligible to receive this Lump Sum Bonus of $2,000.
Bach employee will be eligible to roll the tump Sum payments into the B&W Fighting For ijrowth Plan-
The above Lump Sum payments are in lieu of a General Wage Increase.
Brown & Wnii.-iimoii '1'obattO Corporation A nicinbcr <>f the British American Tobacco Gfonp
www,brown;mdivfflwmw>n.i3Mn
K* 513
...	......1^0,
AGREEMENT
between
BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
Bakery, Confectionery Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union
LOCAL UNION 362-T
' Macon, Georgia
2000-2003
INDEX
' Article	Page
■	1	Purpose ................................3
II	Recognition ............................3
Ilf	Checkoff ...............................4
IV	Wages...................................6
'	V	Grievances and Arbitration ............7
VI	Discharges .............................9
VII	Work Schedule ..........................9
„	VIII	Work Assignment ......................If
■	IX	Seniority ............................II
|	X	Promotions ...........................13
;	XI	Progressions .........................17
XIJ	Job Classifications ..................19
‘	X1JI	Layoff and Recall ....................20
XIV	Shift Preference ......................22
;	XV	Probation ............................23
।	XVI	Overtime ..........................   23
i	XVII	Overtime Distribution .............   25
i	XV1I1	Holidays..............................32
I	XIX	vacations ............................34
XX	Shift Differential Pay ................39
XXI	Jury Duty Pay .........................39
' XXfl Funeral Leave Pay ..................,...........40
I	XXIII	Call-In Pay...........................40
XXIV	Report-In Pay ........................41
[	XXV	Military Leave Pay..................  42
XXVI	Leave of Absence .....................42
'	XXVII	Accrued Seniority.....................43
i	XXVJJI	Nondiscrimination ....................43
XXIX	General Provisions ....................44
XXX	Retirement, Insurance and
'	Profit Sharing.........................48
XXXI	Cost of Living (Contingent Allowance) Program ......................................64
XXXII	Strikes and Lockouts ..................66
XXXIII	Durations..............................66
I
6-2 SUPPLEMENT
VII	Work Schedule ......................71	.
XVI	Overtime .......................... 71
XVIII	Holidays ..........................72
XIX	Vacations..........................73
XXI	Jury Duty Pay......................73
12-HOUR SUPPLEMENT
VII	Work Schedule ....................75
XVI	Overtime ..........................76
XVIII	Holidays ..........................76
XIX	Vacations..........................78
XX	Shift Differential Pay ...........79
XXI	Jury Duty Pay......................79
XIX	Funeral Leave Pay .............;	80
2
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT made this 1st day of September, 2000, by and between BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION (hereinafter sometimes catted the “Company”), party of die first part, and LOCAL UNION 362-T of the BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS' AND GRAIN MILLERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO-CLC (hereinafter sometimes called the *■ Union”), party of the second part.
WITNESSETH:
{	ARTICLE 1
।	PURPOSE
1	The parties hereto recognize the existence of mutual-
ity of interests and the desirability of establishing sufficient and adequate machinery for the adjustment of all differences that may arise under the terms of this contract and out of rhe relationship of the employer to employees covered by this contract to the end that peaceful cooperative relationship may be maintained and that the spirit of wholehearted cooperation shall at all times prevail. It is further recognized all employees are expected to perform a fair day's work in exchange for a fair day’s pay and will use every means possible to produce the best products by doing his/her task so as to maintain the highest standards of efficient operation, reduction of waste and the maintenance of quality. To accomplish these ends and for the purpose of establishing the setting forth rates of wages and working hours and conditions, the parties hereto have agreed as follows:
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION
(I)	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole bargaining agent for the employees in its factory at Macon, Georgia, performing work that is under the jurisdiction of
3
the Union.
(2)	The term “employees" as used in this Agreement shall include ah production employees whose duties include production maintenance work at the Company's Macon, Georgia, Branch; excluding plant maintenance employees, power plant and auxiliary equipment operators, office clerical, plant clerical, quality control employees, professional and technical employees, plant guards and supervisors,
ARTICLE III CHECKOFF
Section I
It is agreed that during the term of this Agreement monthly dues for each member of the Union in amounts as authorized shall be deducted from the pay of the employee upon written authorization to the Company from each individual employee so long as the authorization shall not be canceled or revoked. The authorization will be upon a form furnished by the Union and approved by the Company, and all such dues dedueled in this manner shall be remitted by the Company to such person as may be designated in writing by the Union under the seal of the Company,
Section 2
The deduction of monthly dues shall be made in the first pay period of each month in which the employee received sufficient wages to cover {he amtiunt of the deduction. The Company will make every reasonable effort to forward a check for all such deductions to the Union official designated by the Union not later than the fifteenth day of each calendar month.
Section 3
The Union shall certify to the Company in writing a fist of its members who have made such assignments together with an itemized list of rbe initiation fees, dues and accrued arrears to be deducted from the pay of such members.
4
Section 4
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon authorization cards or any other written information furnished to the Company by the Union or for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Article,
CHECKOFF AUTHORIZATION
Name_______________________________________________
Social Security Number-------	------------------
I,---------------------------, hereby voluntarily
request and authorize Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation to deduct from my pay Union initiation fees, monthly dues and accrued arrears originating with the Local Union and authorized by it, as said employee’s membership dues in the Union and to pay same to the duly authorized officer of Local Union 362-T, Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’ and Grain Millers’ International Union, within the month in which such deductions are made,
This authorization shall be automatically renewed and irrevocable for successive periods of one year from date hereof or until the termination of the collective bargaining agreement whichever occurs sooner, unless written notice of cancellation is given by me to the Company and the Union, said notice to be forwarded by registered or certified U. S. Mai), not more than seventy-five days and not less than sixty days prior to the expiration of each term of one year, or prior to the termination of the collective bargaining agreement between my Employer and the Union, whichever occurs sootier. This authorization is made pursuant to the provisions of Section 302(c) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 and otherwise, and I agree to hold the Company harmless for or on account of any deductions made hereunder.
5
Print Name:____________________________________
Sign Name:_____________________________________
Da I e:_______________________
Section 5	‘
AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECKOFF FOR BCT-PAC
1 hereby authorize the Company to deduet from my pay the sum of_________per month and to forward that
amount to the BCT&GM-PAC.
This authorization is signed under specific understanding that the signing of this authorization and the making of I payments to (he BCT&GM-PAC are voluntary; are not conditions of membership in the Union or of employment with the Company; that the BCT&GM-PAC will use the money it receives to make political contributions and expenditures in connection with federal, stale, and local elections; and that this voluntary authorization may be revoked at any time by notifying the Company in writing of a desire to do so. Such revocation shaft be effective on the I Oth day after delivery of same, or later if so specified.
ARTICLE IV
WAGES
During the life of this Agreement, the hourly rates of pay for the employees covered by this Agreement shall be in accordance with the wage scale set forth in the Schedule of Classifications, Progressions and Wage Rates attached hereto which is accepted and agreed to or amended by the parlies.
6
ARTICLE V GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
Any differences arising from the interpretation and application of this Agreement or differences arising from the relationship of the employees and the employer shall be handled as a grievance, subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure set forth below. It is understood and agreed that both parties shall make a diligent effort to settle any and all disputes at the tower level of the grievance procedure. The Company will recognize two <2) Chief Shop Stewards on each of its three shifts—one for the Fabrication Department and one for all other departments.
Section 1
STEP I - Within three working days of the occurrence, the grievance will be orally submitted by ihe grievam and/or the Steward to the appropriate Group Leader. Within forty-eight hours of work the Group Lender shall respond to the grievance advising the grievant and/or the Steward of his position on the matter.
STEP 2 » If no satisfactory settlement is reached in Step I. the grievance shall be reduced to writing, setting forth the specific facts and circumstances of the grievance, and within five working days of receipt of the Company response to Step 1. the grievant and/or the Steward will submit the written grievance to the Superintendent. Within five working days of receipt of the written grievance the Superintendent shall respond in writing to Ihe grievance.
STEP 3 - If no satisfactory settlement is reached in Step 2. theGrievant, the Steward or Chief Shop Steward and the Local President or his/her designated representative shall present the written grievance Io the Employee Relations Manager or his/her designated representative within five (5) working days of receipt of the Company’s answer in Step 2. The Employee Rela
7
tions Manager or his/her designated representative shall, within ten (10) working days, review the facts and circumstances of the grievance with the Grievant, the Steward or Chief ShopStcward and the Local President or his/her designated representative and shall give a written response within five (5) working days of the hearing on the grievance.
Section 2
Issues may arise between the Company and the Union for which either party may request its respective representative of the International Union or Corporate Industrial Relations to meet with Local Union and Local Management to assist in settlement of the issue Such meeting upon request of either party shall be held as soon as practical. If ; not settled, the grievance shall proceed to the next appro- } priate step of the grievance and arbitration procedure.
Section 3
If ho satisfactory settlement is reached in Section 1 or Section 2, if Section 2 is applied, the grievance shall be submitted to impartial arbitration.
Section 4
Ail matters submitted to impartial arbitration shall have been processed through all steps of the grievance procedure, except Step I and Step 2 may be waived if agreed to by the parties. Requests for arbitration shall be made within ten working days of the Company's last response. A panel of arbitrators will be requested from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and within five working days after receipt of such panel, the parties shall select the arbitrator by alternately striking names from the list. The last name remaining shall be the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, delete from or otherwise change the language of the contract and shall limit his decision solely to the facts and circumstances presented to him. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parlies and shall be implemented immediately upon receipt of the decision or as soon thereafter as is practical. The
8
Company and the Union shall share equally the fee of the arbitrator, including any mutually agreed upon services relating to the arbitration proceedings.
Section 5
All time limits herein may be extended by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE VI DISCHARGES
The right of the Company to suspend or discharge employees is recognized; however, when circumstances permit employees will first be afforded the opportunity for a fair hearing in the presence of a Union representative if requested.
A discharged employee (except probationary employees) shall be accorded the right of appeal through the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII WORK SCHEDULE
There shall be a standard work schedule and an alternative work schedule at the Macon, Georgia Plant. The standard work schedule and all related provisions shall be set forth in the main body of the collective bargaining agreement. The alternative work schedule and provisions specifically related to it shall be set forth in an addendum attached to and made a part of this agreement.
Section 1
The work schedule will be not more than seven and one-half hours per day, five days per week, Monday through Friday, exclusive of a thirty minute lunch break. A workweek will consist of seven consecutive twenty-four hour periods beginning with the starting time of the employee’s shift on Monday, except that the workweek for the third shift shall begin at the shift starling lime on Sunday night.
9
Section 2
The established starling time for the shifts will be as follows:
First Shift (Day Shift)	7:00 A.M.
Second Shift (Afternoon Shift) 3:00 P.M.
Third Shift (Evening Shift) J 1:00 P.M.
Starting time(s) for an employee or group of employees may be established outside of the above listed starling times.
The Company may, for good and sufficient cause, change the starting time of shifts provided, however, when such changes are made the Company will give one week’s advance notice of such change to the Union.
Relief shall be forty minutes per shift. Employees who work overtime at the end of a shift will be granted ten (ID) minutes relief as soon as operating conditions permit. Should an employee work in excess of two (2) hours of overtime, hc/she will be granted relief equal to five (5) minutes per hour.
Section 3
Employees who work twelve (12) consecutive hours will be paid an additional 15 minutes at overtime rate.
Employees who work beyond twelve (12) consecutive hours will be allowed 30 minutes time off to eat, on or off the premises, without loss of pay.
Section 4
In the event of a short workweek when a partial work force is necessary, such work will be offered to the senior qualified ernployee(s) within classification (“area" in Primary) on the respective shift desiring to work. If less than the necessary numbers of senior qualified employees volunteer. the least senior qualified employees within classification (“area" in Primary) in the numbers necessary will be required to work on the respective shift.
10
Section 5
In the event of a short workday when a partial work force is necessary, the employees assigned to the affected equipment or area will be asked if they wish to be released. If there arc not sufficient volunteers, employees will be canvassed by seniority and qualifications.
ARTICLE VIII WORK ASSIGNMENT
Except as otherwise specifically provided for herein, the Company reserves the right to utilize and assign, and from time to time re-assign employees, on a permanent basis or temporary basis, wherever needed. This shall include but not be limited to the assignment of work within classification, between departments, across shifts and to any other work which may occur. Permanent re-assignment of employees will be reasonable and for just and sufficient cause. Management will review permanent re-assignments with the Union and the affected employee(s).
ARTICLE IX SENIORITY
a.	Seniority shall date from the date of most recent hire and will be observed on a departmental basis except as provided in ARTICLE XIII, LAYOFF AND RECALL. However, seniority for Materials Handling Technician in the Parts Depar intent.shall be as follows:
1.	Seniority shall date from the day of recognition within Local 362T, BCTW&GMIU with employees ranked on that date in the same order as they were originally hired by the Company.
2.	Total Company service with the Company wilt continue to be used to determine vacation eligibility.
11
b.	Em ployces transferred on a permane nt transfer from one department to another will transfer with full seniority intact upon entering the new department.
c.	Employees transferred on a temporary basis from one department to another will continue their seniority in their home department and shall not exercise seniority in the temporarily assigned department.
d.	Seniority and employment shall terminate if an employee:
1.	Quits,
2.	Is discharged for just cause.
3.	Is absent without notification with a valid excuse on the first day of absence, or as soon afterward as practicable and in no event later than seven working days after absence begins, excepting cases where the incapacity renders such notification impractical.
4.	Docs not return to work as set out in ARTICLE XIII. LAYOFF AND RECALL,
5.	Does not return to work the next scheduled working day following the expiration of the leave, unless the leave has been extended.
12
ARTICLE X PROMOTIONS
Section I
Promotions to higher paying classifications covered by this Agreement will be open, on a self-nominating basis.
Notices of vacancies available for self-nomination will be posted by classification but will not designate shift. Employees successfully self-nominating a classification must have completed their probationary period and will enter the classification on the shift where training is available. Upon completion of training the employee will be subject to preference of shift asset forth in ARTICLE XIV, SHIFT PREFERENCE,
Where more than one employee self-nominates for a vacancy in a classification, the selection will be made on the basis of seniority, except for the classification of Senior Primary Technician.
Section 2
When it becomes necessary to fill the position of Senior Fabrication Technician, applications for the job will be accepted from current employees. Such applicants will form the applicant pool.
The selection of employees to train as Senior Fabrication Technician will be by work experience, testing, and evaluation. If these factors are considered equal, selection will then be determined by seniority with Fabrication Department employees being given preference over employees from other department s.
If insufficient numbers of employees apply for the job, or an insufficient number of applicants qualify for the job, the Company shall turn to external sources for applicants to augment its internal source.
13
Section 2-A
When openings exist in the classification of Efectri-cal/EJectronics Technician, first consideration will be given io the senior nominees in lower classifications in the same department possessing the appropriate qualifications and then to other employees possessing the appropriate qualifications, Successful nominees will be placed into the progression for the classification in accordance with their skills.
Section 3
An employee will be qualified as a Primary Technician when the employee successfully completes the training associated with one area of the Primary Department, not to exceed 8 months. Employees entering the Primary Department will be assigned to one of the areas where a vacancy exists. An employee who qualifies in one area shall not be disqualified from the classification if hc/she fails to qualify in arty other area, except as stated below.
Section 3-A
Employees who enter the classification of Senior Primary Technician will be required to qualify in all control areas of either Primary LkA” or Primary “B", and upon qualifying will be required to remain in'that respective area unless otherwise assigned.
Section 4
In the event a vacancy requires special qualifications not available in the bargaining unit, the Company reserves the right to hire to fill the vacancy.
Section 5
Except as otherwise provided in this section, all selfnominations shall be higher paying classifications and no self-nominations will be accepted for equal paying or lower paying classifications.
When it is determined that it is in the mutual best interest of the parties and an employee, a self-nomination to
14
an equal paying or a lower-paying classification (except Senior Primary Technician) will be allowed. Such selfnomination will be in accordance with normal bidding procedures. An employee leaving a classification in this manner will be prohibited from returning to the vacating classification for a minimum of 36 months and his/her circumstances must have sufficiently changed to justify a promotion to the classification.
Section 6
a.	All Classifications Except Primary Technician
Atty employee who, after completing the probationary period, fails to progress satisfactorily through the prescribed training program for a classification, or who is unable to perform satisfactorily at any time subsequent to such training shall be disqualified from the classification and may exercise his/her seniority for placement in any other classification (except Senior Primary Technician) with a lower top rate, provided he/she is not disqualified from the classification selected. Any employee displaced as a result of such exercising of seniority shall be the least senior employee within classification and shall have the right to exercise his/her seniority for any other classification except Senior Fabrication Technician, Electrical/Electronics Technician, and Senior Primary Technician, displacing the least senior employee in classification who shall have corresponding rights of seniority.
Any employee disqualified from a classification shall not be considered for promotion to such classification for one year unless his/her circumstances have changed sufficiently io justify such promotion earlier. However, the one year provision shall not be considered as an automatic reopening of promotional rights IO the classification. Any employee who is disqualified from the Fabrication Technician classification shall not be eligible for promotion to the Senior Fabrication Technician or Eiectrical/EJectronic Technician classification until the employee has met the ■equirements of Article X, Section 2.
15
b.	Primary Technician
Should an employee fail to qualify in an area other than the initial area, the employee will be placed in his/her initial ore® on the same shift if there is a less senior employee assigned to that area by displacing the least senior employee on that shift; or the employee will displace the least'senior employee assigned to that area. If there is no employee less senior in the disqualified employee's initial area, then the disqualified employee displaces the least senior employee in the Department in an area where he/ she has not been disqualified. Any employee displaced as a result of this move will fill the vacancy. If there are no Jess senior employees, hc/she will be disqualified and leave the Department.
Section 7
In the event a permanent vacancy exists for which there are no self-nominations, the Company shall have the right to permanently transfer the least senior employee in other departments to fill the vacancy unless the Company is required io employ additional employees and in that event the newly hired employee would be placed in such vacancy.
Section 8
When it becomes necessary to fill the position of Senior Primary Technician, applications for the job will be accepted from current employees, excepting Senior Fabrication Technicians and Electrics l/Elcc(ronics Technicians. Such applicants wilt form the applicant pool.
The selection of employees to train as Senior Primary Technician will be by work experience, testing, and evaluation. If these factors arc considered equal, selection will then be determined by seniority with Primary Department employees being given preference over employees from other departments.
If insufficient numbers of employees apply for the job, or an Insufficient number of applicants qualify for the job,
16
the Company shall turn to external sources for applicants to augment its internal source.
Section 9
Promotions and displacements of employees in the Materials Handling Technician classification in the Parts Department will be handled as follows:
I.	Employees self-nominating to other classifications may have their actual transfer delayed up to ninety (90) days of work to accommodate the training of their replacement.
2.	Employees displaced from the classification may have their transfer delayed up to ninety (90) days of work to accommodate the training of their replacement.
3.	Employees will be assigned to the shift where training is provided and wifi be retained on that shift until their training is completed at which time they will be subject to the shift preference provisions of ARTICLE XIV. SHIFT PREFERENCE.
ARTICLE XI PROGRESSIONS
Section I
Progression steps for each classification covered by this Agreement have been established and are shown in the Wage Schedule attached to and made a part of this Agreement.
Section 2
Except as otherwise provided, employees entering a classification will enter at the first step in the progression for that classification and will follow the progression for that classification.
IT
Section 3
Employees who enter new classifications through the promotional process as set forth in ARTICLE X shall enter the progression of their new classification at the same Step he/she had attained in his/her former classification. The employee's pay will not be reduced but no employee may progress to the top rate in less than four (4) months.
Section 4
Employees who are absent ten or more workdays in any progression step must make up an equivalent number of workdays before moving to ihe next progression. The total workdays actually worked and the total workdays made up shall not exceed four months in that particular progression.
Section 5
After completing probation and any prescribed training program and prior to disqualification, employees (except Senior Primary Technicians) who are unable to perform satisfactorily shall be permitted, at the request of the employee, to repeat a progression step but in no event may an employee repeal more than two steps in the progression for any classification at any lime.
Section 6
Employees hired into the classification of Senior Fabrication Technician or Electrical/Elec ironic Technician shall be placed in the progression in accordance with their skills and experience. Employees promoted from Fabrication Technician to the Senior Fabrication Technician classification shall enter the progression for their new classification at the next step.
Section 7
During training or al any time subsequent to such training any Senior Primary Technician failing to perform satisfactorily will be disqualified and removed from the classification at the time of disqualification.
18
ARTICLE XII JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
It is recognized that from time to time the Company may need to establish new classifications or eliminate classifications that are no longer heeded.
The company commits to discussing with the Union the implementation of a new classification prior to its establishment as well as significant changes to existing classifications. The Company shall sei an initial rate of pay, assign the work, and meet as soon as practicable with the Union to negotiate the rate of pay. Any agreed change in the rate of pay shall be retroactive to the date the new classification was assigned. The Union may grieve the rale of pay by filing a grievance under the grievance and arbitration procedure within thirty calendar days of the day the rate was put into effect.
In the event the Company finds it necessary to eliminate a classification, the affected employees may exercise seniority for other classifications, except Senior Fabrication Technician, Elect ri cal/Elect conics Technician and Senior Primary Technician, provided they have not previously been disqualified from the selected classification. Any employee displaced from his/her classification as a result of such exercise of seniority shall be the least senior in the classification and shall have the same rights of seniority.
In the event the Company finds it necessary to reduce the number of employees within a classification, the least senior employee in the affected classification (except for Senior Primary Technicians who shall be reduced as set forth below) shall be removed and may exercise seniority for placement in any other classification, except Senior Fabrication Technician, Etec tri ca (/Electronics Technician and Senior Primary Technician, provided he/she has not previously been disqualified from the classification selected, Any employee displaced as a result of such exercising of seniority shall be the least senior employee within
19
classification and shall have the same rights of seniority.
In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the numbers of employees in the Senior Primary Technician classification, they shall be reduced in accordance with seniority; except such reductions in the Senior Primary Technician classification may be temporarily delayed because of training regardless of their seniority.
If this procedure creates an imbalance to the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity for all employees, the reduction shaii be by employee groups based on their representation in the work force, but only insofar as is necessary to fulfill the Company’s commitment.
if any employees have been eliminated from the Senior Primary Technician classification because of reduced requirements, these employees will be utilized for openings in the classification prior to other employees.
In the event that a permanent opening(s) needs to be filled the Company will utilize the employee(s) removed from the classification due to the reduced requirement on (he basis of seniority.
Jn the even! a temporary vacancy exists the Company may utilize the etnployce(s) removed from the classification due to the reduced requirement on the basis of seniority and formal training within the specific area of Primary "A’’ or Primary ”B” respectively.
ARTICLE XIII LAYOFF AND RECALL
Section I
Should it become necessary for the Company to reduce the wort force in the plant, the seniority right of the employee shall be recognized and the employee holding the least bargaining unit seniority shall be laid off first.
Separate seniority lists for the purpose of this layoff
20
provision will be established for Senior Fabrication Technician, Electrical/Electronics Technician and Senior Primary Technician, respectively Should it become necessary for the Company to reduce the number of Senior Fabrication Technicians, the employee holding the least seniority shall be laid off first, Should il become necessary for the Company to reduce the number of Eiectricai/Electtonics Technicians, the employee holding the least seniority shall be laid off first. Should it become necessary for the Company to reduce the number of Senior Primary Technicians, the employee holding the least seniority shall be laid off first. Employees so displaced may exercise their seniority to enter any classification containing employees with less seniority displacing the least senior employee therein and shall rank for seniority for layoff purposes as provided in paragraph one of this Section. Employees in such classifications who are thereby displaced shall have corresponding rights in accordance with paragraph one of this Section.
Section 2
When increasing the forces in the plant, the same principles of seniority wilt be observed and laid off employees will be recalled in reverse order in which they were laid off.
In the event the company finds it necessary to have a temporary layoff, the company may work employees based on seniority and qualifications during this temporary layoff period.
Section 3
Seniority and employment wilt cease if an employee is laid off and not recalled to work for a period of thirty-six consecutive months thereafter.
Section 4
Laid off employees will be required to keep the Company advised of their addresses as recall notices will only be sent to the last address supplied to the Company.
21
Section 5
Laid off employees will be notified of their recall by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, with a copy to the Union.
Section 6
Should an employee fail to acknowledge the recall within seventy-i wo hours from the postmarked date shown on the return receipt and stale his/her intention to return to work or fail to report within an additional seven consecutive days, unless excused by the Company, the employee will have his/her seniority and employment terminated,
ARTICLE XIV SHIFT PREFERENCE
Employees not in formal training or in probation will be granted a preference of shift by seniority within classification and qualifications (area assignment for Senior Primary Technicians) on January I* and the first workday after the summertime vacation. Husband and wife on the Alternate Work Schedule will be accommodated to have off the same weekend and their seniority will determine their placement by shift. These moves will not require any additional training.
In addition, when seif-nominees complete formal training the senior employee in classification possessing the same qualifications may exercise shift preference for the available vacancy otherwise to have been filled by such selfnominee on a rwo-shiff-moves-per-vacancy basis. Such self-nominee shall fill the vacancy left by the senior employee exercising shift preference.
Primary Technic tan-Shi ft preference will be granied within area of assignment to the senior employee who has qualified in his/her area. Area vacancy resulting from shift preference will be filled by the senior employee qualified in his/her present area who has been assigned to that area
22
fora minimum of six (6) months.
Employees in the Leaf Storages Area and Pans Department will be granted a preference of schedule by seniority on the first day of January. The transition from one schedule to another will not result in an additional pay liability.
Hie Company may grant an employee, due to an emergency situation, a temporary change of shifts not to exceed two weeks.
ARTICLE XV PROBATION
AH new and rehired employees will be probationary for their first ninety days of work. The Company has the exclusive right to discharge probationary employees during this period without recourse to the grievance procedure,
ARTICLE XVI OVERTIME
Section I
The Company may require employees to work overtime. No employee, however, will be required to work beyond eleven and one-half (11-1/2) consecutive hours (exclusive of lunch period) in any one workday unless he/she volunteers to do so or when emergency situations arise. Emergency situations shall mean situations beyond the control of the Company,
Section 2
All work performed before or after the established 'raight time hours will be paid for at the rate of one and re-half times the normal straight time rate of pay, Em-oyees requited to work overtime in excess of four con-■utive hours will be paid at twice the normal straight time t of pay for such overtime-
23
Section 3
Work performed on Saturday (an employee’s sixth consecutive twenty-four hour period in any workweek as defined in ARTICLE Vil, WORK SCHEDULE) will be paid at one and one-half limes the straight time rate for the first four hours and at twice the straight time rate for all hours worked thereafter.
Section 4
AJi work performed on Sunday (an employee’s seventh consecutive twenty-four hour period in any workweek as defined in ARTICLE VII, WORK SCHEDULE) will be paid at twice the straight time rate.
Section 5
Employees may be required by the Company to change shifts. When the employee is notified of the shift change by Wednesday of the preceding week, there will be no premium ......pay J tabi lily. - Employees, required.to change-shifts wtlhout notification prior to Wednesday of the preceding week will receive the prevailing overtime rate for the first shift after each shift change and the employee's remaining twenty-four hour periods forthat week will begin with the start of his/her new shift. However, the Company wilt not be required to pay such overtime on a shift change when an employee has permission to change shifts for his/her own convenience.
Section 6
There shall be no duplication of overtime pay. Employees shall not be paid more than once, for more than one reason or under more than one provision for the same hours worked.
Section 7
If the Company fails to offer overtime to an employe= in the proper order other than end of shift situations, tl employee must notify the Company of the omission the »»• work day, if possible, but in no event later than three wi----
days. After such notification the Company will autho^^^^ payment to the appropriate employee.
24
Section 8
The parties agree that the level of overtime required to meet production and operational requirements has been urn desirable on the part of the company and employees. After comprehensive review of the factors that contribute to the need for overtime, it becomes evident that they are numerous and varied, making manpower planning a difficult process.
To insure all relevant factors have been considered in planning against production forecasts which may lead to high levels of overtime, the Company agrees it will review it’s production and manpower plans with the Union giving fair consideration to the recommendations made by the Union to address the level of overtime including the factor of attrition.
It is recognized and understood that plans which staff atlhemtnimum or maximum'of the projected product ion” requirements cart lead to undesirable consequences of excessive overtime or overstaffing and should be avoided.
To demonstrate a good faith effort in this regard the company shall conduct ihe first review no later than 30 days following the conclusion of 1996 bargaining.
ARTICLE XVII OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION
Section I
All employees are to remain on their work assignments until properly relieved for the day or excused by the Company.
Section 2A - Senior Fabrication Technicians
a.	A Senior Fabrication Technician assigned Monday through Friday to work that continues into overtime on any such day shall not be replaced unless excused by the Company.
25
b.	Any production, preventive maintenance or installation work to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday will be performed by the Senior Fabrication Technician performing the work during the week on that shift.	.
c.	Nonproduclion work to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday will be performed by the most senior qua lifted Senior Fabrication Technician on the appropriate overtime list desiring the work. However, the Company may require the least senior qualified Senior Fabrication Technician to work. Those jobs where continuation of work is necessary and when the work wilt continue for more than eleven and one-half (II -1/2} hours (exclusive of a lunch period) the same employec(s) that began the work will be required to complete the work.
d.	1 n the event i I i s neces s ary to c a 11 in off duty Sent or Fabrication Technicians, the senior qualified employee(s) on the appropriate overtime list will be called. However, the Company may require the least senior qualified employees) to work.
Section 2B - Electrical/EicctronicsTechnician
a.	An El eel rical/Elec ironies Technician assigned Monday through Friday to work that continues into overtime on any such day shall not be replaced unless excused by the Company,
b.	Any production, preventive maintenance or installation work to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday will be performed by the Electrical/Electronics Technician performing the work during the week on that shift.
c.	Non product ion work to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday will be performed by the most seni or qual i tied E ieci rical/E le c i roni cs Tech -
26
nician on the appropriate overtime list desiring the work. However, the Company may require the least senior qualified Electrical/Electromcs Technician to work. Those jobs where continuation of work is necessary and when Ihe work will continue for more than eleven and one-half (11-1/2) hours (exclusive of a lunch period) the same employee(s) that began the work will be required to complete (he work,
d.	In the even! it is necessary to call in off duty Electrical /Electronic Technicians, the senior qualified employee(s) on the appropriate overtime list will be called. However, the Company may require the least senior qualified employee(s) to work.
Section 3	- Senior Primary Technicians and Ai] Other Technicians
a.	An employee assigned Monday through Friday to any work that continues into overtime on any such day shat) not be replaced unless excused by the Company.
b.	Any production work to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday will be performed by the employee performing the work during the week on that shift.
c.	Except for non production work requiring specific qualifications, nonproduclion work to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday will be performed by the most senior employaefs) in the department (area in Primary) desiring the work. However, the Company may require the least senior employee(s) to work.
For nonproduction work requiring specific qualifications to be performed on Saturday, Sunday or holidays, the employ ee(s) performing the work during the week on that shift will perform the work. However, the Company may
27
require the least senior empkiyee(s) with the specific qualifications in the area to perform the work.
When additional manning is required for cleaning. Primary Technicians from the affected areas will perform the work, except where specific qualifications, regardless of classification, require otherwise.
Section 4	- Daily Overtime Assignment
a.	Senior Fabrication Technician
(i)	When overtime is required, the employee on the job will have the opportunity to work the overtime provided the employee notifies the Equipment Supervisor no later than four hours into the shift,
(2)	An overtime list by shift and qualifications will be established of those employees who desire to work.
(3)	Overtime requirements known to management before the end of the shift that are not filled by item (I) above will be filled by the most senior qualified employee on the shift overtime list.
(4)	Employees wishing to work on any particular day will sign the overtime list no later than four hours into the shift. Employees who sign the list wilt be committed to work any overtime offered.
(5)	in the event that item (4j above does not fulfill the overtime requirement, the least senior qualified employee(s) in the department on that shift will be forced to work the overtime.
(6)	Overtime requirements unfilled at shift-end will be filled by job continuity until management can
28
call in an employee from the overtime list of the oncoming shift. Management reserves the right to force the least senior qualified employeefs) from the oncoming shift to work.
(7)	Daily overtime assignments will be posted by 2:00 p.m. Changes made after this time will be communicated by the appropriate supervisor.
b.	Electrical/ElectronicsTechnician
(1)	When overtime is required, the employee on the job will have the opportunity to work the overtime provided the employee notifies the Equipment Supervisor no later than four hours into the shift.
(2)	An overtime list by shift and qualifications will be established of those employees who desire to work.
(3)	Overtime requirements known to management before the end of the shift that are not filled by item (1) above will be filled by the most senior qualified employee on the shift overtime list,
(4)	Employees wishing to work on atty particular day will sign the overtime list no later than four hours into the shift. Employees who sign the list will be committed io work any overtime offered.
(5)	In the event that item (4) above does not fulfill the overtime requirement, the least senior qualified employee(s) in the department on that shift will be forced to work the overtime.
(6)	Overtime requirements unfilled at shift-end will be filled by job continuity until management can call in an employee from the overtime list of
29
the oncoming shift. Management reserves the right to force the least senior qualified employee(s) from the oncoming shift to work,
(7)	Daily overtime assignments will be posted by 2:00 p.m. Changes made after this time will be communicated by the appropriate supervisor.
c.	All Other Technicians Except Senior Primary Technician
(1)	When overtime is required, the employee on the job will have the opportunity to work the overtime provided the employee notifies the Group Leader no later than four hours into the shift.
(2)	An overtime list by shift (Packing, Making & Filters for Fabrication Technicians and area for Primary Technicians) will be established of those employees who desire to work.
(3)	Overtime requirements known to management before the end of the shift that are not filled by item (1) above will be filled by the most senior qualified employee on the shift (Packing. Making & Filters for Fabrication Technicians and area for Primary Technicians) overtime list.
(4)	Employees wishing to work on any particular day will sign the overtime list no later than four hours into the shift. Employees who sign the list will be committed to work any overtime offered,
(5)	In the event that item (4) above does not fulfil I the overtime requirements, the least senior qualified cmployee(s) in the department (Packing. Making & Filters for Fabrication Technicians and area for Primary Technicians) on that
30
shift will be forced to work the overtime.
If this does not fulfill the requirement in the Fitter Rod area, volunteers from the Making area will fill the existing vacancies. If this does not fulfill the requirements, the least senior employee tn the Making area will be forced to work the overtime.
(6)	Overtime requirements unfilled at shift's end will be filled by job continuity until management can call in an employee from the overtime list from the oncoming shift. Management reserves the right to force the least senior qualified employee(s) from the oncoming shift to work.
d.	Senior Primary Technicians
(1)	When overtime is required the employee on the job will have the opportunity to work the overtime provided the employee notifies the Group Leader no later than four hours into the shift.
(2)	An overtime list for Primary “A” and Primary “B" by shift will be established for those employees who desire to work.
(3)	Overtime requirements known to management before the end of the shift that are not filled by item (I) above will be filled by the most senior qualified employee on the shift overtime list.
(4)	Employees wishing to work on any particular day will sign the overtime list no later than four hours into the shift. Employees who sign the list will be committed to work any overtime offered,
(51 In the event that item (4) above does not fulfill the overtime requirements; the least senior qualified ent ploy ee(s) in either Primary “A” or Pri
31
mary “B” on that shift will be forced to work the overtime.
(6)	Overtime requirements unfilled at shift’s end will be filled by job continuity until management can call in from the overtime list for Primary 'A" or Primary “B” from the oncoming shift. Management reserves the right to force the.least senior qualified emp)oyee(s) front the oncoming shift to work.
Section 5
Nothing provided for above shall obligate the Company to work an employee, or an employee to work, in excess of two consecutive shifts.
Section 6
Employees who are in training on their assigned shifts will have full standing for overtime. Employees in training on a shift other than their assigned shift can volunteer to relieve any employee who is forced to work overtime on their training shift. This includes the weekend following training. Training may be required on weekends.
ARTICLE XVIII HOLIDAYS
Section I
a.	The holidays recognized by this Agreement are as follows:
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
Good Friday
Easter Monday
Friday before Memorial Day
Memorial Day
Fourth of July
Friday before Labor Day
Labor Day
32
Thanksgiving Day Friday after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day
b.	Shou Id a holiday fall on a Saturday, Friday shall be considered the paid holiday, except for the Fourth of July. If any of the specified holidays shall fail on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be considered as the paid holiday. Should consecutive holidays fall On Friday and Saturday, Thursday and Friday shall be celebrated as the holidays. Should consecutive holidays fall on Sunday and Monday, Monday and Tuesday shall be celebrated as the holidays. However, if a recognized holiday, except for the Fourth of July, falls within a plant shutdown week pay for such holiday will be made in addition to the vacation pay.
c,	If the Fourth of July falls on a Saturday or in the shutdown week, the preceding Friday or following Monday will be designated by the company to be observed as an additional day of vacation in lieu of the holiday.
d.	For all service weeks of vacation, if a holiday falls on a workday covered by an employee’s vacation period he/she shall receive pay for such holiday or one additional day of vacation to be taken at the time of the vacation.
Section 2
a.	Employees not required to work on a recognized holiday will receive seven and one-half hours pay at normal straight lime rates for each such holiday; but any or al) employees may be required to work on any or all recognized holidays, in which case, they shall be paid at double the normal straight time rate of pay for all hours worked in addition to the holiday pay above specified.
33
b.	Employees to be eligible to receive holiday pay for holidays not worked must be on the payroll at the time of the holiday and must work both the day preceding and the day following the respective holiday with the exception of employees absent from work because of sickness, pregnancy or injury during the week in which the holiday falls and who have been absent from work because of such sickness, pregnancy or injury and have been excused by the company for a period not exceeding ninety (90) working days just prior to the week tn which the holiday falls, who shall receive pay for the holiday.
c.	Should an employee work on a holiday failing on a day when overtime pay is otherwise provided, there	,
shall be no duplication of overtime pay and the } employee will	be paid under the provisions of this -
Article only.	i
ARTICLE XIX	I
VACATIONS
Section 1	{
1.	Employees will receive two weeks of vacation each contract year and will be required to use these shutdown weeks as the two weeks of vacation for that year. One of such shutdown weeks will be scheduled as near July 4th as practicable and the other as near Christmastime as practicable and such shutdowns will be scheduled well in advance of each such week.
Employees in their first year of employment or employees recalled from layoff will be eligible for the July 4th vacation if they were employed continuously from the first scheduled workday following the Christmastime vacation of the preceding caien-
dar year. Such employees, to be eligible for th^^=
34
Christmastime vacation, will be eligible for that week of vacation if they were employed continuously from the first scheduled workday fallowing the July 4th vacation of that calendar year. Employees recalled from layoff shall receive no additional pay for vacation weeks paid at the time of layoff.
2.	S hou Id ii be necessary for any work to be performed during either of the shutdown weeks the following shall apply:
a.	Senior Technicians
0} For production work, the most senior employees normally performing the work during the week on that shift shad perform the work if desired. If no senior employee desires to work, the least senior employee normally performing the work during the week on that shift will be required to work.
(2)	For nonproduction work those employees not eligible for vacation will be required to perform the work if work they can perform is available. If additional employees are necessary, the most senior employees normally performing the work during the week who so desire will perform rhe work. If no senior employee desires the work, the least senior employee normally performing the work during the week will be required to perform the work.
b.	All Other Technicians
(I)	For production work, the most senior employees normally performing the work during the week on that shift shall perform the work if desired. If no senior employee desires to work, the least senior employee normally performing the work during the week on that shift wilt be required to work.
35
(2)	For nonproduct son work, except for nonproduction work requiring specific qualifications, those employees not eligible for vacations will be required to perform the work. If additional employee(s) are necessary, the work will be offered in seniority order to other employ eel's} in the department. The Company reserves the right to require the least senior employee(s) to work in their respective departments.
(3)	Nonproduction work requiring specific qualifications will he performed by the most senior qualified employee(s) not eligible for vacation. If additional qualified employees are necessary, the work will be offered in seniority order to other qualified employees in the department. The Company reserves the right to require the least senior employ ce(s) to work in their respective departments.
c.	Materials Handling Technicians—Parts
Should work be necessary during either of the shutdown periods, those qualified employees not eligible for vacations will be required to perform the work. Should additional work be necessary the senior qualified employec(s) desiring the work will be afforded the opportunity to work. If no senior employee (s) desires to work, the teas! senior qualified empioyee(s) in the numbers necessary wilt be required to work.
3.	Upon completion of five (5) years of service with the Company, an employee will become eligible for a third (3rd) week of vacation with pay during the remainder of that contract year and each contract , year thereafter.
Upon completion of ten (10) years of service with the Company, an employee will become eligible for a fourth (4th) week of vacation with pay during the remainder of that contract year and each contract
year thereafter.
Upon completion of twenty (20) years of service with the Company, an employee will become eligible for a fifth (5th) week of vacation with pay during the remainder of that contract year and each contract year thereafter.
Upon completion of twenty-five (25} years of service with the Company, an employee will become eligible for a sixth (6th) week of vacation with pay during the remainder of that contract year and each contract year thereafter.
Upon completion of thirty (30) years of service with the Company, an employee will become eligible for a seventh (7th) week of vacation with pay during the remainder of that contract year and each contract year thereafter.
Section 2
Vacation pay will be a normal week’s straight time pay including shift differential. The Company will pay the July v 4th and Christmas shutdown vacation to all employees, whether or not the employee works the shutdown week. Employees that work either of the aforementioned shutdown weeks (July 4th and Christmas) wit! take their vacation at other times without pay.
Section 3
Service weeks of vacation shall first be scheduled during a thirty (30) day period prior to the vacation year. The most senior employee(s) within classification and by dc-*artment shall have preference of vacation schedule pro-ided such scheduling does not interfere with normal plant rotations.
In the event employees do not schedule their vacation ing this period, service weeks of vacation shall then be
37
scheduled on a first come basis (whether taken on a weekly or daily basis) provided such scheduling does not interfere with normal plant operations.
Section 4
Qualifying employment shall be accumulative for three or more weeks of vacation.
Section 5
. An employee who is laid off or whose employment with the Company is terminated for any cause shall receive with his/her final check vacation pay due for the contract year in which hc/she is laid off or terminated. In the event of the death of an employee who has earned but not used his/her vacation for the calendar year in which death occurred, the employee’s beneficiary or estate shah receive an amount equivalent to the employee's earned vacation. An employee retiring under the Retirement Plan will be > entitled to all vacation for which his/her service would qualify him/her during the calendar year in which retired.
Section 6
For the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh week of vacation each year, an employee may, if he wishes, receive . pay in lieu of taking the vacation.
Section 7
Afi bargaining unit members who arc eligible for any service weeks of vacation may take two such weeks of vacation on a daily basis provided that the employee states this intent on a form provided by the Company dining a fifteen (15) day period at the beginning of each contract year. At least one day's written notification must be given to and ap--
proval received from the employee’s immediate supervise-------
before the day of vacation is taken by the employee unless tt^^a absence is due to illness. In case of absence due to illness, t^^^m employee must notify his/her immediate supervisor's of illness and desire to take a day of vacation to cover the beginning of the shift in which the illness occurs.
Company may verify such illness if circumstances warr^^^^M
38
ARTICLE XX
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL PAY
Section 1
When shifts are established and permanently assigned to employees outside of the regular day shift, they shall be paid at the rate of forty cents (40) per hour above the day shift rate for the second shift and forty-eight cents (48) per hour above the day shift rate for the third shift.
Section 2
Applicable shift differentia), if any, shall be considered part of an employee’s base rate of pay,
ARTICLE XXI JURY DUTY PAY
An employee required to serve on a jury or who is subpoenaed to appear as a witness in a court of law or on behalf of a minor dependent will be paid his/her normal straight time pay for each of his/her scheduled days of work on which he/she is required to serve on the jury or appear as a witness or on behalf of a minor dependent, as the case may be. Employees will not be required to report for work on the day they are required to report for jury duty or as a witness. A witness as staled above shall be defined as a third party witness, it shall be the responsibility of each employee to present io their Group Leader a copy of the court summons and a certificate from the clerk of the court showing the days served.
Any employee subpoenaed to appear shall be granted an excused absence for that day or days required to appear.
Employees working 11:00 p.m. - 7:00a.m. will be paid his/her normal straight time pay for each of his/her scheduled workdays before and after being required to serve on the jury or appear as a witness or on behalf of a minor dependent, as the case may be.
39
ARTICLE XXII FUNERAL LEAVE PAY
In the case of the death of a member of the immediate family of an employee, the employee shall be granted a maximum of three (3) consecutive workdays off with straight time pay to attend the funeral and to attend to administrative details. Members of the immediate family shall be the spouse, children, stepchildren, foster children, parents, stepparents, foster parents, father-in-law, mother-inlaw, brothers, sisters, half brothers, half sisters, brothers-in-law. sisters-in-law, sons-in-taw, daughters-in-1 aw, grandparents. grandparents of spouse, grandchildren, whether of natural relationship or legally adopted or under legal guardianship, of the employee. In the case of the death of the spouse or children the employee will be granted one (1) additional consecutive workday off with pay. Employees will be granted a maximum of two (2) additional days off without pay upon request.
ARTICLE XXIII CALL-IN PAY
An employee who after the close of his/her normal shift hours is called to work after leaving the premises shall be paid a minimum of four hours at the prevailing overtime rate.
This Article does not apply loan employee who either works overtime following the end of his/her normal tour of duty, or who is requested to come to work early and thereafter continues to work through his/her normal tour of duty.
40

ARTICLE XXIV REPORT-IN PAY
Any employee reporting for work at his/her regular repotting time, unless previously notified not to report, shall be given at least four hours’ work if work is available in . any department covered by this Agreement, or four hours' pay at normal straight time rates if no such work is avaif-able. Notification through bulletin board notices or through the Group Leader shall be deemed sufficient and employ> ees absent al time of notification shall not be paid as above, unless work is available. Failure of the Company to provide work by reason of circumstances beyond the Company's control shall be exempt front the provisions of this Article.
Any employee reporting to work on a scheduled Saturday, Sunday or holiday for production or nonproductton work will be given at least four (4) hours of work or, if no work is available, four (41 hours of pay.
If the factory is shut down because of severe weather conditions, the Company will notify its employees at least two (2) hours prior to the beginning of their respective work shifts. Unless previously notified not to report, employees reporting will be given at least four (4) hours of work at straight-time rates or, if no work is available, four (4) hours pay at straight-lime rates. Notification by Group . Leader, radio or television bulletins at least two (2) hours prior to the scheduled starting lime shall be deemed sufficient.
ARTICLE XXV MILITARY LEAVE PAY
Employees required to serve in the military for two weeks’ annual training or weekend reserve duty will be paid the difference, if any, between military pay received (excluding travel pay and meal compensation) and what their base straight time wage would have been for the two week period.
ARTICLE XXVI
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1
In the case of personal illness, pregnancy, or injury requiring an absence of three (3) or more working days, a leave of absence may be granted to an employee for a period not to exceed six months. If such employee is not able to return to work at or before the expiration of this period, the employee's case shall be subject to review by the Company and, if the facts justify, an extension may be granted.
Section 2
All applications for leaves of absence for illness, pregnancy or injury must be in writing and substantiated by a Statement from the employee's attending physician.
Section 3
The Company reserves the right to require employees on leaves of absence for illness, pregnancy or injury to be examined and approved by the Company doctor before permitting the employee to return to work.
Section 4
Leaves of absence for personal reasons may be granted by the Company only tn cases of exceptional circumstances. Applications for personal leaves of absence must be made in writing to the Personnel Department and except in an emergency shall be made prior to the beginning of the absence.
42
Section S
An employee who accepts other employment while on leave of absence or who continues to perform work of any nature not for the Company while on leave of absence shall be terminated unless such work has been expressly approved by the Company.
ARTICLE XXVII
ACCRUED SENIORITY
a.	An employee accepting a position with the Local Union or with the Bakery Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’ and Grain Millers’ International Union will continue 10 have his seniority accrue during the time the employee holds such position.
b.	Employees accepting such positions will be required to secure a leave of absence for Union business which will be issued for a period of no more than one year but may be renewed for subsequent periods of no more than one year.
ARTICLE XXVIII NONDISCRIMINATION
The Company and the Unkin agree there will be no discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or disability. It is further agreed there shall be no discrimination against disabled veterans or veterans that served in any war in which a campaign badge or ribbon was issued.
There shall be no discrimination against any employee covered by this Agreement for presenting a grievance or tn the performance of his/her duties as a Union representative.
43
ARTICLE XXIX GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1
CONFLICT OF LAW
Should any provision of this Agreement st any time during its hfe be found to be in conflict with Federal or State law, or as such laws may be amended, then such provision(s) shall continue in effect only to the extern permissible under the applicable law, with the right and privilege extended to either party to this Agreement to require negotiation of the terms of the affected provision to the extent necessary to remove the said conflict with Federal or State taw. It is further understood that if at any time thereafter such provision is no longer in conflict with the law, then such provision of this Agreement as originally embodied herein shall be restored in full force and effect, as if it had never been in controversy or violation.
If the parties are unable to agree as provided above, the matter shall be referred to arbitration under Section 4 of Article V,
In the event of any provision of this Agreement being held invalid under the law, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected.
Section 2
SAFETY
The Company will continue to maintain reasonable standards of safety in its plant, and the employees will perform their duties in a safe manner in compliance with plant rules.
Any protective devices or other safety equipment required by the Company to be worn will be provided initially by the Company without cost and shall be worn and/ or utilized by the employees in the performance of their job tasks. Replacement of such devices or equipment because of normal wear and tear will also be without cost,
44
except for any such devices or equipment lost, willfully damaged or destroyed.
The Company will provide up to two (2) pairs of approved safety shoes per year to all employees who are required by the Company to wear safety shoes. The Company may change the group of employees required to wear safety shoes from lime to time.
The Company agrees to form a Safety Committee, six of whom are to be appointed by the BCTW&GM1U local union.
Section 3
TOOL INSURANCE
The Company agrees to furnish all tools required by the Senior Fabrication Technicians and Electrica(/Electronics Technicians that are needed to efficiently perforin their duties. Tool lists will be established by the Company and an up-to-date inventory will be maintained by each employee. All tools when not in use must be kept tn the secure areas provided by the Company. Any tools lost or stolen while not in the secure areas will be replaced at the employee's expense. Tools that are broken or worn out must be turned in to the Company for replacement. The Company will not be responsible for any tools lost or stolen from the employee’s automobile. Employees shall exercise their full responsibility in keeping (tack of the Company provided tools.
Section 4
ATTENDANCE
Each employee shall be expected to be present and on time for work at all times. In the event of unavoidable absence or lateness, it shall be the employee’s responsibility lo report such fact prior to the beginning of his/her shift or as soon thereafter as reasonably possible. Reports ate to be made by calling the employee’s immediate supervisor’s office.
45
Section 5
UNION LABEL
The use of the Union label of the Tobacco Workers International Union by Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation on such of its products as it may elect shall be governed entirely by the terms and conditions of the Union Label Agreement between the parties.
Section 6	,
EMPLOYEE CIGARETTES
One carton of cigarettes will be provided for each employee eligible for the shutdown vacation periods at the time of the shutdowns. To be eligible to receive the carton of cigarettes each employee must be working the last day prior to the shutdown periods unless on vacation that week in which case the employee will receive the cigarettes on the last day worked prior to the vacation.
Section 7
Supervisory personnel shall nor perform work normally done by members of the bargaining unit except in the following situations;
-	instructing and training employees,
-	operation of new or experimental equipment which is not routine,
-	momentarily helpful actions to overcome quality, safety, or operating problems.
Section 8
PLANT CLOSING
in the event that circumstances require the Company to close a plant with the resulting cessation of cigarette manufacturing operations, the Company agrees to give the Union eighteen (IB) months’ notice of any plant closing.
The Company shall enter into formal negotiations with ihe Union immediately after such notification on all terms and conditions of the plant closing as they affect the employees covered in this Agreement.
46
Should it become necessary to completely eliminate a shift the Company shall give the Union six (6) months’ advance notice.
Section 9
In the event that Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation is sold, the contract between Local 362T -BCTWIU and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation will remain in full force and effect throughout the duration of the Contract.
Section 10
When an employee is to be disciplined or formally counseled he/she will be afforded the opportunity to have a Shop Steward present and these matters win be handled off the production floor.
Section 11
Establishment of new policies or changes of existing factory policies will be for just and sufficient cause and reasonable in application.
Prior to the effective date of any such new or changed policy that is to be applied piantwide, the Union will be notified.
Section 12
The Company will continue to provide uniforms through the life of this Agreement.
Section 13
The Company will pay 100% of tuition and course materials expenses for employees covered by this Agreement who elect to attend outside courses which directly relate to he enhancement of skills in their current position or other positions in the bargaining unit. Applicability of each □ursc for reimbursement will be determined by the Com-tny and such reimbursement will require a "C” or belter a graded course, or otherwise satisfactory completion of ion-graded course or program.
A7
ARTICLE XXX RETIREMENT, INSURANCE AND PROFIT SHARING
Retirement Plan
Drown & Williamson Factory Employees’ Retirement Plan is amended to provide the following benefits for employees represented by this bargaining unit:
Section I	’
The current Brown & Williamson Factory Employees’ Retirement Plan will continue in effect through August 31, 1993, and provide the following benefits for employees, represented by this bargaining unit:
A. Ev_ti<;/j,fs_r_Qr_AS,'?rwAl_iii.i‘J_JEiLiLLLy„R_QLurijuv_w
1.	The normal retirement date under the retirement plan shall continue to be age sixty-five [651 (however, employees may continue working until the mandatory retirement age of seventy [70)). For those employees working beyond age sixty-five (65), credit will be given for both pensionable earnings and pensionable service up to actual retirement date.
2.	Employees retiring at age sixty (60) to seventy (70) with ten (10) or more years of cumulative service will receive a monthly benefit the greater of:
a.	Sixteen do! 1 ars and forty cent s ($ 16.40) plus one and three-fourths percent (1-3/4%) of monthly pensionable earnings in excess of the maximum monthly social security average wage, or
b.	Twenty-one dof 1 ars ($2 J) per mo n th, multi pl by the employee’s total years of pcnsionab^^H service.
48
3.	Employees retiring at age fifty-five (55) through fifty-nine (59) with at least ten (10) but less (han thirty (30) years of cumulative service will receive a benefit as calculated in 2 above reduced by one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) for each month by which their age at retirement precedes age sixty (60).
4.	Employee# retiring at age fifty- five (55) withat least thirty (30) years of cumulative service will receive a benefit calculated under 2 above without actuarial reduction.
5.	Employees retiring prior to age fifty-five (55) with at least thirty (30) years of credited service will receive a benefit reduced by one-half (1/2) of one percent (I %) for each month by which their age at retirement precedes age fifty-five (55).
B.	Vesting
Employees terminating with at least five (5) years of service will receive at age sixty-five (65) the greater of;
1.	Sixteen dollars and forty cents ($16.40) plus one and three-fourths percent (1 -3/4%) of monthly pensionable earnings in excess of the maximum monthly social security average wage, or
2.	Twenty-one dollars ($21) per month, multiplied by the employee’s total years of pensionable service.
C.	Survivor’s Benefit Option
The spouse of an employee will automatically be covered by the Survivor’s Benefit Option when the employee becomes vested for retirement benefits. Employees who do not desire the Survivor’s Benefit -Option must file a waiver at anytime after becoming vested and prior to actual retirement. The survivor’s benefit option will be available without penalty to the retiree.
49
D.	Pensionable Earnings
Pensionable earnings means the average annual wages for the five (5) highest calendar years out of the ten (10) calendar years immediately preceding retirement or termination.
Retirement Plan Effective September-
Effective September 1, 2000, Brown & Will ramson Factory Employees’ Retirement Plan is amended to provide the following benefits for employees represented by this bargaining unit:
A.	Benefits for Normal and Early Retirement
1,	The normal retirement date under the retirement plan shall continue to be age sixty-five (65),
2.	Employees retiring at age sixty (60) with ten (10) or more years of cumulative service will receive a monthly benefit equal to the greater of the benefit earned under the prior plan formula for all years of service accrued prior to September I, 1993, or ihe monthly benefit calculated as follows:
a.	Base Benefit
For the classifications of Senior Fabrication Technician. Senior Primary Technician, and Electri-cal/Elect tonic Technician: seventy-three dollars ($73) multiplied by the employee’s total years of < pensionable service.
For the cla ss i ft cat i on of Fabr ic at i on Techn i cian: > sixty-one dollars ($61) muiriptied by the 1 employee’s total years of pensionable service.
For the classifications of Primary Technician and Material Handling Technician: fifty-six .	dollars ($56) multiplied by the employee's to-
tal years of pensionable service.
50
To be eligible for the pension rate of the higher rated classification the employee must be in the classification 2-1/2 years out of the last five years preceding retirement.
b.	Overtime Premium
An Overtime Premium will be calculated as follows:
If Five Year Average The Overtime Overtime Factor is; Premium Percentage is:
less than 10% 10-15% 15-20%
20% or more
0%
10%
15%
20%
The Annual Overtime Factor is defined as follows:
Tiic total of pensionable earnings divided by straight lime pay (base rate plus shift differential times 1950 hours) minus one (I).
Five Year Average Overtime Factor is the average of the highest five consecutive calendar years overtime factors out of last ten calendar years. The average will be phased itt beginning with calendar year 1987 until ten years are included.
The base benefit set forth in A.2(a.) above will be increased by the Overtime Premium Percentage above.
3.	Employees retiring at age fifty-five (55) through fifty-nine (59) with at least ten (10) but less than thirty (30) years of cumulative service will receive a benefit as calculaied in 2 above reduced by one-balf (1/2) of one percent (1%) for each month by
51
which their age at retirement precedes age sixty (60).
4.	Employees retiring at any age with at least thirty (30) years of cumulative service will receive a benefit calculated ia 2 above without actuarial reduction.
B.	Vesting
Employees terminating with at least five (5) years of service will receive at age sixty-five (65) a monthly benefit of a flat dollar rale limes years of service as set forth io paragraph A.2 above.
C,	Survivor's Benefit Option
The spouse of an employee wilt automatically be covered by the Survivor’s Benefit Option when the employee becomes vested for retirement benefits. Employees who do noi desire the Survivor's Benefit Option must file a waiver at anytime after becoming vested and prior to actual retirement. The survivor's benefit option will be available without penalty to the retiree.
D,	Income Leveling Option
An Income leveling option wilt be available for employees retiring on or after November I, 2000
Section 2
Greupjjfc fiiitjra.dK,Plan
The Group Life Insurance Plan, including the same provisions for the cash option upon retirement under the Retirement Plan as previously in effect, is amended to provide the following Group Life Insurance:
A. 590,000 insurance for each employee while in employ. Upon retirement under the Company Retirement Plan, the insurance will be reduced to $15,000 and the employee may elect to receive $2,000 of this insurance as a cash payment and the Company will provide $ 13,000 insurance coverage after retirement If the employee
52
does not elect the cash payment option, the Company will provide $15,000 insurance coverage after retirement. The cash payment option is for normal and early retirement. Employees may not buy less than the negotiated benefits provided for in the contract.
B Double indemnity for accidental death.
C. For employees working beyond age 65. life insurance coverage will be in the amount that can be purchased by the Company for the premium equal to the premium applicable for contractual coverage for employees between ages 60 and 65. The same comparison will determine the amount of coverage upon actual retirement of employees working beyond age 65.
Section 3
Accident and Sickness Wage
Replacement Program
The Accident and Sickness Plan is amended to provide the following benefit:
Fifty percent (50%) of the employee's base weekly pay up to a maximum weekly benefit as set forth in the schedule below, for a maximum of twenty-six (26),weeks duration:
9/1/92
9/1/93
9/1/94
9/1/95
$300.00
$350.00
$400,00
$450.00
Payments will begin with:
1.	The first full day of absence requiring an in-hospital admission, or surgical or fracture care because of accidental injury or qualification for Workmen's Compensation Supplement.
2.	The eighth full calendar day of absence in all other
53
cases. (For employee’s on the 12 hour AWS three and one-half (3.5) work days will apply).
3.	In no event wilt Accident and Sickness payments be made for any day for which an employee is otherwise compensated.
Section 4
Workmen’s Compensation Supplement
Any employee qualifying for weekly workmen’s compensation benefits as reimbursement because of time tost from work shall receive from the Company a supplementary payment in an amount necessary to bring each such weekly benefit paid to the amount for which the employee’s regular pay would qualify him or her under the A&S Plan; such supplementary payments to be paid for each week that the workmen's compensation benefit is paid up to but not to exceed twenty-six (26) weeks.
Section 5
Hospital-Surgical Plan
Effective January I, 2001. a Preferred Provider Plan, which includes hospitals and physicians, will provide improved medical benefits for medically necessary services as included in the summary below:
in-Network	Out-of-Network
Annual Deductible
SlOO/singie	$400/single
$200 / family	$800 / family
Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum
$7501 single	$2,000 / single
$1,500/ family	$4,000/ family
Lifetime Maximum per person
$2,000,000	$2,000,000
54
1 In-Network	QuhfOtemrk
Physician Office visits $ 10 co-pay	60(40 after deductible
Emergency Room Sves $35 co-pay	60/40 after deductible
Immunizations $10 co-pay	not covered
* Hospital services; Semi-private room 80(20 after deductible	60(40 after deductible Operating and Recovery Rooms 80(20 after deductible	60(40 after deductible Intensive Care Units 80(20 a fter ded u ct i ble	60(40 after ded uct i bl e In-hospital Physician Care 80/20 after deductible	60(40 after deductible Medications 80(20 after deductible 60(40 after deductible Administration of Anesthesia 80(20 after deductible	60(40 after deductible All other ancillary hosp sves 80(20 after deductible	60(40 after deductible Prescription Drug 80/20 after deductible 80/20 after deductible Physical Therapy (licensed phys therapist) 80/20 after deductible	80(20 after deductible Xray and Lab Sves 80(20 after deductible	80(20 after deductible . Chiropractic Services 80/20 a fter ded uct i bl e	80(20 a ft er deduct t b 1 e ($1,000 max/year/persan) ($1,000 maz/year/person)	
* Inpatient mental health (including substance abuse) is limited to 45 days per calendar year. If it is medically necessary to extend impatient substance abuse treatment I beyond 45 days, the 45 day limit will not apply to those
5S
employees who are participating in the B&W Substance Abuse Program.
The following Wellness Program procedures rendered by a Preferred Physician Provider will be covered at 100% with no deductible for ati plan participants (out-of'network benefits wifi apply if a non-partici paling physician is used):
Cholesterol screening once every 5 years
Sigmoidoscopy at age 50 and once every three years thereafter
Stool sample at age 50 and every year thereafter
Clinical breast ejtams every year
Pap smears every year
Mammograms at age 35, age 40, once every two years 40 Io 50, once per year thereafter
P.S.A.T. (used to detect cancer of the prostate) once every year age 40 or older.
Olher plan provisions:
I,	The employer will pay full cost of employee and dependent coverage (dependents under current definition).
2.	Employees or spouses who are undergoing treatment for pregnancy as of January 1,1997, by a provider who is not a participant in the Preferred Provider Network, will be covered under the current Comprehensive Medical Plan benefits (80 % of UCR). Likewise, there will be no penalty for using a hospital outside the network for the delivery,
3.	Employees, spouses, or covered dependents who are
5b
undergoing ongoing treatment for a serious, life' threatening illness as of January 1, 1997, by a provider who is not a participant in the Preferred Provider Network, will be covered under the current Comprehensive Medical Plan benefits (80% of UCR), Likewise, there will be no penalty for using a hospital outside the network for any hospitalization relating to the condition.
4.	Employees, spouses, or covered dependents who live outside a 20-mite radius from a participating physician provider will be covered under the current Comprehensive Medical Plan benefits (80 % of UCR) for physician services.
5.	The company will pay a maximum of 40 visits per person per year for out-patient psychiatric services.
6.	Precertification and utilization review for all inpatient admissions and all out-patient procedures with a $500 penalty for non-compliance.
7.	Coordination and subrogation of benefits to assure no double payment of health care benefits.
8.	Claims for services not deemed to be medically necessary will not be covered by the plan.
9.	For dependents covered by more than one parent’s health care plan, the “birthday rule” (month and day) will be used when determining which plan is primary.
10.	Employees working beyond age 65 may continue coverage under the Company-sponsored plans. In this case, Medicare pays only with respect to charges not covered by the Brown and Williamson Plan, This rule applies to the employee’s spouse who is age 65 and over, regardless of the employee’s age.
57
!	1, Services covered under the Plan (except as set forth above} do not change as a result of the implementation of this Preferred Provider Network. Alt benefits are governed by and are set forth in the Platt documents.
12.	Effective 9-1-2000, covered spouses and dependent children may elect to continue medical coverage upon the death of a retiree or disabled employee. The premium cost wilt be based on the cost of coverage that other retirees and disable employees pay. Coverage may be continued until remarriage of spouse and for dependent children until they reach the plans limiting age.
13.	Well child checkups-subject to the plan provisions and agWfrecjuency limits outlined in the summary plan descriptions for the Healthcare plan.
Profit Sharing Plan
The Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation Profit Sharing Plan is amended with (he 1993 Plan Distribution Year as follows;
1.	The formula provisions currently used tn calculating annual contributions remain the same with annual contributions of three percent (3%) of trading profit.
2.	The allocation to a participant for any year shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the participant’s compensation for the year, and shall be one hundred percent (100%) deferred to the participant’s account.
3.	The Plan will include loan provisions that will gt low Plan members to borrow money from the Profit Sharing account balance.
4.	Additional invest me^ opt ions will be provided.
5.	Administrative and investment costs to be borne by the Plan.
Section 7
Long Term Disability
The Long Term Disability Plan is amended to provide that any cost-of-living adjustments payable under the Social Security Act after the month of entitlement to Social Security Disability Benefits will be excluded as a “Deductible Benefit." This amendment is applicable only to those employees who became eligible for Long Term Disability Benefits after June 6, 1982.
Earned, but unused vacation for the contract year wilt not be deducted in the calculation for Long Term Disability Benefits.
Section 8
Income Maintenance Plan
A. BASIC INCOME MAINTENANCE PLAN
I Definition
The Basic Income Maintenance Plan is intended to provide supplemental income to employees laid off because of lack of work at the Company facility for at least one calendar week. Each instance of such layoff shall be considered separately in determining eligibility and the maximum amount and duration of benefits as set forth below.
2.	Eligibility
a.	Employees who have been in continuous fulltime employment with the Company for twelve consecutive months shall be eligible for the following coverage:
Weekly payments will amount to the difference between 75% of the employee's normal weekly
59
pay and the amount of State unemployment benefits for a maximum of 13 weeks or the earlier of (I) recall to employment, or (2) disqualification for any government sponsored unemployment benefits.
b.	Employees who have been in continuous fulltime employment with the Company for five years shall be eligible for the following coverages:
Amount of Benefit
Weekly payments will amount to the difference between 75% of the employee's normal weekly pay and the amount of State unemployment benefits.
Duration of Payment
Payments shall be made for a maximum of 26 weeks or the earlier of (I) recall to employment, (2) early retirement, (3) normal retirement age, or (4) disqualification for any government sponsored unemployment benefits.
In the event the company elects to take a temporary layoff invoking Income Maintenance, employees on a medical leave or workers compensation at that time will continue to receive A&S benefits/workers compensation if eligible.
3.	Health and Life Insurance
Employees eligible for payments under the Basic Income Maintenance Plan shall continue to be covered under the Health and Life Insurance Plans of the Basic Collective Bargaining Agreement for the maximum duration of their eligibility. In the event a laid off employee becomes eligible for coverage under the health care plan of another employer while eligible for coverage under the Brown & Williamson Health Care Plan, the benefits provided by the
60
Company's plan shall be coordinated with those of the new employer,
B. SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME MAINTENANCE PLAN !. pefipifion
The Supplemental Income Maintenance Plan is intended to provide additional income protection following rhe cessation of benefits under the Basic Income Maintenance Plan.
2- Eligibility
Employees who have been in continuous fu 11-time employment with the Company for five years and who have exhausted benefits under the Basic Income Maintenance Plan shall be eligible for the following benefits:
Amount and BMfAJifia-Rf .Bsnp.Si
Weekly payments will be 100% of the employee's normal weekly pay at the lime of layoff. The duration of such payments will be dependent upon the length of continuous service with the Company as set forth in the following schedule:
For Employees with Completed Years of Service of 6 or less 7, 8, or 9
10 or more
The Normal Weekly Rate of Pay for 13 weeks 13 weeks plus one week for every completed year of service over six. 13 weeks plus one week for every completed year of service.
3.	Lump Sum Conversion
8!
Employees who have started receiving supplemental benefits may, at any time prior to notice of recall, elect io receive in lieu of any further payments under this section of the plan a single sunt payment equal to the weekly benefit multiplied by the number of remaining weeks under their benefit schedule. In such an event, the employee will forfeit any recall right to which he is entitled under ARTICLE XUL LAYOFF AND RECALL of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
4.	Reinstatement of Benefit Schedule
When a laid off employee is recalled prior to expiration of the benefit schedule set forth in this section and is again laid off, he shall be eligible to receive payments for the balance of (he benefit schedule.
Once a recalled employee works continuously for 18 consecutive months the full benefit schedule wilt be restored.
C. Special Coverages. Exclusions, and .Lwiatipas Payments shall not be made to employees in the event of:
). Any strike, slowdown or other interference or interruption of work participated in by employees.
2.	Energy shortages, power failures or other lack of outside dependent services or supplies beyond the Company’s control,
3.	Acts of God.
Should a laid off employee qualify for govern men_
unemployment benefit of less than the full amoun--
by reasons of outside income or otherwise, the benefit will still be calculated on the amount whii is paid when the employee receives the full era me nt unemployment benefit.
62
Section 9
Pental Plan
Eligibility for Denial Coverage commences on the first day of the month following three (3) months of full-time employment. Coverage is extended to the spouse and unmarried dependent children to age 21 or age 25 if full time students.
Dental benefits are provided as follows:
t. Diagnostic/Preventive Care is provided through an improved Fixed Schedule of benefits with no deductible required.
2.	Restored ve Care is provided through a Ft xed Schedule with a $25 annual deductible per individual.
3.	Diagnostic/Preventive and Restorative Care benefits are subject to a $1000 annua! maximum per individual.
4.	Orthodontics is provided on the basis of 50% of the Reasonable and Customary charges to a lifetime maximum of $1250. It is available only for dependent children under age 21 and is subject to a $25 annual deductible per individual. The improved Fixed Schedule of benefits is summarized in the summary plan description for the healthcare plan and will become effective January I, 2001.
Section Id
Vision Care Plan
Eligibility for vision care benefits commences on the first day of the month following three (3) months of fulltime employment. Coverage is extended to the spouse and unmarried dependent children to age twenty-one (21).
Vision care benefits are available for eye examinations, frames and lenses once during any twenty-four (24) consecutive months. The maximums allowed for services is
63
determined by the improved fixed schedule which is summarized in the summary plan description for rhe healthcare plan to be effective January I, 2001.
ARTICLE XXXI COST OF LIVING (CONTINGENT ALLOWANCE) PROGRAM
Independently of general increases to the Schedule of Wage Rates set forth in the Basic Agreement, the Company agrees to a Contingent Cost of Living Allowance Adjustment Program (hereinafter called the '“Contingent Allowance”) to help protect employees’ purchasing power as follows:
A.	Effective September I, 1985, the Contingent Allowance will be based on the Revised Consumer Price Judex for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers—U.S. City Average (1967=100) Unadjusted, which will become available January, 1985, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (hereinafter called the “'Index"). The Contingent Allowance will be calculated quarterly commencing with the third (3rd) quarter of 1985 by using the Index for the second (2nd) month of the applicable quarter and any wage adjustment arising out of the Contingent Allowance for a given quarter will be payable weekly commencing with the first (1st) full week worked in the following quarter.
A wage adjustment of one cent (I#) per hour will be made for each increase of at least 0.3 or any whole multiple thereof in the Index above the Index for May 1985,
B.	Effective September 1. 1993, the Coa tin gent Allowance will be based on the Revised Consumer Price index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers - U.S. City Average (1982=100) Unadjusted, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statis
64
tics (hereinafter called the '‘Index.’’), The Contingent Allowance will be calculated quarterly com-meiicing with the third (3rd) quarter of 1993 by using the Index for the second (2nd) month of the applicable quarter and any wage adjustment arising out of the Contingent Allowance for a given quarter will be payable weekly commencing with the first (1st) full week worked in the following quarter.
A wage adjustment of one cent ($.01) per hour will be made for each increase of at least 0.3 or any whole multiple thereof in the Index above the Index for May 1993.
C.	It is agreed that the Contingent Allowance shall be recalculated each quarter and wage adjustments previously made shall be reduced or eliminated pursuant to the currently applicable calculation of the Contingent Allowance. However, commencing on September 1. 1993 and annually each September 1 thereafter through September 1, 2(103, the cumulative Contingent Allowance paid for the preceding year shall be folded into ihe base wage rate. Jn the years succeeding 1993 during the term of this Agreement, the Revised Consumer Price Index for May of each year will be used as a base to calculate the Contingent Allowance, if any. for the following contract year.
D.	The continuance of the Contingent Allowance is contingent upon the availability of the Index as described above. If the Index is not available, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the adoption of a different or revised Index.
65
ARTICLE XXXII
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
There shall be no strikes, picketing, work stoppages, work slowdowns, sympathy strikes, or other concerted activity or lockouts during the term of this agreement.
ARTICLE XXXIII DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective September 1, 2000 and shall remain in full force and effect from September 1,2000 to September 1,2003, and from year to year thereafter unless the party desiring termination or modification of the Agreement serves written notice by registered mail upon the other parly sixty days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement.
66
F
WAGE SCALES FOR LOCAL UNION NO. 362 BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS' AND GRAIN MILLERS* INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFI.-C1O-CLC MACON, GEORGIA
Attached to and made a part of Agreement between BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION AND BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS INTERNATIONAL UNION. AFL-CIO-CLC effective September i, 2000.
A. Effective September !, 2000, a general wage increase in the amount of three percent (3%).
B Effective September 1, 2001. a general wage increase in the amount of two percent (2%),
C. Effective September I, 2002, a general wage increase in the amount of two percent (2%).
SCHEDULE OF CLASSIFICATIONS, PROGRESSIONSAND
WAGE RATES
Section 1
FABRICATION DEPARTMENT
Fabrication Technician
Effective 09-01-2000 Classification Months		Steps	Hourly Rate
Trainee	Hire	1	$22.09
Expiration of Probationary Period		2	2274
	8	3	23.18
	12	4	23.59
	16	5	24.19
Fabrication Technician	20	6	24.77
Senior Fabrication Technician
67
Effective 09-01-2000
Classification	Months	Steps	Hourly Rate
Trainee	Hire	1	$22.23
Expiration of			
Probationary Period		2	22.86
	8	3	23.28
	(2	4	23.71
	16	5	24.30
	20	6	24.86
	24	7	26.30
	28	8	26.73
	32	9	27.09
	36	10	27.46
	40	11	27.81
	44	12	28.17
	48	13	28.55
Senior Fab. Techs.	52	14	28.90
El ectrica S/El ectroni cs Techn ici an
Effective 09-01-2000
Classification Months	Steps	Hourly Rate
Trainee	Hire	I	$22.23
Expiration of		
Probationary Period	2	22.86
8	3	23.28
12	4	23.71
16	5	24.30
20	6	24.86
24	7	26,30
28	8	26.73
32	9	27.09
36	10	27.46
40	11 '	-- 27.81
44	12	28.17
48	13	28.55
Elec tri cal/E le c iron ic		
Technicians	52	14	28.90
68
[primary department ^Primary Technician		
I Effective 09-0)-2i)0t) I Classification Months	Steps	Hourly Rate
1 Trainee	Hire	I	S31,94
Expiration of Probationary Period	2	22,62
8	3	23.02
12	4	23.46
Primary Technician 16 Senior Primary Technician	5	24,02
Effective 09-01-2000 Classification Months	Steps	Hourly Rate
Trainee	Hire	I	$22.09
Expiration of Probationary Period	2	22.74
8	3	23.18
12	4	23.59
16	5	24.19
20	6	24.77
24	1	25.88
28	8	26.32
32	9	26,67
Senior Technician 36	10	27.05
MATERIALS DEPARTMENT		
Materials Handling Technician Effective 09-01-2000 Classification Months	Steps	Hourly Rate
Trainee	Hire	1	$21.94
Expiration of Probationary Period	2	22.62
8	3	23.02
Materials Handling Technician	12	4	23.46
69
Materials Handler
Effective 09-01-2000
Classification	Months
Trainee	Hire
Expiration of
Probationary Period
Steps Hourly Rate
1	$21.94
5	24.02
PARTS DEPARTMENT
Materials Handling Technician
Effective 09-01-2000
Classification Months		Steps	Hourly Rate
Trainee	Hire	1	$21.94
Expiration of Probationary Period		't	22.62
	8	3	23.02
	12	4	23.46
Materials Handling Technician - Paris	16	5	24.02
Section 2
Any employee temporarily assigned to a classification that has a top rate of pay higher than his/her regularly assigned classification shall receive a rale of pay that is one step in progression higher than his/her current step in progression for the itinainder of the shift.
70
6-2 SUPPLEMENT
All provisions relating to the alternative work, schedule are found in the main body of the Agreement, except as specifically provided herein. These provisions replace the corresponding provisions found in the main body of the Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
WORK SCHEDULE
Section t
The regular workweek will be not more than seven and one-half hours per day, five days per week, exclusive of a thirty minute lunch period. A workweek will consist of seven consecutive twenty-four hour periods beginning with the starting time of the employee’s shift on Monday, except that the workweek for the third shift shall begin at the shift starting time on Sunday night. Days within the seven consecutive twenty-four hour periods that are in excess of the five normally scheduled days of work shall be referred to as the sixth and seventh day of the week regardless of the sequence in which they fall during the workweek. The first scheduled off day will be considered the sixth day and the second scheduled off day will be considered the seventh day. The work schedule may provide for an employee to have six days scheduled in some weeks. The last day scheduled to work in the week in this instance shall also be considered the sixth day.
A work schedule which will feature rotating days off shall be established, attached, and made apart of this agreement.
ARTICLE XVI OVERTIME
Section 3
Work performed on an employee’s first scheduled off day or sixth day of the week (as defined in Article VIL Work Schedule) will be paid at one and one-half times the
71
straight time rate for the first four hours and at twice th< straight time rate for ail hours worked thereafter.
Section 4
AU work performed on an employee's second scheduled off day or seventh day of the week (as defined in Article VH, Work Schedule) will be paid at twice the straight time rate,
ARTICLE XVIII HOLIDAYS
The holidays recognized by this agreement are as follows;
1.	New Year’s Day
2.	Marlin Luther King's Birthday
3.	Easter Sunday
4.	Monday after Easier
5.	Day before Memorial Day
6.	Memorial Day
?.	Fourth of July
8.	Day before Labor Day
9.	Labor Day
10.	Thanksgiving Day
11.	Day aft er Thanksgiving
12.	Christmas Eve
13.	Christmas Day
All holidays recognized by this Agreement shall be paid holidays. The employee shall receive pay equal to seven and one-half hours straight time pay. including shift differential for each holiday and shall be paid in the week which the holiday falls in addition to the employee’s regular earnings for that week. The twenty-four hour period that comprises a holiday shall begin with the starting time of the respective shifts.
If the work is performed on atty of the recognized holidays. the employee will be paid his/her holiday pay, as de
72
scribed above, and wtil be paid double his/her straight lime hourly rate, including shift differential, for al I hours worked on such holiday(s). Should an employee work on a holiday when overtime pay is otherwise provided, there shall he no pyramiding of overtime pay and the employee will be paid under the provisions of this subsection.
Employees to be eligible to receive pay for holidays not worked must be on the payroll at the time of the holiday and must work both his/her scheduled workday preceding and his/her scheduled workday following the respec
tive holiday, with the exception of employees absent from work because of sickness, pregnancy, or injury during the week in which the holiday falls. Employees who have been absent from work because of said sickness, pregnancy or injury and who have been excused by the Company for a period not exceeding ninety (90) working days just prior to the week in which the holiday falls shad receive pay for the holiday.
ARTICLE XIX VACATIONS
Section 8
For vacation purposes a vacation week shall be defined as a regular workweek as set forth in Article VII, Work Schedule. Section 1 of this addendum.
ARTICLE XXI JURY DUTY PAY
An employee required to serve on a jury or appear in a court of law on behalf of a minor dependent or who is subpoenaed to appear as a witness in a conn of iaw will be paid his/her normal straight time pay for each of his/her scheduled days of work on which he/she is required to serve ott the jury or appear as a witness, as the case may be. Additionally. the employee will be paid his/her normal straight time pay for each of his/her scheduled days of work over a weekend (Saturday and Sunday) when jury duty service
73
continues into the following week. In this situation, the employee will not be required to report for work on the day they are required to report for jury duty or as a witness. A witness as slated above shall be defined as a third party witness. It shall be the responsibility of each employee to present to their Group Leader a copy of the court summons and a certificate from the clerk of the court showing the days served.
Any employee subpoenaed to appear shall be granted an excused absence for that day or days required to appear.
Employees working 11:00 p.m. -7;OOa.m. will be paid his/her normal straight time pay for each of his/her scheduled workdays before and after being required to serve on the jury or appear as a witness or on behalf of a minor dependent, as the case may be.
74
TWELVE (12) HOUR SUPPLEMENT
AH provisions relating Io the alternative work schedule are found in the main body of the Agreement, except as specifically provided herein. These provisions replace the corresponding provisions found in the main body of the Agreement.
ARTICLE VII WORK SCHEDULE
Section 1	- Work Schedule
The straight time work schedule for all employees will be not more than seven \7), eleven and one-half (11 'Ai hour shifts over a two (2) week period exclusive of a thirty -minute lunch break. For pay purposes on rhe 3-2, 2-3 schedule and 2-5, 5-2 schedule, the work week shall consist of seven consecutive twenty-four hour periods and for A and B shifts begins at 1:15 p.tn., Saturday, and for C and D shifts it begins at 1,15 a.m., Sunday,
All benefits will he paid on a weekly, daily or hourly basts where applicable.
Section 2
The starting times for the shifts will be as follows:
A and B shifts 7:00 A.M.
C and D shifts 7:00 EM.
Section 3
Employees on shifts A, B, C and D who work beyond twelve consecutive hours (inclusive of a non-paid thirty minute lunch} will at the end of twelve hours of work, he allowed thirty minutes time off to eat without loss of pay.
Retief shall be sixty minutes per shift. Employees who work overtime at the end of a shift will be granted ten (10) minutes relief as soon as operating conditions permit. Should an employee work tn excess of two (2) hours of overtime, he/ she will be granted relief equal to five (5) minutes per hour.
ARTICLE XVI OVERTIME
SeHion 1
No employee will be required to work beyond eleven and one-half (11 fi) consecutive hours (exclusive of lunch period) in any one workday unless he/sfie volunteers to do so or when emergency situations arise. Emergency situations shall mean situations beyond the control of the Company.
Section 2
Overtime worked before or after the established straight time hours of work will be paid for at twice the straight time rate. Work performed in excess of forty (40) hours per week will be paid for at one and one-half times the straight time rate. days. Worked performed on scheduled off days will be paid for.at one and one-half times '■■■ th c s I ra ig b t ■ t i me Taie for t he f> rs r four h ours. Work per--
formed on scheduled off days in excess of four hours will be paid for at twice the straight time rate. Work performed on Sunday, if it is a scheduled off day, will be paid for at twice the straight lime rate,
ARTICLE XVlll HOLIDAYS
Section I
a. The holidays recognized by this Agreement for shifts A. B. C and t> are as follows;
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
Easter Sunday
Monday after Easter
Day before Memorial Day
Memorial Day Fourth of July Day before Labor Day Labor Day
76
Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
Section 2
a,	Employees shall receive nine (9) paid holidays during each full calendar year as recognized by this agreement Pay for Ihese holidays shall be equal (o eleven and one-half hours (11 W) hours straight lime pay, including shift differential and shall be paid when the employee is scheduled to work on the holiday, or elects to use an earned floating holiday. The twenty-four hour period that comprises a holiday shall begin with the starting time of shifts A, B, C and D on the holiday.
If work is performed on any of the above rccog-.nized'holidays;-the-employee will'be paid his/her holiday pay, as described above, and will be paid double his/her straight time hourly rate, including shift differential, for all hours worked on such hofiday(s). Should an employee work on a holiday failing on a day when overtime pay is otherwise provided, there shall be no pyramiding of overtime pay and the employee will be paid under the provisions of this subsection.
b.	Employees to be eligible to receive pay for holidays not worked must be on the payroll at the time of the holiday and must work both his/her scheduled workday preceding and his/her scheduled workday following the respective holiday, with the exception of employees absent from work because of sickness, pregnancy, or injury during the week in which the holiday falls. Employees who have been absent from work because of said sickness, pregnancy, or injury and who have been excused by the Company for a period not exceeding sixty (60) working days just prior to the week in which the
77
holiday faits shall receive pay tor the holiday.
In the event an employee is off for the holiday, and was not scheduled to work according to their crew, he/she will receive a floating holiday later and receive eleven and one-baIf (11 hours straight time pay. Floating holidays must be scheduled in advance subject to management approval and may not be taken until they have been earned.
In no event will an employee be eligible for more than nine (9) paid holidays inclusive of floating holidays.
ARTICLE XIX VACATIONS
Section I
Employees wilt receive seven (7) days of vacation each contract year and will be required is, use these shutdown weeks as the two weeks of vacation for that year. One of such shutdown weeks wilt be scheduled as near July 4th as practicable and the other as near Christmastime as practicable and such shutdowns will be scheduled well in advance of each such week.
Employees in their first year of employment or employees recalled from layoff witt be eligible for the July 4th vacation if they were employed continuously from the first scheduled workday following the Christmastime vacation of the preceding calendar year. Such employees, to be eligible for the Christmastime vacation, will be eligible for that week of vacation if they were employed continuously from the first scheduled workday following the July 4th vacation of that calendar year. Employees recalled from layoff shall receive no additional pay for vacation weeks paid at the lime of layoff.
78
Section 2
All vacation time will be taken at a minimum of a full day or 11 34 hours. The vacation hours equivalency to the standard work schedule shall be as follows:
1 week - 4 days
2 weeks - 7 days 3 weeks - 10 days
4 weeks - 13 days
5 weeks - 17 days
6 weeks - 20 days
7 weeks - 23 days
Under the twelve (12) hour alternative work schedule, all vacation days will be treated as day-ai-a-time vacation except shutdown weeks. Alt Bargaining unit members who are eligible for vacation days in excess of those days required for the two shutdown weeks may take vacation on a daily basis provided that the employee submits at least one day's written notification to and approval received from the employee's immediate supervisor before the day the vacation is taken. Additionally, up to four such days of vacation may be taken hy catling your immediate supervisor prior to the start of the shift.
ARTICLE XX SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL PAY
A and B shift employees shall be paid at the rate of ten cent ($.10) per hour above the straight time rate. C and D shift employees shall be paid at the rate of fifty-five ($.55) per hour above the straight rime rate.
ARTICLE XXI JURY DUTY FAY
An employee required to serve on a jury or to appear in a court of law on behalf of a minor dependent or subpoenaed to appear as a witness will be paid his/her regular straight time pay for each of his/her scheduled days of work on which he/she is required to serve on the jury or appear as a witness as the case may be. Additionally, the employee will be paid his/her normal straight lime
79
L
pay for each of his/her scheduled days of work over a weekend (Salurday and Sunday) when jury duty service continues into the following week. In ibis situation, the employee will not be required to work nor will hc/she be eligible far any overtime. A witness as stated above shall be defined as a third party witness.
Any employee subpoenaed to appear shall be granted an excused absence for that day or days required to appear.
Employees on the A or B shifts will not be required to report for work on the day they are required to serve as juror, appear as a witness or on behalf of a minor dependent. C and D shift employees will not be required to report for work and will be paid regular straight lime pay on any night prior to or following reporting for jury duty, appearing as a witness or on behalf of a minor dependent the following day. It shall be the responsibility of each such employee to present to his supervisor a copy of the court summons or subpoena and a weekly certificate from the Clerk of the Court showing the days served as a juror, as a witness or on behalf of a minor dependent.
ARTICLE XXII
FUNERALLEAVE PAY
In the case of the death of a member of the immediate family of an employee, the employee shall be granted a maximum of Iwo (2) consecutive workdays off wilh straight time pay to aticnd the funeral and io attend to administrative details. Members of the immediate family shall be the spouse, children, stepchildren, foster children, parents, stepparents, foster parents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brothers, sisters, half brothers, half sisters, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, grandparents, grandparents of spouse, grandchildren, whether of natural relationship or legally adopted or under legal guardianship, of the employee. In the case of the dcaib of rhe spouse or children the employee will be granted four (4) consecutive workdays off with straight time pay. Employees will be granted a maximum of two (2) additional days off without pay upon request.
SO
Signed at Macon. Georgia this dav of December,
2000,
BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
Dan Snyder	Dewey Caner
Karen Shultz	Harold Avery
David R, Spanow	Tom Parent-Lew
Howard Harper	Greta Staches
Luis Barros	Lucy Williams
John Anthony	Danny Payne
81
BAKERY, CONFECTIONERY, TOBACCO WORKERS’ AND GRAIN MILLERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO, CLC
Robert T, Curtis	William Daunhauer
Local 362-T
Authorized Representatives
Bryan Rite	James Briggs
Marvin Stith	Doi Ridley	j
Donoic Bishop	Prcntis Spivey
Brett Davis	Tim Colley
Peggy Cleveland	Gas Mackey
Jeff Evans	Monty Truelove
Oscar Smith
82
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT ON ALTERI^Tl WKQBK.OiePULE
Il is agreed there may exist, currently or tn the future, a need to operate the Macon piant on a basts beyond the normal work schedule established in the basic collective bargaining agreement (s). This could necessitate a six (6) day or seven (7} day continuous schedule for the plant operations in whole or in pan. The Company and Union negotiating committees as constituted at the time, wilt meet in good faith effort to determine Ihe specifics of such alternative schedule and supporting contractual provisions to provide for these operations needs.
In the event the parties are unable to agree on the specifies and supporting contractual provisions, the issuefs) unresolved wilt be submitted to binding arbitration.
Date	Date
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’and Grain Millers’ International
Union, Local 362-T
83
memorandum of understanding
In recognition of the importance of training in the upgrading and maintenance of skills for Senior Fabrication and EI cc tri caVElec ironic Technicians, a Joint Training Committee is established. This Committee, comprised of Company and Union representatives, will evaluate the training needs of employees, rhe development of training programs and recommend training approaches so that employees can more successfully meet the challenge of technological change in the work place.
Date Date
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Cotporation
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’and Grain Millers' IntemaiionalUnion, Local 362-T
84
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT TRAINING TOR UNION STEWARDS
The Company shall release uni on-designs led stewards and officers at the straight time rate up to two (2) days per year to attend union-sponsored training programs.
The Union shall provide the Company with reasonable advance notice of such.program(s) aod whd will attend. The maximum number of stewards compensated for by this agreement in any year shall be fifty-two (52). The maximum number of officers compensated for by this agreement in any year shall be nine (9).
Date Date___________________________________________
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Bakery, Confectionery Tobacco Workers' and Grain Millers International Union, Local 362-T
85
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
11 is agreed that the Filter Team is a separate area of assignment within the Fabrication Technician classification.
lite team wilt be established using the following rules:
1.	Allow currently assigned Filter Team members an opportunity to leave the team.
2.	If there are vacancies after Step 1, offer them to Maker Operators by seniority.
3.	If there are vacancies after Step 2, require the least senior of the combined pool of the Filter Team and Maker Operators io fill the remaining openings.
Date Date
Brown & Williamson	Bakery, Confectionery,
Tobacco Corporation	Tobacco Workers' and Grain
Millers International Union, Local 362-T
86
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The Company agrees to work with the Union to identify all current Memorandums of Agreement and to compile these in booklet form for the membership. Periodically, this booklet will be updated.
Date Date
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Bakery. Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’ and Grain Millers International Union.
Union, Local 362-T
87
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The Company and Union have determined through discussions held during 1996 bargaining, that additional cost neutral Alternative Work Schedules should be explored to ensure the best possible work schedule is utilized. Due to the complexity of this issue, the parties have determined that it would be helpful to use an independent third party expert to facilitate the process. With the above in mind, ihe parties will utilize Circadian Technologies, Inc,, a consulting firm with considerable expertise in this field, to employ a process they have developed to determine optimum work schedules. Essentially, they will use the following steps:
•	Operational parameters will be developed,
*	A Survey will be developed and conducted involving all members to identify their individual preferences,
•	Data will be analyzed by Circadian Technologies to determine Alternative Work Schedules which meet the needs identified in the survey and the operational parameters,
*	Alternative Work Schedule options will be presented through plantwtde employee meetings for communication and selection by the membership.
*	In the event the current Alternative Work Schedule (62) is modified, the parties agree to a trial implementation period of twelve (12) months. Additionally, the Company agrees to give full and fair consideration if the above process identifies the emergence of different work schedules for various departments or functionally independent work groups. If it is determined th al the current 6-2 schedule is ihe schedule of choice by the majority of employees for continuous operations, this schedule (6-2) will be maintained.
88
Date Dale__________________________________________
Brown & Williamson Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco C orporat ion	Tobacco Workers ’ and Gra i n
Millers’ International Union.
Local 362-T
89
MEMORANDUM OFAGREEMENT
Metnorandum of Agreement on Assignment to Maintenance Support, J n st al lai ion, or Production
The parties agree to the following memorandum rela-live io Senior Fabrication Technician and Electric al/Elec-tronic Technician job assignments,
.jQB/SHIFT PREFERENCE
I.	SFTs/EETs will fill out a preference sheet indicating their job and shift preference,
2.	Employees may preference installation, maintenance support or production. This does not allow individual team/line preference.
3,	Preference sheets will be maintained on file and may be changed at the employee's discretion.
4.	Preference sheets wii 1 be used for the semi-annuat shift preference and to fill openings,
5.	Employees are responsible for keeping their preference current,
PRODUCTIONASSIGNMENT
Production Teams and the Electrical Repair Shop will be covered by qualified Senior Fabrication Technicians and Electrical Electronic Technicians.
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
1.	Job assignments will be by preference sheet and seniority with a three year minimum assignment. This will not affect the exercise of seniority for tbc semiannual shift preference.
90
2,	Employees receiving an assignment in Installation or Maintenance Support cannot be displaced by a more senior employee for three (3) years.
3.	Not more than fl fty percent of any one di sctpi i ne (Making, Packing or Electrical) may be displaced in an one year.
4.	Employees at the completion of the three (3} year minimum or any time thereafter may preference to a posted opening. Posted openings are limited io one area move per vacancy.
5.	Openings in Maintenance Support or Installation will be filled by the most senior employees on the job preference sheet.
DAILY OVERTIME
1.	Employees assigned to Installation or Maintenance Support ace responsible for daily overtime requirements up to fifty percent of the crew size.
2.	Guidelines for Maintenance Support OverTime:
A.	Qualified volunteers from the daily overtime list will be used in lieu of forcing within the Maintenance Support Team where possible. This overtime list will be used to fill vacancies for Production Li ne assignments and then Maintenance Support Team.
B.	Vacancies will be defined as all daily line or team assignments including Maintenance Support.
C.	Other job requirements such as length changes. Label Aire start-ups, new brand start-ups, breakdowns, “extras", etc., will be filled after the above vacancies have been filled.
91
D.	If an employee assigned to Maintenance Support volunteers for overtime and there is a vacancy in Maintenance Support, he will be assigned to Maintenance Support, Qualification requirements would be the exception to this.
E,	Job requirements that occur after the line-up has been conveyed to employees and with no volunteers remaining will be filled by seniority for both Maintenance Support and Production Teams.
F,	Employees assigned to Maintenance Support desiring to Come-in Early for Maintenance Support only, will write in “PM” under the Come-In Early column of the overtime sheet. If they “check” the Come-In Early column, they arc signing up for either production or Maintenance Support.
G,	The following situations will be filled as follows:
1.	Jf the vacancy in Maintenance Support requires the expert ise of and conti n u i ty of a su b-assembiy rebuild such as a spider, the vacancy will be filled with a Maintenance Support person. This may require that a less senior individual EH ibis vacancy.
2.	If the vacancy is a PM job in Maintenance Support and fifty percent of the assigned crew is available, the vacancy will be filled by the least senior qualified person from the daily overtime list.
3.	If there is a vacancy in Maintenance Support and a more senior individual from Maintenance Support signs up to Come-In Early and a less senior individual signs up for “PM” only, (he vacancy will be filled by the more senior employee. An exception to this would be Item 1 above.
92
Guidelines for Installation Overtime:
A.	In the event that job continuity and volunteers from the installation crew do not Tut fill the daily overtime requirements, the daily overtime list will be used when possible. The installation supervisor . will decide if the employee from the daily overtime list is qualified for the work,
B.	The installation supervisor’s criteria for approving the employee will include (but not be limited to) the following:
t. Project Schedule
2.	Tools Required
3,	Job Continuity
4.	Training and Expertise
5.	Cost
6.	Other
Item 3 Guidelines for Installation Overtime: This agreement will be on a trial basis for three months beginning after the ratification of the contract. If it is not mutually agreeable by the Union and the Company, this rule will be rescinded.
4. Guidelines for Determining Maintenance Support and Installation Crew Size for Daily Overtime;
A.	If the crew size is an odd number, one person above one-half may be required to work unless the crew size is nine or greater, (i.e., If the crew size is seven, fourmay be required to work, Ifthe crew size is eleven, five may be required io work, etc.)
B.	Ifthe crew size is one and this employee does not volunteer, the daily overtime sheet will be used to fill the requirement.
33
C.	If all employees ate on the job, the crew size will remain the same.
D.	If one or more employees are on leave and we do not fill the vacancies, the crew size will be reduced by this number.
E.	If one or more employees are out due to a scheduled vacation day or days and the vacancies are not filled, the crew size will be reduced by this number.
F.	The crew size wilt not be reduced for call-in vacations, AR’s, or other absences not mentioned in Items 2 and 3 above.
NOTE: Day al a time vacations must be scheduled at least 24 hours in advance in order for the above guidelines to apply.
These are intended to be guidelines io follow recognizing that this may not cover every possibility.
Date	Date
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers' and Grain Millers'International Union.
Local 362-T
94
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT SFT/EET Twelve Hour Overtime Agreement
I.	Management will determine the appropriate number of employees required to be prescheduled for overtime based on it's manning requirements.
2,	The overtime volunteer list will be posted in a central location (currently outside Fab A maintenance office).
3.	In order to be eligible for overtime, an employee must sign the list by mid shift on the last work day prior to their off period (1:00 PM on A&B crew, 1:00 AM on C&D crew). Employees who sign up to work off days who are not prescheduled prior to leaving on their last work day may elect to have their name removed from the overtime list by notifying the appropriate supervisor.
4.	The overtime assignment list will be posted by 5:00 AM/PM. Changes after this time will be communicated by the appropriate supervisor.
5.	On a daily basis, management will make the appropriate cancellations for prescheduled overtime for that day by 5:00 AM/PM.
6.	Daily vacation call-ins will be accepted based on the normal vacation limits no later than 4:30 AM/PM on the day of the desired vacation.
7.	Any call-ins after 4:30 AM/PM will be coded as "absence reported'’ and may be changed to vacation at management’s discretion provided proper documentation of the emergency is submitted to the shift maintenance manager.
8.	Forced overtime will be assigned by the least senior qualified employee filling the first time interval, followed by the next senior qualified employee filling the second time interval, etc., at all times ensuring that each employee is granted two consecutive days off during the five day off period and one day off during the two
95
day off period.	w
9.	Vacation scheduled for the day prior to an off day period will not guarantee the employee may not be required to work some off days.
10.	12-hour employees will not be obligated to work any eight hour employee overtime requirements and eight hour employees will not be obligated to work any 12-hour overtime employee requirements.
11.	Overtime requirements not filled at the start of the shift will be filled by the employee on the job if he/shc has signed the overtime list for continuity for up to four hours. The employee desiring to work continuity must sign the overtime list by mid shift. If this does not fill the overtime requirements then:
12.	Overtime will be filled by the senior qualified volunteer(s) on the shift overtime list for up to four hours. They must have signed the appropriate overtime list by tntd shift.
13.	If the company is able to replace an overtime employee with an employee called in from the off day list, the overtime employee will be sent home with no less than one hour overtime.
14.	Should a prescheduled employee not be required on the day scheduled, they can elect to go home with one-hour pay. If the prcschcd uled employee being cancelled still desires to work, the company will not be obligated to work the employee for over four hours.
Date
Date_____________________
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Bakery, Confectionery, .Tobacco Workers’ and Grain Millers' International Union. Local 362-T
96
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The company agrees to provide the Union President with a list every three months detailing employees that are on temporary assignment outside of their department, It is further agreed the two parties will meet, at the request of the Union President, to discuss the status of those positions .
Date--------------------- Date
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Bakery. Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’ and Grain Millers' International Union, Local 362-T
97
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT Installation Overtime
These guidelines supersede all previous overtime understandings relating to installation overtime.
1,	Employees on the AWS will have no rights or obligations to work installation overtime. Installation employees will have no rights or obligations to work AWS overtime. Except as provided below in #2.
2.	Employees may sign up to work available overtime across AWS/Traditional schedules. This will only be to provide relief for a forced employee or to fill a vacancy which cannot be filled due to lack of employees, provided the appropriate supervisor decides they can perform Ihe desired work. It is to be understood that seniority camlot be used to displace or take overtime from a less senior employee across schedules.
3.	Employees assigned to installation will be permitted to volunteer for available overtime which the installation department may normally be responsible for. This shaii not be limited to only the installation of equipment but may include such work i.e. special projects, length changes when such has been assigned to the installation department to be performed,
4.	An overtime sign up list will be establish which will address daily and weekend needs.
5.	Daily overtime sign up will end al 11:00 a.m. Weekend sign up will end at 11:00 a.m. Thursday. Daily overtime assignment will be posted by 2:00 p.m. Changes made after this time will be communicated by the appropriate supervisor.
6.	If no one is qualified or qualifications are not a requirement the most senior installation employee volunteer— ing will fill the need, if ihe need is still not filled eh<=
98
I-----------------------------------------------------------------
least senior installation employee available will fill the need. If job requirements (i.e. run ins, length changes) need specific qualifications the company reserves the right to utilize qualified employees. (Refer to Memorandum of Agreement 1/28/99).
7.	An employee will have continuity rights when a job extends into overtime on a daily basis. Example: if an employee is working on a job which goes past normal end of shift this employee shall have first rights to this overtime providing, they have signed the volunteer overtime list. If more than one employee is assigned to the job which goes into overtime and less than the assigned employees are needed, it will be filled with the most senior installation volunteer who has signed the volunteer overtime list and who has been performing rhe work. If no one has volunteered the least senior installation employee available will be required to fill the need.
8.	Employees temporarily assigned to installation, such as those employees between training classes, will have full standing for overtime provided the appropriate installation supervisor decides they can perform desire work.
9.	Installation employees assigned to training will have full rights to overtime Monday through Friday. Installation employees assigned to training that worked at least some time during the week in installation (not including overtime) will have the right to volunteer for weekend work and may he required to work on such days in accordance with their seniority. Installation employees assigned to training that did not work installation during the regular scheduled hours will have no rights to work overtime except to volunteer for oldest installation employee forced to work. In the event all employees in installation are required to work then and only then ean the installation employee in training be required to work on the weekend.
99
Date_____________________
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
Dale
Bakery. Confectionery, Tobacco Workers’ and Grain Millers' International Union, Local 362-T
100