
National
Beef
Agreement between National Beef Packing Company L.P. Liberal, Kansas
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, District Local Two
December 17, 2007 through December 16, 2012
Agreement .....................................................................2
Base Rate/Job Grades..........................................................27
Bidding Process ..............................................................11
Bulletin Boards...............................................................33
Check-Off......................................................................3
Disability Insurance .........................................................25
Duration and Termination......................................................36
Education, Safety and Cultural Fund...........................................33
Equipment Furnished by the Company............................................15
Employee Meat Purchase Plan ..................................................17
Ergonomics....................................................................22
Funeral Leave.................................................................21
Grievance Procedure...........................................................17
Guarantee......................................................................4
Health Benefits...............................................................24
Holidays......................................................................12
Hours of Work .................................................................4
Layoff and Recall.............................................................11
Leaves of Absence ............................................................20
Management Rights .............................................................2
Meal Periods - Rest Periods ..................................................15
Memorandums of Understanding I-II-III-IV......................................33
No Strike - No Lockout .......................................................17
Non-Discrimination ............................................................2
Orientation...................................................................12
Overtime Work..................................................................5
Pension Fund .................................................................24
Prescription Card ............................................................25
Recognition and Bargaining Unit ...............................................2
Savings Clause................................................................19
Seniority......................................................................6
Subcontracting ...............................................................20
Union Visitation...............................................................3
Vacation......................................................................13
Wages.........................................................................26
Waiver .......................................................................19
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 17th day of December 2007 by and between NATIONAL BEEF, of Liberal, Kansas hereinafter referred to as the "Company", and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union",
RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT
The Company recognizes the Union, United Food and Commercial Worker's International Union, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO as bargaining agent of all full time and regular part time production and maintenance employees employed by National Beef Packing Company at its facility located at 1501 E. 8th Street, Liberal, KS but excluding all office and clerical employees, lab, professional employees and supervisors as defined by the National Labor Relations Act for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1 The Management of the plant and the direction of the working force -including the right to hire, suspend, discipline or discharge for just cause; to assign jobs; to transfer, promote or demote employees; to increase and decrease the working force; production standards and rules applicable to the employees; to determine products to be handled, produced or manufactured; the schedules of production; and the methods, processes and means of production or handling; as well as the right to determine the qualifications and ability of employees; are vested exclusively in the company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or to avoid any of the provisions of this agreement.
Section 2 Supervisors or other personnel may perform any duties that are necessary in the conduct of the business and do not result in the displacement of bargaining unit employees.
Section 3 It is mutually agreed that the Company retains all management rights and prerogatives heretofore held except such rights as are specifically relinquished herein.
NON -DISCRIMINATION
Section 1 Neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate unlawfully against any employee or applicant for employment or union member because of race, color, creed, sex, age, veterans status, handicaps, religion, or natural origin or because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
Section 2 The parties of this agreement will comply with any and all affirmative action requirements.
Section 3 The Company shall not discriminate against or discharge any employee because of immigration hearings and/or deportation hearings that are initiated or are pending, provided advance permission is obtained from the employee's immediate supervisor. In the event an employee is unable to obtain advance permission, satisfactory written verification from the agency involved will be required.
UNION VISITATION
Union representatives shall have the right to visit the work place to inspect working conditions and to generally carry out the terms of this Agreement providing they make prior arrangements and report to a designated Company representative upon entering the job site, and so long as such visits do not interfere with operations.
CHECK-OFF
Section 1 The Company agrees to deduct union dues, initiation fees, and uniform assessments from the wages of employees in the bargaining unit upon receipt of a signed written authorization. Such deductions will be made by the Company from the wages of employees each week. The Company will make-up deductions missed by employees who are off work on vacation. The Company will make up other missed deductions, upon written request of the Union. The Company will continue to remit, on a weekly basis, checks for Union deductions and a printed report of such weekly deductions, which includes the complete name, employee identification number, social security number, and amounts deducted. Additionally, the Company will, on a weekly basis, send an electronic version of said report, which will include the same information provided on the printed report except only the last four (4) digits of the employee's social security number.
Section 2 The Company recognizes the Union's duty to represent all employees in the unit fairly and effectively. Therefore, the Company will furnish the Union the complete name, complete residence address, social security number, employee identification number, division, and date of hire of all newly hired employees. The Company also agrees to furnish the Union with a mailing list of all bargaining unit employees upon request of the Union; however, such requests shall not exceed four (4) requests in any calendar year.
Section 3 The company will make weekly deductions for the Union's Active Ballot club from the wages of those employees who voluntarily authorize such deductions in writing and will forward such deductions to the Union, by separate check on a weekly basis, attaching a report of the complete name, employee identification number, social security number, and amount deducted. Additionally, the Company will, on a weekly basis, send an electronic version of said report, which will include that same information provided on the printed report except only the last four (4) digits of the employee's social security number. Such Active Ballot Club deductions will be made fifty-two (52) times during each calendar year unless the authorization is cancelled with the Union, in writing, by the employee.
Section 4 The Union agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Company against any and all claims, suits, and damages arising out of, or in any way connected with, actions taken by the Company, for the purpose of complying with this article of the contract, including disposition of such funds after they have been remitted by the Company to the Union. Neither the Union, through its officers or members, shall intimidate, harass, or coerce employees to cause them to join the Union, nor shall the Company intimidate, harass, or coerce employees to prevent them from joining or cause them not to join the Union.
3
GUARANTEE
Section 1 Unless notified of a layoff on or before Saturday of the prior week all regular full-time employees will receive a weekly guarantee in the amount of thirty-six (36) hours work or pay in lieu of work at their straight time rate.
The Company shall have the right to reduce the weekly guarantee of hours to thirty-two (32 > hours, not more than ten (10) weeks per contract year. Notification of the reductions for any week must be made on the previous Friday. If notification is given and then thirty-six (36) or more hours are worked, it shall not count as a week against the ten (10) weeks.
The guarantee shall be reduced by time absent for any reason and for eight (8) hours each full day in which the plant is unable to operate due to conditions beyond the Company’s control such as: fire, explosion, power failure, storm, strike, or boycott by a labor or similar group. When a holiday or holidays occur in the same work week, eight (8) hours of the holiday pay for each holiday shall be applied toward the guarantee for the week.
Section 2 The guaranteed work week shall apply only to regular full-time employees who commence work on the first scheduled day of the work-week. Employees displaced because of operations of the seniority provisions shall receive pay only for those hours worked in the week hired or displaced.
Section 3 Employees called to work will be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours of work or pay in lieu of work.
Section 4 Employees who are called to work outside their regular work schedule after once going home for the day and not at a time when such work merges with their regular shift shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay and the employees called to work outside their regular shift shall be paid in accordance with the provisions outlined in the Hours of Work Article.
Section 5 The guaranteed work week shall apply to those regular full-time employees who have completed their probationary period prior to the commencement of that payroll week.
Section 6 All regular full-time employees will be paid gang time on the day they are injured, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours with the exception of maintenance employees who are scheduled for a twelve hour shift. Those maintenance individuals will be eligible for up to a maximum of twelve (12) hours pay.
HOURS OF WORK
Section 1 The work week for payroll purposes shall start at 12:01 a.m. on Monday and ends at midnight Sunday evening.
Section 2 Hours of work shall be scheduled in line with production requirements and employees will be notified in advance of changes in shift schedules except where such change is due to circumstances beyond the control of the Company
Section 3 Regular full-time employees working on holidays shall receive their regular holiday pay and shall be paid at twice their regular rate for work actually performed on such holiday.
Section 4 Gang time for the kill floor will be figured on the work assigned to the gutter. Gang time for the fabrication floor will be figured on the work assigned to the hind saw.
4
Certain covered workers shall be paid gang time plus nine (9) minutes time spent in the following activities: (1) putting on unique, specialized safety equipment tmesh aprons, mesh gloves, arm and belly guards, sleeves, or leggings); (2) taking off unique, specialized safety equipment; (3) walking from the place of work on the production line to the wash station to wash equipment mentioned above; (4) waiting in line at the wash station; and (5) washing the unique, specialized safety equipment. The time spent in such activities may vary from job to job, worker to worker, department to department, and nine (9) minutes is a reasonable agreed upon average. If these provisions are held by a court of law not to comply with FLSA. such provisions and/or the payments for gang time shall be suspended and subject to re-negotiation. Time spent in such activities shall not be counted toward the time necessary to trigger the Company's obligation to provide a second rest period as set forth in meal periods-rest periods.
Section 5 For the purpose of computing pay for hours worked on Sunday or paid holidays, a shift cutting across two (2) calendar days shall be treated as work on the day which the shift begins.
Section 6 There shall be no pyramiding of premium pay. Any work performed on a holiday, Sunday, or the day designated in lieu of Sunday as provided herein shall be paid at twice the regular hourly rate only and these hours shall not be used in computing weekly overtime.
Section 7 Time and one-half (1 '/j) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty' (40) hours in any one week, or eight (8) hours in any one day except as provided under section 9 of this article.
All employees other than part time and temporary employees shall be compensated at one and one-half (1 ft) time their regular rate for work performed on their sixth (6th) consecutive day of work within the work week provided they have worked all scheduled hours during the first (1st) five (5) days of said work week.
Section 8 Any employee off work for union business will not be paid for those hours by the Company but that time oft' will be considered time worked as it relates to the computation of sixth consecutive day over-time pay.
Section 9 Employees working on Sundays with the exception of regularly scheduled employees shall be compensated at twice their regular hourly rate. For employees working on a day designated as their Sunday in lieu of the calendar Sunday, they shall be compensated at twice their regular hourly rate for work performed on the day designated as the employee's Sunday.
Section 10 Regularly-scheduled maintenance employees who work a twelve (12) hour schedule per day, four (4) days per week will be paid time and one-half (I h) tor all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week or twelve (12) hours in any one day.
Section 11 Work over 12 hours in any one day shall be on a voluntary basis except in situations beyond the Company's control such as: fire, explosion, power failure, or stonn (This list is by way of example and not intended to be inclusive). Hours beyond twelve (12) hours will be offered to the most senior divisional employees first. Less senior employees may be required to finish the work.
Section 12 The eight (8) hours paid for holidays shall count as hours worked in the computation of overtime with the exception of a holiday which falls on Saturday which will not. This shall become effective the fourth year of this Agreement.
5
OVERTIME WORK
Section 1	Overtime work for a department shall be divided as fairly and equally as possible between the same departments on different shifts.
Section 2	It is understood and agreed that such equalization cannot be affected on a daily, weekly, or even monthly basis but efforts will be made to change any such imbalance over reasonable periods of time.
SENIORITY
Section 1 Seniority should operate on both divisional and department basis. Divisions and departments within the plant are as follows:
A.	Slaughter Division
1.	Slaughter, Offal and Yards
2.	Coolers and Freezers
B.	Processing Division
1.	Production
2.	Material Handling
3.	Loadout
C.	Maintenance Division
I.	Slaughter Maintenance/By-Products
2.	Processing Maintenance
3.	Generation/Refrigeration
4.	General Maintenance
5.	Material Warehouse
6.	Load Out/Material Handling Maintenance
D.	By-Products
1.	Hides
2.	Rendering
Section 2 Divisional seniority should be established as the date the employee enters the division. There shall be no transfers of divisional seniority unless an employee who believes they possess the required skills to enter that division submits a request for transfer to the Personnel Office.
Upon receipt of such request the employee will be given fair and reasonable consideration for placement within a different division based upon the need of the request and the required skills of the available job. Requests will be considered on a case by case basis and disposition of the request will be made within twenty-one (21) days of the date the request is filed. The Company will document requests and actions taken for periodic review by a Union Representative.
Section 3	Departmental seniority shall be established as the date the employee is deemed qualified after the first successful bid in that department, or the date the employee is permanently assigned a job as a result of the job being posted with no successful bidder.
Section 4	All employees shall be classified as probationary employees for the first sixty (60) days of employment. During this period they shall have no seniority and shall be entitled to no benefits except as provided in specific statements within this Agreement.
6
'.M.L	/ ■

Time spent on layoff, leave of absence, absence due to injury or illness shall not count as days of service toward the sixty (60) days. However, the union shall extend this period by thirty (30) days if the Company requests an extension in writing prior to the completion of the initial sixty (60) days.
Upon successful completion of the probationary period, the employee shall be classified as a regular full-time employee and shall have seniority access to the grievance procedure and the benefits set forth herein.
At the Company's sole discretion, the Company may discipline, or terminate a probationary employee and no grievance shall be filed or processed on that employee's behalf. Employees successfully completing the probationary period shall become regular full-time employees and shall have seniority commencing as of the last date of hire.
Section 5	A departmental and divisional seniority list shall be maintained on a bulletin board in the plant and shall be republished on a six (6) month basis.
Section 6	An employee's seniority and employment shall be forfeited for the following:
1.	Voluntary quitting or discharge for proper cause.
2.	Being absent for three (3) consecutive days without proper notification to the employer.
3.	Failure to return from a layoff within five (5) days after written notice has been sent by certified mail to last known address on Company record that had been provided by employee.
4.	Absence due to lay-off for more than twelve (12) months.
5.	Retirement.
6.	Over staying a leave of absence or breaching terms thereof.
Section 7	Absences of less than twelve (12) months due to a work/non-work related illness/injury shall not interrupt an employee's seniority.
Section 8	Employees on authorized leave of absence shall retain and accumulate seniority during such leave.
Section 9	Jobs will be posted for bidding on the following basis: Layoff, discharge, resignation, creation of a permanent job, or qualification of a former job holder. In the event a successful job bidder is disqualified, the company shall award the job to the next senior job bidder on that job bid. The Company is not required to post a job it does not intend to fill. Employees shall not be able to bid during their first six (6) months of employment.
Section lOAlljob postings shall state the job title, department, and the rate of pay for that job. If a permanent job vacancy occurs, the job will be posted for a period of three (3) working days and the successful bidder moved to the new job within twenty-one (21) days or paid the rate of said job. If the bidder is not moved within ninety (90) days he/she will be paid an additional $.50 per hour.
Job bids will be awarded to the employee with the most divisional seniority within that department who possesses the ability to perform the job. If there is no eligible departmental bidder, the bid may then go to the most senior eligible divisional bidder from another department. After the first successful bid into a new department, that bidder's divisional seniority date shall then govern for future bids within that new department.
Section 11 Vacancies not filled from within the department will be awarded to the senior divisional bidder. An employee transferring into a new department will forfeit their former department seniority at the time they qualify on the new job.
7
Section 12 In the event an employee is the senior bidder on two or more jobs which have been bid concurrently, the employee will be allowed to choose the bid they desire. The job (or jobs) not selected under this circumstance shall be awarded to the next senior bidder without the need to re-post.
Section 13 The successful bidder will be given a reasonable period of time to demonstrate proficiency/qualify. At the time the employee has qualified for a newly bid job, the employee shall be paid the rate of the job and shall be considered a permanent transfer/qual-ified. For the purpose of this Article, "reasonable period of time to demonstrate proficiency/qualify," shall be left to the sole discretion of the Company.
Section 14 A successful bidder who disqualifies himself after having been deemed the successful bidder but prior to qualification shall be returned to their former job and frozen from further bidding for a period of twelve (12) months. A successful bidder who is disqualified by management shall be returned to their former job and not be penalized for such disqualification except the employee will be restricted from bidding on the job from which the employee was disqualified for a period of twelve (12) months. This section shall apply to all upward bids.
Section 15 A successful bidder on a lateral or downward bid will be frozen from further bidding for twelve (12) months except in the case of a valid medical reason. A lateral or downward bid shall be an instance in which an employee successfully bids a job equal to or lower in job grade than the employee's previous successful bid. A successful bidder who is disqualified by management shall be returned to their former job and not be penalized for such disqualification except the employee will be restricted from bidding on the job from which the employee was disqualified for a period of twelve (12) months. This section does not apply to employees in the Maintenance Division.
Section 16 An employee who bids upward or laterally will be paid the rate of their formerjob (or base in the case of an employee who was not on a bid job) until the employee has qualified on the new job. Upon qualification the employee shall receive the rate of pay associated with that job. An employee who has bid to a job with a lower rate of pay shall be paid the lower rate as soon as said employee is moved to the new job bid.
Section 17 When a temporary vacancy exists and will exist for more than one (1) week, the employee in that department with the most divisional seniority and who is fully qualified to immediately perform the vacant job, may request placement on the vacant job, provided it is operationally practical to honor the request, such employee may fill the temporary vacancy. In the absence of such requests, if operationally impractical, the Company may place an employee on the vacant job. A job vacated by a requested employee is not subject to seniority requests or bid posting.
Section 18 The Company reserves the option to disqualify a job holder, once previously qualified, if that individual can no longer perform the job due to technological changes, production speeds, or other inability to perform the job. Any freeze imposed as a result of that individual bidding such a job will be removed and the employee shall be allowed to bid or will be subject to assignment by management
Section 19 If an employee's job is deleted because of technological changes, the employee shall not lose their rate of pay for a period of three (3) weeks and the employee will be placed in a position where needed until the employee bids successfully to another job. If an employee declines or gets disqualified from a job equal to or greater in pay then
the employee forfeits their guaranteed rate of pay and gets the applicable rate of pay for the job they are performing, provided, they are qualified for this job. If a deleted/eliminated job causes the employee's freeze, the freeze will be dropped. If a job is reinstated, the employee will be allowed to return to the job. provided, this occurs within ninety (90) days from the point at which the said job was deleted.
Section 20 In the event a job is not filled through the bidding procedure, an employee will be assigned to the job which shall be considered as a regular bid job except it shall not be used for the administration of freezes as described in sections within this article. For clarification purposes, a job that is assigned is a job that had been up for bid and did not have anyone bid this particular job. After an individual is assigned a job. that individual shall hold that job as they would a regular selected job. That individual once qualified will also begin accumulating seniority for further bidding purposes, will be paid the qualified rate for both work and holidays, have all bidding options open to them, and will not have any freezes imposed upon them.
Section 21 All base jobs shall be excluded from the bidding process. The Company may at its sole discretion place employees on these jobs who are not job holders as outlined in previous sections under the Seniority Article.
In the event an employee does not have any bidding freezes imposed as outlined in the Article that employee may submit a request for transfer to the Personnel Office. Each request will be given consideration based upon seniority, ability to perform the job and physical ability.
Section 22 The parties recognize and agree that the below listed jobs have been excluded from the bidding process. Additional jobs may be identified that need to be added or excluded from said list. The Company and Union will mutually agree on those changes.
Section 23 Employees who are hired on the same date shall have their seniority determined by alphabetical order of the last name of that employee.
Section 24 Subject to all applicable laws, an employee may notify the company of a change of name or social security number. Subject to legal verification, such name or social security number change shall be made without loss of seniority or benefits.
Section 25 Any employee whose work authorization expires will be placed on a leave of absence, without benefits, for up to a 30 day period to obtain renewed work authorization. Employees who receive renewed work authorization during the 30 day period must report to work immediately upon receipt of said work authorization. Employees who fail to obtain renewed work authorization will be discharged at the expiration of their 30 day leave.
SLAUGHTER
PERMANENT
TEMPORARY
Hock Cutter Operator	3010	Knife Room
First Dehomer	3010	Hang Inedible
Midline Trim and Stamp	3010	Clean Office and Outside Area
Hock Blower Operator	3010	Cutting Tail Switches
Put on Hide Straps	3010	Wash Tongues and Heads
Trim Weasands	3010	Bag Bungs
Flush Heads	3010	
9
Pull Paunches from Gut Table	3010
Cut Off Knuckles	3010
High Wash	3010
Wash Foreshanks	3010
Saw Homs	3010
Pick and Screen Brains	3020
Save Pituitary Glands	3020
Put C02 in Offal Boxes/Trim	3020
Pituitary Glands	3020
Cut Large Intestines to Length	3020
Box and Weigh Large Intestines	3020
Cut Small Intestines	3020
Feed Stricker Machines	3020
Strapper Operator	3020
Defat Intestines	3020
Box and Weigh Small Intestines	3020
Cattle Drive (Kill Floor Ramp)	3010
Tag Head Carcasses	
FABRICATION
PERMANENT	TEMPORARY		
CO2 Injection	3140	Pick Flap Meat	3160
Clean Floors	3140	Transfer Loin Tails	3170
Clean Floors	3160	Navel Flipper	3150
Contamination Trimmers	3140	Trolley Line	3170
Loin Turner	3169	Maja Feeder	3170
Pre ID	3169	Tail Flipper	3170
Floor Cleaner	3168	Dispense Co2 in Combo	3173
Clean Floor	3170	Shank Belt Picker	3173
Hydraulic Knuckle Puller	3172	Combo Plate Bones	3173
Clean Floors	3172	Combo Rib Caps	3173
Anyl Ray	3173	Combo Fat from Whiz Table	3173
Check Trim Belt	3173	Transfer Short Ribs	3176
Extruder Trapper Operator	3173	Feed Maja Skinner	3191
Make Boxes	3173	Pole Boxes	3166
Stack Boxes	3173	LFTB Dumper	3530
Check Bone Belt	3173	Watch Metal Detector	3530
Check Fat Belt	3173		
Make Combos	3173		
Box Femur Bones	3173		
Combo Neck Bones	3173		
Lean Pickers	3173		
Feed Baader	3173		
Floor Cleaner	3173		
10
Watch Metal Detector	3173
Pass out Gloves	3173
Clean Floors	3174
Clean Floors	3163
Clean Floors	3176
Bone Cleaner	3191
Bag and Box Meat	3166
(Except Chucks)	
8300's #2. #5	3166
Leaker Line	3166
Load Baggers	3166
8300 #7, 8. and 9	3171
Bag and Box Meat	3171
(Except Full Rounds)	
Load Bagger	3171
Anyl Ray	3530
Box Chubs	3530
Labeler	3530
Combo Dumper	3530
MAINTENANCE
TEMPORARY
Take Refrigeration Readings Clean-up Engine Room Locker Room
BIDDING PROCESS
Section 1 Employees will start with assigned jobs. The job the employee is on the date this Agreement is signed shall be that employee's job. When the bidding process begins, these jobs will be used as the starting point.
Section 2 Lead Man, Scalers, Quality Control, and Trainer jobs are not subject to bid but employees who wish to be considered for such assignments may file written requests for transfer to any of these positions. The Company shall select employees to fill these jobs from among employees having made requests for transfer. The parties recognize and agree that in compliance with the OSHA Agreement dated December 5, 1991, some of the jobs listed above will be excluded from the bidding process after job evaluation and ergonomic analysis and that some jobs will become involved in rotation requirements. It is agreed that jobs listed above and which are not modified or exempted from bidding during the term of this Agreement shall be subject to the bidding process.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Section I When department reductions are necessary, employees with the least amount of departmental seniority shall be laid off. Employees laid off from a department shall have the right to displace the least senior employee in the division whose seniority is less than the employee exercising displacement rights.
11
Section 2 A senior employee being laid off who does not wish to exercise displacement rights may elect to take a layoff but cannot there after exercise displacement rights until recalled in Line with seniority to the employee's department and subsequently laid off.
Section 3 Upon notification of a layoff the Company shall furnish the employees who have displacement rights with sufficient information to exercise their choice in order of seniority. The employee must indicate their intent within twenty-four (24) hours of notification of layoff.
Section 4 Employees shall furnish the Company in writing their address for the purpose of giving notices required. All notices shall be deemed to be given to employees when mailed to the last address furnished to the Company by the employee.
Section 5 Employees who exercise displacement rights under this section and are recalled to their original department in line with seniority but do not wish to return may remain in the department they displaced to and their seniority in that new department shall commence from the day they entered the department. Such employee will lose all seniority in their previous department but will not lose their accrued plant seniority.
Section 6 When recalling employees on layoff they shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff.
Section 7 Employees recalled from layoff will have five (5) working days to return to work after the date the recall notice is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, with such notice sent to the last address provided by the employee. Employees failing to report within five (5) working days of the date the letter is sent will be considered as a voluntary quit
Section 8 When day to day openings occur during layoffs due to absences/leave of absence such openings will be filled first in line of seniority of laid off employees present at the plant looking for replacement work provided the qualifications, ability to immediately perform the work, and physical abilities are equal among employees eligible for consideration.
Section 9 Absences in excess of twelve (12) months due to any reason shall cause an employee to forfeit employment. However, if unusual circumstances exist, that time limit may be extended at the Company's sole discretion.
ORIENTATION
The Company agrees to allow, during new employee orientation, a Union representative the opportunity to discuss the Union's role at National Beef, Liberal, KS. Such presentations will not exceed one (1) hour.
HOLIDAYS
Section 1 Regular full-time employees shall receive without working, pay at their straight time rate in effect at the time of the holiday for eight (8) hours per day (maintenance employees, scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts, will receive twelve (12) hours holiday pay) for each of the following holidays provided they have worked their full scheduled work day immediately before and immediately after such holiday except in case of an excused absence or leave of absence which began not more than seven (7) calendar days before the holiday with the supervisors written permission or an excused absence or leave of absence which began on the day after the holiday with the supervisors written permission or in the case of an emergency leave of absence as described under Funeral Leave or
12
Leaves of Absence Section 9 contained here-in, which began not more than seven (7j calendar days before the holiday with the supervisor's written permission or in the case of an emergency leave of absence as described under Funeral Leave or Leaves of Absence Section 9 contained here-in, which began on the day after the holiday with the supervisor's written permission.
Section 2	The holidays observed will be as follows:
New Years Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day Labor Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Christmas Eve Holiday
If a holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed the following Monday. If Christmas Eve and Christmas day fall on a Sunday and Monday respectively, the holidays will be observed on Monday and Tuesday.
Section 3	Probationary and part-time employees shall not be eligible for holiday pay.
Section 4	Holiday pay will not be considered time worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime.
Section 5	All hours worked on a holiday will be paid at two (2) times the straight time rate for time worked plus holiday pay. In the event an employee is scheduled to work a holiday the employee must work the full scheduled hours to be eligible to receive the holiday pay; however, if employee is excused with supervisor permission, employee is still entitled to holiday pay.
Section 6	If a holiday fails within an employee's vacation period that employee will be paid for the holiday in addition to their regular vacation pay once they have worked the full scheduled day preceding and following said vacation.
Section 7	Absences for the following reason will not affect the employee’s eligibility for holiday pay.
1.	Death of an immediate family member. This shall include husband, wife, father, mother, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, father-in-law, mother-in-law. aunts, uncles, children, step child or foster child living in the employee's home in accordance with provisions outlined within this agreement.
2.	Jury duty/calI in accordance with provisions outlined within this agreement.
3.	Duty with National Guard or Reserves in accordance with provisions outlined within this agreement.
4.	A tardy or home early the day before and/or the day after a holiday shall not disqualify an employee from receiving holiday pay provided:
A.	The tardy is less than three (3) hours.
B.	An employee who is sent home sick the day before or the day after a holiday provided the employee worked at least one-half (16) the scheduled shift.
13
VACATION
Section 1 Regular full-time employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay, equal to forty hours pay at the employee's master rate or l/52nd of the employee's prior annual earnings as indicated by previously issued W-2, whichever is greater for the employee, at the end of each full and continuous year of employment with the Company as follows:
After one (1) year through three (3) years	One (1) week
After three (3) years through ten (10) years	Two (2) weeks
After ten (10) years through twenty (20) years	Three (3) weeks
After twenty (20) years through twenty five (25) years	Four (4) weeks
After twenty five (25) years and all consecutive years after Five (5) weeks
Section 2 To qualify for a paid vacation the employee must have passed their anniversary date and have worked at least forty-four (44) weeks during the preceding anniversary year. For the purpose of this section only, a week in which the employee works at least one (1) day will be counted as a week worked. Credit will be given in any one (1) anniversary year for weeks missed because of jury duty, vacation, a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of compensable injury, four (4) weeks of consecutive medical leave, forty four (44) weeks of Union leave, and two (2) weeks of leave for employees required to participate in the official activities as a member of the National Guard or any United States Military Reserve.
Section 3 A vacation bid sheet shall be prepared by December 15 of each year. Employees shall be given their preference of vacation based on departmental seniority provided the choice is made prior to December 31. After December 31, vacations will be scheduled on a first come first serve basis and subject to Company approval. In addition, if an employee bids or transfers to another position after December 30, their scheduled vacation must be approved again in the new department and no employee in the new department will be forced to change an approved vacation.
For the purpose of scheduling vacations only, the kill floor and offal departments will be divided into the following groups:
Kill
Pullers/Final Rail
Skinning Line
Gut table
Offal
Red Meat
White Meat
Chilled offal
Section 4	Vacation will not accrue from year to year but must be taken the year following the date it is earned. If the vacation is not scheduled during the year, it will automatically be paid.
Section 5	Employees who file a timely request (two (2) weeks in advance) shall receive their vacation pay on a regular pay day immediately preceding the commencement of their vacation.
Section 6	The Company agrees to give due consideration to the preference of employees in scheduling vacations; however, the Company shall have final approval and decision in such matters and may limit the number of employees on vacation in any department so as to maintain efficient operations.
14

Section 7	Employees who have qualified for a vacation under this article at the time their employment is terminated will be paid for such vacation earned but not taken.
Section 8 It is understood by all parties that any adjusted seniority dates currently being used by the Company will remain in effect for the life of this contract for the purposes of calculating and accrual of vacation benefits.
Section 9 Upon request, all employees, with the exception of Maintenance and Load Out personnel, eligible for vacation, shall receive the Saturday prior to their vacation as an unpaid excused in advance absence, provided they have ninety (90) consecutive days of perfect attendance immediately preceding the start of such vacation. However, those employees who do not meet this criteria and request the Saturday off will be reviewed on an individual basis.
MEAL PERIODS - REST PERIODS
Section 1 Employees shall receive a meal period without pay of at least thirty (30) minutes and not more than one (1) hour with time and length scheduled by company. This meal period shall be scheduled no earlier than the fourth and one-half (4-1/2) hour nor later than the fifth and one-half (5-1/2) hour, unless six (6) hours completes the work day.
Section 2 Employees shall be allowed a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period which shall commence anytime during the third hour of work each day. Time shall be determined from and to the work station and scheduled by the company.
Section 3 If the Company has scheduled more than eight («) hours work for the day, an additional paid rest period shall be scheduled by the company after the meal period and before the end of the shift.
Section 4 If the Company has scheduled more than ten (10) hours work for the day a third (3rd) rest period shall be scheduled by the Company more than one and one half (1 ''I) hours after the second (2nd) rest period and before the end of the shift.
Section 5 If unscheduled overtime results in employees working more than eight (S) hours the second (2nd) paid rest period will be set by the Company during the ninth (9th) hour of work and if more than ten (10) hours the third (3rd) paid rest period will be set by the Company during the eleventh (11th) hour of work. In the event an Employee's shift goes beyond twelve (12) hours a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period will be set during the thirteenth (13) hour of work.
Section 6 For the purpose of this Article, a work day which exceeds the scheduled shift ending time by seven (7) minutes or less shall not be a qualifying factor for rest periods as outlined in the previous sections.
Section 7 In establishing the second (2nd) or third (3rd) break the Company shall have the option of observing the break or allowing pay in lieu of such break.
EQUIPMENT FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY'
Section 1 The Company will provide the employees and the employees will assume the obligation to return or pay for the following items should the Company determine their job requires said items. Steel-toed rubber boots for maintenance employees, steels, pouches, mesh, cotton, cut resistant, or any other type of gloves, knives, ear protection, maintenance hand tools, and safety equipment required by the Company or government with the exception of proper and reasonable foot wear which shall continue to be the responsibility of the employee unless other-wise noted.
15
Section 2 Employees issued Company owned equipment shall sign a receipt for such equipment and agree to be responsible for the safe and efficient use of the same and for its custody until returned to the company. Company owned equipment which is not returned to the Company or is damaged prior to its return will be paid for by the employee. In such cases the Company may deduct the cost of the item from the employee's wages.
Section 3 Those employees using tools and equipment furnished by the Company will be paid for the time spent preparing and repairing, provided such preparation and repair are required by the Company. The Company may at its option assign specific employees to perform such duties.
Section 4 The Company will provide an employee or employees to sharpen knives for all employees required to use knives,
Section 5 The Company will issue and provide for the laundering of cotton gloves and frocks to employees whose job requires such items. These items remain Company property, employees have the same obligation to properly care for the items and to return or pay for the items and to return or pay for such issued items. Replacement will be provided only upon return of the dirty items.
Section 6 The Company shall replace, at no cost to the employee, rubber gloves, aprons and plastic sleeves for all packaging and saw operator, slaughter, hide room, and rendering employees provided the worn out item is exchanged and no evidence exists of deliberate destruction of the item.
Section 7	The Company shall replace, at no cost to the employee, hairnets, provided the worn out item is exchanged and no evidence exists of deliberate destruction of the item.
Section 8	The Company will give all employees the option of payroll deducting insulated boots provided they are ordered through the Company.
Section 9	The Company will give employees the option of payroll deducting freezer coats provided; the employee works in an area where the Company feels they would be1 of benefit and the freezer coat is ordered through the company. .The Company will pro-
vide freezer coats or insulated coveralls to employees performing the following jobs:
Freezer
Freezer Man/Forklift
Manifestor
Lead Man
Rendering
Forklift Operator
Tallow Loaders
Lead Man
Warehouse
Outside Forklift Operator
Pallet Repair
Baler Operator
Warehouse 2
Lead Man
16
ITTTTllTl TV iflT TT! F”'
Freezer coats or insulated coveralls will be issued one (1) pair per year provided the old pair is wom out and is returned to the company.
Section 10 The Company will reimburse regular, full time maintenance employees for the cost of leather, steel toed boots, each anniversary of this Agreement. Proof of purchase must be provided and reimbursement will be made of the actual cost, not to exceed $ 150.00.
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 1 The Union agrees that neither it nor any of the employees in the bargaining unit covered by this agreement will collectively or individually authorize, cause, ratify’, condone, aid or take part in any strike, slow down, work stoppage, sit down, picketing or in any other interference with work during the term of this agreement. In the event any employee shall engage in any of said activities, the employee shall be subject to immediate discharge.
Section 2 The Company agrees that it will not lock out any of the employees covered by this agreement; it being understood that the Company's exercise of its rights under this Agreement shall not constitute a lock out.
EMPLOYEE MEAT PURCHASE PLAN
The Company agrees that it shall have an employee meat purchase program. The Company will have the sole discretion of all pricing, standards methods of payment and hours of operations. These exclusive rights are vested entirely in the Company.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1 In the event a grievance should arise between the Union and the Company or between a regular full-time employee and the Company over a matter alleged to be a violation of a part of this Agreement, the grievance shall be processed as follows:
STEP ONE - The aggrieved employee(s) shall discuss the matter with the employee's immediate supervisor within two (2) working days of the incident or the matter will be considered closed. If the employee and immediate supervisor are not able to resolve the matter within the two (2) working days following discussion, the aggrieved employee may then appeal the matter to the next step.
STEP TWO - If the matter is appealed to the second step, the grievance shall be reduced to writing, signed by the aggrieved employee and presented to the Departmental Superintendant. All grievances except those regarding discharge or written issuance of individual discipline which is issued within the employee's next 7 working days pursuant to section 8 of this article, must be filed in writing at this step within seven (7) calendar days after the date of the commission of the alleged offense. Any grievance involving discharge must be filed within five (51 calendar days after discharge. Any grievance involving written issuance of individual discipline shall be filed within 7 calendar days after the date of issuance of such discipline. Any grievance not filed in writing at this step within these time limits will be considered as untimely and waived. Following receipt of the written grievance, the Departmental Superintendent or other Company representative shall provide a written answer to the grievance within five (5) calendar days. If the matter is not resolved, the Union may appeal the matter to the next step.
17
The written grievance shall identify:
a.	the general facts giving rise to the grievance
b.	the complaint of the grievance
c.	and the relief requested.
STEP THREE - A Union Steward or business agent may appeal the grievance by presenting a copy of the grievance and the Departmental Superintendent's written answer to the Divisional Manager within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the Departmental Superintendent's answer. The Union and Company shall discuss and attempt to resolve the matter. The Company shall provide the Union with a written answer within seven (7) calendar days after their discussion. If the matter is not resolved, the Union may appeal the matter to the next step.
PRE ARBITRATION - Within seven (7) days after the date of the Company's written answer a Staff Representative of the Local Union may request a meeting with the Vice President, General Manager to see if the grievance can be resolved prior to Arbitration. This meeting will be held at a mutually convenient time and each party may include such additional parties as they choose. If the matter is not resolved, the Union through a Staff Representative may request Arbitration of the grievance. Such request shall be filed in writing within fifteen (15) days after the meeting.
ARBITRATION - If within ten (10) days after receipt of such written request, the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator, either party may request a list of five (5) names from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The Union shall strike two (2) names from the panel of proposed arbitrators and submit such two (2) names to the company within ten (10) days after the Union's receipt of the panel. The Company shall then strike two (2) names and submit the same to the Union within ten (10) days after the Company's receipt of the names stricken by the Union. The remaining name on the panel of arbitrators shall act as the arbitrator of the dispute. The arbitrator's decision in the grievance shall be final and binding on the parties, provided he shall not have authority other than to apply terms and conditions specifically set forth in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall submit his decision in writing within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the hearing or date for submission of briefs. The compensation and necessary expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
In the event an employee is reinstated by an arbitrator, the maximum liability of the Company shall be the employee's lost National Beef Packing Company earnings reduced by all compensation received by the employee during the discharge period from other employment, unemployment compensation, workers compensation or other earnings.
Section 2 The presentation of the grievance is to be made on Union Representatives and employees own time at all steps of the process except that members of the grievance committee shall be paid for work time missed while attending the Step Three (3) meetings and Pre-Arbitration meetings.
18
Section 3 The settlement of any grievance from and after Step Two (2) will be reduced to writing and signed by both parties. Such settlement shall be final and binding on all parties to the matter.
Section 4 The time for perfecting any step of the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union, Extension agreements shall be in writing and signed by a representative for both the Company and the Union.
Section 5 A grievance committee, of not more than five (5) regular full-time employees. shall be designated by the Union from its members. The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the names of committee members and any changes. This committee shall be permitted time off with pay to attend Step Three (3) meetings and Pre-Arbitration meetings.
Section 6 At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority, in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if in the judgment of the Executive Board such grievance ot dispute lacks merit and lacks justification under the terms of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Union Executive Board.
Section 7	The Company will provide a copy of the Employee Action Record Form, should discipline be issued, to the effected employee.
Section 8	AU disciplinary action shall be issued within the employee's next 7 working days following the Company's knowledge of the infraction.
SAVINGS CLAUSE
It is assumed by the parties hereto that each provision of this contract is in conformity with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Kansas. Should it later be determined that it would be in violation of any legally - effective Governmental or State Order or Statute to comply with any provision or provisions of this Agreement, the parties hereto agree to renegotiate such provision or provisions of this Agreement for the purpose of making them conform to such Governmental or State Order or Statute, and the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby, but shall remain in full force in effect.
WAIVER
Section 1 The Company and the Union, for the term of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement or with respect to any subject or matter not referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
Section 2 The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each have had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after and exercise of that right and opportunity' are set forth in this Agreement.
Section 3 This is the complete Agreement defining all wages and benefits to which any employee may be entitled and it is expressly understood and agreed that the Company has no obligation to pay w-ages or benefits other than those specifically provided herein.
19
Section 4 In the event a new job is created during the term of this Agreement, the Company shall discuss the applicable rate for the job with the Union. In the absence of Agreement, the Company shall establish a grade and post the job. After the job has operated thirty (30) days and if agreement is not then reached, the Union may grieve the grade so established.
SUBCONTRACTING
The parties to this Agreement have discussed subcontracting of work being performed by bargaining unit employees and agree as follows:
Both parties desire to minimize the effects of subcontracting on the job security of employees and will work to that end.
When subcontracting of any existing operations becomes necessary or desirable, in the sole judgment of the Company, the Company will notify the Union. If the Union desires to discuss the effects on the job security of the employees, the parties will meet for that purpose. The Company agrees to delay any layoffs caused by subcontracting until at least two (2) weeks subsequent to the Company's notice to the Union of the Company's intention, so that the parties have ample time to suggest methods of avoiding the layoffs or minimizing their adverse effects. The Company further agrees not to subcontract an entire department.
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1	The Company may grant leaves of absence to regular full-time employees. While on a leave of absence, the employee's seniority shall continue; the time on leave will not be considered as time worked and the Company may grant the Leave with continuation of insurance benefits, for thirty (30) calendar days.
Section 2	PERSONAL LEAVE - A leave for personal reasons may be requested in writing and if approved by the Company, may be granted for up to thirty (30) days and extended for additional terms not to exceed thirty (30) days upon Company approval.
Section 3 MEDICAL LEAVE - A leave for non-work related medical reasons may be requested in writing and shall be accompanied by explanation from the employee's physician. Medical emergencies verified by the Company shall entitle the Company, at its discretion, to place the employee on medical leave. Medical leaves, if granted, shall be for an initial period of not more than one hundred and eighty (180) days with continuation of insurance during such time and subject to termination sooner upon recovery if such occurs within the initial period. If the medical condition continues, the leave may be extended by the Company under such conditions, with or without benefits, and upon such medical confirmation as the Company requires, including examination by a physician selected by the Company. Failure to immediately notify the Company and offer to return to work upon release by the treating physician shall be a breach of the terms of a medical leave and grounds for discharge.
Section 4 UNION LEAVE
A.	Not more than two (2) regular full-time employees who become elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union, and upon written confirmation from the Union, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay or benefits and with continuing seniority for a term not to exceed the life of this Agreement. Upon one (I) week notice of their desire to return to work they shall be placed on their job previously held without loss of seniori
20
ty. provided they report for work within thirty (30) calendar days of the date their full-time position with the Union terminates.
B.	Regular full-time employees chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside the plant, shall with permission of Company Management, be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days. The Company may limit the number of such employees granted leave to three (3) with no more than two(2) from any single department require confirmation of the Union business from the Union office and require advance notice of the need for such leave.
Section 5 MILITARY LEAVE - Regular full-time employees who leave their employment with the Company to enter active military service will retain all rights to reemployment as are granted by law. Regular full-time employees who are members of the National Guard or United States Military Reserve will be granted leaves or absence to attend required training periods upon providing the Company with written confirmation of such drills or training periods within two (2) working days of the receipt of any orders or any other written notification that the employee may have received.
Section 6 JURY LEAVE - A regular full-time employee called to jury duty in the County. State or Federal Courts shall be granted a leave for jury duty service upon presenting the employee's immediate supervisor a copy of the summons within two (2) working days of the receipt of the summons. Provided the employee complies with the advance notice requirement said employee will be paid the amount they would have earned had they not been prevented from working by the jury service, but not to exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. Maintenance employees, scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts, shall be paid up to twelve (12) hours per day and/or a maximum of thirty-six (36) hours per week. To qualify for such pay, the employee shall pay to the Company the amount received for jury service, retaining any amounts received as expenses in excess of the daily pay for such jury service. Employees released from jury duty during the employee's scheduled working hours or prior to the employee's scheduled working hours shall promptly notify their supervisor who shall either excuse them for the balance of that shift or require them to report for work.
Section 7 Employees on leave of absence are required to notify the Company promptly if the reason the leave was requested no longer exists. Failure to do so shall be grounds for immediate termination of the leave or for discharge.
Section 8 Any employee on any type of leave who commences work for any other person or firm or who commences a self employment venture shall be deemed to have voluntarily quit their employment.
Section 9 Reasonable time off without pay, length of time to be determined by the Company, however, such excused absences shall not exceed seven (7) days, will be granted to employees who have personal proceedings with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, provided documentation verifying the days of release is furnished in advance.
Section 10 Employees on any type of leave where benefits are granted will be required to pay their weekly benefit contribution during the period of the leave in order to maintain their benefit coverage.
FUNERAL LEAVE
Section 1	Absences due to the death of a member or the regular full-time employee's immediate family will be treated as an excused absence. A regular full-time employee so
21
absent will be paid for those days which are scheduled as woric days for the employee pro* vided they are on the active payroll. The employee will be paid at their master rate eight (8) hours pay, except maintenance employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts, will receive twelve (12) hours pay, for each of three consecutive days (one of which must be the day of the funeral) on which the employee would otherwise be scheduled to work.
Section 2	The employee must notify the Company of the purpose of their absence on or before the first day of such absence.
Section 3	The employee shall be required to furnish proof satisfactory to the Company of the death, the employee's relationship to the deceased, the date of the funeral and the employee's actual attendance at the funeral.
Section 4	Any funeral pay shall be included in the computation of overtime or any other type of premium pay.
Section 5	Immediate family shall be defined as the employee’s spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, father-in-law or mother-in-law, step child or foster child living in the employee's home.
Section 6	Reasonable time off, without pay, length of time to be detennined by the Company, will be granted to employees who will be traveling to a distant location to attend the funeral of an immediate family member, as defined in Section Five (5).
EROGONOMICS
Section I,	Ergonomic/Safety Program:
•	The Company will assure that significant attention is given to ergonomic/safety issues in the plant.
•	The Company recognizes that worker involvement is crucial to the success of any ergonomic/safety program.
•	The Company agrees to evaluate new economically feasible technology and process changes for ergonomic risk factors prior to implementation.
•	The Ergonomic/Safety Program includes a full-time monitor position, nine (9) ergonomic/safety monitors and a joint labor/management ergonomic/safety committee.
Section 2,	Full Time Ergonomic Monitor; The monitor will be responsible for
•	Discussions with employees on ways to improve their jobs.
•	Submit projects to management for consideration.
•	Work with management on ergonomic projects.
•	Set an agenda and meet monthly with ergonomic monitors to discuss projects in their designated areas and any problems they are having with the program.
•	Attend joint labor/management ergonomic/safety committee meetings.
•	Document progress on ergonomic projects for the joint labor/management committee and give these to the monitors for their designated areas.
•	Regularly review the list of workers on light or alternate duty jobs, as well as those in the conditioning program and what jobs they are performing, with the Company Nursing Department. The Nursing Department should work with the full-time ergonomic monitor if problems arise regarding the job assignments for injured workers. The full-time Ergonomic monitor can troubleshoot with these types of problems.
22
Section 3,	Joint Labor/Management Ergonomic/Safety Committee: Committee members will be responsible for:
•	Assuring worker input in the identification and resolution of ergonomic hazards
*	The members of the Ergonomic/Safety Committee will receive two (2) days of training by the Company in a calendar year. These will be conducted in June and December. In the event a new member is appointed to the committee he/she will receive training within 60 days of appointment. This initial training day will count as one of the two annual training days.
•	The Committee will meet monthly to review and discuss program progress and related issues.
•	The Committee will receive from the Company justification when economically feasible engineering controls were tested and not implemented.
•	The Committee will periodically review copies of the OSHA 200 log.
Section 4,	Ergonomic/Safety Committee Monitors
■	This committee shall consist of no more than ten (10) bargaining unit employees, who must be continuously employed by the Company for one (1) calendar year, all designated by the Union, 1 (one) full-time monitor, two (2) each from Fabrication A-Shift and B-Shift. one (1) each from Slaughter A-Shift and B-Sbift, one (I) from Hides, one (1) from Rendering, and (1) from Maintenance.
•	The ergonomic monitors (EM) will have a designated area of responsibility, such that the entire plant will be covered.
•	The EM will work with the Company, Safety Department, the joint labor/manage-ment Ergonomic Committee and the full-time monitor providing input into the identification of ergonomic stressors, analysis of those jobs, and the development and evaluation of recommended solutions.
•	The EM will conduct a twice-monthly walk-around inspection of a designated area to assist in the identification of problem areas and offer potential solutions.
•	The EM will be included in all pending ergonomic projects in their areas and they will be provided time to consult with the workers affected to explain any changes and to assist in gathering employee feedback.
•	The EM will be provided with ergonomic hazard report forms to submit suspected problem areas to the Company.
*	The Company will post pictures of monitors including the EM's name and work area on the ergonomic bulletin board in the main hallway.
•	The EM will meet monthly with the joint labor/management Ergonomic Committee.
•	The EM will be granted a minimum of four (4) hours each month to conduct these activities.
Section 5,	Full Time Ergonomic/ Safety Monitor*. The full-time Ergonomic Monitor will be paid at no less than the equivalent of grade four (4) from the division which he/she was working at the time of appointment. In the event the monitor comes from any division with a grade of pay higher than grade four (4), they will be paid at the higher grade.
• The union will appoint one (1) employee to become the Ergonomic Monitor/ Walking Steward. This individual will have a work schedule from 8:30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and designated Saturdays, with a lunch break from 12:30 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. He/she will have company designated ergonomic duties between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. At the company's expense, that person will assume the walking steward duties from 1:00 p.m. until 5:00 p.m.
23
PENSION FUND
Section 1 The Employer shall contribute twenty-nine dollars ($29,00) per month on behalf of each and every eligible employee, provided they meet the requirements for eligi* bility each such month. The monthly contribution amount shall increase $2.00 each anniversary year for the life of this Agreement.
Section 2 Eligibility for pension contributions shall be defined to include any employee who has completed at least 12 months of employment with the Employer, provided that each such employee, for each such month of employment, tn order to be eligible, shall have worked or earned a minimum of eighty (80) hours of straight-time, overtime, holiday and/or vacation for each such month, but excluding persons on unpaid leaves of absence due to disability or workers compensation injuries.
Section 3 New employees shall not be eligible to participate in the Employer's 40IK. plan.
HEALTH BENEFITS
Health Benefits will become effective "upon ratification of this Agreement". This is a summary of benefits. Details will be included in the contract from the provider. Premiums for employee health insurance upon ratification of this Agreement will be $26.00 per week and will increase an additional $1.00 each anniversary year of this Agreement.
Eligibility Premium	EPO 6 months $26 + $1 increase each year	PPO 6 months $26+ $1 increase each year
Deductible	In Network	In Network
Individual	$400	$500
Family	$800	$1,000
	Out of Network	Out of Network
Individual	$600	$700
Family	$1,800	$2,100
Benefit %	In Network	In Network
	90/10	80/20
	Out of Network	Out of Network
	65/35	60/40
Out of Pocket Max	In Network	In Network
Individual	$3,000	$4,500
Family	$6,000	$10,000
	Out of Network	Out of Network
Individual	$5,000	$5,000
Family	$15,000	$15,000
24
Dr Office Co-Pay	$20		In Network deductible + 25% Out of Network deductible + 45%
ER Co-Pay	In Network $50 Out of Network $100		In Network $100 Out of Network $200
Non-emergency Emergency Room charges shall not he covered by the plan.			
Prescription Co-Pay: Generic Name Brand	$19 + 1 per year increase $24 + 1 per year increase		30%
Vision	Not applicable for new hires after 1/1/04		Not applicable for new hires after 1/1/04
DENJALP LAN:			
Deductible Type A (Cleanings) Type B (Fillings) Type C (Bridges)		$50/$ 100 100% After Ded. 80% After Ded. 50% After Ded.	
Maximum		$750/$1,500	
VISION PLAN:				
Deductible		0	
Frames		$14,00	
Single Vision Lens		$10.00	
Bifocal Lens		$15.00	
Trifocal Lens		$17.50	
Aphakle of Lenticular		$17.50	
1 Eye exam per year per subscriber		$17.00	
The lifetime maximum benefit is $2,000,000.
All regular, full-time employees will become eligible for $7,500 in life insurance, at no cost to the employee, on the first (1st) of the month following said employee’s first (1st) 365 days of continuous service.
DISABILITY INSURANCE
Section 1	Disability insurance will be provided for all bargaining unit employees. Weekly benefits will be paid if an employee is deemed eligible for such benefits. The determination of eligibility will be vested exclusively in the Company.
25
Section 2
A. Effective upon ratification, the weekly benefit amount will be $240.00. The twelve month maximum will be $2,400.00 to remain in effect for the duration of the Agreement.
Section 3
A.	To be eligible during an illness the employee must be off work with a physician's verification for a period of not less than eight (8) consecutive days.
B.	To be eligible during an injury the employee may qualify on the first (1st) day provided the employee can provide a physician's statement showing that the time off required for the injury will exceed eight (8) consecutive days.,
C.	Eligibility - A new employee will become eligible for disability insurance on the first (1st) of the month following said employees first (1st) 365 days of continuous employment.
WAGES
Section 1 The wage schedule for employees covered by this Agreement shall be as follows:
A.	Slaughter Division and By Products Division
	Upon Ratification	12/15/2008	12/14/2009	12/20/2010	12/19/2011
Base	11.95	12.20	12.50	12.80	13.10
1	12.05	12.30	12.60	12.90	13.20
2	12.15	12.40	12.70	13.00	13.30
3	12.25	12.50	12.80	13.10	13.40
4	12.35	12.60	12.90	13.20	13.50
5	12.50	12.75	13.05	13.35	13.65
6	12.90	13.15	13.45	13.75	14.05
7	13.40	13.65	13.95	14.25	14.55
8	13.60	13.85	14.15	14.45	14.75
B.	Processing Division
	Upon Ratification	12/15/2008	12/14/2009
Base	11.95	12.20	12.50
1	12.05	12.30	12.60
2	12.15	12.40	12.70
3	12.25	12.50	12.80
4	12.45	12.70	13.00
5	12.50	12.75	13.05
6	12.90	13.15	13.45
7	13.15	13.40	13.70
8	13.95	14.20	14.50
12/20/2010	12/19/2011
12.80	13.10
12.90	13.20
13.00	13.30
13.10	13.40
13.30	13.60
13.35	13.65
13.75	14.05
14.00	14.30
14.80	15.10
C. Maintenance Division
	Upon Ratification	12/15/2008	12/14/2009
Base	11.95	12.20	12.50
1	12.00	12.25	12.55
2	12.25	12.50	12.80
3	12.50	12.75	13.05
4	12.90	13.15	13.45
5	13.75	14.00	14.30
12/20/2010 12.80 12.85 13.10 13.35 13.75 14.60
12/19/2011
13.10
13.15
13.40
13.65
14.05
14.90
26
6	14.30	14.55	14.85	15.15	15.45
7	14.80	15.05	15.35	15.65	15.95
3	15.85	16.10	16.40	16.70	17.00
D. The starting rate for new employees shall be $0.50 below the base. Upon qualification on the job, the employee will be paid the full qualified rate of the job.
Section 2 All Employees who work between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. will be paid twenty cents ($0.20) per hour over their regular rate except no premium will be paid on the day shift kill if the kill starts less than forty-five (45) minutes prior to 6:00 A.M.
BASE RATE
Fab	Kill	By Products
Anyl Ray	1st Hang Off	All New and Rehires
Bag Meat Bone Cannon Box 50/Extnjder	2nd Hang Off Angus Stamper Apply Hot Wgt Tag	Clean Up Man (Hides)
Box Chubs	Apply Rice Paper	QA
Box Femur Bones Clean Whizzard Knives Combo Dumper	Bag & Tie Bungs Bag Ear Tags Carcass Check	Ail New & Rehires
Core Gun	Carcass Prewash Oper	Maintenance
Check Trim/Fat Belt	Check for Tonsils	All Maint. New & Rehires
Clean Floors	Ctean-up Outside/Offices	Supply Room (warehouse)
Combo Maker	Cold Chain Feeder	Electrician
Export Box Maker	Computer Operator	Refrigeration
Feed Mayas	Condemn Room Operator	Power Plant
Feed Table	Cork Heads	Generation
Finger Trim	Count Contamination	P/S (Scale)
Hang Off Chucks	Cut Bridge on Omasum	Warehouse
Kick out Cattle	Cut Off Front Feet	Corrugated Waste
Knife Glove Room	Cut Off Homs	Pallet Repair
Knuckle Puller	Cut Off Tail Switch	Rendering
Label Box	Drive Cattie (Ramp)	Fabrication
Locker Room	Ear Tag Station Operator	Construction
Pre-ID/Mark CSR	Feather Bone Buster	Shop Mechanic
Puli Combo	Flush Heads	Welder
Pull Paddle Bones	Freezer Clean-up	Machinist
Push Empty Box/Pole Man	Hang Hides	Kill Mechanic
Rework Leaker	Hang Paunch	Material Transfer
Rose Meat Conveyor Rubber Duck Scoop CO2 (Dry Ice) Sort Product Stack Boxes Steady Cattle Transfer Chuck Flap Transfer Short Rib Tum Loin (PRE ID) Watch Metal Detector Wrap Combos	Hock Vac Hook/ Flush Tripas Hot Box Spacer Identify Misplits/Spinal Cords Ink + 30 Mo Cattie in Cooler Joint Oxtails Kill Supply Clerk Mark Tail to Hang Hide Offal Pack Open Misplits Paunch System Operator Pull Temple Meat Pull/Strip Tripas	Forklift Mechanic
27
Rall Cleaner/Hot Box		
	Remove 1st Hind Leg Remove 2nd Hind Leg Remove Bung Bags Remove Filet Meat Remove Front Knuckle Remove Gullet Remove Oxtails Remove Tunic Tissue Runner Saw Omasum Screen Head Meat Second Hom Cutter Skin Tongues Split Lips Spread Intestines Squeegee Steam Vac Operator Tag Carcass & Head Trim & Hang Inedible Trim Abomasum Trim Aorta Trim Membranes Tuck Tails Unload Trollies Vacuum Knock Hole on Head Wash & Split Abomasum Wash Tail Wash Tendon/Trim Fizzles Washffip Tongues Watch Runaways Whizzard Abomasum Whizzard Knife Rounds	
GRADE 1		
Fab	Kill	By Products
Box Loader	+30 Month Dentition	Green Hide Trimmer
Box Machine Operator	Cattle Driver (Yards) Box Meat (except chuck & round) Chute Rounds Case Sealer	Combo Inedible Chuck Short Ribs	Cut Hyoid Bone		Hide Dropper/Trimmer
Clean Bone/Chop Bone Clean Plate Bones	Cut Intestine to Length Cut Off Fat	Maintenance
Clean Up	CuVBave Pizzles	Electrician
CO2 Operator	Defatting Machine	Refrigeration
Computer	Down Puller Operator	Power Plant
Cut Brisket Off	Forklift	Generation
Cut off Clods	Front Leg Pattern	P/S (Scale)
Cut Off Knuckle Bone	HerefbrdZAngus Stamp	Warehouse
Cut Off Paddle Bones	High Trimmer	Rendering
Cut Off Rib Caps	Laundry	Fabrication
Drop Flanks	Line Palletizer (Freezer)	Construction
Employee Meats Orders	Mark Seam on Rounds	Shop Mechanic
Feed Chain Pull Tag	Pull Paunch from Table	Welder
Forklift	Pull/Sep/Flush Lrg Intestine	Machinist
28
Hang Rounds High Stand Trimmer Inline Computer Line Operator Mark Plates Pull Chuck Short Rib Pull Chuck Tender Pull Navel Eye Pull Rose Meat Pull Teres Major Reject Line Rework Retrimmer Run Pallet Jack Scale Operator Short Rib Trim Special Trim Split Short Ribs Tiger Tails Trim Chuck Flap Trim Chuck Short Rib Trim Chuck Tender Trim Clods Trim Flank Trim Flap Meat Trim Hanging Tender Trim Inside Skirts Trim Neck Meat Trim Outside Skirts Trim Pectoral Muscle Trim Shank Meat Trim Teres Major Trim Upgrade Trolley Popper Whizzard Knife
Rail Oft & Roll Angus Rail Off/ Rail Jacker Remove Kidney Remove Omasum Remove Pancreas Gland Remove Spinal Cord Remove Sweetbreads Remove Trachea Save Inedible Heart/Lung/Liver Save Pancreas Side Puller Operator Spread Intestines/Stamp +30 Mo Squeegee/Blood Operator Tail Puller Operator Tie Gut Sets Trim Glands Trim Heads Trim Lung/ Remove Heart Trim Mid-Lines Trim Neck Trim Oxtails Trim Tripe/Remove HC Trim Weasand Meat Whizzard Knife Brisket Whizzard Knrfe/Grade Chain
Kill Mechanic
Forklift Mechanic
29
GRADE 2
Fab	Kill	By Products
8300 Operator	Clear Out Rose Meat	Tank Pull
Box Chucks & Rounds	Computer Rail Off	Head Trimmer
Cut Off Chucks	Load Out	Forklift Operator
Drop Ups	Open Paunch	Tallow Loader
K-Pac Operator	Pre-Gutter	
Loin Wings	Remove Pizzles	Maintenance
Mark Rib	Remove/Save Ear Tags	Electrician
Pull Ball Tri/Tips	Round Runner	Refrigeration
Pull Flank	Save Tendons	Power Plant
Pull Short Rib	Save Weasand Meat	Generation
Separate Rib Brisket	Trim Liver & Heart	P/S (Scale)
Transfer Loin Wing	Trim Tongues	Warehouse
Trim Balls & Tri	Unload Cattle/Wash Pens	Rendering
Trim Briskets	Whizzard Knife Heads	Fabrication
Trim Eye		Construction
Trim Flat		Shop Mechanic
Trim Insides		Welder
Trim Kalbl Eye		Machinist
Trim Knuckles		Kill Mechanic
Trim Navel Eyes		Forklift Mechanic
Trim Strip Trim Top Butts GRADE 3 Fab	Kill	By Products
Bone Fore Shank	Bung Dropper	Basement Operator
Bone Shoulders	Cap Bung	Dryer Operator
Button Bone	Hot Scale	Grader/Folder
Handline	Trim Heads w/ Whizzard	Green Hide Graders
Inline Computer Operator	Knocker	Salt Operator
Packaging Utility Man	Manifested	Skim Tsritf Feed Grade Oper
Palletizer	Mgt Scale Computer Input Cooler	Stacker
Panel Operator (Ground Beef)	Rod Weasands	Maintenance
Pkg Analyst	Saw Brisket	Electrician
Roll Chuck	Shackler	Refrigeration
Shank Boners	Skin Livers	Power Plant
Trim Tender	Sticker	Generation
	Trim & Saw Briskets	P/S (Scale)
	Trim Snouts	Rendering
	Tripe Scalder	Fabrication
		Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
I
30	j
I
I
GRADE 4
Fab	Kill	By Products
13th Bone	Chisler/ Tempter	Blood System/ Hammer Mill
13th Muscle	Clear Gullet	Forklift Oper/ load Meat
Bone Brisket/Clean Bone	Cut Off Head	Cooker Operator
Bone Strips	Drop Tongues	
Box Receiving Manifestor	Freezermen/Forklift Oper	Maintenance
Cap/Ph Meat/Trim Extensions	Hang Heads	Electrician
Computer Operator	Open Mid Line	Refrigeration
Drop Eyes and Flats	Outside Rail	Power Plant
Drop Knuckles	Pull Inside Skirt	Generation
Pull Rib Caps	Rail Trimmers	P/S (Scale)
Pull Skirt Back	Remove Peck	Rendering
Roll Caps	Strip Weasand	Fabrication
Saw Femur Bone		Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADES
Fab	Kin	Maintenance
Aitch Boners	Cheek	Electrician
Bone Navels	Pull & Separate Fat	Refrigeration
	Saw/Rib Man	Power Plant
By Products		Generation
Flume/Flesher		P/S (Scale)
Lead Man-Hide Take Up		Rendering
Render Oper (Edible-tallow op)		Fabrication Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 6		
Fab	Kill	By Product*
Box Manifest er	Knife Room	Lead Man-Flesher
Bull Saw Operator	Lead Man Cooler/Transfer Chain	Lead Man- Gel Bone
Center Cut Back Rib Saw	Low Backer	Maintenance
Chuck Saw	Rim Over Bosket	Electrician
Fore Quarter Knifer	Rumper	Refrigeration
Forklift/Manifeslor	Skin 1st Butt	Power Plant
Hind Quarter Saw(Jarvis Saw)	Skin 2nd Butt	Generation
Mark Knuckles	Skin 1st Hind Leg	P/S (Scale)
Red Hat ($.15L.O.)	Skin 2nd Hind Leg	Rendering
Red Hat (Combo Dock Manifester) Skin Flanks		Fabrication
Rib Saw	QA	Shop Mechanic
Shell Saw	QA Lineman	Welder
Short Rib Saw		Machinist
Strip Saw		Kill Mechanic
Well Saws		Forklift Mechanic
31
GRADE 7
Fab	Kill
Bone Butts	Gutter
Drop Inside Rounds	Split Saw Operator
Mark Paddle Bones
By Products
Lead Man-West Rendering
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Rendering Fabrication Shop Mechanic Weider Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADES
Fab
Bone Chucks
Bone Rib Pull Clods Pull Tenderloins Trainers
Kill
Freezer Lead Man
Intestine Room Lead Man
Lead Man
Tripe Room Lead Man
Offal Lead Man
Maintenance
Maintenance Lead Man
32
MISCELLANEOUS
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide for the Union's exclusive use a bulletin board in the main hallway. a bulletin board in the walk-in entrance of Security and provide one (1) bulletin board, with an electrical outlet, within the cafeteria for the Union to post its notices.
EDUCATION. SAFETY AND CULTURAL FUND
Section 1 The Employer agrees to contribute the following amount per year to the UFCW District Union Local Two Education. Safety, and Cultural Fund: $15,000.00 per year of this agreement.
Section 2 The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of the Trust Agreement which governs the operation of the Fund and hereby agrees to accept the Employer Trustees of the Fund who have been selected as provided therein, as its representatives in the joint administration of the Fund.
Section 3 The foregoing contributions shall be utilized by the trustees of the Education, Safety and Cultural Fund for the operation of an Education, Safety and Cultural program pursuant to such terms and conditions and rules and regulations which the Trustees may hereafter adopt. Said Fund shall have its principal office in the City of and shall be administered by a board of Trustees consisting of an equal number of Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with the Declaration of Trust.
Section 4 The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce payment of contributions required.
Section 5 The rules of eligibility for coverage, waiting periods for coverage and the benefits to be provided to employees and/or their dependents shall be as provided in the plan of benefits of the fund. The provisions contained in this Article regarding the dates for the payment of contributions to the Fund shall not bear upon the date when coverage commences.
MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING
I.	Contract Printing/Translation
The parties agree that the contract and insurance summary of benefits will be printed in English and Spanish. The Company will print the above at their sole expense.
The parties recognize that the translations are being done for the convenience of the bargaining unit employees. The Company and Union have agreed, however, that the English version will rule in all matters.
II.	Office Space
The Company agrees to provide the union, at no expense, office space in a location inside the plant facility.
33
III.	Memorandum of Understanding
MttKwtftdnd of UtkdtfttmdiBf March U20W
The pattia agree tta die faUowmg wage Khetfalo will be adopted far the Ubetal PmplnjM aftwtae Mm* 1 ?, 2003:
Stet	112-00
Hue	512.00
Gradel	51225
Grade 2	512.50
Grade 3	$12.75
Graded	II32J
OrafaS	51425
Graded	$ 13.00
Grade 7	$16.00
Gradel	517.00
All otbcr periratdy negotiated wage increases dating the tan of fab Agrcctnsrt will otaiaae <0 te efbotcvc.
Uaiaa Aqrarafatthc

34
IV.	Memorandum of Understanding
Memorandum of Understanding April 14, $008
The parties agree that the following wage schedule will be adopted for the Liberal Produrtion Employees effective April 14, 2008:
	Slaughter and By Products Division	Faheicshon Division
Base	$12.15	$12.15
Grade 1	$12.25	$12.2.5
Grade 2	$12.35	$12.35
Grade 3	$12.45	$12.45
Grade 4	$12.55	$12 65
Grade 5	$12.70	$12.70
Grade 6	$13.10	$13.10
Grade?	$13.40	$14.15
Grade 8	S15.2G	$15.40
Grade?	$15 40	$15.60
The above schedule includes a new grade level (Grade? for leads and trainers). This new rate will replace the former top rate plus for Leads in both Slaughter and Fabrication. In addition, other changes include:
Slaughter
*	Bufteas, Leggers, Riaanver, Flankers, Low Backers and Bumpers are ntrw Grade 1
•	Split Saw and Gutters are now Grade 8
•	Short Rib Boner, Aitch Boners and 13d1 Bonets are now Grade 7
» Strip Boners are now Grade 8
All other previously negotiated wage increases during the term of this Agreement will continue to be effective
Cotnpdny Representative “Ttffox ^Lte	Date
35
DURATION OF TERMINATION
This Agreement shall become effective and remain in full force and effect from the 17th Day of December, 2007 until midnight on the 16th day of December, 2012. Either party may, on or before sixty (60) days prior to December 16,2012, give notice to the other party of the desire of the party giving such notice to terminate the Agreement. If such notice is not given, the Agreement shall renew itself for successful one year period until such notice is given. The parties to this Agreement, National Beef Packing LLC and United Food and Commercial Workers, District Local 2. hereby agree that within 60 days before the end of the third year of this Agreement, they will meet and confer regarding the terms and conditions of this Agreement. They further agree that they will renew this Agreement and all its terms for two (2) additional years beyond the third year of the Agreement.
For the Union:	Forihe Cothpany:
M o /	no -Ci; tymua 3	-----------------
36
Acuerdo .......................................................................2
Antiguedad (Senoria) ..........................................................6
Ausencia de Discriminacion.....................................................2
Beneficios de Salud ..........................................................27
Cantidad de la Base/Grados de Trabajos........................................30
Clausula de Ahorros...........................................................21
Derechos de Gerentes...........................................................2
Descontar Del Sueldo...........................................................3
Dias de Fiesta................................................................14
Duracion y Terminacion........................................................39
Educacion. Seguridad y Fondo Cultural ........................................36
Equipo Suministrado por la Compania ..........................................17
Efgonomia ....................................................................25
Fondo De Pension..............................................................27
Garantia ......................................................................4
Horas de Trabajo ..............................................................5
Memorandums de Entendimiento I-U-III-IV.......................................36
Orientacion...................................................................14
Periodos de Comida - Periodos de Descanso.....................................17
Permisos de Ausencia..........................................................22
Permiso de Funeral............................................................24
Plan de Compras de Came de los Empieado.......................................19
Procedimiento de Quejas ......................................................19
Proceso de Ofertas de Trabajo.................................................12
Reconocimlento y la Parte de la Negociacion....................................2
Renuncia..................................................................... 21
Seguro de Incapacidad ........................................................28
Sin Huelga - Sin Cerrar Fuera.................................................19
Subcontratando................................................................22
Sueldos.......................................................................29
Suspensiones y Devolucion.....................................................12
Tablero De Anuncios ..........................................................36
Tarjeta de Recetas............................................................28
Trabajo de Parte Tiempo........................................................6
Visitacion de Union ...........................................................3
Vacacion......................................................................15
1
acuerdo
ESTE ACUERDO hecho y entrado en este dia 17 de diciembre, 2007 por y entre NATIONAL BEEF, de Liberal, Kansas en esto y despues referido a ello como la "Compania". y UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO. en esto y despues referido a ello como la "Union".
RECONOCIMIENTO Y LA PARTE DE LA NEGOCIACION
La compania reconoce la Union, United Food and Commercial Worker's International Union, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO agente de la parte de la negociacion de todos los empleados de production y mantenimiento de tiempo completo y empleados regulates de pane tiempo empleados por National Beef Packing Company en su facilidad localizada en 1501 E. 8th Street, Liberal, KS pero excepto todos los empleados de oficina y clericales, laboratorio, empleados profesionales y supervisores como definidos por fa National Labor Relations Act (El Acto de Relaciones de Labor Nacionales por el proposito de negotiation colectiva en respeto a las cantidades de pago, sueldos, horas de empleo y otras condiciones de empleo.
DERECHOS DE GERENTES
Section 1, Los Gerentes de la planta y la direction de la fuerza de trabajo - incluyen-do el derecho de ocupar, suspender, disciplinar o despedir por justa causa; de asignar tra-bajos; de transferir. promocionar, o degradar a los empleados; de aumentar y disminuir la fuerza de trabajo; normas de production y reglas aplicables a los empleados; para determi-nar productos que tienen que ser manejados, producidos o manufacturados; e) horario de production; y los metodos, procesos y implicaciones de production y manejamiento; tanto como el derecho de determinar las calificaciones y abilidades de empleados; son estableci-dos exclusivamente en la Compania. con tai que esto no sera utilizado por el proposito de discrimination contra cualquier empleado o para evitar cualquiera de las provisiones de este acuerdo.
Section 2,	Supervisores o otro personal puede ejecutar deberes cualquieras que son necesarios en el conducto del negocio y que no resultan en la descolocacion de empleados de parte de la negotiation.
Section 3,	Esta mutualmente acordado que la Compania retiene todos los derechos de gerentes y prerrogativos hasta ahora mantenidos excepto tales derechos como son especifi-camente abandonados en esto.
AUSENCIA DE DISCRIMINACION
Section 1,	Ni la Compania ni la Union discriminara ilegalmente contra cualquier empleado o aplicante para empleo o miembro de Union por raza, color, credo, sexo, edad, estado veterano. descapatitado, religion, o origen natural o por ser o no ser miembro de la Union.
Section 2,	Los grupos de este acuerdo accederan con cualquier y todos los requisites de accion afirmativos.
Section 3,	La Compania no discriminara contra o despedira a cualquier empleado por un escucho sin prejuicios de inmigration y/o un escucho sin prejuicios de deportation que
2
son iniciados o que estan pendientes, con tai que permiso avanzado es obtenido del supervisor intnediato del empleado. En el evento que un empleado no pueda obtener permiso avanzado, satisfactoria verificacion escrita de la agenda involucrado se requerira.
VISITAC1ON DE UNION
Los representantes de la Union tendran el derecho de visitar el lugar de trabajo para inspeccionar condiciones de trabajo y generaImente para llevar fuera los terminos de este Acuerdo con tai que ellos hagan arreglos antes y reporter! a un representante de la Compania designado sobre entrar al sitio de trabajo, y con que tales vi sitas no impidan con operaciones.
DESCONTAR DEL SUELDO
Seccion 1, La Compania esta de acuerdo para deducir pagos de union o cuotas de ini-ciacion y informar avaluaciones del sueldo de los empleados en la negociacion de unidad al recibir una autorizacion escrita y firmada. Tales deducciones seran echas por la compania cada setnana del sueldo de los empleados. La Compania compondra deducciones que fatten por empleados que esten fuera de trabajo o en vacaciones. La Compania compondra otras deducciones que fallen, al pedir un escrito de la Union. La Compania continuara a remitir en una semana basica. cheques por deducciones de Union y un reporte impreso de tai por deducciones semanales, lo cual incluye el nombre completo, numero de identifica-cion de empleado, numero de seguro social y la cantidad deducida. Adicionalmente la compania lo hara en uan semana basica, enviara una version electronica de dicho reporte. lo cual sera incluido la misma mformacion dada en el reporte impreso con exepto los ultimos (4) numeros del seguro social del empleado.
Seccion 2, La Compania reconoce el deber de la Union papar representar a todos los empleados en la unidad justamente y effectivamente. Por lo tanto la Compania propor-cionara a la Union un nombre completo, una direccion de recidencia. numero de Seguro Social numero de identificacion de empleado, division y fecha de empleo para todos los empleados nuevos que fueron contratodos. La Compania tambien esta de acuerdo en pro-porcionar a la Union con una lista de correo de todos los empleados de negociacion de unidad, requirido por la Union; De cual quier modo. tai requisito no deben excidir por mas de (4) cuatro requisitos en cual quier ano del Calendario.
Seccion 3. La Compania hara deducciones semanales por el Club de Votacion Activo de la Union de los sueldos de esos empleados quines voluntariamente autorizan tales deducciones en escrito y se enviaran tales deducciones a la Union, por un cheque separado sem-analmente, adjuntando un reporte del nombre completo, numero de identificacion del empleado, numero de seguro social, y cantidad deducida. Adicionalmente la Compania lo hara, semanalmente, enviar una version electronica del dicho, lo cual incluira la misma infr-macion proveida en el reporte imprimido exepto los ultimos cuatro (4) numeros del numero de seguro social del empleado. Asi como deduccines del Club de Votacion Activo seran hechos cincuenta y dos (52) veses durante cada ano del calendario, almenos que la autorizacion sea cancelada con la Union, en escrito. por el empleado.
Seccion 4, La Union esta de acuerdo en defender, asegurar y detener inofensivo a la Compania encontra de todos y otros reclames, demandas y levantando danos o en cualquier lado conectados con acciones tomadas por la Compania. para el proposito de obedecer con
3
este articulo del contrato incluyendo disposition de fondos, despu&s de que aiga sido remi-tidos por la Compania a la Union. Ninguno de la union, por medio de sus oficiales o miem-bros, dcben de intimidar, acosar o obligar a empleados para causar que se unan a la Union. Ni tampoco la Compania debe de intimidar, acosar o obligar a empleados para prevenirlos de juntarce o causar que no se unan a la Union.
GARANTIA
Seccion 1, Solo que sea notificado de una suspension en o antes del Sabado de la semana antes, todos los empleados regulares de tiempo complete recibiran una garantia sem-anal en la cantidad de 36 (treinta y seis) horas de trabajo o pago en vez de trabajo a su cantidad de tiempo derecho.
La Compania debe tener el derecbo de reducir la garantia semanal de boras a treinta y dos (32) boras, no mas que diez (10) semanas por ano del contrato. Notificacion de las' reducciones por cualquier semana debe set hecha en el viemes previo. Si la notificacion es dada y despues treinta y seis (36) o mas horas son trabajadas, no debe contar como una semana contra las diez (10) semanas.
La garantia debe ser reducida por tiempo ausente por cualquier razon y por ocho (8) boras cada dia complete en el cual la planta es incapaz de operar por condiciones mas alia del control de la Compania tai como: fuego, explocion, fiacaso de electricidad, tormenta, huelga, o biocoteo de una labor o grupo similar. Cuando un dia de fiesta o dias de fiesta ocurren en la misma semana de trabajo, ocho (8) horas del pago del dia de fiesta por cada dia de fiesta deben set aplicados hacia la garantia por la semana.
Seccion 2, La semana de trabajo garantizada debe aplicar solamente a los empleados regulares de tiempo complete quienes comienzan trabajo en el primer dia del horario de la semana de trabajo. Los empleados que sean descolocados por operaciones de las provi-siones de antiguedad (senoria) deben recibir pago solamente por esas horas trabajadas en la semana ocupados o descolocados.
Seccion 3, Los empleados llamados a trabajar se les proveera con un minimo de cua-tro (4) horas de trabajo o pago en vez de trabajo.
Seccion 4, Empleados llamados a trabajar fuera de su horario de trabajo regular despues de ya haberse ido a la casa por el dia y no en un tiempo cuando tai trabajo fusiona con su tumo regular debe ser garantizado cuatro (4) horas de trabajo de una vez y tiempo y medio de su cantidad regular de pago y los empleados llamados a trabajar fuera de su tumo regular deben ser pagado en acuerdo con las provisiones resumidas en las boras de la clausula de trabajo.
Seccion 5, La semana de trabajo garantizada debe aplicar a esos empleados regulares de tiempo complete quienes han completado su periodo de prueba antes del comienzo esa semana de planilla de pagos.
Seccion 6, Todos los empleados regulares de tiempo complete se les pagara tiempo de ganga en el dia que son lastimados, hasta el maximo de ocho (8) horas con la exception de empleados de mantenimiento programados un tumo de doce horas. Esos individuaies de mantenimiento seran elegibles hasta lo maximo de doce (12) horas pagadas.
4
HORAS DE TRABAJO
Section 1, La semana de trabajo por el proposito de la planilla de pagos debe comen-zar a las 12:01 a.m. en el lunes y al tin de medianoche el domingo en la tarde.
Section 2, Las horas de trabajo deben sen puestas en el horario en linea con los requisites de production y los empleados seran notificados con tiempo de cambios en el horario de los tumos excepto donde tai cambio es por circumstancias mas alia del control de la Compania.
Section 3, Empleados regulares de tiempo complete que estan trabajando en dias de fiesta deben recibir su pago regular de! dia de fiesta y deben ser pagados dos veces su can-tidad regular por el trabajo actualmente hecho en tai dia de fiesta.
Section 4,	Tiempo de ganga para matanza sera figurada en el trabajo asignado al gutter.
Tiempo de ganga por el piso de fabrication sera figurado en el trabajo asignado al hind saw (serucho del trasero).
Ciertos trabajadores cubiertos deben de ser pagados por tiempo de ganga mas nueve (9) minutos de tiempo gastado en las siguientes actividades: (1) poniSndose el equipo unico y especializado para seguridad (mandil metalico, guantes metalicos, protection para el braso y el estomago,, mangas, o mangas de pantalon); (2) quintandose el equipo unico, y especialiisado para seguridad; (3) caminando del lugar del trabajo en la lineade production al estation del lavado para lavar el equipo mencionado arriba; (4) esperando en la linea de estacion del lavado; (5) lavando el equipo unico y especializado para seguridad. El tiempo gastado en siertas actividades puede variar de trabajo a trabajo. trabajador a trabajador. departamento a departamento. y nueve (9) minutos es razonable aceder sobre termino medio. Si estas provisiones son detenidas por una corte de ley no accedidas con FLSA, dichas provisiones y/o los pagos de tiempo de ganga seran suspendidas y sujeto para renegotiation. Tiempo perdido en tai actividades no seran tornados encuenta tiempo necesario para provocar la obligation de la compania para proveer un segundo periodo de repose asi de cuarto almuerzo periodo reposo periodo.
Section 5,	Por el proposito de computar el pago por horas trabajadas en el domingo o pago de dias de fiesta, un tumo cortando a traves de dos (2) dias calendarios debe ser trata-do como trabajo en el dia en el cual el tumo comienza.
Section 6,	No habra piramidacion de pago premio. Cualquier trabajo hecho en un dia de fiesta, domingo. o el dia designado en vez de domingo como proveido en esto debe ser pagado a dos veces la cantidad regular de cada bora solamente y estas horas deben no ser usadas en computar horas extras de la semana.
Section 7, Tiempo y medio (1/12) sera pagado por todas horas trabajadas en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas en cualquier una semana. o echo (8) horas en cualquier un dia excep-to como proveido bajo la section 9 de este articulo.
Todos los empleados aparte de empleados de parte tiempo y temporales deben ser compensados a uno y medio (1 1/2) tiempo su cantidad regular por trabajo hecho en su sexto dia consecutive de trabajo dentro de la semana de trabajo con tai que ellos haigan tra-bajado todas las horas puestas en el horario durante los primeros cinco (5) dias de dicha semana de trabajo. Cualquier empleado no trabajando por negocios de union no se Ie pagar por esas horas por la Compania pero ese tiempo sera considerado tiempo trabajado como se relatione en la computation de seis dias consecutivos de horas extras pagadas.
5
Seccion 8, A cualquier empleado fuera del trabajo para negocios de la Union no se les pagara por esas horas por la Compania pero ese tiempo fuera sera considerado tiempo tra-bajado asi se diga en la computacion en seis dias consecutivos con pago de tiempo extra.
Seccion 9, Empleados trabajando en los domingos con la excepcion de empleados puestos en el horario regular deben ser compensados a dos veces su cantidad de cada hora regular. Para empleados trabajando en un dia designado como su domingo en vez del domingo calendario. ellos deben ser compensados a dos veces su cantidad regular de cada bora por trabajo hecho en el dia designado como el domingo de! empleado.
Seccion 10, Empleados de mantenimiento puestos en el horario regular quienes tra-bajan un horario de 12 (doce) horas por dia. cuatro (4) dias por semana seran pagados tiempo y medio por todas las horas trabajadas en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas en cualquier una semana o doce (12) horas en cualquier un dia.
Seccion 11, Trabajo sobre 12 horas en cualquier dia debera ser en un base voluntario excepto en situaciones inmensos al control de la Compania tai como: lumbre, explosion, falla de electricidad, o tormentas (Esta lista es de paso un ejemplo y no intensional ser inclusive). Horas despues de doce (12) boras se Ie ofreceran a los empleados con mas senoria primero. Empleados con menos puedan ser requeridos terminar el trabajo.
Section 12, Las ocho (8) horas de pago para dias feriados deben ser contadas como haras trabajadas en la computacion de tiempo extra con la excepcion de un dia feriado Io cual cae en Sabado y los que no cain. Estos se hara effective) el cuarto ano de este acuerdo.
TRABAJO DE PARTE TIEMPO
Seccion 1, Trabajo de horas extras por un departamento debe ser dividido Io mas justo y igual posible entre los mismos departamentos en diferentes turnos.
Seccion 2, Es entendido y entendido que tai igualizacion no puede ser afectada a diario. semanal, o hasta en una base mensual pero esfuerzos seran hechos para cambiar cualquier desequilibrio sobre periodos de tiempo razonables.
ANTIGUEDAD (SENORIA)
Seccion 1, Antiguedad (senoria) debe operar en una base divisional y departamental. Las divisiones y departamentos dentro de la planta son los siguientes:
A.	Division de Matanza
1.	Matanza, Dcsperdicios y Yardas
2.	Enfriadores y Congeladores
B.	Division de Procesamiento
1.	Production
2.	Manejamiento de Materiales
3.	Loadout
C.	Division de Mantenimiento
1.	Mantenimiento de Matanza/Subproductos
2.	Mantenimiento de Procesamiento
3.	Generation/Refrigeracion
4.	Mantenimiento General
5.	Bodega de Materiales
6.	Load Out/Mantenimiento de Manejamiento de Materiales
6
-_ia rr rf—TTi	ti ■ ■j.niirr n n <yn^ *»■	*> n »x***mf
D.	Subproductos
1.	Cueros
2.	Rendering
Seccion 2. Antiguedad (se noria) divisional debe ser es tab I eci da como la fecha que el empleado entra en la division. No debe haber trans ferencias de antiguedad (senoria) solo que el empleado quien crea posesar la habilidad requerida para entra a esa division someta una solicitacion para un traslado a la Oficina de Personal.
Sobre el recibimiento de tai solicitud el empleado debe ser dado una consideracion justa y razonable por colocacion dentro de una division diferente basada sobre la necesidad de la solicitud y la habilidad requerida del trabajo disponible. Las solicitudes seran con-sideradas basada caso por caso y disposicion de la solicitud sera hecha dentro 21 dias de la fecha de la solicitud archivada. La Compania documentara solicitudes y acciones tomadas por un reviso periodico por un representante de Union.
Seccion 3, Antiguedad (senoria) debe ser establecida como la fecha que el emplado es considerado calificado despues de que la primera oferta exitosa en ese departamento. o la fecha que el empleado es permanentemente asignado un trabajo como resultado del trabajo siendo puesto sin una oferta exitosa.
Seccion 4, Todos los empleados deben ser clasificados como empleados de periodo de prueba por los primeros sesenta (60) dias de empleo. Durante este periodo ellos no deben tener antiguedad (senoria) y no deben tener derecho a ningun beneficio excepto como proveido en declaraciones especificas dentro de este contrato. Tiempo acabado en suspension, permiso de ausencia por una herida o enfermedad no contara como dias de servicio hacia los sesenta (60) dias. Del cual quier modo. la union extendera este periodo por tri-enta (30) dias si la Compania solicita la extension en escrito antes de la terminacion de los primeros sesenta (60) dias.
Despues de la completacion exitosa del periodo de prueba, el empleado debe ser clasi-ficado como un empleado regular de tiempo completo y debe tener acceso de antiguedad (senoria) al procedimiento de la queja y los beneficios puestos adelante en esto.
A la discrecion exclusiva, la Compania puede disciplinar o terminal a un empleado de periodo de prueba y ninguna queja debe ser ordenada o procesada a favor de ese empleado. Empleados exitosamente completando el periodo de prueba deben hacerse empleados regulares de tiempo completo y deben tener antiguedad (senoria) comenzando desde la ultima fecha de ocupacion.
Seccion 5, Una lista de antiguedad (senoria) departamenta! y divisional debe ser man-tenida en un tablero de anuncios en la planta y debe ser republicada cada seis meses.
Seccion 6, La antiguedad (senoria) y el empleo de un empleado deben ser penalizados por lo siguiente;
1.	Renuncia voluntaria o depsedida por causa propia.
2.	Estando ausente por tres (3) dias consecutivos sin notiiicacion propia al empleador.
3.	Falta de regrasar de una suspension dentro de cinco (5) dias despues de que noticia escrita haiga sido enviada por correspondencia certificada a la direc-cion ultimamente conocida en el expediente de la compania. que haiga sido suministrada por el empleado.
7
4.	Ausencia debido a un descanso temporal por falta de trabajo por mas de doce (12) meses.
5.	Jubilation
6.	Prolongando un permiso de ausencia o violando terminos de eso.
Section 7,	Un permiso de ausencia de menos de doce (12) meses debido a trabjo/no trabajo relacionado a una enfennedad/herida no debe interrumpir la antiguedad (senoria) de un empleado.
Section 8,	Los empleados en un permiso autorizado deben retener y acumular antiguedad (senoria) durante tai permiso.
Section 9, Los rabajos scran puestos para apuesta de la siguiente forma: Descanso, despedida, renuncia, creation de un trabajo permanente, calificacion de un dueno de trabajo. En el evento de un apostador de trabajo exitoso es calificado. la compnia bebe otorgar el trabajo al siguiente apostador de trabajo por senoria en ese trabajo de apuesta. A la compania no se le requicrc poner un trabajo que no esta intencionado a llenar. Empleados no beben de apostar durante sus primeros seis (6) meses de empleo.
Section 10, Todas las puestas de trabajo deben declarer el titulo de trabajo, departamento. y la cantidad de pago por ese trabajo. Si un vacante de trabajo permanente ocurre, el trabajo sera puesto por un periodo de tres (3) dias de trabajo y el apostador exitoso sera movido al nuevo trabajo dentro de veintiun (21) dias o se le pagara la cantidad de dicho trabajo. Si el apostor no es movido dentro de noventa (90) dias se le pagara a el/elJa un adi-cional de $. 50 por bora.
Las ofertas de trabajo seran premiadas al empleado con mas antiguedad (senoria) divisional dentro de ese departamento el cual posea la abilidad de desempenar el trabajo. Si no bay un postor departamental elegible, la oferta entonces puede irse al poster divisional de mas antiguedad (senoria) y elegible de otro departamento. Despues de la primera oferta exitosa en un nuevo departamento, la fecha de antiguedad (senoria) divisional del postor debe entonces gobemar por futures ofertas dentro de ese nuevo departamento.
Section 11, Vacantes no ocupadas de dentro del departamento seran premiadas al postor divisional con mas antiguedad (senoria). Un empleado transferiendose en un nuevo departamento perdera como castigo su antiguedad (senoria) anterior del departamento al memento que calificaron en el nuevo trabajo.
Section 12, En el evento que un empleado sea el postor con mas antiguedad (senoria) en dos o mas trabajos cuales haigan sido ofertas concurrentemente, el empleado sera per-mitido a escojer la oferta que ellos deseen. El trabajo (o trabajos) no seleccionado bajo esta circumstantia debe ser premiado al proximo postor con mas antiguedad (senoria) sin la necesidad de anunciarlo nuevamentee.
Section 13, Al postor exitoso se le dara un periodo razonable de tiempo para demostrar competencia/calificar. Al momenta que el empleado haiga calificado por un tra-babajo nuevamente licitado, el empleado debe ser pagado la cantidad del trabajo y debe ser considerado una transferencia/calificada permanente. Por el proposito de esta clausula, razonable periodo de tiempo para demostrar competencia/calificar, "debe ser dejado a la exclusiva discrecion de la Compania.
Section 14, Un postor exitoso que se descalifica despues de haber sido considerado como el postor exitoso pero antes de calificarse debe ser regrasado a su trabajo anterior y helado de hacer una oferta mas adelante por un periodo de doce (12) meses. Un poster exi
8
toso que es descalificado por gerentes debe ser regrasado a su trabajo anterior y no debe ser penalizado portal descalificacion exepto que el empleado sera prohibido de licitar en el trabajo del cual el empleado era descalificado por un periodo de doce (12) meses. Esta sec-cion sera aplicada a todas los ofertas de trabajos ascendentes.
Seccion 15, Un poster exitoso en una apuesta lateral o descendente sera conjelado para apostar mas adelante por doce (12) meses excepto en el caso de una razon medica val-ida. Una oferta lateral o descendiente debe ser una instancia en la cual un empleado hace una apuesta exitosamenla a un trabajo igual a o menos en grado de trabajo que la apuesta exitosa de trabajo anterior del empleado. Un apostador que es descalificado por la admin-istracion sera regresado a su trabajo anterior y no sera penalizado para tai descalificacion excepto el empleado sera restringido para apostar por el trabajo de que el empleado fue descalificado por un periodo de doce (12) meses. Esta seccion no aplique a empleados en la Division de Mantenimiento.
Seccion 16, Un empleado que licita ascendientemente or lateralmente sera pagado la cantidad de su trabajo anterior (o la base en caso de que un empleado que no estaba en un trabajo de licitacion) hasta que el empleado haiga calificado en un trabajo nuevo. Sobre cal-ificacion el empleado debe recibir la cantidad de pago asociado con ese trabajo. Un empleado que haiga licitado a un trabajo con menos cantidad de pago debe ser pagado la cantidad menos en cuanto dicho empleado es movido a la nueva licitacion de trabajo.
Seccion 17, Cuando un vacante temporal existe y existira por mas que una (I) semana, el empleado en ese departamento con mas antiguedad (senoria) divisional y quien es completamente calificado a imediatamente desempenar el trabajo vacante, puede solicitar colocacion en el trabajo vacante, con tai de que es practice operacionalmente de honrar la solicitud. tai empleado puede ocupar el vacante temporalmente. En la ausencia de tai solicited, si operacionalmente impractico, la Compania puede coIocar a un empleado en un trabajo vacante, Un trabajo dejado vacante por la solicitud de un empleado no es propenso a solicitudes de antiguedad t senoria) o puesta de ofertas.
Seccion 18, La Compania reserva la opcion de descalificar a un dueno de trabajo, una vez calificado anteriormente, si ese individuo no puede desempenar el trabajo debido a cambios de tecnologia, velocidades de produccion, o otra incapacidad de desempenar el trabajo. Cualquier helada impuesta como resultado de ese individuo licitando tai trabajo sera quitado y el empleado sera permitido a licitar o sera propenso a puesto por los gerentes.
Seccion 19, Si el trabajo de un empleado es suprimido por cambios de tecnologia, el empleado no debe perder su cantidad de pago por un periodo de tres (3) semanas y el empleado sera colocado en una posicion donde es necesitado hasta que el empleado licita exitosamente a otro trabajo. Si un empleado rechaza o es descalificado de un trabajo igual o mas en pago entonces el empleado pierde como castigo su cantidad de pago garantizada y agarra la cantidad de pago aplicable por el trabajo que esta desempenando, con tai de que, ellos esten calificados para este trabajo. Si un trabajo suprimido/eliminado causa la helada de un empleado. la helada sera omitida. Si un trabajo es restablecido. al empleado se le permit ira regrasar al trabajo con tai que, esto ocurra dentro de noventa (90) dias del punto al cual el trabajo dicho fiiera suprimido.
Seccion 20, En el evento que un trabajo no este ocupado por el procedimiento de licitar para un trabajo. un empleado sera asignado al trabajo el cual sera considerado como una licitacion regular de trabajo excepto que no sera usado para la administracion de heladas
9
como esta describido en las secciones dentro de esta clausula. Para propositos de aclara-cion. un trabajo es que es asignado es un trabajo que babia sido puesto como licitacion y que no haiga tenido a nadie licitar este trabajo particular. Despues de que un individuo sea asignado un trabajo, ese individuo debe sostencr ese trabajo como lo harian con un trabajo regular seleccionado. Ese individuo una vez ya calificadio tambien comenzara a acumular antiguedad (senoria) por propositos de licitaciones de trabajo mas adelante seran pagados la cantidad calificada para tanto el trabajo como el dia de fiesta, tendran todas las opciones de licitacion abiertas a ellos y no tendrad ninguna helada impuesta sobre ellos.
Seccion 21, Todos los trabajos de la base deben ser excluidos del proceso de licitaciones de trabajo. La Compania puede a su discrecion exclusiva colocar empleados en estos trabajos que no son duenos de trabajo como esta resumido en secciones anteriores bajo la clausula de Antiguedad (Senoria).
En el evento que un empleado no tenga helada de licitaciones impuestsas como resum-idas en fa Clausula, ese empleado puede someter una solicitud para transferencia a la Oficina de Personal. A cada solicitud se le data consideration basada sobre antiguedad (senoria). abilidad de desempenar el trabajo y abilidad fisica.
Seccion 22, Los grupos reconocen y estan de acuerdo que los trabajos puestos en una lista abajo ban sido excluidos del proceso de licitaciones. Trabajos adicionales pueden ser identificados que necesitan ser agregados o excluidos de dicha lista. La Compania y la Union mutualmente estaran de acuerdo en esos cambios.
Seccion 23, Empleados que son ocupados en la misma fecha deben tener su antiguedad (senoria) determinada por orden alfabetica del apellido de ese empleado.
Seccion 24, Sujeto a toda ley aplicable, un empleado puede notificar a la compania de un cambio de nombre o numero de seguro social. Sujeto a verification legal, tai cambio de nombre o numero de seguro social puede ser hecho sin la perdida de beneficios.
Seccion 25, Cualquier empleado el cual su autorizacidn de trabajo se vence sera puesto en permiso de ausencia, sin beneficios, hasta un periodo de 30 dias para obtener la autorizacidn renovada del trabajo. Los empleados que reciben autorizacidn renovada del trabajo durante el periodo de 30 dias deben informar y regresar a trabajar inmediatamente al retiber la autorizacidn de trabajo. Los empleados que fallan de obtener (a autorizacidn renovada del trabajo seran despedidos al vencimiento de sus 30 dias de ausencia.
10
PARA VER LOS NOMBRES DE LOS TRABAJOS, VEA LA PAGINA #9
SLAUGHTER PERMANENT		TEMPORARY	
Hock Cutter Operator	3010	Knife Room	
First Dehomer	3010	Hang Inedible	
Midline Trim and Stamp	3010	Clean Office and Outside Area	
Hock Blower Operator	3010	Cutting Tail Switches	
Put on Hide Straps	3010	Wash Tongues and Heads	
Trim Weasands	3010	Bag Bungs	
Flush Heads	3010		
Pull Paunches from Gut Table	3010		
Cut Off Knuckles	3010		
High Wash	3010		
Wash Foreshanks	3010		
Saw Homs	3010		
Pick and Screen Brains	3020		
Save Pituitary Glands	3020		
Put CO2 in Offal Boxes/Trim	3020		
Pituitary Glands	3020		
Cut Large Intestines to Length	3020		
Box and Weigh Large Intestines	3020		
Cut Small Intestines	3020		
Feed Stricker Machines	3020		
Strapper Operator	3020		
Defat Intestines	3020		
Box and Weigh Small Intestines	3020		
Cattle Drive (Kill Floor Rampj Tag Head Carcasses	3010		
FABRICATION PERMANENT		TEMPORARY	
CO2 Injection	3140	Pick Flap Meat	3160
Clean Floors	3140	Transfer Loin Tails	3170
Clean Floors	3160	Navel Flipper	3150
Contamination Trimmers	3140	Trolley Line	3170
Loin Turner	3169	Maja Feeder	3170
Pre ID	3169	Tail Flipper	3170
Floor Cleaner	3168	Dispense Co2 in Combo	3173
Clean Floor	3170	Shank Belt Picker	3173
Hydraulic Knuckle Puller	3172	Combo Plate Bones	3173
Clean Floors	3172	Combo Rib Caps	3173
Anyl Ray	3173	Combo Fat from Whiz Table	3173
Check Trim Belt	3173	Transfer Short Ribs	3176
Extruder Trapper Operator	3173	Feed Maja Skinner	3191
ii
Make Boxes	3173
Stack Boxes	3173
Check Bone Belt	3173
Check Fat Belt	3173
Make Combos	3173
Box Femur Bones	3173
Combo Neck Bones	3173
Lean Pickers	3173
Feed Baader	3173
Floor Cleaner	3173
Watch Metal Detector	3173
Pass out Gloves	3173
Clean Floors	3174
Clean Floors	3163
Clean Floors	3176
Bone Cleaner	3191
Bag and Box Meat	3166
(Except Chucks)	
8300's #2, #5	3166
Leaker Line	3166
Load Baggers	3166
8300 #7, 8, and 9	3171
Bag and Box Meat	3171
(Except Full Rounds)	
Load Bagger	3171
Anyl Ray	3530
Box Chubs	3530
Labeler	3530
Combo Dumper	3530
Pole Boxes LFTB Dumper Watch Metal Detector
3166
3530
3530
MAINTENANCE TEMPORARY
Take Refrigeration Readings
Clean-up Engine Room
Locker Room
12
PROCESO DE OFERTAS DE TRABAJO
Seccion 1, Empleados comenzaran con trabajos asignados. El trabajo en el que el empleado esta en la fecha que un contrato es firmado debe ser el trabajo de ese empleado. Cuando el procedimiento de licitaciones de trabajo comienza. estos trabajos seran usados como el punto de iniciacion.
Seccion 2, Trabajos de Lead Man (Hombres de Guia), Scale Techs (Technico de Bascula), Quality Control (Control de Calidad), Trainers (Entrenadores) y Ergonomic Monitor (Monitor de Ergonomia) no estan sujetos a licitacion pero empleados que desean ser considerados para tai puesto pueden presentar solicitudes escritas para transferencia a cualquiera de estas posiciones. La Compania debe seleccionar a los empleados a ocupar estos trabajos de entre empleados que haigan hecho solicitud para transferencia. Los par-tidos reconocen y estan de acuerdo con el acatamiento con el Acuerdo de la OSHA diciem-bre 5, 1991. algunos de los trabajos de la lista de arriba van a ser excluidos del proceso de ofertas de trabajar despues de la evaluacion de trabajo y analisis de ergonomia y algunos trabajos seran involucrados en una votacion requerida. Estan de acuerdo que los trabajos de la lista de arriba que no seran modificados o eximinado de las ofertas de trabajo durante el termino de este acuerdo y sera expuesto al proceso de ofertas de trabajo.
SUSPENCION Y DEVOLUCION
Seccion 1, Cuando las reducciones del departamento sean necesarios, los empleados con la senoria menos del departamento, seran suspendidos. Los empleados suspendidos del departamento tendran el derecho de desplazar los empleados con la senoria menos de la division quienes la senoria es menos del empleado ejerciendo los derechos de desplaza-miento.
Seccion 2. Un empleado con mas senoria que no Io gustaria ejercer los derechos de desplazamiento puede elejir suspension pero despues no podra ejercer los derechos de desplazamiento hasta ser llamado a la linea con la senoria del departamento de los empleados subsiguiente a la suspension.
Seccion 3, Hacer notificado de suspension la Compania les dara a cada empleado que tiene derechos de desplazamiento con informacion suficiente ejercer su seleccion en orden de senoria.
Seccion 4, Cada empleado le dara a la Compania la direccion de el los escrita con el proposito de darles noticias requeridas. Todas las noticias seran mandadas a los empleados por correo a la direccion que se le dio a la Compania por cada empleado.
Seccion 5, Empleados que ejercen los derechos de desplazamiento en esta seccion y son llamados para regresar al departamento original a la linea con la senoria que no les gustaria regresar puede mantenerse en el departamento que esta desplazado y la senoria en ese departamento nuevo sera comenzado desde el primer dia que entraron a ese departamento. Estos empleados perderan toda la Senoria en el departamento anterior pero no perderan la senoria que han acudido durante la planta.
Seccion 6, Cuando empleados son llamados que son suspendidos ellos seran llamados en la orden opuesta que sean side suspendidos.
Seccion 7, Empleados que son llamados de suspension tendran cinco (5) dias de trabajo para regresar al trabajo despues de la fecha que han recibido la noticia enviada por cor-respondensia certificada, el recibio sera solieitado, la noticia sera mandada a la ultima
13
direction que el empleado le a proveido a la Compania. Empleados que fallen de reportarse dentro de cinco (5) dias de trabajo de la fecha que la noticia file enviada sera considerado como abondono voluntario.
Section 8, Cuando halla vacantes aberturas de dia a dia durante suspensions por causa de faltas/salidas, tales vacantes seran llenadas primero en la linea de senoria de empleados suspendidos presentes en la planta buscando trabajo de replazamiento de califi-caciones, la abilidad de dezempenar de imediato el trabajo y la abilidad fisica sea iguai dentro de los empleados egible para consideration.
Section 9, Faltas excesivas de doce (12) meses por cualquier razon causara que un empleado deje el trabajo. Como quiera, si una circumstancia existe fuera de comun, ese tiempo limitado puede extenderse a la total discresion de la Compania.
ORIENTACION
La Compania esta de acuerdo y permite, durante orientation de nuevos empleados, agentes de la Union la oportunidad de discutir el papel de la Union en la National Beef, tales pre-sentaciones no excederan mas de una bora.
DIAS DE FIESTA
Section 1, Empleados regulates de tiempo completo recibiran pago sin trabajar a su interes de tiempo derecho en effecto al tiempo del dia festivo por ocho (8) boras por dia (empleados de mantenimiento que estan programados para doce (12) boras recibiran doce (12) horas pagadas del dia festivo) por cada de los sguientes dias festivos que han propor-cionado ellos han trabajado el dia completo que se les a asignado imediatamente antes y despues del dia festivo exepto en caso de una falta excusada o una salida de ausencia que empieze no mas de siete (7) dias de calendario antes del dia festivo con el permiso escrito por el supervisor o una ausencia excusada o un permiso de ausencia, la cual empieza cl dia despues del dia festivo con el permiso escrito del supervisor o en un caso de una ausencia de emergencia asi como esta escrito bajo ausencia funeral o permiso de ausencia de Seccion 9 contenido aqui, Io cual empieza no mas de siete (7) dias de calendario antes del dia festivo con el permiso escrito por el supervisor o en caso de una ausencia de emergencia Io cual escrito bajo ausencia de funeral o permiso de ausencia Section 9 que contiene aqui, cual empezara el dia despues del dia festivo con el permiso escrito por el supervisor.
Section 2, Los dias festivos observados seran como Io siguiente:
Primer Dia del Ano
Dia con memorativo de los caidos
Dia de Independencia
Dia De Trabajo
Dia De Veteranos
Dia De Action De Gracias
Navidad
Dia De Noche Bueno
Si los Dias festivos cain en un Domingo, Seran observados el Lunes siguiente. Si el Dia de noche buena y Navidad cain en un Domingo y Lunes respective, el Dia festivo sera observi-do en Lunes y Martes.
14
Seccion 3, Empleados de prueba y medio tiempo no seran elegibles para el pago del dia festive.
Seccion 4, El Dia Festive no sera considered© como tiempo, trabajado por el propos-ito de calcular las horas extras de la semana.
Seccion 5, Todas las horas trabajadas durante el Dia festivo seran pagadas a dos (2) veses al interes del tiempo derecho por el tiempo trabajoado mas el pago del dia festivo. En el Evento que un trabajador sea asignado para trabajar en un dia festivo el trabajador debera trabajar las horas completas asignadas para ser eligible para recivir el pago del dia festivo; Por lo tanto, si el empleado tiene permiso por el supervisor, el empleado todavia tiene derecho a pago de dia festivo.
Seccion 6, Si el dia Festivo cai durante las vacasiones de un empleado, entonces el empleada se le pagara el Dia Festivo despues de que venga y trabajo el Horario regular de el en el siguiente pago.
Seccion 7, Las siguientes faltas no afectaran a los emplados en pago de Dia Festivo:
1.	La muerte de un miembro de la familia imediata. Esto incluye esposo, esposa, padre, madre, hermana, hermano, abuelo. abuela. suegro, suegra. tias. tios, hijos, hijastro, o hijo adoptive que estan viviendo en la casa del empleado en acuerdo de las provisiones de este contrato.
2.	Trabajo con el juredo o Hamada que esta en acuerdo con la provision de este contract©.
3.	Trabajo con La Guardia Nacional o Reserves en acuerdo con la provision en este contrato.
4.	Una Hegada tarde o tener que irse a la casa temprano el dia antes o el dia despues del dia festivo el empleado no sera descalificado para recibir el pago del dia festivo.
A.	El La llegada tarde es rnenos de tres (3) horas.
B.	empleado que es mandado enfermo a la casa el dia antes o el dia despues del dia festivo el empleado tendria que trabajar media hora (1/2) del horario que estan programados.
VACAC1ON
Seccion 1. Empleados de tiempo completo tendran el derecho de tener vacaciones pagadas igual a 40 horas pagadas por el indice erudito del empleado o I/52nd de los empleados antes del salario anual asi de lo indicado por previamente por el empleado, en lo unltimode de cada ano continuado por el empleador a si como la Compania indica lo siguiente:
■	Despues de un ano (Da tres (3) anos. una (1) semana.
•	Despues de ties (3) anos a diez (10) anos. dos (2) semanas
•	Despues de diez (10) anos a veinte (20) anos, tres (3) semanas
•	Despues de veinte (20) anos a veinticinco (25), cuatro (4) semanas
•	Despues de veinticinco (25) anos y todos los anos consecutivos,	cinco (5)
semanas.
Seccion 2, Para calificar para vacaciones pagadas el empleado tendra que pasar su fecha de aniversario y haber trabajado por lo menos cuanrenta y cuatro (44) semanas durante el ano de aniversario procedente. Por el proposito de esta seccion solamente. una
15
semana en donde el empleado trabaja por Io menos un (1) dia sera contado como una semana trabajada. Se le dara Credito al cual quier. primer (1) ano de aniversario por semanas faltadas por causa de deber civico de formar parte de un jurado, vacciones una maxima de veinti-seis (26) semanas danos compensables. cuatro (4) semanas de consecutivo ausencia medica. cuarenta-cuarto (44) semanas de ausencia de Union, y dos (2) semanas de auden-cia para los empleadores requieren para participar en la aciviades oficiales como miembro de la Guardia Nacional o en cual quier Reservacion Militario de las Estados Unidos.
Seccion 3, Una hoja de apuesta para firmarse de vacaciones estara preparada para el 15 de Diciembre de cada ano. A los empleados se les dara preferencia de vacaciones basa-do a la senoria del departamento y tendran la seleccion de escojer antes del 31 de dicimbre. Despues del 31 de Diciembre las vacaciones seran programadas en base de primera persona primer servicion y sera aprobado por la Compania. Ademas si el empleado apuesta o se translada a otra posicion despues del 30 de diciembre, su vacaciones programados tendran que ser aprovadas otra vez en su departamento nuevo y ningun empleado en su departamento nuevo sera forsado para ctnbiar sus vacaciones aprovadas. Por el proposito sola-mentaede las vacaciones programadas los departamentos del pizo de matanza, y departamentos de offal Seran divididos en los siguientes grupos:
Kill
Pullers/Fianl Rail
Skinning Line
Gut Table
Offal
Red Meat
White Meat
Chilled Offal
Seccion 4, Las vacaciones no seran acumuladas del ano a ano tendran que tomarse el ano siguiente de la fecha que sigue. Si la vacacion no es solicitadad durante el ano, sera automaticamente pagada.
Seccion 5, Empleados que soliciten puntualmente dos (2) semanas adelantados recibi-ran el pago de vacaciones en el dia de pago regular imediatamente precedente el comienzo de las vacaciones.
Seccion 6, La Compania esta de acuerdo y considera la preferencia al empleado en el horario de vacacions pero la Compania tendra la ultima probacion y desision en esta mate-na y puede limitar la cantidad de empleados en vacaciones de cualquier departamento para mantener eficiente operaciones.
Seccion 7, Los empleados que califican para vacaciones debajo de este articulo al tiempo de terminar su empleo seran pagados por vacacion pero no merceran a tomar las vacaciones.
Seccion 8, Esta entendido por todos los partidos que cualquier fecha de senoria arreglada que horita es usada por la Compania se mantendra por toda la vida de este contrato por el poposito de calcular y acumular los beneficios de vacaciones
Seccion 9, Al solicitar, todos los empleados con la excepcion de personal de departamento de Mantenimiento y Load Out, elegibles para vacaciones. recibiran el sabado antes de las vacaciones como una falta sin pago y escusado. proveriendo que tenga noventa (90) dias consecutivos de perfecta asistencia precediente de imediato del comienzo de vaca-
16
ciones. De cualquier mode, esos empleados que no requieren la criteria y solisiten el saba-do de descanso seran evualado en la base del individual.
PERIODOS DE COM I DA - PERIODOS DE DESCANSO
Seccion 1, Los empleados recibiran un periodo de comer por Io menos 30 minutos sin pago y no mas de una (1) bora del tiempo que estan programados por la Compania. Este periodo sera programado por lo menos al cuarto 4 medio (4 1/2) hora no mas tarde que el quinto 4 medio (5 1/2) hora, menos seis (6) hora del dia del trabajo completo.
Seccion 2, Los empleados seran permitidios quince (15) minutos de periodo de descanso el cual comenzara durante la tercer hora de trabajo cada dia. El tiempo sera deter-minado de y hasta la estacion de trabajo y el horario de la compania.
Seccion 3, Si la compania a planeado mas de (8) ocho horas en el dia, una adicion al pago por descanso debera ser agregada por la compania despues del fin del tumo.
Seccion 4, Si la Compania ha planeado mas de diez (10) horas de trabajo tai dia un tercer descanso debera ser planeado por la compania mas de 1 1/2 horas despues del segun-do descanso antes del fin del tumo.
Seccion 5, Si tiempo extra sin estar previsto resulta en que el empleado vaya trabajar mas de 8 boras el segundo tiempo de descanso sera puesto por la Compania durante la novena hora de trabajo y si mas de diez horas, el tercer periodo de descanso sera puesta por la compania durante la onzava hora de trabajo. Si el tumo de el empleado se pasa de 12 horas, un descanso pagado de 15 minutos a la trezava hora de trabajo sera agregada.
Seccion 6, Para el proposito de esta clausula, un dia de trabajo que exceda al horario normal por siete minutos o menos no seran calificados al factor de periodos de descansos mencionados en las secciones previas.
Seccion 7, En establediendo la segunda y tercera quebrada. la Compania tiene la opcion de observar la quebrada o permitir pago por o en lugar de dicha quebrada.
EQUIPO SUMINISTRADO POR LA COMPANIA
Seccion 1, La Compania le provee al empleado y el empleado tiene que asumir la obligacion de regresar o pagar por cualesquier equipo si la Compania determina su trabajo requiere dichos articulos. Botas de hule con punta de fiero para los empleados de manten-imiento. chairas, fiindas. metalicos, de algodon, de polar, o cualquier otro tipo de guante, cuchillos. proteccion de los oidos. herramienta de mantenimiento, y equipo de proteccion requerido por la compania o el gobiemo con la excepcion de propio calzado autorizado el cual seguira siendo responsabilidad del empleado almenos notado de otro modo.
Seccion 2, Empleados son dados equipo que es propiedad de la Compania el empleado debera firmar un recibo por el equipo como un recibo por el equipo como un acuerdo de responsabilidad por la seguridad y eficiente uso de tai y por la constodia de tai y el regreso a la Compania. Equipo de la Compania que no es regresado o tiene algun dano de su regreso sera pagado por el empleado. En tai caso que la Compania le rebajara el costo de tai equipo del cheque del empleado.
Seccion 3, Empleados usando herramienta o equipo proveido por la Compania seran pagados por el tiempo para reparar y preparar, proveendo tai preparacion y reparo son requeridos por la compania. La Compania a su opcion agna ciertos empleados tai deberes.
17
Seccion 4, La Compania le provee al empleado o empleados a afilar sus cuchillos para todos los empleados requeridos a usar cuchillos.
Section 5, La Compania le proveera la lavada de los guantes de algodou. batas de production a los empleados que son requeridos usar tales articulos. Estos articulos se quedaran en la propiedad de la Compania, empleados tienen las mismas obligaciones para el cuida-do de estos articulos y el retomo o pago por los articulos proveidos.
Seccion 6, La Compania reemplazara. sin costo al empleado. guante de hide, mandiles y mangas de plastico para todos los empleados en el empaque y operadores de serrucho, matanza, cuarto de cueros. y empleados de rendering, proveriendo que el articulo desgas-tado es intercambiado y no haiga evidencia que existe de ser destruido a proposito.
Seccion 7, La Compania reemplazara. sin costo al empleado, redecillas para el cabel-lo, proveriendo que el articulo es cambiadio y no hay evidencia que existe de ser destruido a proposito.
Seccion 8, La Compania les dara la option a todos los empleados para que las botas de hide y seran dedutidas del cheque si son ordenadas por la Compania.
Seccion 9, La Compania les dara la option a los empleados para que la Compania le quite de su sueldo si los empleados ordenan abrigos de congeloador. El empleado trabaja en un area donde la Compania siente que sera de beneficio el abrigo de congelador sea ordena-da por la Compania. La Compania proporcionara abrigos de conglador o overales insulados a los empleados en el departamento del congelador, quines realizan siguientes trabajos:
Freezer
Freezer man/Forklift
Manifestor
Lead Man
Rendering
Forklift Operator
Tallow Loaders
Lead Man
Warehouse
Outside Forklift Operator
Pallet Repair
Bailer Operator
Warehouse 2
Lead Man
Los abrigos para el congelador o los overoles de insulation seran distribuhidos un (1) par al ano, y si el par esta viejo o desgastado tendra que ser entregado a la Compania.
Seccion 10, La Compania reembolsara regularmente, a un trabajador de mantenimiento de tiempo completo por el costo de botas de piel de punta de fierro, en cada Aniversario de este contrato. Sera requirida prueba de compra y el rembolso sera hecho al costo actual y no debe de exeder a $150.00.
18
SIN HUELGA - SIN CERRAR FUERA
Seccion 1, La Union esta de acuerdo que ninguno o nadie de los empleados del par-tido de negociaciones cubrido por este acuerdo sera autorizado individuaImente o colecti-vamente, causa, ratificar. condonar, ayuda o tomar parte de cualquier huelga, retraso. parar de trabajar, sentarse, piquetar cualquier otra inteferencia durante el trabajo mientras el ter-mino de este acuerdo. En el evento que cualquier empleado sea involucrado en esta activi-dad. el empleado sera despedido imediatamente.
Seccion 2, La Compania esta de acuerdo que habra "lockout" para ninguno de los empleados cubridos por este acuerdo; esta entendido que la Compania ejercera los derechos en este acuerdo y no constituir a "lock out."
PL AN DE COMPRAS DE CARNE DE LOS EMPLEADOS
La Compania esta de acuerdo que los empleados deben de tener un programa para la com-pra de came. La Compania tendra descresion unica para todos los precios. metodos de standard de pages y horas de operacion. Estes derehos exclusives son consteder no mas para la Compania.
PROCEDIMIENTO DE QUEJAS
Seccion 1. En cases de que haya alguna queja de tin empleado de tiempo completo y la compania tendran que squir los siguientes pasos del acuerdo; la queja debe de ser proce-sada con los siguientes pasos:
PASO UNO - El empleado agredido discutira la razon con su supervisor imedi-ato dentro de dos (2) dias trabajados o la queja sera considerada serrada. Si el empleado y el supervisor imediato no pueden resolver el motive dentro de los 2 dias trabajados despues de la discusion, el empleado agredido puede apelar esta queja al siguiente paso.
PASO DOS - Si este motivo es apelado por un segundo paso, el motive de queja sera sida redusida por escrito, firmada por el trabajor agraviado y presenado al Departament Superintendence. Todos los motivo de queja excepto aquellos com respecto despido o con una emision escrita del individuo disciplinado cual tiene una emision del trabajador en los Siguientes 7 dias de trabajo de acuerdo con la seccion 8 de este articula. Sera sido ficbado en escrito por este paso en los dentro los siete (7) dias del calendario despues esta fecha de commission serpuesta afensa. Cual quien motivo de queja incluing el despido sera sido fichado en los unltimos u (5) cinco dias del calendario despues de despido. Cual quier motivo de queja incluyendo una emicion escrita del individuo diciplinario seran entre esos tiempos limitados sera considerado como inoportuno y renunciar a los siguientes ingresos de escrito el motivo de queja, el Departamento del Superientendente o otra representative de la Compania Sera n proveedir una respuista escrita por la queja en los (5) cinco dias de dias de calendario. Si la materia no sea resuelta, la Union puede apelar la materia con estos siguientes pasos.
19
La el motivo de queja sea por escrit o seran identificadas:
A.	Los factus fenerales seran dados levantados los motives de quejas.
B.	Los motives de queja seran obediente.
C.	y [os requisites liberados.
PASO TRES - Un representante de la Union o agente de negocio puede apelar la queja con presentando una copia de la queja y la respuesta superintendiente del departamento. A la division de manejamiento dentro de 7 (sietc) dias de calendars de la fecha de la respuesta del superintendiente del departamento. La Union y la Compania discutiran y trataran de resolver el motivo. La Compania proveera a la Union con una respuesta escrita dentro de 7 (siete) dias de calen-dario despues de la discusion. Si el motivo no esta resuelto, la Union puede apelar el motivo al siguiente paso.
PRE ARBITRATE - Dentro de los 7 (siete) dias despues de la fecha de la respuesta escrita por la Compania, el representante de personal de la Union Local puede requerir una junta con el Vice Presidente, Mayordomo General para ver si la queja se puede resolver antes del afbitraje. Esta junta se lievara acabo mutual-mente en el tiempo conveniente y cada partido puede incluir partidos adicionales si ellos desean. Si el motivo no esta resuelto, La Union por un representante de persona] puede requerir afbitraje a la queja dicha solicitud sera archivada por escrito dentro de 15 dias despues de la junta.
ARBITRATE - Si dentro de 10 dias despues de haber recibido tai solicitud escrita, los partidos no llegan algun acuerdo con el drbitro, cualquier partido puede solicitar 5 nombres del mediatador federal y un servicio de conciliation. La Union elijira 2 nombres del panel de arbitradores propuestos y daran 2 nombres a la Compania dentro de 10 dias despues del recibo de la Union del panel. La Compania despues sacara 2 nombres y sometera lo mismo a la Union dentro de 10 dias despues det recibo de la Compania de los nombres elejidos por la Union. El resto de los nombres del panel de arbitradores actuaran como el arbitrador de la discusion. La decision del arbitrador de la queja sera el final y amarrada con los partidos proveendo que no tendran autoridad mas de los terminos aplicados de las condiciones espesi ficas en este acuerdo. El arbitrador sometera su decision por escrita dentro de 30 dias despues de la conclusion de la sumision de proves. La compensation de los gastos del arbitrador seran compartidos por igual por la Compania y la Union.
En el evento que un empleado es reintegrado por un arbitrador, la responsi-bilidad maxima de la Compania sera los sueldos perdidos del empleado de National Beef Packing Company reducido por toda la compensation recibido por el empleado durante el periodo de despedido de otro empleo, beneficio del seguro contra el desempleo. compensation de trabajo, u otros sueldos.
20
Seccion 2 La presentacion de la queja debe ser hecha por tin representante de la Union y el empleado en su tiempo propio de todos los pasos del proceso menos esos miembros del comite de queja seran pagados por el tiempo faltado durante el trabajo mientras atiendan el tercer (3) paso de las juntas y de pre arbitraje.
Seccion 3 El arregio de cualquier queja de y despues del Paso Dos (2) sera reducido a escrito y firmado por los dos partidos. Tai acuerdo sera final izado y cerrado por todos los partidos de este motivo.
Seccion 4 El tiempo para perfeccionar cualquier paso del procedimiento de queja puede ser extendida con un arregio mutual de la Compania y la Union. Arreglos de la extension seran escritos y firmados por un representante de los dos la Compania y Union.
Seccion 5 Un comite de motives de queja, de los que no sean mas de cinco (5) empleados de tiempo completo seran designados po la Union y sos miembros encar-gados.
Seccion 6 En cualquier paso del procedimiento de esta queja, el comite de ejecutivos de ia Union Local tendra la autorisacion final con respecto a cualquier empleado agredido cubierto por este acuerdo. Para negar o procesar la queja, reclamacion, dificultad o discusion de juicio mas adelante del comite ejecutivo, tai queja o discusion de falta de meritos y faltade justificacion bajo los terminos para satisfacer el comite ejecutivo de la Union Local.
Seccion 7 La Compania le proveera una copia de el archivo de acciones del empleado. Si se le ha dado disciplina al empleado afectado.
Seccion 8 Todas las acciones disiplinarias seran dadas con los trabajadores en los proximos 7 dias de trabajo siguiendo el conocimiento de la Compania de la infraccion.
CLAUSULA DE AHORROS
Esta asimulado por los partidos que cada provision de este contrato esta en conform i-dad con todas las leyes aplicadas de los Estados Unidos y el estado de Kansas. Si despues es determinado que podria violar alguna legalidad efectiva al gobiemo o la orden del estado o estatuto de obediencia con alguna provision o provisiones de este acuerdo. Los partidos acordados a renegociar tai provision o provisiones del acuerdo con el proposito de hacerlos conformes a tai gobiemo orden de estado o estatuto. y las otras provisones de este acuerdo seran afectados por medio de esto; pero quedaran en fuerza total y en efecto.
RENUNCIA
Seccion 1, La Compania y la Union por los terminos de este acuerdo voluntariamente descalifican el derecho de renuncias y acuerda que cualesquier otras no seran obligadas al pacto de colectividad a cualquier tema o referenia al motivo cubierto por este acuerdo o con respecto a cualquier tema o motivo referente o cubierto por este acuerdo aunque tales temas o motives que no han estado con el conocimiento o contemplation de cualquiera de los partidos de el tiempo que hallan negociado o firmado este acuerdo.
Seccion 2, Los partidos conocidos durante la negociacion que resulta en el acuerdo que cada uno alia tenido derechos limitados y oportunidades para ser demandadas y prop-uestos con el respecto cualquier tema o motivo. no han sido removidos por la ley o de cualesquier area del comite depropuestos y que el entendimiento del arregio que los partidos despues y ejercer el derecho y la oportunidad de llevar acabo este acuerdo.
21
Seccion 3, Este es el acuerdo completo referendose al todos los sueldos y beneficios al cual cualesquier empleado sera dado derecho y ser entendido y acordado que la Compania no tiene obligacion para pagar el sueldo o beneficios aparte de esos prohibidos especificamente aqui.
Seccion 4, En el evento de un nuevo trabajo es creado bajo el termino de este acuerdo, la Compania descutira el reto aplicable para el nuevo trabajo con la Union.
En la ausencia de acuerdos, la Compania establecira un grado y pondra el trabajo. Despues que el trabajo ya haya sido operado por 30 (dias) y si el acuerdo no ha sido llegado la Union puede quejarse del grado establecido.
SUBCONTRATANDO
Los partidos a este acuerdo han discutido sub contratacion del desempeno del trabajo por los empleados de la Unidad de acuerdos son los siguinetes;
Ambos partidos desean minimizar los efectos de la subcontratacion conforme la seguridad del trabajo a empleados y trabajaran con ese fin.
Cuando subcontratando operaciones que existen seran necesarias o deseadas, en juicio total de la Compania, la Compania notificara a la Union. Si la Union desea discutir los efectos de la seguridad de trabajo del empleado, los partidos se reuniran para ese proposito. La Compania acuerda a demorrar cualesquier suspensin cuasada por subcontratacion hasta al menos (2) dos semanas subsiguientes a la noticia de la Compania a la Union de las inten-siones de la Compania, para que los partidos tengan amplio tiempo para suguerir metodos para avitar la suspension o minimizar los efectos adversos. La Compania acuerda no subcontratar un departamento entero.
PERMISOS DE AUSENCIA
Seccion 1, La Compania le provee salidas de ausencias a empleados de tiempo completo. Mientras en salida de ausencia, la senoria de los empleados continuara; El tiempo de salida no sera considerado como tiempo trabajado y la Compania provee la salida con la continuacion de Beneficios de aseguranza por treinta (30) dias de calendario.
Seccion 2, SALIDA PERSONAL - Una salida por razones personales sera requerida por escrito y si aprovada por la Compania, sera dada hasta por 30 dias y extendida por ter-minos adicionales no excediendo 30 dias sin la aprovacion de la Compania.
Seccion 3, SALIDA DE MEDICO - Una salida por razones medicas no relacionada con el trabajo puede ser requerida por escirto y sera acompanada con una explicacion del doctor del empleado. Emergencias de medico verificadas por la Compania le dara el derecho a la Compania a sus discrecion para poner al empleado en una salida de medica. Salida medica, si es concedida, sera por un periodo de no mas de cien ochenta (180) dias con la continucacion de aseguranza durante tai tiempo y subjeto a termination antes de recuper-arse si esto ocurre dentro de este periodo inicial. Si las condiciones de medico continua, la salida puede ser extendida por la Compania debajo de tales condiciones. con o sin los beneficios, y con tai confirmaicon de medica como la Comapnia Io requiere, incluyendo exam-enes por un doctor seleccionado por la Compania. Si falla notificar la Compania de imedi-ato y se ofrece a regresar a trabajar cuando su doctor de tratamiento lo da de alta sera violation de los tenninos de la salida medica y sera despedido.
22
Seccion 4, SALIDA DE UNION
A.	No mas de dos (2) empleados regulares de tiempo completo quienes son elejidos o apuntados a una posicion de tiempo completo, y es confirmado por la Union en escrito, sera concedido una salida sin pago o beneficios y continuara la senoria para el termino y no excedera de la vida de este Acuerdo. Desde una (1) semana de notificar para regreesar al trabajo ellos seran puestos en su trabajo anterior sin pettier senoria, proveriendo que ellos reportaron a su trabajo dentro de treinta (30) dias de calendario de la fecha de su posision de tiempo completo con los terminus de la Union.
B.	Empleados regulares de tiempo completo escojidos por la Union atender negocios de la Union fuera de la planta, sera con permiso de manejamiento de la planta proveendo salidas de ausencias sin pago por el periodo no excediento 30 dias. La Compania limitara el numero de empleados sera concedidos salida a tres (3) no mas de 2 de cierto departa-mento requeriendo confirmacion del negocio de la Union de la oficina de la LInion y noti-cia por adelanto de la salida necesitada.
Seccion 5, Salida de Ausencia al Servicio Militar Empleados regulares de tiempo completo que abondonan su empleo con la Compania para entrar a ser miembro activo del servicio militar tendran el derecho para ser empleados de nuevo como es concedido por la ley. Empleados regulares de tiempo completo quienes son miembreos de la guardia nacional, o de] servicio militar de los Estados Unidos seran concedidos, ausencia o salidad para atender periodos de entrenamientos requieridos proveendo a la Compania con justifi-casion por escrito de tales ensayos o periodos de entrenameinto dentro de dos dias trabajados del recibo que cualquier ordenes o de cualquier otra justificasion escrita que el empleado ha recibido.
Seccion 6, SALIDA DEL SERVICIO AL JURADO - Empleados regulares de tiempo completo llamados al servicio dejurado en el candado, del Estado o Corte Federal se le concedes una salida de servicio de jurado cuando el empleado presente a su supervisor de ime-diato un copia de la cita de juicio dentro de dos (2) dias de trabajo del recibo de la cita. Proveeriendo el empleado acceda la noticia con anticipo requerido del dicho empleado y sera pagado la cantidad que ellos hubieran ganado si ellos no hubieran sido prevenidos a trabajar por el servicio del jurado, pero no excedera ocho (8) horas al dia o cuarenta (40) horas por semana. Empleados de mantenimiento. programados al tumo de doce (12) horas seran pagados hasta doce (12) horas al dia y o al maximo de treinta - seis (36) horas a la semana. Para calificar al tai pago. el empleado le pagara a la Compania la cantidad recibi-da por el servicio del jurado, reteniendo cualquier cantidad recibida como gastos exceos del pago diario o por tai servicio del jurado. Empleados dados de alta del servicio de jurado durante el horario de las horas programadas para trabajar o anterior al horario programado del empleado seran notificados pronto a su supervisor quienes haran uno de los dos los despensaran del balance de ese tumo los requieran a reportarse al trabajo.
Seccion 7, Empleados en salida de ausencia se requiere que notifiquen a la Compania lo mas pronto por la razon que la salida file requerida y no existe ya. Si fracasa en hacer esto sera terminacion de imediata de la salida o por despido.
Seccion 8, Cualquier empleado de cualquier tipo de salida quien empieza trabajar por cualquier otra personal o compania o quien comienza empleo por si mismo sera consider-ado como aver dejado el trabajo voluntariamente su empleo.
23
Seccion 9, Tiempo razonable sin pago, la cantidad del tiempo ser determiada por la compania, sin embargo, tales ausencias dispensadas no excederdn siete (7) dias, seran otor-gados a empleados que tienen los actos personales con el Servicio de la Inmigraci6n y la Naturalizacion, la documentacidn proporcionada que verifica los dias de la liberacidn se proporciona en el avance.
Seccion 10, Empleados de cualquier clase de salida de usencia donde los beneficios seran dados se les requiere para pagar sus benificios semanales de contribuir durante el periodo de ausencia en orden de mantener sus beneficios de reportaje.
PERMISO DE FUNERAL
Seccion 1 Ausencias debido a la muerte de un miembro o la familia inmediata. de jor-nada complete y regular de empleado se trataran como una ausencia dispensada. Un empleado de jomada complete regular tan ausente sera pago esos dias que se planifican como jomada de trabajo para el empleado proporcionaron ellos estan en la ndmina activa. El empleado sera pagado su cantidade principal ocho horas de pago, excepto empleados de mantenimiento puestos en el horario en tumos de doce (12) horas, recibiran 12 (doce) boras de pago, por cada de tres dias consecutivos (uno del cual debe ser el dia del funeral) en el cual el empleado de Io contrario estaria puesto en el horario para trabajar.
Seccion 2, El empleado debe notificar a la Compania del proposito de su ausencia en o antes del primer dia de tai ausencia.
Seccion 3, El empleado debe ser requerido a dar prueba satisfactoria a la Compania de la muerte la relacion del empleado al difunto, la fecha del funeral y la asistencia ver-dadera al funeral.
Seccion 4, Cualquier pago de funeral debe ser incluido en la computacion de tiempo extra o cual quier otro tipo de recompesa de pago.
Seccion 5, Familia imediata debe ser definida como esposo/a madre, padre, hermana, hermano, abuela, abuelo, suegro, suegra. Hijastro. o hijo adoptivo del empleado viviendo en casa del empleado.
Seccion 6, Tiempo razonable. fuera sin pago, duracion de tiempo de ser determinado por la Compania, sera concedido a empleados que estaran viajando a un lugar distante para atender al fuenral de un miembro de la familia inmediato, como definido en la Seccion cinco (5).
24
ERGONOMIA
Seccion 1, Programs de Ergonomia/Seguridad
•	La Compania asegura que atencion significative es dado para temas sobre ergonomia/seguridad en la planta.
•	La Compania reconoce que el invulcramiento del trabajador es crucial para el exito del cualesquier programa de ergonomia/seguridad.
•	La Compania esta de acuerdo en evaluar nueva technologia economica y convenient? y procesar camibios para riesgos factores previo a puesto de practica.
•	El programa de Ergonomia/Seguridad incluye una posicion regular de tiempo de monitor, nueve (9) monitores de eigonomia/seguridad y un comite unido de labor/supervisor ergonomia/seguridad.
Seccion 2, Regular de Tiempo de Monitor: El monitor sera responsible de:
•	Discusiones con el empleado en maneras de mejorar sus trabajos.
•	Someter proyectos a supervisores para consideration.
•	Trabajar con supervisores en proyectos ergonomicos.
•	Establecer una agenda y reunirse mensualmente con monitors de ergonomia para discutir proyectos en sus areas designadas y cualesquier problemas que esten teniendo con el programa.
•	Asistir juntas con comite unido de labor/supervisor ergonomia/seguridad.
•	Progreso de documentos sobre proyectos de ergonomia para el comite unido de labor/supervisor y entregarse los a los monitores de sus areas designadas.
•	Revisar regularmente la lista de trabajadores en trabajos livianos y altemativos. al igual que aquellos en el programa condicionado y trabajos que estan desem-penando, con el Departamento de Enfermeria de la Compania. El Departamento de Enfermeria debe trabajar con el monitor regular de tiempo de ergonomia, si problemas resultan con respecto al trabajo asignado a los trabjadores heridos. El monitor regular de tiempo de ergonomia puede resolver con este tipo de problemas.
Seccion 3, Comite Unido de Labor/Supervisor Ergonomia/Seguridad: Miembros del comite seran responsable por:
■	Asegurar information del trabajador en la identification y resolucion de peligros ergonomicos.
•	Los miembros del Comite de Ergonomia/Seguridad recibiran dos (2) dias de entrenamiento por la Compania en un ano calendario. Estos se conduciran en junio y diciembre. En el caso que un miembro nuevo es asignado al comite el/ella recibira la instrucci6n dentro de 60 dias de la cita. Este dia de la instruction del initial contara como uno de los dos dias anuales de instruction.
•	Medio dia sera tornado annualmente para dar un curso de repaso.
•	El Comite se junatara mensualmente para revisar y hablar sobre el progreso del
programa y temas relacionados.
•	El Comite recibira de la Compania justification cuando economicamente convenient? al examinar los controles de ingenieria y no poner los en practica.
•	La Compania periodicamente revisara copias de el cuademo de bitacora de OSHA 200.
25
Seccion 4, Monitores del comite de Ergonomia/Segurida
•	El Comite consistera de no mas de diez (10) empleados de negociacion, el cual deberal tener mas de un ano de senoria, todos todos designados por la Union, uno (I) monitor regular de tiempo, dos (2) de cada primer y segundo tumo de Fabrication, uno (1) de cada primer y segundo tumo de Matansa. uno (1) del departamento de Cueros, uno (1) de Rendering, y uno (1) de Mantenimiento.
•	El monitor de Ergonomia (ME) tendran areas designadas de responsabilidad, tai cubriendo todo la planta.
El ME trabajar con la Compania, Departamento de Seguridad, el comite unido de labor/supervisor y el monitor regular de tiempo provee in formaci on al identificacion del elemento de tension de ergonomia, analisis de esos trabajos. y el desarollo y evaluation de soluciones recomendadas.
■	El ME conducira dos veces al mes una caminada al rededor para inspeccionar la area designada para asistir en la identification de areas problematicas y ofrecer soluciones potentiates.
•	El ME sera incluido en todos los proyectos pendientes de ergonomia en sus areas y seran proveidos con tiempo para consultar con los trabajadores afectados para explicar cualesquieres cambios y para asistir en juntar information del empleado.
•	El ME sera proveido con reportes de peligros de ergonomia para presentar areas sospechas con problemas a la Compania.
•	La Compania pondra photos de monitores incluyendo el nombre del ME y area del trabajo en el boletin del pasiUo.
•	El ME se reunira mensualmente con el comite unido de labor/supervisor de ergonomia.
■	El ME se le concedera un minimo de cuatro (4) horas por mes para conducir estas actividades.
El Monitor Ergondmico / Monitor de Seguridad: El monitor ergonomico de jomada completa se pagara en no menos que el equivalente del grado cuatro (4) de la division que 61/ella trabajaba en el tiempo de la cita. En el caso el monitor viene de cualquier division con un grado de la pago mas alto que grado cuatro (4), ellos scran pagados el grado mAs alto.
•	La union designard uno (1) empleado a Uegar a ser el monitor ergonomico / del-egado. Este individuo tendril un hor ino del trabajo de 8:30 de la manana hasta 5:00 de la tarde. El lunes a viemes y los sabados designados, con una interruption del almuerzo de 12:30 de la tarde-l:OO de la tarde. El/ella tendra la Compania los deberes ergonomicos designados entre las horas de 8:30 de la manana y 2:30 de la tarde. En la Compania'el gasto de esa persona asunura los deberes caminantes de auxiliar de vuclo de 1:00 de la tarde hasta 5:00 de la tarde.
26
FONDO DE PENSION
Seccion 1, Los empleadores deben contribuir veinty-nueve doilares ($29.00) por mes en parte decada dia y cada trabajador eligible, proporcionar sus requisites para ser eligibles cada mes. Una cantidad eontribuida mensualmente sera aumentada $2.00 por cada uno en el aniversario de un ano, por el acuerdo de vida de este contrato.
Seccion 2 Elijibilidad para contribuciones de fondos se definira a incluir a cualesquier empleado quien tiene doce (12) meses de empleo con el empleador, proviado cada tai empleado, de cada tai mes de empleo, a modo de ser elijible, deberia ver trabajado o obten-er el minimo de ochenta (80) horas de tiempo derecho, horas extras, dias festivos y/o vaca-ciones para cada tai mes, pero excluye personas en salida de ausencia sin pago debido a incapac id ad o heridads de compensacion de trabajo.
Seccion 3, Empleados nuevos no seran elijibles a participar en el plan de retiro (401K.)
BENEFICIOS DE SALUD
Beneficios de salud efectivos "sobre ratificacion de este acuerdo". Esto es un sumario de beneficios. Detalles van a ser incluidos en el contrato del proveedor. Cobro para los empleados de Seguro de salud sobre retificacion de este acuerdo sera de $26.00 semanales y sera aumentado adicionalmente un $ 1.00 por cada ano de aniversario de este acuerdo.
Eligibildad Costo de Eligiblidad	EPO 6 meses $26 + aumentara $1 por ano	PPO 6 meses $26 + aumentara $1 por ano
Deducible	Dentro Del Area	Dentro Del Area
Individual	$400	$500
Familia	$800	$1,000
	Fuera Del Area	Fuera Del Area
Individual	$600	$700
Familia	$1,800	$2,100
% de Beneficio	Dentro Del Area	Dentro Del Area
	90/10	80/20
	Fuera Del Area	Fuera Del Area
	65/35	60/ 40
Maximo de su Bolsillo	Dentro Del Area	Dentro Del Area
Individual	$3,000	$4,500
Familia	$6,000	$10,000
	Fuera Del Area	Fuera Del Area
Individual	$5,000	$5,000
Familia	$15,000	$15,000
27
Visita de Oficlna $20 Deducible de Emergencia Dentro Del i $50 Fuera Del Z $100 Cargos que no scan Emergencia Severn en el Serv Prescription Co-Pay: Generic	$19 + aumentara I Name Brand	$24 + aumentara !	Dentro Del Area deductible + 25% Fuera Del Area deductible + 45% krea	Dentro Del Area $100 rea	Fuera Del Area $200 tio de emergencia no seran cubiertos por el plan. 1 por ano	30% 1 por ano	
Elan Dental;		
Deducible		$50/$100
Tlpo A (Limpiezas)		100% Despues Ded.
Tipo B (Limaduras)		80% Despues Ded.
Type C (Puentes)		50% Despues Ded.
Maximo		$750/$1,500
Plan de		No empleados nuevos despuds de 1-1-04
Deducible		0
Armadura		$14.00
Lente de Vista Individual		$10.00
Lente de Vista con Anteojo		$15.00
Lente Trifocal		$17.50
Aphakle of Lenticular		$17.50
1 Examen de los Ojos por ano por Subscri[	tor	$17.00
En beneficio mAximo de tiempo de vida es $2	000,000.	
Todos los empleados regulares de tiempo complete seran elegibles por $7,500 en seguro de vida. Sin nungun costo para el empleado, En el primero (1st) del mes por dicho siguientes empleados del primer (1st) de 365 idas de servicio continuo.
SEGURO DE INCAPACIDAD
Seccion 1, Aseguransa de Incapacidad se va a proveer para todos los empleados en la unidad del regateo. Beneficios semanales van a ser pagados si un empleado es considera-do elegible para estos beneficios. La determination de elegebilidad va a ser concedido exclusivamente por la Compania.
Seccion 2,
A. Efectivo sobre ratificacidn, los beneficios semanales la cantidad sera $240.00. Los doce meses maximos sera $2,400.00 para seguir en efectivo por la duraci6n de este contrato.
28
Seccion 3,
A.	Efectivo durante la vida de este contrato, la cantidad del beneficio semanal va a ser $180.00. La cantidad maxima por un ano calendario va a ser $1800.00
B.	Para ser elegible durante un peijuicio, el empleado puede calificar en el primer (1) dia si el empleado puede proveer un documento de un medico indicando el tiempo que se requiem por el peijuicio siendo mas de ocho (8) dias seguidos.
C.	Elegibilidad - Un empleado nuevo va a ser elegible para Aseguransa en el primer (1) dia del mes siguiendo los primeros (1) 365 dias de empleo continuado.
SUELDOS
Seccion 1. El plane de salario para empleados cuvridos sobre este contrato es como sigue:
A.	Divisiones de Matansa y por Division de Producto
	Upon Ratification	12/15/2008	12/14/2009	12/20/2010	12/19/2011
Base	11.95	12.20	12.50	12.80	13.10
1	12.05	12.30	12.60	12.90	13.20
2	12.15	12.40	12.70	13.00	13.30
3	12.25	12.50	12.80	13.10	13.40
4	12.35	12.60	12.90	13.20	13.50
5	12.50	12.75	13.05	13.35	13.65
6	12.90	13.15	13.45	13.75	14.05
7	13.40	13.65	13.95	14.25	14.55
8	13.60	13.85	14.15	14.45	14.75
B.	Division de Proceso
	Upon Ratification	12/15/2008	12/14/2009	12/20/2010	12/19/2011
Base	11.95	12.20	12.50	12.80	13.10
1	12.05	12.30	12.60	12.90	13.20
2	12.15	12.40	12.70	13.00	13.30
3	12.25	12.50	12.80	13.10	13.40
4	12.45	12.70	13.00	13.30	13.60
5	12.50	12.75	13.05	13.35	13.65
6	12.90	13.15	13.45	13.75	14.05
7	13.15	13.40	13.70	14.00	14.30
8	13.95	14.20	14.50	14.80	15.10
C.	Division de Mantenimiento
	Upon Ratification	12/15/2008	12/14/2009	12/20/2010	12/19/2011
Base	11.95	12.20	12.50	12.80	13.10
1	12.00	12.25	12.55	12.85	13.15
2	12.25	12.50	12.80	13.10	13.40
3	12.50	12.75	13.05	13.35	13.65
4	12.90	13.15	13.45	13.75	14.05
5	13.75	14.00	14.30	14.60	14.90
6	14.30	14.55	14.85	15.15	15.45
7	14.80	15.05	15.35	15.65	15.95
8	15.85	16.10	16.40	16.70	17.00
29
D.	EI pago al empesar para empleados nuevos va a ser $.50 bajo el pago base. Sobre la qualificacion del trabajo, al empleado sele pagara la cantidad qualificada por ese trabajo.
Seccion 2, Todo empleado que trabaje durante las horas de las 6:00 P.M. y 6:00 A.M. va a ser pagado quince sentavos ($0.15) por hora arriba de su pago regular con la excep-cion de que no se le pagara si el tumo de la manana de matansa empiesa 45 minutos menos antes de las 6:00 A.M.
GRADOS DE TRABAJOS
BASE RATE
Fab	Kill	By Products
Anyl Ray	1st Hang Off	All New and Rehires
Bag Meat Bone Cannon Box 50/Extruder	2nd Hang Off Angus Stamper Apply Hot Wgt Tag	Clean Up Man (Hides)
Box Chubs	Apply Rice Paper	QA
Box Femur Bones Clean Whizzard Knives Combo Dumper	Bag & Tie Bungs Bag Ear Tags Carcass Check	All New & Rehires
Cere Gun	Carcass Prewash Oper	Maintenance
Check Trim/Fat Belt	Check for Tonsils	All Maint. New & Rehires
Clean Floors	Clean-up Outside/Offices	Supply Room (warehouse)
Combo Maker	Cold Chain Feeder	Electrician
Export Box Maker	Computer Operator	Refrigeration
Feed Mayas	Condemn Room Operator	Power Plant
Feed Table	Cork Heads	Generation
Finger Trim	Count Contamination	P/S (Scale)
Hang Off Chucks	Cut Bridge on Omasum	Warehouse
Kick out Cattle	Cut Off Front Feet	Corrugated Waste
Knife Glove Room	Cut Off Homs	Pallet Repair
Knuckle Puller	Cut Off Tail Switch	Rendering
Label Box	Drive Cattle (Ramp)	Fabrication
Locker Room	Ear Tag Station Operator	Construction
Pre-ID/Mark CSR	Feather Bone Buster	Shop Mechanic
Pull Combo	Flush Heads	Welder
Pull Paddle Bones	Freezer Clean-up	Machinist
Push Empty Box/Pole Man	Hang Hides	Kill Mechanic
Rework Leaker	Hang Paunch	Material Transfer
Rose Meat Conveyor Rubber Duck Scoop CO2 (Dry Ice) Sort Product Stack Boxes Steady Cattle Transfer Chuck Flap Transfer Short Rib Turn Loin (PRE ID) Watch Metal Detector Wrap Combos	Hock Vac Hook/ Flush Tripas Hot Box Spacer Identify Misplits/Spinal Cords Ink + 30 Mo Cattle in Cooler Joint Oxtails Kill Supply Clerk Mark Tail to Hang Hide Offal Pack Open Misplits Paunch System Operator Pull Temple Meat Pull/Strip Tripas Rail Cleaner/Hot Box Remove 1st Hind Leg	Forklift Mechanic
30
Remove 2nd Hind Leg Remove Bung Bags Remove Filet Meat Remove Front Knuckle Remove Gullet Remove Oxtails Remove Tunic Tissue Runner Saw Omasum Screen Head Meat Second Hom Cutter Skin Tongues Split Lips Spread Intestines Squeegee Steam Vac Operator Tag Carcass & Head Trim & Hang Inedible Trim Abomasum Trim Aorta Trim Membranes Tuck Tails Unload Trollies
Vacuum Knock Hole on Head Wash & Split Abomasum Wash Tail Wash Tendon/Trim Pizzles Wash/Tip Tongues Watch Runaways Whizzard Abomasum Whizzard Knife Rounds
GRADE 1
Fab
Box Loader
Box Machine Operator Box Meat (except chuck & Case Sealer Chuck Short Ribs Clean Bone/Chop Bone Clean Plate Bones Clean Up CO2 Operator Computer Cut Brisket Off Cut off Clods Cut Off Knuckle Bone Cut Off Paddle Bones Cut Off Rib Caps Drop Flanks Employee Meats Orders Feed Chain Pull Tag Forklift Hang Rounds
round)
Kill
+30 Month Dentition Cattle Driver (Yards) Chute Rounds Combo Inedible Cut Hyoid Bone Cut Intestine to Length Cut Off Fat Cut/Save Pizzles Defatting Machine Down Puller Operator Forklift Front Leg Pattern Hereford/Angus Stamp High Trimmer Laundry Line Palletizer (Freezer) Mark Seam on Rounds Pull Paunch from Table Pull/Sep/Flush Lrg Intestine Rail Off & Roll Angus
By Products
Green Hide Trimmer Hide Dropper/Trimmer
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic
31
High Stand Trimmer Inline Computer Line Operator Mark Plates Pull Chuck Short Rib Pull Chuck Tender Pull Navel Eye Pull Rose Meat Puli Teres Major Reject Line Rework Retrimmer Run Pallet Jack Scale Operator Short Rib Trim Special Trim Split Short Ribs Tiger Tails Trim Chuck Flap Trim Chuck Short Rib Trim Chuck Tender Trim Clods Trim Flank Trim Flap Meat Trim Hanging Tender Trim Inside Skirts Trim Neck Meat Trim Outside Skirts Trim Pectoral Muscle Trim Shank Meat Trim Teres Major Trim Upgrade Trolley Popper Whizzard Knife
Rail Off/ Rail Jacker Remove Kidney Remove Omasum Remove Pancreas Gland Remove Spinal Cord Remove Sweetbreads Remove Trachea
Save Inedible Heart/Lung/Liver Save Pancreas
Side Puller Operator
Spread Intestines/Stamp +30 Mo Squeegee/Blood Operator Tail Puller Operator Tie Gut Sets Trim Glands Trim Heads Trim Lung/ Remove Heart Trim Mid-Lines Trim Neck Trim Oxtails Trim Tripe/Remove HC Trim Weasand Meat Whizzard Knife Brisket Whizzard Knife/Grade Chain
Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 2 Fab
8300 Operator Box Chucks & Rounds Cut Off Chucks Drop Tips K-Pac Operator Loin Wings Mark Rib Pull Ball Tri/Tips Pull Flank Pull Short Rib Separate Rib Brisket Transfer Loin Wing Trim Balls & Tri Trim Briskets Trim Eye Trim Flat Trim Insides
Kill
Clear Out Rose Meat Computer Rail Off Load Out Open Paunch Pre-Gutter Remove Fizzles Remove/Save Ear Tags Round Runner Save Tendons Save Weasand Meat Trim Liver & Heart Trim Tongues
Unload CatUe/Wash Pens Whizzard Knife Heads
By Products
Tank Pull Head Trimmer Forklift Operator Tallow Loader
Maintenance Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder
32
Trim Katbi Eye Trim Knuckles Trim Navel Eyes Trim Strip Trim Top Butts		Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 3		
Fab	Kill	By Products
Bone Fore Shank	Bung Dropper	Basement Operator
Bone Shoulders	Cap Bung	Dryer Operator
Button Bone	Hot Scale	Grader/Folder
Handline	Trim Heads w/ Whizzard	Green Hide Graders
Inline Computer Operator	Knocker	Salt Operator
Packaging Utility Man	Manifesters	Skim Tank/Feed Grade Oper
Palletizer	Mgt Scale Computer Input Cooler	Stacker
Panel Operator {Ground Beef)	Rod Weasands	Maintenance
Pkg Analyst	Saw Brisket	Electrician
Roll Chuck	Shackler	Refrigeration
Shank Boners	Skin Livers	Power Plant
Trim Tender	Sticker	Generation
	Trim & Saw Briskets	P/S (Scale)
	Trim Snouts	Rendering
GRADE 4	Tnpe Scalder	Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
Fab	Kill	By Products
13th Bone	Chisler/ Templer	Blood System/ Hammer Mill
13th Muscle	Clear Gullet	Forklift Oper/ load Meat
Bone Brisket/Clean Bone	Cut Off Head	Cooker Operator
Bone Strips	Drop Tongues	
Box Receiving Manifestor	Freezermen/Forkirft Oper	Maintenance
Cap/Ph Meat/Trim Extensions	Hang Heads	Electrician
Computer Operator	Open Mid Line	Refrigeration
Drop Eyes and Flats	Outside Rail	Power Plant
Drop Knuckles	Pull Inside Skirt	Generation
Puli Rib Caps	Rail Trimmers	P/S (Scale)
Pull Skirt Back	Remove Peck	Rendering
Roll Caps	Strip Weasand	Fabrication
Saw Femur Bone		Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
33
GRADES
Fab	Kill	Maintenance
Aitch Boners	Cheek	Electrician
Bone Navels	Pull & Separate Fat	Refrigeration
By Products Flume/Flesher Lead Man-Hide Take Up Render Oper (Edible-tallow op)	Saw/Rib Man	Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Rendering Fabrication Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 6
Fab	Kill	By Products
Box Manifester	Knife Room	Lead Man-Fiesher
Bull Saw Operator	Lead Man Cooler/Transfer Chain	Lead Man- Gel Bone
Center Cut Back Rib Saw	Low Backer	Maintenance
Chuck Saw	Rim Over Brisket	Electrician
Fore Quarter Knifer	Rumper	Refrigeration
Forklift/Manifestor	Skin 1st Butt	Power Plant
Hind Quarter Saw(Jarvis Saw)	Skin 2nd Butt	Generation
Mark Knuckles	Skin 1st Hind Leg	P/S (Scale)
Red Hat ($.15 L.O.)	Skin 2nd Hind Leg	Rendering
Red Hat (Combo Dock Manifester) Skin Flanks		Fabrication
Rib Saw	QA	Shop Mechanic
Shell Saw	QA Lineman	Welder
Short Rib Saw		Machinist
Strip Saw		Kill Mechanic
Weil Saws		Forklift Mechanic
GRADE?
Fab
Bone Butts
Drop Inside Rounds
Mark Paddle Bones
Kill
Gutter
Split Saw Operator
By Products
Lead Man-West Rendering
Maintenance
Electrician -Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Rendering Fabrication Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
34
GRADES Fab
Bone Chucks
Bone Rib Pull Clods Pull Tenderloins Trainers
Kill
Freezer Lead Man
Intestine Room Lead Man
Lead Man
Tripe Room Lead Man
Offal Lead Man
Maintenance
Maintenance Lead Man
35
MISCELANEO
TABLEROS DE ANUNCIOS
La Compania proveera a la Union el uso exclusive un tablero de anuncios el pasillo principal, un tablero en la entrada con acceso directo de la caseta de entrada de Seguridad y proveera un (1) tablero, con una salida electrica, dentro de la cafeteria para la Unidn para anunciar sus avisos.
Educacion. Seguridad v Fondo Cultural
Seccion 1 El empleador esta de acuerdo para contribuir la siguiente cantidad por ano para la UFCW District Union Local Two Educacion, Seguridad y Fondos Culturales $15, 000.00 por ano por este acuerdo.
Seccion 2 El empleador por este medio esta de acuerdo en dirigirse por los terminos del Acuerdo de Confianza el cual controla la operation del Fondo y por este medio esta de acuerdo en aceptar a los fideicomisarios del Empleador del Fondo quienes han sido selec-cionados como proveido en eso, como sus representantes en la administration junta del Fondo.
Seccion 3, Las contribuciones previas deben ser utilizadas por los fidecomisarios del Fondo de Educacion, Seguridad Cultural por la operation de un programa de Educacion, Seguridad y Culture de acuerdo con tales terminos y condiciones y reglas y regulaciones cuales los fidecomiarios pueden de ahora en adelante adoptar. Dicho Fondo debe tener su oficina principal en la Ciudad de y debe ser administrada por un consejo de
Fidecomisarios consistiendo de un numero igual de Fidecomisaiois de la Union y el Empleador en acuerdo con la Declaration de Confianza.
Seccion 4, El empleador por la presente reconoce las provisiones del Acuerdo de Confianza sobre la autoridad de Fidecomisarios para compeler y reforzar pages de contribuciones requeridos.
Seccion 5, Las reglas de eligibilidad para cubrimiento, y los beneficios que deben ser proveidos para empleados y/o sus dependientes deben ser como proveidos en el plan de beneficios del fondo. Las provisiones contenidas en este Articulo tocante a las fechas por el pago de contribuciones al Fondo no debe cargar sobre la fecha cuando el cubrimiento comienza.
MEMORANDUMS DE ENTENDIMIENTO
I.	Imprenta del Contrato/Traduccion
Las dos partes estAn de acuerdo de contratar y asegurar resumen de beneficios seran empridos en Ingles y Espanol. La Compania imprimara lo de arriba por el unico proposito del gasto.
Los partidos reconocen que las traducciones estan siendo hechas para la conveniencia de los empleados de la parte de a negotiation. La Compania y Union se han puesto de acuerdo, sin embargo, que la version de ingles mandara en todos los asuntos.
36
II.	El Espacio Para Oficinas
La Compania acuerda en proporcionar a la Union, si ningun costo. el espacio para oficinas en una ubicacion dentro de la facilidad de planta.
III.	Memorandums de Entendimiento
Mtnswnndnra of Undemanding Mu4U,2ttS
Ue praties agree dwtbe fdikrwmg wigs •cbedtds'wni be adopted for lbs Liberal Mil**™™ Employees etfoetive March 11.20M
Stan	11200
Bus	11 LOO
Gradel	11125
Grade J	112.50
Gradel	112.75
Graded	1025
Gracie 5	11425
(tale 6	115.00
Grade?	116X10
Gradel	117X10
Alt other previoudy negotiated wage increases during the Bm of Oris Agreonan will oonttae to be eSbctfa.
Union Rcpresanriw

37
IV.	Memorandums de Entendimiento
Memorandum of Understanding
April 14,2008
The parties agree diet the fcHo-wing wagp schedule will be adopted for foe Liberal Production Employees efiective April 14,2008:
	Slaughter and Bv Products Division	Fabrication Division
Base	$12.15	$12.15
Gradel	$12.25	$12.25
Grade2	$1235	$12.35
Grade 3	112.45	$12.45
Grade 4	SI 2.55	$12.65
Grade 5	$12.70	$12.70
Grade 6	$13.10	$13.10
Grade?	$13.40	$14.15
Grade 8	SI 5.20	$15.40
Grade 9	SI 5.40	$15.60
The above schedule includes a new grade level (Grade 9 for leads and trainers). This now rate will replace the former top rate plus for Leads in both Slaughter and Fabrication. Inadditiai, otter changes ifffihid?*
•	Butters, Leggett, Rfmover, Flankers, Low Backers and Bumpers are now Grade 7
•	Split Saw and Gutters are now Grade 8
Fabrication
•	Short 3Ub Boner, Aitch Boners and 13* Bonen are now Grade 7
•	Strip Boners are now Grade 8
All other {Enviously negotiated wage increases during the term of this Agreanent wiD continue to be effective.
Union Representative
H/rt/ot
Dato
38
DURACION DE TERMINACION
Este acuerdo sera efectivo y permesera en fuerza llena y efectivo por el Del dia 17 de Diciembre, 2007 hasta media noche en el Dia 16 de Diciembre, 2012. Ninguin Partido podra, sobre o antes de secenta (60) dias antes de 16 de Diciembre 2012, darar notificacion para cual quier partido se desea del partido dara notificacion par terminar el Acuerdo. Si esta notificacion no es dada. El Acuerdo de renovarse solo por un periodo de un ano exi-toso hast que alguna notification se dada Los Partidos con este acuerdo National Beef Packing. LLC y United Food y Commercial Worker District Local 2. Por este medio estan de acuerdo que dentro de 60 dias antes de unltimo de 3rd ano de este acuerdo, Ellos se reuniran y conferir con respecto a estos terminos y condiciones de este acuerdo. Ellos mas adelante esta de acuerdo en renovar este acuerdo y todos estos terminos por dos (2) anos adicionales mas alia de 3rd ano de este Acuerdo.
MoftieYino Crjahreras
39