
Beef
Agreement between National Beef Packing Company L.P. Liberal, Kansas
and
United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL - CIO - CLC, District Local Two
December 22, 2003 through December 16, 2007
Agreement....................................................................2
Base Rate/Job Grades........................................................26
Bidding Process.............................................................11
Bulletin Boards.............................................................31
Check-Off....................................................................3
Disability Insurance........................................................24
Duration and Termination....................................................32
Education, Safety and Cultural Fund.........................................31
Equipment Furnished by the Company..........................................14
Employee Meat Purchase Plan.................................................15
Ergonomics..................................................................21
Funeral Leave...............................................................20
Grievance Procedure.........................................................16
Guarantee....................................................................3
Health Benefits.............................................................23
Holidays....................................................................12
Hours of Work................................................................4
Layoff and Recall...........................................................11
Leaves of Absence.........................................................  19
Management Rights............................................................2
Meal Periods - Rest Periods.................................................14
Memorandums of Understanding I-n............................................32
No Strike - No Lockout......................................................15
Non-Discrimination...........................................................2
Orientation.................................................................12
Overtime Work..............................................................  5
Pension Fund................................................................22
Prescription Card...........................................................22
Recognition and Bargaining Unit..............................................2
Savings Clause..............................................................18
Seniority....................................................................5
Subcontracting..............................................................18
Union Visitation.............................................................2
Vacation....................................................................13
Wages.......................................................................25
Waiver......................................................................18
I
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this 22nd day of December 2003 by and between NATIONAL BEEF, of Liberal, Kansas hereinafter referred to as the "Company", and UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-ClO-CfC. UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union",
RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT
The Company recognizes the Union, United Food and Commercial Worker’s International Union, AFL-CIO-CIC, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO as bargaining agent of all full time and regular part time production and maintenance employees employed by National Beef Packing Company at its facility located at 1501 E, 8th Street, Liberal, KS but excluding all office and clerical employees, lab, professional employees and supervisors as defined by the National Labor Relations Act for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1 The Management of the plant and the direction of the working force - including the right to hire, suspend, discipline or discharge for just cause; to assign jobs; to transfer, promote or demote employees; to increase and decrease the working force; production standards and rules applicable to the employees; to determine products to be handled, produced or manufactured; the schedules of production; and the methods, processes and means of production or handling; as well as the right to determine the qualifications and ability of employees; are vested exclusively in the company, provided this will not be used for the purpose of discrimination against any employee or to avoid any of the provisions of this agreement.
Section 2	Supervisors or other personnel may perform any duties that are necessary in the conduct of the business and do not result in the displacement of bargaining unit employees.
Section 3	It is mutually agreed that the Company retains all management rights and prerogatives heretofore held except such rights as are specifically relinquished herein.
NON -DISCRIMINATION
Section 1	Neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate unlawfully against any employee or applicant for employment or union member because of race, color, creed, sex, age, veterans status, handicaps, religion, or natural origin or because of membership or non-membership in the Union.
Section 2	The parties of this agreement will comply with any and all affirmative action requirements.
Section 3 The Company shall not discriminate against or discharge any employee because of immigration hearings and/or deportation hearings that are initiated or are pending, provided advance permission is obtained from the employee’s immediate supervisor. In the event an employee is unable to obtain advance permission, satisfactory written verification from the agency involved will be required.
UNION VISITATION
Union representatives shall have the right to visit the work place to inspect working conditions
2
and to generally carry out the terms of this Agreement providing they make prior arrangements and report to a designated Company representative upon entering the job site, and so long as such visits do not interfere with operations.
CHECK-OFF
Section 1 If authorized and directed to do so by any employee in writing and so long as both such authorization and the contract between the Company and the Union remain in effect, the Company shall deduct the equivalent of the initiation fee, if applicable, of the Union and the equivalent of the weekly Union dues from the pay of such employee. Deductions shall be made from the employee's pay each week, and the Company shall promptly remit the same to the officer designated by the Union. The Company agrees to recognize the form for check-off authorization which is found at the end of this contract. The Company agrees to furnish the Union with a mailing list of all bargaining - unit employees upon request by the Union, however, such requests shall not exceed four (4) times per any calendar year. The Unions agree to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Company from any and all claims, suits and damages arising out of or in anyway connected with actions taken by the Company, for the purpose of complying with this article of the contract including disposition of such funds after they have been remitted by the Company to the Union.
- Section 2 Neither the Union, its officers, nor its members shall intimidate, harass, or coerce employees to cause them to join the Union nor shall the Company intimidate, harass, or coerce employees to prevent them from joining or cause them not to join the Union.
Section 3 The Company will make a deduction for the Union’s Active Ballot Club from the wages of the employees who voluntarily authorize such deductions in writing, based on authorizations received two (2) weeks prior to the deduction date and will forward the Active Ballot Club deduction to the Union.
Such Active Ballot Club deductions will be made fifty-two (52) times during each calendar year during the term of this agreement unless the authorization is canceled with the Union, in writing, by the employee.
Section 4 It is also understood by all parties that the Company shall be required to make deductions only from wages earned for each individual pay period. There shall be no make-up provisions should an employee be off work for any reason, with the exception of vacation.
GUARANTEE
Section 1 Unless notified of a layoff on or before Saturday of the prior week all regular full-time employees will receive a weekly guarantee in the amount of thirty-six (36) hours work or pay in lieu of work at their straight time rate.
The Company shall have the right to reduce the weekly guarantee of hours to thirty-two (32) hours, not more than ten (10) weeks per contract year. Notification of the reductions for any week must be made on the previous Friday. If notification is given and then thirty-six (36) or more hours are worked, it shall not count as a week against the ten (10) weeks.
The guarantee shall be reduced by time absent for any reason and for eight (8) hours each full day in which the plant is unable to operate due to conditions beyond the Company’s control such as: fire, explosion, power failure, storm, strike, or boycott by a labor or similar group. When a holiday or holidays occur in the same work week, eight (8) hours of the holiday pay for each holiday
3
shall be applied toward the guarantee for the week.
Section 2 The guaranteed work week shall apply only to regular full-time employees who commence work on the first scheduled day of the work-week. Employees displaced because of operations of the seniority provisions shall receive pay only forthose hours worked in the week hired or displaced.
Section 3 Employees called to work will be provided with a minimum of four (4) hours of work or pay in lieu of work.
Section 4 Employees who are called to work outside their regular work schedule after once going home for the day and not at a time when such work merges with their regular shift shall be guaranteed four (4) hours work at one and one-half (1-1/ 2) times their regular rate of pay and the employees called to work outside their regular shift shall be paid in accordance with the provisions outlined in the Hours of Work Article.
Section 5 The guaranteed work week shall apply to those regular full-time employees who have completed their probationary period prior to the commencement of that payroll week. Section 6 All regular full-time employees will be paid gang time on the day they are injured, up to a maximum of eight (8) hours with the exception of maintenance employees who are scheduled for a twelve hour shift. Those maintenance individuals will be eligible for up to a maximum of twelve (12) hours pay.
HOURS OF WORK
Section 1 The work week for payroll purposes shall start at 12:01 a.m. on Monday and ends at midnight Sunday evening.
Section 2 Hours of work shall be scheduled in line with production requirements and employees will be notified in advance of changes in shift schedules except where such change is due to circumstances beyond the control of the Company
S ection 3 Regular full-time employees working on holidays shall receive their regular holiday pay and shall be paid at twice their regular rate for work actually performed on such holiday.
Section 4	Gang time for the kill floor will be figured on the work assigned to the gutter. Gang time for the fabrication floor will be figured on the work assigned to the hind saw.
Certain covered workers shall be paid gang time plus six (6) minutes time spent in the following activities: (1) putting on unique, specialized safety equipment (mesh aprons, mesh gloves, arm and belly guards, sleeves, or leggings); (2) taking off unique, specialized safety equipment; (3) walking from the place of work on the production line to the wash station to wash equipment mentioned above;(4) waiting in line at the wash station; and (5) washing the unique, specialized safety equipment. The time spent in such activities may vary from job to job, worker to worker, department to department, and six (6) minutes is a reasonable agreed upon average. If these provisions are held by a court of law not to comply with FLSA, such provisions and/or the payments for gang time shall be suspended and subject to re-negotiation.
Section 5	For the purpose of computing pay for hours worked on Sunday or paid holidays, a shift cutting across two (2) calendar days shall be treated as work on the day which the shift begins.
Section 6	There shall be no pyramiding of premium pay. Any work performed on a holiday, Sunday, or the day designated in lieu of Sunday as provided herein shall be paid at twice the regular hourly rate only and these hours shall not be used in computing weekly overtime.
4
। Section 7 Time and one-half (1 '/z) will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week, or eight (8) hours in any one day except as provided under section 9 of this article । All employees other than part time and temporary employees shall be compensated at one and one-half (1 ‘/i) time their regular rate for work performed on their sixth (6th) consecutive day of work . within the work week provided they have worked all scheduled hours during the first (1st) five (5) days of said work week.
Section 7, Any employee off work for union business will not be paid for those hours by the Company but that time off will be considered time worked as it relates to the computation of sixth consecutive day over-time pay.
Section 8 Employees working on Sundays with the exception of regularly scheduled employees shall be compensated at twice their regular hourly rate. For employees working on a day designated as their Sunday in lieu of the calendar Sunday, they shall be compensated at twice their ' regular hourly rate for work performed on the day designated as the employee's Sunday.
Section 9 Regularly-scheduled maintenance employees who work a twelve (12) hour schedule per day, four (4) days per week will be paid time and one-half (1 14) for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week or twelve (12) hours in any one day.
Section 10, Work over 12 hours in any one day shall be on a voluntary basis except in situations beyond the Company’s control such as: fire, explosion, power failure, or storm (This list is by way of example and not intended to be inclusive). Hours beyond twelve (12) hours will be offered to the most senior divisional employees first. Less senior employees may be required to finish the work.
OVERTIME WORK
i Section 1 Overtime work for a department shall be divided as fairly and equally as possible between the same departments on different shifts.
' Section 2 It is understood and agreed that such equalization cannot be affected on a daily, weekly, ■■ or even monthly basis but efforts will be made to change any such imbalance over reasonable periods of time.
SENIORITY
Section 1 Seniority should operate on both divisional and department basis. Divisions and •«. departments within the plant are as follows:
4 A. Slaughter Division
I.	Slaughter, Offal and Yards
2.	Coolers and Freezers
B.	Processing Division
1.	Production
2.	Material Handling
3.	Loadout
C.	Maintenance Division
1.	Slaughter Maintenance/By-Products
2.	Processing Maintenance
3.	Generation/Refrigeration
5
4.	General Maintenance
5.	Material Warehouse
6.	Load Out/Material Handling Maintenance
D.	By-Products
1.	Hides
2.	Rendering
Section 2	Divisional seniority should be established as the date the employee enters the division. There shall be no transfers of divisional seniority unless an employee who believes they possess the required skills to enter that division submits a request for transfer to the Personnel Office.
Upon receipt of such request the employee will be given fair and reasonable consideration for placement within a different division based upon the need of the request and the required skills of the availablejob. Requests will be considered on a case by case basis and disposition of the request will be made within twenty-one (21) days of the date the request is filed. The Company will document requests and actions taken for periodic review by a Union Representative.
Section 3	Departmental seniority shall be established as the date the employee is deemed qualified after the first successful bid in that department, or the date the employee is permanently assigned a job as a result of the job being posted with no successful bidder,
Section 4 All employees shall be classified as probationary employees for the first sixty (60) days of employment. During this period they shall have no seniority and shall be entitled to no benefits except as provided in specific statements within this contract. Time spent on layoff, leave of absence, absence due to injury or illness shall not count as days of sendee toward the sixty (60) days. However, the union shall extend this period by thirty (30) days if the Company requests an extension in writing prior to the completion of the initial sixty (60) days.
Upon successful completion of the probationary period, the employee shall be classified as a regular full-time employee and shall have seniority access to the grievance procedure and the benefits set forth herein.
At the Company’s sole discretion, the Company may discipline, or terminate a probationary employee and no grievance shall be filed or processed on that employee’s behalf. Employees successfully completing the probationary period shall become regular full-time employees and shall have seniority commencing as of the last date of hire.
Section S A departmental and divisional seniority list shall be maintained on a bulletin board in the plant and shall be republished on a six (6) month basis.
Section 6 An employee's seniority and employment shall be forfeited for the following:
1.	Voluntary quitting or discharge for proper cause.
2.	Being absent for three (3) consecutive days without proper notification to the employer.
3.	Failure to return from a layoff within five (5) days after written notice has been sent by certified mail to last known address on Company record that had been provided by employee.
4.	Absence due to lay-off for more than twelve (12) months.
5.	Retirement.
6.	Over staying a leave of absence or breaching terms thereof.
6
।	Section 7 Absences of less than twelve (12) months due to a work/non-work related illness/injury
shall not interrupt an employee’s seniority.
Section 8 Employees on authorized leave of absence shall retain and accumulate seniority during such leave.
Section 9 Jobs will be posted for bidding on the following basis: Layoff, discharge, resignation, creation of a permanent job, qualification of a former job holder or disqualification of a successful job bidder, except, the Company is not required to post a job it does not intend to fill. Employees shall not be able to bid during their first six (6) months of employment.
Section 10 All job postings shall state the job title, department, and the rate of pay for that job. If a permanent job vacancy occurs, the job will be posted for a period of three (3) working days and the successful bidder moved to the new job within twenty-one (21) days or paid the rate of said job. If - the bidder is not moved within ninety (90) days he/she will be paid an additional $.25 per hour.
Job bids will be awarded to the employee with the most divisional seniority within that department who possesses the ability to perform the job. If there is no eligible departmental bidder, the bid may then go to the most senior eligible divisional bidder from another department. After the ■ first successful bid into a new department, that bidder’s divisional seniority date shall then govern for . future bids within that new department.
Section 11 Vacancies not filled from within the department will be awarded to the senior . divisional bidder. An employee transferring into a new department will forfeit their former department seniority at the time they qualify on the new job.
Section 12 In the event an employee is the senior bidder on two or more jobs which have been bid ■. concurrently, the employee will be allowed to choose the bid they desire. The job (or jobs) not . selected under this circumstance shall be awarded to the next senior bidder without the need to repost.
<•. Section 13 The successful bidder will be given a reasonable period of time to demonstrate proficiency/qualify. At the time the employee has qualified for a newly bid job, the employee shall be paid the rate of the job and shall be considered a permanent transfer/qualified. For the purpose of this
. Article, "reasonable period of time to demonstrate proficiency/qualify," shall be left to the sole . discretion of the Company.
Section 14 A successful bidder who disqualifies himself after having been deemed the successful . bidder but prior to qualification shall be returned to their former job and frozen from further bidding v for a period of twelve (12) months. A successful bidder who is disqualified by management shall be . returned to their former job and not be penalized for such disqualification except the employee will be restricted from bidding on the job from which the employee was disqualified for a period of twelve (12) months. This section shall apply to all upward bids.
Seniority Section 15 A successful bidder on a lateral or downward bid will be frozen from further bidding for twelve (12) months except in the case of a valid medical reason. A lateral or downward bid shall be an instance in which an employee successfully bids a job equal to or lower in job grade than the employee’s previous successful bid. A successful bidder who is disqualified by management shall be returned to their former job and not be penalized for such disqualification except the employee will be restricted from bidding on the job from which the employee was disqualified for a period of twelve (12) months. This section does not apply to employees in the Maintenance Division.
7
Section 16 An employee who bids upward or laterally will be paid the rate of their former job (or base in the case of an employee who was not on a bid job) until the employee has qualified on the new job. Upon qualification the employee shall receive the rate of pay associated with that job. An employee who has bid to a job with a lower rate of pay shall be paid the lower rate as soon as said employee is moved to the new job bid.
Section 17 When a temporary vacancy exists and will exist for more than one (1) week, the employee in that department with the most divisional seniority and who is fully qualified to immediately perform the vacant job, may request placement on the vacant job, provided it is operationally practical to honor the request, such employee may fill the temporary vacancy. In the absence of such requests, if operationally impractical, the Company may place an employee on the vacant job. A job vacated by a requested employee is not subject to seniority requests or bid posting.
Section 18 The Company reserves the option to disqualify a job holder, once previously qualified, if that individual can no longer perform the job due to technological changes, production speeds, or other inability to perform the job. Any freeze imposed as a result of that individual bidding such a job will be removed and the employee shall be allowed to bid or will be subject to assignment by management.
Section 19 If an employee's job is deleted because of technological changes, the employee shall not lose their rate of pay for a period of three (3) weeks and the employee will be placed in a position where needed until the employee bids successfully to another job. If an employee declines or gets disqualified from a job equal to or greater in pay then the employee forfeits their guaranteed rate of pay and gets the applicable rate of pay for the job they are performing, provided, they are qualified for this job. If a deleted/eliminated job causes the employee’s freeze, the freeze will be dropped. If a job is reinstated, the employee will be allowed to return to the job, provided, this occurs within ninety (90) days from the point at which the said job was deleted.
Section 20 In the event a job is not filled through the bidding procedure, an employee will be assigned to the job which shall be considered as a regular bid job except it shall not be used for the administration of freezes as described in sections within this article. For clarification purposes, a job that is assigned is a job that had been up forbid and did not have anyone bid this particular job. After an individual is assigned a job, that individual shall hold that job as they would a regular selected job. That individual once qualified will also begin accumulating seniority for further bidding purposes, will be paid the qualified rate for both work and holidays, have all bidding options open to them, and will not have any freezes imposed upon them.
Section 21 All base jobs shall be excluded from the bidding process. The Company may at its sole discretion place employees on these jobs who are not job holders as outlined in previous sections under the Seniority Article.
In the event an employee does not have any bidding freezes imposed as outlined in the Article that employee may submit a request for transfer to the Personnel Office. Each request will be given consideration based upon seniority, ability to perform the job and physical ability.
Section 22 The parties recognize and agree that the below listed jobs have been excluded from the bidding process. Additional jobs maybe identified that need to be added or excluded from said list. The Company and Union will mutually agree on those changes.
Section 23 Employees who are hired on the same date shall have their seniority determined by alphabetical order of the last name of that employee.
8
Section 24 Subject to all applicable laws, an employee may notify the company of a change of name or social security number. Subject to legal verification, such name or social security number change shall be made without loss of seniority or benefits.
Section 25 Any employee whose work authorization expires will be placed on a leave of absence, without benefits, for up to a 30 day period to obtain renewed work authorization. Employees who receive renewed work authorization during the 30 day period must report to work immediately upon receipt of said work authorization. Employees who fail to obtain renewed work authorization will be discharged at the expiration of their 30 day leave.
SLAUGHTER
.PERMANENT		TEMPORARY
Hock Cutter Operator	3010	Knife Room
First Dehomer	3010	Hang Inedible
Midline Trim And Stamp	3010	Clean Office and Outside Area
, Hock Blower Operator	3010	Cutting Tail Switches
- Put On Hide Straps	3010	Wash Tongues and Heads
Trim Weasands	3010	Bag Bungs
Flush Heads	3010	
Pull Paunches From Gut Table	3010	
Cut Off Knuckles	3010	
High Wash	3010	
Wash Foreshanks	3010	
Saw Homs	3010	
Pick and Screen Brains	3020	
_ Save Pituitary Glands	3020	
Put CO2 In Offal Boxes/Trim	3020	
Pituitary Glands	3020	
Cut Large Intestines To Length	3020	
’.Box And Weigh Large Intestines	3020	
Cut Small Intestines	3020	
Feed Stricker Machines	3020	
Strapper Operator	3020	
Defat Intestines	3020	
Box and Weigh Small Intestines	3020	
Cattle Drive (Kill Floor Ramp)	3010	
Tag Head Carcasses		
FABRICATION
PERMANENT	TEMPORARY		
CO2 Injection	3140	Pick Flap Meat	3160
Clean Floors	3140	Transfer Loin Tails	3170
9
Clean Floors	3160	Navel Flipper	3150
Contamination Trimmers	3140	Trolley Line	3170
Loin Turner	3169	Maja Feeder	3170
Pre ID	3169	Tail Flipper	3170
Floor Cleaner	3168	Dispense Co2 in Combo	3173
Clean Floor	3170	Shank Belt Picker	3173
Hydraulic Knuckle Puller	3172	Combo Plate Bones	3173
Clean Floors	3172	Combo Rib Caps	3173
Anyl Ray	3173	Combo Fat From Whiz Table	3173
Check Trim Belt	3173	Transfer Short Ribs	3176
Extruder Trapper Operator	3173	Feed Maja Skinner	3191
Make Boxes	3173	Pole Boxes	3166
Stack Boxes	3173	LFTB Dumper	3530
Check Bone Belt	3173	Watch Metal Detector	3530
Check Fat Belt	3173		
Make Combos	3173		
Box Femur Bones	3173		
Combo Neck Bones	3173		
Lean Pickers	3173		
Feed Baader	3173		
Floor Cleaner	3173		
Watch Metal Detector	3173		
Passout Gloves	3173		
Clean Floors	3174		
Clean Floors	3163		
Clean Floors	3176		
Bone Cleaner	3191		
Bag and Box Meat	3166		
(Except Chucks)			
8300’s #2,#5	3166		
Leaker Line	3166		
Load Baggers	3166		
8300 #7, 8, and 9	3171		
Bag and Box Meat	3171		
(Except Full Rounds)			
Load Bagger	3171		
Anyl Ray	3530		
Box Chubs	3530		
Labeler	3530		
Combo Dumper	3530		
10
MAINTENANCE
TEMPORARY
Take Refrigeration Readings
Clean-up Engine Room
Locker Room
BIDDING PROCESS
Section 1 Employees will start with assigned jobs. The job the employee is on the date a contract is signed shall be that employee's job. When the bidding process begins, these jobs will be used as the starting point.
Section 2 Lead Man, Scalers, Quality Control, and Trainer jobs are not subject to bid but employees who wish to be considered for such assignments may file written requests for transfer to any of these positions. The Company shall select employees to fill these jobs from among employees having made requests for transfer. The parties recognize and agree that in compliance with the OSHA Agreement dated December 5,1991, some of thejobs listed above will be excluded from the bidding process after job evaluation and ergonomic analysis and that some jobs will become involved in rotation requirements. It is agreed that jobs listed above and which are not modified or exempted from bidding during the term of this agreement shall be subject to the bidding process.
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Section 1 When department reductions are necessary, employees with the least amount of departmental seniority shall be laid off. Employees laid off from a department shall have the right to displace the least senior employee in the division whose seniority is less than the employee exercising displacement rights.
Section 2 A senior employee being laid off who does not wish to exercise displacement rights may elect to take a layoff but cannot there after exercise displacement rights until recalled in line with seniority to the employee's department and subsequently laid off.
Section 3 Upon notification of a layoff the Company shall furnish the employees who have displacement rights with sufficient information to exercise their choice in order of seniority. The employee must indicate their intent within twenty-four (24) hours of notification of layoff.
Section 4 Employees shall furnish the Company in writing their address for the purpose of giving notices required. Al) notices shall be deemed to be given to employees when mailed to the last address furnished to the Company by the employee.
Section 5 Employees who exercise displacement rights under this section and are recalled to their original department in line with seniority but do not wish to return may remain in the department they displaced to and their seniority in that new department shall commence from the day they entered the department. Such employee will lose all seniority in their previous department but will not lose their accrued plant seniority.
Section 6 When recalling employees on layoff they shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff.
Section 7 Employees recalled from layoff will have five (5) working days to return to work after the date the recall notice is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, with such notice sent to the last address provided by the employee. Employees failing to report within five (5) working days
11
of the date the letter is sent will be considered as a voluntary quit.
Section 8 When day to day openings occur during layoffs due to absences/leave of absence such openings will be filled first in line ofseniority of laid off employees present at the plant looking for replacement work provided the qualifications, ability to immediatelyperform the work, and physical abilities are equal among employees eligible for consideration.
Section 9 Absences in excess oftwelve (12) months due to any reason shall cause an employee to forfeit employment. However, if unusual circumstances exist, that time limit maybe extended at the Company’s sole discretion.
ORIENTATION
The Company agrees to allow, during new employee orientation, a Union representative the opportunity to discuss the Union’s role at National Beef, Liberal, Kansas. Such presentations will not exceed forty-five (45) minutes.
HOLIDAYS
Section 1 Regular full-time employees shall receive without working, pay at their straight time rate in effect at the time of the holiday for eight (8) hours per day (maintenance employees, scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts, will receive twelve (12) hours holiday pay) for each of the following holidays provided they have worked their full scheduled work day immediately before and immediately after such holiday except in case of an excused absence which began not more than seven (7) calendar days before the holiday with the supervisors written permission or in the case of an emergency leave of absence as described under Funeral Leave or Leaves of Absence Section 9 contained here-in, which began not more than 14 calendar days before the holiday with the supervisor’s written permission.
Section 2	The holidays observed will be as follows:
New Years Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Christmas Eve Holiday
If a holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed the following Monday.
Section 3	Probationary and part-time employees shall not be eligible for holiday pay.
Section 4	Holiday pay will not be considered time worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime.
Section 5	All hours worked on a holiday will be paid at two (2) times the straight time rate for time worked plus holiday pay.
Section 6	If a holiday falls within an employee’s vacation period that employee will be paid for the holiday in addition to their regular vacation pay once they have worked the full scheduled day
12
preceding and following said vacation.
Section 7	Absences for the following reason will not effect the employee’s eligibility for holiday pay.
1.	Death of an immediate family member. This shall include husband, wife, father, mother, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, father-in-law, mother-in-law, aunts, uncles, children, step child or foster child living in the employee’s home in accordance with provisions outlined within this agreement.
2.	Jury duty/call in accordance with provisions outlined within this agreement.
3.	Duty with National Guard or Reserves in accordance with provisions outlined within this agreement.
4.	A tardy or home early the day before and/or the day after a holiday shall not disqualify an employee from receiving holiday pay provided:
A.	The tardy is less than three (3) hours.
B.	An employee who is sent home sick the day before or the day after a holiday provided the employee worked at least one-half (’/i) the scheduled shift.
VACATION
Section 1 Regular full-time employees shall be entitled to vacations with pay, equal to forty hours pay at the employee's master rate or l/52nd of the employee’s prior annual earnings as indicated by previously issued W-2, whichever is greater for the employee, at the end of each full and continuous year of employment with the Company as follows:
After one (1) year through three (3) years, one (1) week
After three (3) years through ten (10) years, two (2) weeks After ten (10) years through twenty years, three (3) weeks After twenty (20) years and all consecutive years, four (4) weeks
Section 2 To qualify for a paid vacation the employee must have passed their anniversary date and have worked at least forty-four(44) weeks during the preceding anniversary year. For the purpose of this section only, a week in which the employee works at least one (1) day will be counted as a week worked. Credit will be given in anyone (1) anniversary year for weeks missed because of jury duty, vacation, a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of compensable injury, four (4) weeks of consecutive medical leave, one (1) week of Union leave, and two (2) weeks of leave for employees required to participate in the official activities as a member of the National Guard or any United States Military Reserve.
Section 3 A vacation bid sheet shall be prepared by March 30 of each year. Employees shall be given their preference of vacation based on departmental seniority provided the choice is made prior to April 15. After April 15, vacations will be scheduled on afirst come first serve basis and subject to Company approval.
Section 4	Vacation will not accrue from year to year but must be taken the year following the date it is earned. If the vacation is not scheduled during the year, it will automatically be paid.
Section 5	Employees who file a timely request (two (2) weeks in advance) shall receive their vacation pay on a regular pay day immediately preceding the commencement of their vacation.
Section 6	The Company agrees to give due consideration to the preference of employees in scheduling vacations; however, the Company shall have final approval and decision in such matters
13
and may limit the number of employees on vacation in any department so as to maintain efficient operations.
Section 7	Employees who have qualified for a vacation under this article at the time their employment is terminated will be paid for such vacation earned but not taken.
Section 8 It is understood by all parties that any adjusted seniority dates currently being used by the Company will remain in effect for the life of this contract for the purposes of calculating and accrual of vacation benefits.
Section 9 Upon request, all employees, with the exception of Maintenance and Load Out personnel, eligible for vacation, shall receive the Saturday prior to their vacation as an unpaid excused in advance absence, provided they have ninety (90) consecutive days of perfect attendance immediately preceding the start of such vacation. However, those employees who do not meet this criteria and request the Saturday off will be reviewed on an individual basis.
MEAL PERIODS - REST PERIODS
Section 1 Employees shall receive a meal period without pay of at least thirty (30) minutes and not more than one (1) hour with time and length scheduled by company. This meal period shall be scheduled no earlier than the fourth and one-half(4-l/2) huurnur later than the fifth and one-half (5-1/2) hour, unless six (6) hours completes the work day.
Section 2 Employees shall be allowed a paid fifteen (15) minute rest period which shall commence anytime during the third hour of work each day. Time shall be determined from and to the work station and scheduled by the company.
Section 3 If the Company has scheduled more than eight (8) hours work for the day, an additional paid rest period shall be scheduled by the company after the meal period and before the end of the shift.
Section 4 If the Company has scheduled more than ten (10) hours work for the day a third (3rd) rest period shall be scheduled by the Company more than one and one half (1 ’Z>) hours after the second (2nd) rest period and before the end of the shift.
Section 5 If unscheduled overtime results in employees working more than eight (8) hours the second (2nd) paid rest period will be set by the Company during the ninth (9th) hour of work and if more than ten (10) hours the third (3rd) paid rest period will be set by the Company during the eleventh (11th) hour of work. In the event an Employee’s shift goes beyond twelve (12) hours a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period will be set during the thirteenth (13) hour of work.
Section 6 For the purpose of this Article, a work day which exceeds the scheduled shift ending time by seven (7) minutes or less shall not be a qualifying factor for rest periods as outlined in the previous sections.
Section 7 In establishing the second (2nd) or third (3rd) break the Company shall have the option of observing the break or allowing pay in lieu of such break.
EQUIPMENT FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY
Section 1, The Company will provide the employees and the employees will assume the obligation to return or pay for the following items should the Company determine their job requires said items. Steel-toed rubber boots for maintenance employees, steels, pouches, mesh, cotton, cut resistant, or any other type of gloves, knives, ear protection, maintenance hand tools, and safety
14
equipment required by the Company or government with the exception of proper and reasonable foot wear which shall continue to be the responsibility of the employee unless other-wise noted.
Section 2 Employees issued Company owned equipment shall sign a receipt for such equipment and agree to be responsible for the safe and efficient use of the same and for its custody until returned to the company. Company owned equipment which is not returned to the Company or is damaged prior to its return will be paid for by the employee. In such cases the Company may deduct the cost of the item from the employee’s wages.
Section 3 Those employees using tools and equipment furnished by the Company will be paid for the time spent preparing and repairing, provided such preparation and repair are required by the Company. The Company may at its option assign specific employees to perform such duties.
Section 4 The Company will provide an employee or employees to sharpen knives for all employees required to use knives.
Section 5 The Company will issue and provide for the laundering of cotton gloves and frocks to employees whose job requires such items. These items remain Company property, employees have the same obligation to properly care for the items and to return or pay for the items and to return or pay for such issued items. Replacement will be provided only upon return of the dirty items.
Section 6 The Company shall replace, at no cost to the employee, rubber gloves, aprons and plastic sleeves for all packaging and saw operator, slaughter, hide room, and rendering employees provided the worn out item is exchanged and no evidence exists of deliberate destruction of the item.
Section 7	The Company shall replace, at no cost to the employee, hairnets, provided the worn out item is exchanged and no evidence exists of deliberate destruction of the item.
Section 8	The Company will give all employees the option of payroll deducting insulated boots provided they are ordered through the Company.
Section 9 The Company will give employees the option of payroll deducting freezer coats provided; the employee works in an area where the Company feels they would be of benefit and the freezer coat is ordered through the company. The Company will provide freezer coats to employees in the Freezer department, who perform the following jobs: Freezer men/ Forklift and Lead-man.
Section 10 The Company will reimburse regular, full-time maintenance employees for the cost of leather, steel-toed boots, each anniversary of the CBA. Proof of purchase must be provided and reimbursement will be made of the actual cost, not to exceed $ 100.00.
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 1 The Union agrees that neither it nor any of the employees in the bargaining unit covered by this agreement will collectively or individually authorize, cause, ratify, condone, aid or take part in any strike, slow down, work stoppage, sit down, picketing or in any other interference with work during the term of this agreement. In the event any employee shall engage in any of said activities, the employee shall be subject to immediate discharge.
Section 2 The Company agrees that it will not lock out any of the employees covered by this agreement; it being understood that the Company’s exercise of its rights under this agreement shall not constitute a lock out.
15
EMPLOYEE MEAT PURCHASE PLAN
■The Company agrees that it shall have an employee meat purchase program. The Company will have the sole discretion of all pricing, standards methods of payment and hours of operations. These exclusive rights are vested entirely in the Company.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1 In the event a grievance should arise between the Union and the Company or between a regular full-time employee and the Company over a matter alleged to be a violation of apart of this ■Agreement, the grievance shall be processed as follows:
STEP ONE - The aggrieved employee(s) shall discuss the matter with the employee’s immediate supervisor within two (2) working days of the incident or the matter will be considered closed. If the employee and immediate supervisor are not able to resolve the matter within the two (2) working days following discussion, the aggrieved employee may then appeal the matter to the next step.
STEP TWO - If the matter is appealed to the second step, the grievance shail be reduced to writing, signed by the aggrieved employee and presented to the Departmental Superintendent. All grievances except those regarding a discharge must be filed in writing at this step within seven (7) calendar days after the date of the commission of the alleged offense. Any grievance involving a discharge must be filed within five (5) calendar days after the discharge. Any grievance not filed in writing at this step within these time limits will be considered as untimelyand waived. Following receipt of the written grievance, the Departmental Superintendent or other Company representative shall provide a written answer to the grievance within five (5) calendar days. If the matter is not resolved, the Union may appeal the matter to the next step.
The written grievance shall identify:
a.	the general facts giving rise to the grievance
b.	the complaint of the grievance
c.	and the relief requested.
STEP THREE - A Union Steward or business agent may appeal the grievance by presenting a copy of the grievance and the Departmental Superintendent's written answer to the Divisional Manager within seven (7) calendar days of the date of the Departmental Superintendent's answer. The Union and Company shall discuss and attempt to resolve the matter. The Company shall provide the Union with a written answer within seven (7) calendar days after their discussion. If the matter is not resolved, the Union may appeal the matter to the next step.
PRE ARBITRATION - Within seven (7) days after the date of the Company’s written answer a Staff Representative of the Local Union may request a meeting with the Vice President, General Manager to see if the grievance can be resolved prior to Arbitration.
16
This meeting will be held at a mutually convenient time and each party may include such additional parties as they choose. If the matter is not resolved, the Union, through a Staff Representative may request Arbitration of the grievance. Such request shall be filed in writing within fifteen (15) days after the meeting.
ARBITRATION - If within ten (10) days after receipt of such written request, the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator, either party may request a list of five (5) names from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The Union shall strike two (2) names from the panel of proposed arbitrators and submit such two (2) names to the company within ten (10) days after the Union's receipt of the panel. The Company shall then strike two (2) names and submit the same to the Union within ten (10) days after the Company's receipt of the names stricken by the Union. The remaining name on the panel of arbitrators shall act as the arbitrator of the dispute. The arbitrator's decision in the grievance shall be final and binding on the parties, provided he shall not have authority other than to apply terms and conditions specifically set forth in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall submit his decision in writing within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the hearing or date for submission of briefs. The compensation and necessary expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
In the event an employee is reinstated by an arbitrator, the maximum liability of the Company shall be the employee’s lost National Beef Packing Company earnings reduced by all compensation received by the employee during the discharge period from other employment, unemployment compensation, workers compensation or other earnings.
Section 2 The presentation of the grievance is to be made on Union Representatives and employees own time at all steps of the process except that members of the grievance committee shall be paid for work time missed while attending the Step Three (3) meetings and Pre-Arbitration meetings.
Section 3 The settlement of any grievance from and after Step Two (2) will be reduced to writing and signed by both parties. Such settlement shall be final and binding on all parties to the matter.
Section 4 The time for perfecting any step of the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. Extension agreements shall be in writing and signed by a representative for both the Company and the Union.
Section 5 A grievance committee, of not more than four (4) regular full-time employees, shall be designated by the Union from its members. The Union shall advise the Company in writing of the names of committee members and any changes. This committee shall be permitted time off with pay to attend Step Three (3) meetings and Pre-Arbitration meetings.
Section 6 At any step in this grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority, in respect to any aggrieved employee covered by this agreement, to decline to process a grievance, complaint, difficulty or dispute further if in the judgment of the Executive Board such grievance or dispute lacks merit and lacks justification under the terms of this agreement to the satisfaction of the Union Executive Board.
Section 7	The Company will provide a copy of the Employee Action Record Form, Should
17
discipline be issued, to the effected employee.
Section 8	All disciplinary action shall be issued within 7 working days following the knowledge of the infraction.
SAVINGS CLAUSE
It is assumed by the parties hereto that each provision of this contract is in conformity with all applicable laws of the United States and the State of Kansas. Should it later be determined that it would be in violation of any legally - effective Governmental or State Order or Statute to comply with any provision or provisions of this Agreement, the parties hereto agree to renegotiate such provision or provisions of this Agreement for the purpose of making them conform to such Governmental or State Order or Statute, and the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby, but shall remain in full force in effect.
WAIVER
Section 1 The Company and the Union, for the term of this agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement or with respect to any subject or matter not referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation ofeither or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
Section 2 The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each have had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining and that the understanding and agreements arrived at by the parties after and exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.
Section 3 This is the complete agreement defining all wages and benefits to which any employee may be entitled and it is expressly understood and agreed that the Company has no obligation to pay wages or benefits other than those specifically provided herein.
Section 4 In the event a new job is created during the term of this agreement, the Company shall discuss the applicable rate for the job with the Union. In the absence of agreement, the Company shall establish a grade and post the job. After the job has operated thirty (30) days and if agreement is not then reached, the Union may grieve the grade so established.
SUBCONTRACTING
The parties to this Agreement have discussed subcontracting of work being performed by bargaining unit employees and agree as follows:
Both parties desire to minimize the effects of subcontracting on the job security of employees and will work to that end.
When subcontracting of any existing operations becomes necessary or desirable, in the sole judgment of the Company, the Company will notify the Union. If the Union desires to discuss the effects on the job security of the employees, the parties will meet for that purpose. The Company agrees to delay any layoffs caused by subcontracting until at least two (2) weeks subsequent to the Company's notice to the Union of the Company’s intention, so that the parties have ample time to
18
suggest methods of avoiding the layoffs or minimizing their adverse effects. The Company further agrees not to subcontract an entire department.
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1 The Company may grant leaves of absence to regular full-time employees. While on a leave of absence, the employee’s seniority shall continue; the time on leave will not be considered as time worked and the Company may grant the leave with continuation of insurance benefits, for thirty (30) calendar days.
Section 2 PERSONAL LEAVE - A leave for personal reasons may be requested in writing and if approved by the Company, may be granted for up to thirty (30) days and extended for additional terms not to exceed thirty (30) days upon Company approval.
Section 3 MEDICAL LEAVE - A leave for non-work related medical reasons may be requested in writing and shall be accompanied by explanation from the employee's physician. Medical emergencies verified by the Company shall entitle the Company, at its discretion, to place the employee on medical leave. Medical leaves, if granted, shall be for an initial period of not more than one hundred and eighty (180) days with continuation of insurance during such time and subject to termination sooner upon recovery if such occurs within the initial period. If the medical condition continues, the leave may be extended by the Company under such conditions, with or without benefits, and upon such medical confirmation as the Company requires, including examination by a physician selected by the Company. Failure to immediately notify the Company and offer to return to work upon release by the treating physician shall be a breach of the terms of a medical leave and grounds for discharge.
Section 4 UNION LEAVE
A.	Not more than two (2) regular full-time employees who become elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Union, and upon written confirmation from the Union, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay or benefits and with continuing seniority for a term not to exceed the life of this Agreement. Upon one (1) week notice of their desire to return to work they shall be placed on their job previously held without loss of seniority, provided they report for work within thirty (30) calendar days of the date their full-time position with the Union terminates.
B.	Regular full-time employees chosen by the Union to attend Union business outside the plant, shall with permission of Company Management, be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days. The Company may limit the number of such employees granted leave to three (3) with no more than two(2) from any single department require confirmation of the Union business from the Union office and require advance notice of the need for such leave.
Section 5 MILITARY LEAVE - Regular full-time employees who leave their employment with the Company to enter active military service will retain all rights to reemployment as are granted by law. Regular full-time employees who are members of the National Guard or United States Military Reserve will be granted leaves or absence to attend required training periods upon providing the Company with written confirmation of such drills or training periods within two (2) working days of the receipt of any orders or any other written notification that the employee may have received.
Section 6 JURY LEAVE - A regular full-time employee called to jury duty in the County, State or Federal Courts shall be granted a leave for jury duty service upon presenting the employee's immediate supervisor a copy of the summons within two (2) working days of the receipt of the summons. Provided the employee complies with the advance notice requirement said employee will
19
I
be paid the amount they would have earned had they not been prevented from working by the jury service, but not to exceed eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week. Maintenance employees, scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts, shall be paid up to twelve (12) hours per day and/or a maximum of thirty-six (36) hours per week. To qualify for such pay, the employee shall pay to the Company the amount received for jury service, retaining any amounts received as expenses in excess of the daily pay for such jury service. Employees released from jury duty during the employee's scheduled working hours or prior to the employee's scheduled working hours shall promptly notify their supervisor who shall either excuse them for the balance of that shift or require them to report for work.
Section 7 Employees on leave of absence are required to notify the Company promptly if the reason the leave was requested no longer exists. Failure to do so shall be grounds for immediate termination of the leave or for discharge.
Section 8 Any employee on any type of leave who commences work for any other person or firm or who commences a self employment venture shall be deemed to have voluntarily quit their employment.
Section 9 - Reasonable time off without pay, length of time to be determined by the Company, however, such excused absences shall not exceed seven (7) days, will be granted to employees who have personal proceedings with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, provided documentation verifying the days of release is furnished in advance.
FUNERAL LEAVE
Section 1 Absences due to the death of a member or the regular full-time employee's immediate family will be treated as an excused absence. A regular full-time employee so absent will be paid for those days which are scheduled as work days for the employee provided they are on the active payroll. The employee will be paid at their master rate eight(8) hours pay, except maintenance employees scheduled on twelve (12) hour shifts, will receive twelve (12) hours pay, for each of three consecutive days (one of which must be the day of the funeral) on which the employee would otherwise be scheduled to work.
Section 2 The employee must notify the Company of the purpose of their absence on or before the first day of such absence.
Section 3 The employee shall be required to furnish proof satisfactory to the Company of the death, the employee's relationship to the deceased, the date of the funeral and the employee's actual attendance at the funeral.
Section 4 Any funeral pay shall not be included in the computation of overtime or any other type of premium pay.
Section 5 Immediate family shall be defined as the employee's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, father-in-law or mother-in-law, step child or foster child living in the employee's home.
Section 6 - Reasonable time off, without pay, length of time to be determined by the Company, will be granted to employees who will be traveling to a distant location to attend the funeral of an immediate family member, as defined in Section five (5).
20
EROGONOMICS
Section 1,	Ergonomic/Safety Program:
•	The Company will assure that significant attention is given to ergonomic/safety issues in the plant.
•	The Company recognizes that worker involvement is crucial to the success of any ergonomic/safety program.
•	The Company agrees to evaluate new economically feasible technology and process changes for ergonomic risk factors prior to implementation.
•	The Ergonomic/Safety Program includes a full-time monitor position, nine (9) ergonomic/safety monitors and a joint labor/management ergonomic/safety committee.
Section 2,	Full Time Ergonomic Monitor: The monitor will be responsible for:
•	Discussions with employees on ways to improve their jobs.
•	Submit projects to management for consideration.
•	Work with management on ergonomic projects.
•	Set an agenda and meet monthly with ergonomic monitors to discuss projects in their designated areas and any problems they are having with the program.
•	Attend joint labor/management ergonomic/safety committee meetings.
•	Document progress on ergonomic projects for the joint labor/management committee and give these to the monitors for their designated areas.
•	Regularly review the list of workers on light or alternate duty jobs, as well as those in the conditioning program and what jobs they are performing, with the Company Nursing Department. The Nursing Department should work with the full-time ergonomic monitor if problems arise regarding the job assignments for injured workers. The full-time ergonomic monitor can troubleshoot with these types of problems.
Section 3,	Joint Labor/Managemcnt Ergonomic/Safcty Committee: Committee members will be responsible for:
•	Assuring worker input in the identification and resolution of ergonomic hazards
•	The members of the Ergonomic/Safety Committee will receive two (2) days of training by the Company in a calendar year. These will be conducted in June and December. In the event a new member is appointed to the committee hc/she will receive training within 60 days of appointment. This initial training day will count as one of the two annual training days.
•	The Committee will meet monthly to review and discuss program progress and related issues.
•	The Committee will receive from the Company justification when economically feasible engineering controls were tested and not implemented.
•	The Committee will periodically review copies of the OSHA 200 log.
Section 4,	Ergonomic/Safety Committee Monitors
•	This committee shall consist of no more than ten (10) bargaining unit employees, who must be continuously employed by the Company for one (1) calendar year, all designated by the Union, 1 (one) full-time monitor, two (2) each from Fabrication A-Shift and B-Shift, one (1) each from Slaughter A-Shift and B-Shift, one (1) from Hides, one (1) from Rendering, and (1) from Maintenance.
21
•	The ergonomic monitors (EM) will have a designated area of responsibility, such that the entire plant will be covered.
•	The EM will work with the Company, Safety Department, the joint labor/management Ergonomic* Committee and the full-time monitor providing input into the identification of ergonomic stressors, analysis of those jobs, and the development and evaluation of recommended solutions.
•	The EM will conduct a twice-monthly walk-around inspection of a designated area to assist in the identification of problem areas and offer potential solutions.
•	The EM will be included in all pending ergonomic projects in their areas and they will be provided time to consult with the workers affected to explain any changes and to assist in gathering employee feedback.
•	The EM will be provided with ergonomic hazard report forms to submit suspected problem areas to the Company.
•	The Company will post pictures of monitors including the EM’s name and work area on the ergonomic bulletin board in the main hallway.
•	The EM will meet monthly with the joint labor/management Ergonomic Committee.
♦	The EM will be granted a minimum of four (4) hours each month to conduct these activities.
Full Time Ergonomic/ Safety Monitor: The full-time ergonomic monitor will be paid at no less than the equivalent of grade four (4).from the division which he/she was working at the time of appointment. In the event the monitor comes from any division with a grade of pay higher than grade four (4), they will be paid at the higher grade.
• The union will appoint one (1) employee to become the ergonomic monitor/ walking steward. This individual will have a work schedule from 8:30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and designated Saturdays, with a lunch break from 12:30 p.m.-1:00 p.m. He/she will have company designated ergonomic duties between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. At the company’s expense, that person will assume the walking steward duties from 1.*00 p.m. until 5:00 p.m.
PENSION FUND
Section 1 The Employer shall contribute twenty-four dollars ($24.00) per month on behalf of each and every eligible employee, provided they meet the requirements for eligibility each such month. The monthly contribution amount shall increase $ 1.00 each anniversary year for the life of the CBA.
Section 2 Eligibility for pension contributions shall be defined to include any employee who has completed at least 12 months of employment with the Employer, provided that each such employee, for each such month of employment, in order to be eligible, shall have worked or earned a minimum of eighty (80) hours of straight-time, overtime, holiday and/or vacation for each such month, but excluding persons on unpaid leaves of absence due to disability or workers compensation injuries.
Section 3 New employees shall not be eligible to participate in the Employer’s 401K plan.
Section 4 The Union agrees to a “free look rule” (ERISA Sec. 4210) which exempts the Employer from any withdrawal liability for up to six (6) years after executing a Participation Agreement with the UFCW Union Industry Pension Fund.
22
HEALTH BENEFITS
Health Benefits will become effective “upon ratification of this agreement”. This is a summary of benefits. Details will be included in the contract from the provider. Premiums for employee health insurance upon ratification of this agreement will be at $16.00 per week and will increase an additional $3.00 each anniversary year of this Agreement.
Eligibility Premium	EPO 6 months $16 + $3 increase each year		PPO 6 months $16 + $3increase each year	
Deductible Individual Family Individual Family	In Network $300 yrs 1,2,3 $600 yrs 1,2,3 Out of Network $600 $1,800	$400 yr 4 $800 yr 4	In Network $400 yrs 1,2,3 $800 yrs 1,2,3 Out of Network $700 $2,100	$500 yr 4 $1000 yr 4
Benefit %	In Network 90/10 Out of Network 65/35		In Network 80/20 Out of Network 60/40	
Out of Pocket Max Individual Family Individual Family	In Network $2000 yrs 1,2,3 $4000 yrs 1,2,3 Out of Network $5,000 $15,000	$3000 yr 4 $6000 yr 4	in Network $3000 yrs 1 &2 $7000 yrs 1 &2 Out of Network $5,000 $15,000	$4500 yrs 3 & 4 $10000yrs3&4
Dr Office Co-Pay ER Co-Pay Prescription Co-Pay: Generic Name Brand	$20 In Network $50 Out of Network $100 $15 + $1 per year increase $20 + $1 per year increase		In Network deductible + 25% Out of Network deductible +45% In Network $100 Out of Network $200 30%	
Vision	No new hires after 1/1/04		No new hires after 1/1/04	
DENTAL PLAN:			1
Deductible	$50/$!00	1	1
23
Type A (Cleanings) Type B (Fillings) Type C (Bridges)	100% After Ded. 80% After Ded. 50% After Ded.			
Maximum	$750/$!,500			
VISION PLAN:					
Deductible	0			
Frames	$14,00			
Single Vision Lens	$10,00			
Bifocal Lens	$15.00			
Trifocal Lens	$17.50			
Aphakle of Lenticular	$17,50			
1 Eye exam per year per subscriber	$17.00			
All regular, full-time employees will become eligible for $5,000 in life insurance, at nn cast ta the employee, on the first (1st) of the month following said employee’s first (1st) 365 days of continuous service.
DISABILITY INSURANCE
Section 1	Disability insurance will be provided for all bargaining unit employees. Weekly benefits will be paid if an employee is deemed eligible for such benefits. The determination of eligibility will be vested exclusively in the Company.
Section 2
A. Effective through 12/18/06, the weekly benefit amount will be $220.00. The calendar year maximum will be $2,200.00, On 12/18/06 eligible employees will receive a weekly benefit amount of $230.00 with a calendar year maximum of $2,300.00 to remain in effect for the duration of the agreement.
Section 3
A,	To be eligible during an illness the employee must be off work with a physician's verification for a period of not less than eight (8) consecutive days.
B.	To be eligible during an injury the employee may qualify on the first (1st) day provided the employee can provide a physician’s statement showing that the time off required for the injury will exceed eight (8) consecutive days.
C.	Eligibility - A new employee will become eligible for disability insurance on the first (1st) of the month following said employees first (1st) 365 days of continuous employment.
24
WAGES
Section 1 The wage schedule for employees covered by this Agreement shall be as follows:
A. Slaughter Division and By Products Division
	Upon Ratification	12/20/2004	12/19/2005	12/18/2006
Base	10.55	10.85	11.15	11.40
1	10.65	10.95	11.25	11.50
2	10.75	11.05	11.35	11.60
3	10.85	11.15	11.45	11.70
4	10.95	11.25	11.55	11.80
5	11.10	11.40	11.70	11.95
6	11.50	11.80	12.10	12.35
7	11.75	12.05	12.35	12.60
8	12.20	12.50	12.80	13.05
B. Processing Division
	Upon Ratification	12/20/2004	12/19/2005	12/18/2006
Base	10.35	10.75	11.15	11.40
1	10.45	10.85	11.25	11.50
2	10.55	10.95	11.35	11.60
3	10.65	11.05	11.45	11.70
4	10.85	11.25	11.65	11.90
5	10.90	11.30	11.70	11.95
6	11.30	11.70	12.10	12.35
7	11.55	11.95	12.35	12.60
8	12.10	12.50	12.90	13.15
C.	Maintenance Division
	Upon Ratification	12/20/2004	12/19/2005	12/18/2006
Base	10.55	10.85	11.15	11.40
1	10.60	10.90	11.20	11.45
2	10.85	11.15	11.45	11.70
3	11.10	11.40	11.70	11.95
4	11.50	11.80	12.10	12.35
5	12.35	12.65	12.95	13.20
6	12.90	13.20	13.50	13.75
7	13.25	13.55	13.85	14.10
8	14.30	14.60	14.90	15.15
D.	The starting rate for new employees shall be $0.50 below the base. Upon qualification on the job, the employee will be paid the full qualified rate of the job.
25
Section 2 Ail Employees who work between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. will be paid twenty cents ($0.20) per hour over their regular rate except no premium will be paid on the day shift kill if the kill starts less than forty-five (45) minutes prior to 6:00 A.M.
Section 3 Any employee who does not receive an increase during any year of this Agreement due to the fact their original rate of pay prior to this Agreement was higher than wage grades/rates agreed to by both the Company and the Union, for the term of this Agreement will not have their wages reduced provided that the employee stays on the same job through the term of this Agreement.
BASE RATE	
Fab	Kill
Any! Ray	1st Hang Off
Bag Meat	2nd Hang Off
Bone Cannon	Angus Stamper
Box 50/Extruder	Apply Hot Wgt Tag
Box Chubs	Apply Rice Paper
Box Femur Bones	Bag A Tie Rungs
Combo Dumper	Carcass Check
Check Trim/Fat Belt	Carcass Prewash Oper
Clean Floors	Clean-up Outside/Offices
Combo Maker	Cold Chain Feeder
Feed Mayas	Computer Operator
Feed Table	Condemn Room Oper
Finger Trim	Count Contamination
Hang Off Chucks	Cut Bridge on Omasum
Kickout Cattfe	Cut Off Front Feet
Knife Giove Room	Cut Off Homs
Knuckle Puller	Drive Cattle (Ramp)
Label Box	Ear Tag Station Operator
Pull Combo	Feather Bone Buster
Pull Paddle Bones	Flush Heads
Push Empty Box/Pole Man	Freezer Clean-up
Rework Leaker	Hang Paunch
Rubber Duck	Hock Vac
Scoop CO2 (Dry Ice)	Hook/ Flush Tripas
Sort Product	Hot Box Spacer
Stack Boxes	Joint Oxtails
Transfer Chuck Flap	Kill Supply Clerk
Transfer Short Rib	Mark Tait to Hang Hide
Trolly Popper	Paunch System Oper
Turn Lorn (PRE ID)	Pull Temple Meat
Watch Metal Detector	Pull/Strip Tripas
Wrap Combos	Remove 1st Hind Leg Remove 2nd Hind Leg Remove Bung Bags Remove Filet Meat Remove Front Knuckle
By Products
All New and Rehires
Clean Up Man (Hides)
QA
Afi New & Rehires
Maintenance
All Maint. New & Rehires Supply Room (warehouse) Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Corrugated Waste Pallet Repair Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Material Transfer Forklift Mechanic
26
Remove Oxtails
Remove T unic Tissue
Runner
Saw Omasum
Screen Head Meat
Second Hom Cutter
Spread intestines
Squeegie
Steam Vac Operator Tag Carcass & Head Trim Abomasum
Trim Aorta
Trim Membranes
Wash & Split Abomasum
Wash Tail
Wash Tendon/Trim Pizzle
Watch Runaways
Wtzzard Abomasum
GRADE 1
Fab
Box Loader
Box Machine Operator
Box Meat (except chuck & round)
Case Sealer
Chuck Short Ribs
Clean Bone/Chop Bone
Clean Plate Bones
CO2 Operator
Computer
Cut Brisket Off
Cut off Clods
Cut Off Paddle Bones
Drop Flanks
Employee Meats Orders
Feed Chain Pull Tag
Forklift
Hang Rounds
High Stand Trimmer
Inline Computer
Mark Plates
Pull Chuck Short Rib
Pull Chuck Tender
Pull Navel Eye
Pull Rose Meat
Pull Teres Major
Reject Line
Kill
Cattle Driver (Yards)
Cut Hyoid Bone
Cut Intestine to Length Cut/Save Pizzies Down Puller Operator Forklift
High Trimmer
Laundry
Line Palletizer (Freezer) Pull Paunch from Table Pull/Sep/Flush Lrg Intestine Rail Off & Roll Angus Rail Off/ Rail Jacker Remove Kidney
Remove Pancreas Gland Remove Spinal Cord Remove Sweatbreads Remove Trachea Remove/Save Ear Tags
Save Inedible Heart/Lung/Liver Save Pancreas
Side Puller Operator Squeegie/Blood Operator Tail Puller Operator
Tie Gut Sets Trim Glands
By Products
Green Hide Trimmer Hide Dropper/Trimmer
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse
Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
27
Retrimmer Roll Caps Rubberduck Run Pallet Jack Short Rib Trim Special Trim Split Short Ribs Trim Chuck Flap Trim Chuck Short Rib Trim Chuck Tender Trim Clods Trim Flank Trim Flap Meat Trim Hanging Tender Trim Inside Skirts Trim Neck Meat Trim Outside Skirts Trim Pectoral Muscle Trim Shank Meat Trim Teres Major Trim Upgrade Whizzard Knife
Trim Heads
Trim Lung/ Remove Heart
Trim Mid-Lines
Trim Neck
Trim Oxtails
Trim Tripe/Remove HC
Trim Weasand Meat
GRADE 2
Fab
8300 Operator
Box Chucks & Rounds Cut Off Chucks K-Pac Operator Loin Wings Mark Rib Pull Ball Tri/Tips Pull Flank Pull Short Rib Separate Rib Brisket Transfer Loin Wing Trim Balls & Tri Trim Briskets Trim Eye Trim Flat Trim Insides Trim Kalbi Eye Trim Knuckles Trim Strip
| Trim Top Butts
Kill
Computer Rail Off Load Out
Open Paunch Pre-Gutter Remove Peck Remove Pizzles Round Runner Save Tendons Save Weasand Meat Strip Weasand
Trim Heads/Wizzard Knife
Trim Liver & Heart
Trim Tongues Unload Cattle/Wash Pens Whizzard Knife Heads
By Products
Tank Pull Head Trimmer Forklift Operator
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse
Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
28
GRADES
Fab	Kill	By Products
Bone Fore Shank	Bung Dropper	Basement Operator
Bone Shoulders	Cap Bung	Skim Tank/ Feed Grade Oper
Button Bone	Clear Gullet	Grader/Folder
Packaging Utility Man	Drop Tongues	Stacker
Panel Operator (Ground Beef)	Hang Heads	Green Hide Graders
Pkg Analyst Roll Chuck	Hot Scale Knocker	Dryer Operator
Shank Boners	Manifestors	Maintenance
Trim Tender	Mgt Scale Computer Input Cooler Rod Weasands Saw Brisket Shackler Sticker Trim & Saw Briskets Tripe Scaider	Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 4
Fab	Kill	By Products
13th Bone	Chisler/ Tempter	Blood System/ Hammer Mill
Bone Brisket/Clean Bone	Cut Off Head	Forklift Oper/ load Meat
Bone Strips	Freezermen/Forklift Oper	Cooker Operator
Box Manifester	Intestine Rm Leadman	
Cap/Ph Meat/Trim Extensions	Lead Man Tripe	Maintenance
Drop Eyes and Flats	Open Mid Line	Electrician
Drop Knuckles	Outside Rail	Refrigeration
Pull Skirt Back	Pull & Separate Fat	Power Plant
Saw Femur Bone	Pull Inside Skirt	Generation
	Rail Trimmers	P/S (Scale)
	Saw/ Rib Man	Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
29
GRADES
Fab
Aitch Boners
Bone Navels
By Products
Flume/Flesher
Lead Man-Hide Take Up
Render Oper (Edible-tallow op)
Kill	Maintenance
Cheek	Electrician
Freezer Lead Man	Refrigeration
Lead Man Cooler/Transfer Chain	Power Plant
Low Backer	Generation
Rim Over Brisket	P/S (Scale)
Rumper	Warehouse
Skin 1st Hind Leg	Rendering
Skin 2nd Hind Leg	Fabrication
Skin Flanks	Construction
Tripe Rm Lead Man	Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 6
Fab
Bull Saw Operator
Center Cut Back Rib Saw
Chuck Saw
Fore Quarter Knifer
Hind Quarter Saw(Jarvis Saw)
Mark Knuckles
Red Hat ($.15L.O.)
Red Hat (Combo Dock Manifester)
Rib Saw
Shell Saw
Short Rib Saw
Strip Saw
| Well Saws
Kill
Knife Room
Skin 1st Butt
Skin 2nd Butt
QA
QA Lineman
By Products Lead Man-Flesher Lead Man- Gel Bone
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 7
Fab
Bone Butts
Drop Inside Rounds
Mark Paddle Bones
Kill	By Products
Gutter , Lead Man-West Rendering
Offal Lead Man
Split Saw Operator Maintenance
Electrician
Refrigeration Power Plant
30
Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse
Rendering Fabrication
Construction Shop Mechanic Weider Machinist Kilt Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADES Fab	Kill
Bone Chucks	Lead Man
Bone Rib Pull Clods Pull Tenderloins Trainers
MISCELLANEOUS
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Company will provide for the Union’s exclusive use a bulletin board in the main hallway, a bulletin board in the walk-in entrance of Security and provide one (1) bulletin board, with an electrical outlet, within the cafeteria for the Union to post its notices.
EDUCATION, SAFETY AND CULTURAL FUND
Section 1 The Employer agrees to contribute, the following amounts per year to the UFCW District Local Two Education, Safety and Cultural Fund: $7,500.00 per year of the CBA.
Section 2 The Employer hereby agrees to be bound by the terms of the Trust Agreement which governs the operation of the Fund and hereby agrees to accept the Employer Trustees of the Fund who have been selected as provided therein, as its representatives in the joint administration of the Fund.
Section 3 The foregoing contributions shall be utilized by the trustees of the Education, Safety and Cultural Fund for the operation of an Education, Safety and Cultural program pursuant to such terms and conditions and rules and regulations which the Trustees may hereafter adopt. Said Fund shall have its principal office in the City of and shall be administered by a board of
Trustees consisting of an equal number of Union and Employer Trustees selected in accordance with the Declaration of Trust.
Section 4	The Employer hereby acknowledges the provisions of the Trust Agreement dealing with the authority of the Trustees to compel and enforce payment of contributions required.
31
Section 5	The rules of eligibility for coverage, waiting periods for coverage and the benefits to be provided to employees and/or their dependents shall be as provided in the plan of benefits of the fund. The provisions contained in this Article regarding the dates for the payment of contributions to the Fund shall not bear upon the date when coverage commences.
MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING
I.	Contract Printing/Translation
The parties agree that the contract and insurance summary of benefits will be printed in English, Spanish and Vietnamese. The Union will translate the above, into Vietnamese, at their sole expense. The Company will print the above at their sole expense.
The parties recognize that the translations are being done for the convenience of the bargaining unit employees. The Company and Union have agreed, however, that the English version will rule in all matters.
II.	Office Space
The Company agrees to provide the union, at no expense, office space in a location inside the plant facility.
DURATION OF TERMINATION
This Agreement shall become effective and remain in full force and effect from the 22nd Day of December, 2003 until midnight on the 16th day of December, 2007. Either party may, on or before sixty (60) days prior to December 16, 2007, give notice to the other party of the desire of the party giving such notice to terminate the Agreement. If such notice is not given, the Agreement shall renew itself for successful one year period until such notice is given.
For the Company
For the Union
32
Acuerdo........................................................................2
Antiguedad (Senoria)...........................................................6
Ausencia de Discriminacion.....................................................2
Beneficios de Salud...........................................................23
Cantidad de la Base/Grados de Trabajos........................................26
Clausula de Ahorros...........................................................18
Derechos de Gerentes...........................................................2
Descon tar Del Sueldo..........................................................3
Dias de Fiesta................................................................12
Duracion y Terminacion........................................................34
Educacion, Seguridad y Fondo Cultural.........................................32
Equipo Suministrado por la Compania...........................................14
Ergonomia.....................................................................20
Fondo De Pension..............................................................21
Garantia.......................................................................3
Horas de Trabajo...............................................................4
Memorandums de Entendimiento I-II.............................................34
Orientacion...................................................................II
Periodos de Comida - Periodos de Descanso.....................................14
Permisos de Ausencia..........................................................19
Permiso de Funeral............................................................20
Plan de Compras de Came de los Empleado.......................................16
• Procedimiento de Quejas.....................................................16
Proceso de Ofertas de Trabajo.................................................10
Reconocimiento y la Parte de la Negociacion....................................2
Renuncla......................................................................18
Seguro de Incapacidad.........................................................25
Sin Huelga - Sin Cerrar Fuera.................................................15
Subcontratando................................................................18
Sueldos.......................................................................25
Suspensiones y Devolucion.....................................................11
Tablero De Anuncios...........................................................33
Tarjeta de Recetas............................................................24
Trabajo de Parte Tiempo........................................................6
Visitacion de Union............................................................3
Vacacion......................................................................13
ACUERDO
1
ESTE ACUERDO hecho y entrado en este dia 22 de diciembre, 2003 por y entre NATIONAL BEEF, de Liberal, Kansas en esto y despues referido a ello como la “Compania”, y UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFI.-C1O-C IC, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO, en esto y despues referido a ello como la “Union”.
RECONOCIMIENTO Y LA PARTE DE LA NEGOCIACION
La compania reconoce la Union, United Food and Commercial Worker’s International Union, AFL-CIO-CIC, UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO agente de la parte de la negociacion de todos los empleados de produccion y mantenimiento de tiempo completo y empleados regulares de parte tiempo empleados por National Beef Packing Company en su facilidad localizada en 1501 E. 8th Street, Liberal, KS pero excepto todos los empleados de oficina y clericales, laboratorio, empleados profesionales y supervisores como defmidos por la National Labor Relations Act (EI Acto de Relaciones de Labor Nacionales por el proposito de negociacion colectiva en respeto a las cantidades de pago, sueldos, horas de empleo y otras condiciones de empleo.
DERECHOS DE GERENTES
Seccion 1, Los Gerentes de la planta y la direccion de la fuerza de trabajo - inciuyendo el derecho de ocupar, suspender, disciplinar o despedir por justa causa; de asignar trabajos; de transferir, promocionar, o degradar a los empleados; de aumentar y disminuir la fuerza de trabajo; normas de produccion y reglas aplicables a los empleados; para determinar productos que tienen que ser manejados, producidos o manufacturados; el horario de produccion; y los metodos, procesos y implicaciones de produccion y manejamiento; tanto como el derecho de determinar las calificaciones y abilidades de empleados; son establecidos exclusivamente en la compania, con tai que esto no sera utilizado por el proposito de discriminacion contra cualquier empleado o para evitar cualquiera de las provisiones de este acuerdo.
Seccion 2, Supervisores o otro personal puede ejecutar deberes cualquieras que son necesarios en el conducto del negocio y que no resultan en la descolocacion de empleados de parte de la negociacion.
Seccion 3, Esta mutualmente acordado que la Compania retiene todos los derechos de gerentes y prerrogativos hasta ahora mantenidos excepto tales derechos como son especificamente abandonados en esto.
AUSENCIA DE DISCRIMINACION
Seccion 1, Ni la Compania ni la Union discriminara ilegalmente contra cualquier empleado o aplicante para empleo o miembro de union por raza, color, credo, sexo, edad, estado veterano, descapacitado, religion, o origen natural o por ser o no ser miembro de la Union.
Seccion 2, Los grupos de este acuerdo accederan con cualquier y todos los requisites de action afirmativos.
Seccion 3, La Compania no discriminara contra o despedira a cualquier empleado por un escucho sin prejuitios de inmigration y/o un escucho sin prejuicios de deportation que son iniciados o que estan pendientes, con tai que permiso avanzado es obtenido del supervisor inmediato del empleado. En el evento que un empleado no pueda obtener permiso avanzado, satisfactoria verification escrita de la agencia involucrado se requerira.
2
VIS1TACION DE UNION
Los representantes de la Union tendran el derecho de visitar el lugar de trabajo para inspeccionar condiciones de trabajo y generalmente para llevar fuera los terminos de este Acuerdo con tai que ellos hagan arreglos antes y reporten a un representante de la Compania designado sobre entrar al sitio de trabajo, y con que tales visitas no impidan con operaciones.
DESCONTAR DEL SUELDO
Seccion 1, Si autorizado y dirigido a hacerlo por un empleado en escrito y con tai de que semejante autorizacion y el contrato entre la Compania y la Union permanezcan en efecto, la Compania debe deducir la igualdad del cobro de iniciacion, si es aplicable, de la Union y la igualdad de la cuota semanal de la Union del pago de tai empleado. Las deducciones deben set de el pago de los empleados cada semana, y la Compania debe de pronto remitir lo mismo al dirigente designado por la Union, La Compania esta de acuerdo en reconocer la forma para la autorizacion de quitar del cheque la cual es encontrada al fin de este contrato. La Compania esta de acuerdo en suministrar la Union con listas de envio de todos los empleados de parte de la negociacion con solicitud de la Union, sin embargo, tales solicitudes no excederan cuatro (4) veces por cualquier ano calendario. Las Uniones estan de acuerdo en defender, indemnizar y mantener inocuo a la Compania de cualquiera y todos los reclamos, pleitos, y danos ascendiendose fuera de o en cualquier manera conectados con acciones tomadas por la Compania, por el proposito de acatar con esta clausula del contrato incluyendo disposition de tales fondos despues de que ellos haigan sido remitidos por la compania a la Union.
Seccion 2, Ni la Union, sus dirigentes, ni sus miembros deben de intimidar, amenasar, o obligar a los empleados para causarlos que entren en la union ni la Compania debe intimidar, amenasar, o obligar a los empleados para causarlos que entren cn la Union ni la Compania debe intimidar, amenasar, o obligar a los empleados para prevenirlos de entrar en o causarlos a no entrar en la Union.
Seccion 3, La Compania hara una deduction por el Club de Votacion Activo de la Union de los sueldos de los empleados que voluntariamente autorizan tales deducciones en escrito, basados en autorizaciones recibidos dos (2) semanas antes de la fecha de deduccion y enviara la deduccion del Club de Votacion Activa a la UFCW DISTRICT LOCAL TWO.
Tales deducciones del Club De Votacion Activo seran hechas 52 (cincuenta y dos) veces durante cada ano calendario durante el termino de este acuerdo solo que la autorizacion sea cancelada con la Union, en escrito, por el empleado.
Section 4, Tambien esta entendido por todos los grupos que la Compania debe ser requerida a hacer deducciones solo de los sueldos ahorrados por cada periodo de pago individual. No debe haber provisiones de composicion si un empleado esta fuera del trabajo por cualquier razon, con la excepcion de vacation.
GARANTIA
Seccion 1, Solo que sea notificado de una suspension en o antes del Sabado de la semana antes, todos los empleados regulares de tiempo completo recibiran una garantia semanal en la cantidad de 36 (treinta y seis) boras de trabajo o pago en vez de trabajo a su cantidad de tiempo derecho.
3
La Compania debe tener el derecho de reducir la garantia semanal de horas a treinta y dos (32) horas, no mas que diez (10) semanas por ano del contrato, Notificacion de las reducciones por cualquier semana debe ser hecha en el viemes previo. Si la notificacion es dada y despues treinta y seis (36) o mas horas son trabajadas, no debe contar como una semana contra las diez (10) semanas.
La garantia debe ser reducida por tiempo ausente por cualquier razon y por ocho (8) horas cada dia completo en el cual la planta es incapaz de operar por condiciones mas alia del control de la Compania tai como: fuego, explocion, fracaso de electricidad, tormenta, huelga, o biocoteo de una labor o grupo similar. Cuando un dia de fiesta o dias de fiesta ocurren en lamisma semana de trabajo, ocho (8) horas del pago del dia de fiesta por cada dia de fiesta deben ser aplicados hacia la garantia por la semana.
Seccion 2, La semana de trabajo garantizada debe aplicar solamente a los empleados regulates de tiempo completo quienes comienzan trabajo en el primer dia del horario de la semana de trabajo. Los empleados que sean descolocados por operaciones de las provisiones de antiguedad (senoria) deben recibir pago solamente por esas horas trabajadas en la semana ocupados o descolocados.
- Seccion 3, Los empleados llamados a trabajar se Ies proveera con un minimo de cuatro (4) horas de trabajo o pago en vez de trabajo.
Seccion 4, Empleados llamados a trabajar fuera de su horario de trabajo regular despues de ya haberse ido a la casa por el dia y no en un tiempo cuando tai trabajo fusiona con su tumo regular debe ser garantizado cuatro (4) horas de trabajo de una vez y tiempo y medio de su cantidad regular de pago y los empleados llamados a trabajar fuera de su tumo regular deben serpagado en acuerdo con las provisiones resumidas en las horas de la clausula de trabajo.
Seccion 5, La semana de trabajo garantizada debe aplicar a esos empleados regulates de tiempo completo quienes han completado su periodo de prueba antes del comienzo esa semana de planilia de pagos.
Seccion 6, Todos los empleados regulates de tiempo completo se les pagara tiempo deganga en el dia que son lastimados, hasta el maximo de ocho (8) horas con la excepcion de empleados de mantenimiento programados un tumo de doce horas. Esos individuates de mantenimiento seran elegibles hasta lo maximo de doce (12) horas pagadas.
HORAS DE TRABAJO
Seccion 1, La semana de trabajo por el proposito de la planilia de pagos debe comenzar a las 12:01 a.m. en el lunes y al fin de medianoche el domingo en la tarde.
Seccion2, Las horas de trabajo deben serpuestas en el horario en linea con los requisites de produccion y los empleados seran notificados con tiempo de cambios en el horario de los tumos excepto donde tai cambio es por circumstancias mas alia del control de la Compania.
Seccion 3, Empleados regulates de tiempo completo que estan trabajando en dias de fiesta deben recibir su pago regular del dia de fiesta y deben serpagados dos veces su cantidad regular por el trabajo actualmente hecho en tai dia de fiesta.
Seccion 4, Tiempo de ganga para matanza sera figurada en el trabajo asignado al gutter.
Tiempo de ganga por el piso de fabrication sera figurado en el trabajo asignado al hind saw (serucho del trasero).
4
Ciertos trabajadores cubridos deben serpagados por tiempo de ganga mas seis (6) minutes de tiempo gastado en las siguientes actividades: (1) poniendose el equip© unico y especialisado para seguridad (mandil metalico, guantes metalicos, protection para el braso yel estomago, mangas, o mangas de pantalon); (2) quitandose el equipo unico y especialisado para seguridad; (3) caminando del lugar del trabajo en la fila de production al estacion del lavado para lavar el equipo mencionado; (4) esperar en fila en la estacion del lavado; y (5) lavando el equipo unico y especialisado para seguridad. El tiempo gastado en siertas actividades pueda variar de trabajo a trabajo, trabajador a trabajador, departamento a departamento, y seis (6) minutos es rasonable de acuerdo sobre promedio. Si estas provisiones son detenidas por unacorte de leyno accedidas con FLSA, dichas provisiones y/o pagos de tiempo de ganga seran suspendidas y sujeto de negotiar de nuevo.
Section 5, Por el proposito de computar el pago por horas trabajadas en el domingo o pago de dias de fiesta, un tumo cortando a traves de dos (2) dias calendarios debe ser tratado como trabajo en el dia en el cual el tumo comienza.
Section 6, No habra piramidacion de pago premio. Cualquier trabajo hecho en un dia de fiesta, domingo, o el dia designado en vez de domingo como proveido en esto debe ser pagado a dos veces la cantidad regular de cada hora solamente y estas horas deben no ser usadas en computar horas extras de la semana.
Section 7, Tiempo y medio (1/12) sera pagado por todas horas trabajadas en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas en cualquier una semana, o ocho (8) horas en cualquier un dia excepto como proveido bajo la section 9 de este articulo.
Todos los empleados aparte de empleados de parte tiempo y temporales deben ser compensados a uno y medio (1 1/2) tiempo su cantidad regular por trabajo hecho en su sexto dia consecutive de trabajo dentro de la semana de trabajo con tai que ellos haigan trabajado todas las horas puestas en el horario durante los primeros cinco (5) dias de dicha semana de trabajo. Cualquier empleado no trabajando por negocios de union no se le pagar por esas horas por la compania pero ese tiempo sera considerado tiempo trabajado como se relatione en la computacion de seis dias consecutivos de horas extras pagadas.
Section 8, Empleados trabajando en los domingos con la exception de empleados puestos en el horario regular deben ser compensados a dos veces su cantidad de cada hora regular. Para empleados trabajando en un dia designado como su domingo en vez del domingo calendario, ellos deben ser compensados a dos veces su cantidad regular de cada hora por trabajo hecho en el dia designado como el domingo del empleado.
Section 9, Empleados de mantenimiento puestos en el horario regular quienes trabajan un horario de 12 (doce) horas por dia, cuatro(4) dias por semana seran pagados tiempo y medio por todas las horas trabajadas en exceso de cuarenta (40) horas en cualquier una semana o doce (12) horas en cualquier un dia.
Seccion 10, Trabajo sobre 12 horas en cualquier dia debera ser enun base voluntario excepto en situaciones inmensos al control de la Compania tai como: lumbre, explosion, falla de electricidad, o tormentas (Esta lista es de paso un ejemplo y no intensional ser inclusive). Horas despues de doce (12) horas se le ofreceran a los empleados con mas senoria primero. Empleados con menos puedan ser requeridos terminar el trabajo.
5
TRABAJO DE PARTE TIEMPO
Seccion 1, Trabajo de horas extras por un departamento debe ser dividido lo mas justo y igual posible entre los mismos departamentos en diferentes tumos.
Seccion 2, Es entendido y entendido que tai igualizacion no puede ser afectada a diario, semanal, o hasta en una base mensual pero esfuerzos seran hechos para cambiar cualquier desequilibrio sobre periodos de tiempo razonables.
ANTIGUEDAD (SENORIA)
Seccion 1, Antiguedad (senoria) debe operar en una base divisional y departamental. Las divisiones y departamentos dentro de la planta son los siguientes:
A.	Division de Matanza
1.	Matanza, Desperdicios y Yardas
2.	Enfriadores y Congeladores
B.	Division de Procesamiento
1.	Produccion
2.	Manejamiento de Materiales
3.	Loadout
C.	Division de Mantenimiento
1,	Mantenimiento de Matanza/Subproductos
2.	Mantenimiento de Procesamiento
3.	Generacion/Refrigeracion
4.	Mantenimiento General
5.	Bodega de Materiales
6.	Load Out/Mantenimiento de Manejamiento de Materiales
D.	Subproductos
1.	Cueros
2.	Rendering
Seccion 2, Antiguedad (senoria) divisional debe ser establecida como la fecha que el empleado entra en la division. No debe haber transferencias de antiguedad (senoria) solo que el empleado quien crea posesar la habilidad requerida para entra a esa division someta una solicitacion para un traslado a la Oficina de Personal.
Sobre el recibimiento de tai solicitud el empleado debe ser dado una consideracion justa y razonable por colocacion dentro de una division diferente basada sobre la necesidad de la solicitud y la habilidad requerida del trabajo disponible. Las solicitudes seran consideradas basada caso por caso y disposicion de la solicitud sera hecha dentro 21 dias de la fecha de la solicitud archivada. La Compania documentara solicitudes y acciones tomadas por un reviso periodico por un representante de Union.
Seccion 3, Antiguedad (senoria) debe ser establecida como la fecha que el emplado es considerado cafificado despues de que la primera oferta exitosa en ese departamento, o la fecha que el empleado es permanentemente asignado un trabajo como resultado del trabajo siendo puesto sin una oferta exitosa.
6
Seccion 4, Todos los empleados deben ser clasificados como empleados de periodo de prueba por los primeros sesenta (60) dias de empleo. Durante este periodo ellos no deben tener antiguedad (senoria) y no deben tener derecho a ningun beneficio excepto como proveido en deciaraciones especificas dentro de este contrato. Tiempo acabado en suspension, permiso de ausencia por una herida o enfennedad no contara como dias de servicio hacia los sesenta (60) dias. Del cual quier modo, la union extendera este periodo por trienta (30) dias si la Compania solicita la extension en escrito antes de la terminacion de los primeros sesenta (60) dias.
Despues de la completacion exitosa del periodo de prueba, el empleado debe ser clasificado como un empleado regular de tiempo completo y debe tener acceso de antiguedad (senoria) al procedimiento de la queja y los beneficios puestos adelante en esto.
A la discrecion exclusiva, la Compania puede disciplinar o terminar aun empleado de periodo de prueba y ninguna queja debe ser ordenada o procesada a favor de ese empleado. Empleados exitosamente completando el periodo de prueba deben hacerse empleados regulares de tiempo completo y deben tener antiguedad (senoria) comenzando desde la ultima fecha de ocupacion.
Seccion S, Una lista de antiguedad (senoria) departamental y divisional debe ser mantenida en un tablero de anuncios en la planta y debe ser republicada cada seis meses.
Seccion 6, La antiguedad (senoria) y el empleo de un empleado deben ser penalizados por lo sigui enter
1.	Renuncia voluntaria o depsedida por causa propia.
2.	Estando ausente por tres (3) dias consecutivos sin notificacion propia al empleador.
3.	Falta de regrasar de una suspension dentro de cinco (5) dias despues de que noticia escrita haiga sido enviada por correspondencia certificada a la direccion ultimamente conocida en el expediente de la compania, que haiga sido suministrada por el empleado.
4.	Ausencia debido a un descanso temporal por falta de trabajo por mas de doce (12) meses.
5.	Jubilacion
6.	Prolongando un permiso de ausencia o violando terminos de eso.
Seccion 7, Un permiso de ausencia de menos de doce (12) meses debido a trabjo/no trabajo relacionado a una enfermedad/herida no debe interrumpir la antiguedad (senoria) de un empleado.
Seccion 8, Los empleados en un permiso autorizado deben retener y acumular antiguedad (senoria) durante tai permiso.
Seccion 9, Los trabajos seran puestos para ofertas en el siguiente fundamento: Suspension, despedida, renuncia, creacion de un trabajo permanente, calificacion de un dueno de un trabajo anterior o descalificacion de un poster de trabajo exitoso, excepto, a la Compania no se le requiere poner un trabajo el cual no tiene la intention de ocupar. Los empleados no deben ser capaz de licitar durante sus primeros seis (6) meses de empleo.
Seccion 10, Todas las puestas de trabajo deben declarar el titulo de trabajo, departamento, y la cantidad de pago por ese trabajo. Si un vacante de trabajo permanente ocurre, el trabajo sera puesto por un periodo de tres (3) dias de trabajo y el postor exitoso sera movido al trabajo dentro de veintiun (21) dias o se le pagara la cantidad de dicho trabajo. Si el postor no es movido dentro de noventa (90) dias se le pagara a el/ella un adicional de S. 25 nor bora.
7
Las ofertas de trabajo seran premiadas al empleado con mas antiguedad (senoria) divisional dentro de ese departamento el cual posea la abilidad de desempenar el trabajo. Si no hay un postor departamental elegible, la oferta entonces puede irse al poster divisional de mas antiguedad (senoria) y elegible de otro departamento. Despues de la primera oferta exitosa en un nuevo departamento, la fecha de antiguedad (senoria) divisional del postor debe entonces gobemar por futuras ofertas dentro de ese nuevo departamento.
Seccion 11, Vacantes no ocupadas de dentro del departamento seran premiadas al postor divisional con mas antiguedad (senoria). Un empleado transferiendose en un nuevo departamento perdera como castigo su antiguedad (senoria) anterior del departamento al momenta que calificaron en el nuevo trabajo.
Seccion 12, En el evento que un empleado sea el postor con mas antiguedad (senoria) en dos o mas trabajos cuales haigan sido ofertas concurrentemente, el empleado sera permitido a escojer la oferta que ellos deseen. El trabajo (o trabajos) no seleccionado bajo esta circumstancia debe ser premiado al proximo postor con mas antiguedad (senoria) sin la necesidad de anunciarlo nuevamentee.
Seccion 13, Al postor exitoso se le data un periodo razonable de tiempo para demostrar competencia/calificar. Al momenta que el empleado haiga calificado por un trababajo nuevamente licitado, el empleado debe ser pagado la cantidad del trabajo y debe ser considerado una transferencia/calificada permanente. Por el proposito de esta clausula, razonable periodo de tiempo para demostrar competencia/calificar, “debe ser dejado a la exclusiva discrecion de la Compania.
Seccion 14, Un postor exitoso que se descalifica despues de haber sido considerado como el postor exitoso pero antes de calificarse debe ser regrasado a su trabajo anterior y helado de hacer una oferta mas adelante por un periodo de doce (12) meses. Un postor exitoso que es descalificado por gerentes debe ser regrasado a su trabajo anterior y no debe ser penalizado por tai descalificacion exepto que el empleado seraprohibido de licitar en el trabajo del cual el empleado era descalificado por un periodo de doce (12) meses. Esta seccion sera aplicada a todas los ofertas de trabajo ascendentes.
Seccion 15, Un postor exitoso en una apuesta lateral o descendente sera conjelado para apostar mas adelante por doce (12) meses excepto en el caso de una razon medica valida. Una oferta lateral o descendiente debe ser una instancia en la cual un empleado hace una apuesta exitosamenta a un trabajo igual a o menos en grado de trabajo que la apuesta exitosa de trabajo anterior del empleado, Un apostador que es descalificado por la administration sera regresado a su trabajo anterior y no sera penalizado para tai descalificacion excepto el empleado sera restringido para apostar por el trabajo de que el empleado fue descalificado por un periodo de doce (12) meses. Esta seccion no aplique a empleados en la Division de Mantenimiento.
Seccion 16, Un empleado que licita ascendientemente or lateralmente sera pagado la cantidad de su trabajo anterior (o la base en caso de que un empleado que no estaba en un trabajo de licitacion) hasta que el empleado haiga calificado en un trabajo nuevo. Sobre calificacion el empleado debe recibir la cantidad de pago asociado con ese trabajo. Un empleado que haiga licitado a un tabajo con menos cantidad de pago debe ser pagado la cantidad menos en cuanto dicho empleado es movido a la nueva licitacion de trabajo.
Seccion 17, Cuando un vacante temporal existe y existira por mas que una (1) semana, el
8
empleado en ese departamento con mas antiguedad (senoria) divisional y quien es completamente calificado a imediatamentedesempcnarel trabajo vacante, puede solicitarcolocacion en el trabajo vacante, con tai de que es practice operacionalmente de honrar la soiicitud, tai empleado puede ocupar el vacante temporalmente. En la ausenciade tai soiicitud, si operacionalmente impractico, la Companiapuede colocar a un empleado en un trabajo vacante. Un trabajo dejado vacantepor la soiicitud de un empleado no es propenso a solicitudes de antiguedad (senoria) o puesta de ofertas.
Seccion 18, La Compania reserva la opcion de descalificar a un dueno de trabajo, una vez calificado anteriormente, si ese individuo no puede desempenar el trabajo debido a cambios de tecnologia, velocidades de produccion, o otra incapacidad de desempenar el trabajo. Cualquier helada impuesta como resultado de ese individuo licitando tai trabajo sera quitado y el empleado sera permitido a licitar o sera propenso a puesto por los gerentes.
Seccion 19, Si el trabajo de un empleado es suprimido por cambios de tecnologia, el empleado no debe perder su cantidad de pago por un periodo de tres (3) semanas y el empleado sera colocado en una posicion donde es necesitado hasta que el empleado licita exitosamente a otro trabajo. Si un empleado rechaza o es descalificado de un trabajo igual o mas en pago entonces el empleado pierde como castigo su cantidad de pago garantizada y agarra la cantidad de pago aplicable por el trabajo que esta desempenando, con tai de que, ellos esten calificados para este trabajo. Si un trabajo suprimido/eliminado causa la helada de un empleado, la helada sera omitida. Si un trabajo es restablecido, al empleado se le permitira regrasar al trabajo con tai que, esto ocurra dentro de noventa (90) dias del punto al cual el trabajo dicho fuera suprimido.
Seccion 20, En el evento que un trabajo no este ocupado por el procedimiento de licitar para un trabajo, un empleado sera asignado al trabajo el cual sera considerado como una licitacion regular de trabajo excepto que no sera usado para la administration de heladas como esta describido en las secciones dentro de esta clausula. Para propositos de aclaracion, un trabajo es que es asignado es un trabajo que habia sido puesto como licitation y que no haiga tenido a nadie licitar este trabajo particular. Despues de que un individuo sea asignado un trabajo, ese individuo debe sostener ese trabajo como lo harian con un trabajo regular seleccionado. Ese individuo una vez ya calificadio tambien comenzara a acumular antiguedad (senoria) por propositos de licitaciones de trabajo mas adelante seran pagados la cantidad calificada para tanto el trabajo como el dia de fiesta, tendran todas las opciones de licitacion abiertas a ellos y no tendrad ninguna helada impuesta sobre ellos.
Seccion 21, Todos los trabajos de la base deben ser excluidos del proceso de licitaciones de trabajo. La Compania puede a su discrecion exclusiva colocarempleados en estos trabajos queno son duenos de trabajo como esta resumido en secciones anteriores bajo la clausula de Antiguedad (Senoria).
En el evento que un empleado no tenga helada de licitaciones impuestsas como resumidas en la Clausula, ese empleado puede someter una soiicitud para transferencia a la Oficina de Personal. A cada soiicitud se le dara consideracion basada sobre antiguedad (senoria), abilidad de desempenar el trabajo y abilidad fisica.
Seccion 22, Los grupos reconocen y estan de acuerdo que los trabajos puestos en una lista abajo han sido excluidos del proceso de licitaciones. Trabajos adicionales pueden ser identificados que necesitan ser agregados o excluidos de dicha lista. La Compania y la Union
9
mutualmente estaran de acuerdo en esos cambios.
Seccion 23, Empleados que son ocupados en la misma fecha deben tener su antiguedad (senoria) determinada por orden alfabetica del apellido de ese empleado.
Seccion 24, Sujeto a toda ley aplicable, un empleado puede notificar a la compania de un cambio de nombre o numero de seguro social. Sujeto a verificacion legal, tai cambio de nombre o numero de seguro social puede ser hecho sin la perdida de beneficios.
Seccion 25, Cualquier empleado el cual su autorizacidn de trabajo se vence sera puesto en permiso de ausencia, sin beneficios, hasta un periodo de 30 dias para obtener la autorizacion renovada del trabajo. Los empleados que reciben autorizacion renovada del trabajo durante el periodo de 30 dias deben informar y regresar a trabajar inmediatamente al reciber la autorizacion de trabajo. Los empleados que fallan de obtener la autorizacidn renovada del trabajo seran despedidos al vencimiento de sus 30 dias de ausencia.
PARA VER LOS NOMBRES DE LOS TRABAJOS, VEA LA PAGINA #9
SLAUGHTER
PERMANENT		TEMPORARY
Hock Cutter Operator	3010	Knife Room
First Dehomer	3010	Hang Inedible
Midline Trim And Stamp	3010	Clean Office and Outside Area
Hock Blower Operator	3010	Cutting Tail Switches
Put On Hide Straps	3010 ■	Wash Tongues and Heads
Trim Weasands	3010	Bag Bungs
Flush Heads	3010	
Pull Paunches From Gut Table	3010	
Cut Off Knuckles	3010	
High Wash	3010	
Wash Foreshanks	3010	
Saw Homs	3010	
Pick and Screen Brains	3020	
Save Pituitary Glands	3020	
Put CO2 In Offal Boxes/Trim	3020	
Pituitary Glands	3020	
Cut Large Intestines To Length	3020	
Box And Weigh Large Intestines	3020	
Cut Small Intestines	3020	
Feed Stricker Machines	3020	
Strapper Operator	3020	
Defat Intestines	3020	
Box and Weigh Small Intestines	3020	
Cattle Drive (Kill Floor Ramp)	3010	
10
Tag Head Carcasses
FABRICATION
PERMANENT		TEMPORARY	
C02 Injection	3140	Pick Flap Meat	3160
Clean Floors	3140	Transfer Loin Tails	3170
Clean Floors	3160	Navel Flipper	3150
Contamination Trimmers	3140	Trolley Line	3170
Loin Turner	3169	Maja Feeder	3170
Pre ID	3169	Tail Flipper	3170
Floor Cleaner	3168	Dispense Co2 in Combo	3173
Clean Floor	3170	Shank Belt Picker	3173
Hydraulic Knuckle Puller	3172	Combo Plate Bones	3173
Clean Floors	3172	Combo Rib Caps	3173
Anyl Ray	3173	Combo Fai From Whiz Table	3173
Check Trim Belt	3173	Transfer Short Ribs	3176
Extruder Trapper Operator	3173	Feed Maja Skinner	3191
Make Boxes	3173	Pole Boxes	3166
Stack Boxes	3173	LFTB Dumper	3530
Check Bone Belt	3173	Watch Metal Detector	3530
Check Fat Belt	3173		
Make Combos	3173		
Box Femur Bones	3173		
Combo Neck Bones	3173		
Lean Pickers	3173		
Feed Baader	3173		
Floor Cleaner	3173		
Watch Metal Detector	3173		
Passout Gloves	3173		
Clean Floors	3174		
Clean Floors	3163		
Clean Floors	3176		
Bone Cleaner	3191		
Bag and Box Meat	3166		
(Except Chucks)			
8300's #2,#5	3166		
Leaker Line	3166		
Load Baggers	3166		
8300 #7,8, and 9	3171		
Bag and Box Meat	3171		
(Except Full Rounds)			
I ,oad Bagger	3171		
11
Anyl Ray	3530
Box Chubs	3530
Labeler	3530
Combo Dumper	3530
MAINTENANCE
TEMPORARY
Take Refrigeration Readings
Clean-up Engine Room
Locker Room
PROCESO DE OFERTAS DE TRABAJO
Seccion 1, Empleados comenzaran con trabajos asignados. El trabajo en el que el empleado esta en la fecha que un contrato es firmado debe ser el trabajo de ese empleado. Cuando el procedimiento de licitaciones de trabajo comienza, estos trabajos seran usados como el punto de iniciacion.
Seccion 2, Trabajos de Lead Man (Hombres de Guia), Scale Techs (Technico de Bascula), Quality Control (Control de Calidad), Trainers (Entrenadores) y Ergonomic Monitor (Monitor de Ergonomia) no estan sujetos a licitacion pero empleados que desean ser considerados para tai puesto pueden presentar solicitudes escritas para transferencia a cualquiera de estas posiciones. La Compania debe seleccionar a los empleados a ocupar estos trabajos de entre empleados que haigan hecho solicitud para transferencia. Los partidos reconocen y estan de acuerdo con el acatamiento con el Acuerdo de la OSHA diciembre 5, 1991, algunos de los trabajos de la lista arriba van a ser exlcuidos del proceso de ofertas de trabajar despues de la evaluacion de trabajo y analisis de ergonomia y algunos trabajos seran involucrados en una votacion requerida. Estan de acuerdo que los trabajos de la lista de arriba que no scran modificados o eximinado de las ofertas de trabajo durante el termino de este acuerdo y sera expuesto al proceso de ofertas de trabajo.
SUSPENCION Y DEVOLUCION
Seccion 1, Cuando las reducciones del departamento sean necesarios, los empleados con la senoria menos del departamento, seran suspendidos. Los empleados suspendidos del departamento tendran el derecho de desplazar los empleados con la senoria menos de la division quienes la senoria es menos del empleado ejerciendo los derechos de desplazamiento.
Seccion 2, Un empleado con mas senoria que no lo gustaria ejercer los derechos de desplazamiento puede elejir suspension pero despues no podra ejercer los derechos de desplazamiento hasta ser llamado a la linea con la senoria del departamento de los empleados subsiguiente a la suspension.
Seccion 3, Hacer notificado de suspension la Compania les dara a cada empleado que tiene derechos de desplazamiento con informacion suficiente ejercer su seleccion en orden de senoria.
Seccion 4, Cada empleado le dara a la Compania la direccion de ellos escrita con el proposito
12
de darles noticias requeridas. Todas las noticias seran mandadas a los empleados por correo a la direcci on que se le dio a la Compania por cada empleado,
Seccion 5, Empleados que ejercen los derechos de desplazamiento en esta seccion y son llamados para regresar al departamento original a la linea con la senoria que no les gustaria regresar puede mantenerse en el departamento que esta desplazado y la senoria en ese departamento nuevo sera comenzado desde el primer dia que entraron a ese deparetamento. Estos empleados perderan toda la Senoria en el departamento anterior pero no perderan la senoria que han acudido durante la planta.
Seccion 6, Cuando empleados son llamados que son suspendidos ellos seran llamados en la orden opuesta que sean sido suspendidos.
Seccion 7, Empleados que son llamados de suspension tendran cinco (5) dias de trabajo para regresar al trabajo despues de la fecha que han recibido la noticia enviada por correspondensia certificada, el recibio sera solicitado, la noticia sera mandada a la ultima direccion que el empleado Ie a proveido a la compania. Empleados que fallen de reportarse dentro de cinco (5) dias de trabajo de la fecha que la noticia fue enviada sera considerado como abondono voluntario.
Seccion 8, Cuando halla vacantes aberturas de dia a dia durante suspensiones por causa de faltas/salidas, tales vacantes seran llenadas primero en la linea de senoria de empleados suspendidos presentes en la planta buscando trabajo de replazamicnto de calificationes, la abilidad de dezempenar de imediato el trabajo y la abilidad fisica sea igual dentro de los empleados egible para consideration,
Seccion 9, Faltas excesivas de doce (12) meses por cualquier razon causara que un empleado deje el trabajo. Como quiera, si una circumstancia existe fuera de comun, ese tiempo limitado puede extenderse a la total discresion de la Compania.
ORIENTACION
La Compania esta de acuerdo y permite, durante orientation de nuevos empleados, un agente de la Union la oportunidad de discutir el papel de la Union en la National Beef, tales presentaciones no excederan mas de cuarenta y cinco (45) minutos.
DIAS DE FIESTA
Seccion 1, Empleados regulares de tiempo complete recibiran sin trabajar, pago derecho del tiempo del dia Festivo por ocho (8) horas por dia (empleados de mantenimiento que estan programados para doce (12) horas, recibiran doce (12) horas pagados del dia Festivo) por cada de los dias festivos proveeriendo que han trabajado el tiempo completo del dia imediatemente antes y despues del dia festivo menos que han sido excusados de falta que empieze no mas que siete (7) dias antes del dia festivo con el permiso del supervisor o en el caso de emergentia que esta descansado como esta escrito en el Nuevo Salir De Funeraria o Salir De Faltas Seccion 9 conteniendo aqui, empezando no mas de 14 dias antes del Dia Festivo con el permiso del supervisor.
Seccion 2, Los dias festivos observados seran los siguientes:
Ano Nuevo
El Dia De Los Muertos
El Dia. De Independencia
13
El Dia Del Trabajo
El Dia De Los Veteranos
El Dia De Dar Gracias
Navidad
Noche Buena
Si un dia festivo es en domingo, sera observado el siguiente lunes.
Seccion 3, Empleados de prueba y medio tiempo no seran elegibles para elpago del dia festivo.
Seccion 4, El Dia Festivo no sera considerado como tiempo, trabajado por el proposito de caicular las horas extras de la semana.
Seccion 5, Todas las horas trabajadas durante el Dia Festivo seran pagadas dos (2) veses el tiempo derecho por el tiempo trabajado mas el pago del dia festivo.
Seccion 6, Si el dia Festivo cai durante las vacasiones de un empleado, entonces el empleada se le pagara el Dia Festivo despues de que venga y trabajo el Horario regular de el en el siguiente pago.
Seccion 7, Las siguientes faltas no afectara a los emplados en pago de Dia Festivo:
1.	La muerte de un miembro de la familia imediata. Esto incluye esposo, esposa, padre, madre, hermana, hermano, abuelo, abuela, suegro, suegra, tias, tios, hijos, hijastro, o hijo adoptive que estan viviendo en la casa del empleado en acuerdo de las provisiones de este contrato.
2.	Trabajo con el jurado o Hamada que esta en acuerdo con la provision de este contracto.
3.	Trabajo con La Guardia Nacional o Reserves en acuerdo con la provision en este contrato.
4.	Una llegada tarde o tener que irse a la casa temprano el dia antes o el dia despues del dia festivo el empleado no sera descalificado para recibir el pago del dia festivo.
A.	La llegada tarde es menos de tres (3) horas.
B.	El empleado que es mandado enfermo a la casa el dia antes o el dia despues del dia festivo el empleado tendria que trabajar media hora (1/2) del horario que estan programados.
VACACION
Seccion 1, Empleados regulares de tiempo completo seran titulados a vacaciones con pago, igual a cuarenta horas de pago al tipo de sueldo principal o 1/52 del sueldo annual anterior del empleado como indicado por una forma W-2 previamente entregada, cualquiera que se mayor para el empleado, al fmal de cada ano completo y continuacion del empleo con la Compania de la siguiente manera:
Despues de un ano (1) a tres (3) anos, una (1) semana.
Despues de tres (3) anos a diez (10) anos, dos (2) semanas
Despues de diez (10) anos a veinte anos, tres (3) semanas
14
Despues de veinte (20) anos y todos los anos consecutivos, cuatro (4) semanas
Seccion 2, Para calificar para vacaciones pagadas el empleado tendria que pasar su fecha de aniversario y haber trabajado por lo menos cuarcnta - cuatro (44) semanas durante el ano precedente. Por el proposito de esta seccion solamente, una semana en donde el empleado trabaja por lo menos un (1) dia sera contado como una semana trabajada credito se le dara en el cualquier primero (1) ano de aniversario por semanas faltadas por causas de trabajo dejurado, vacaciones, el maximo do veinte y seis (26) semanas de lastimadura de compensasion, cuatro (4) semanas de descanso de medico, una (1) semana de falta por Union, y dos (2) semanas de descanzo para empleados que requieren la participacion de actividades oficial como miembro de la Guardia Nacional o en cualquier Reservacion Militario de Los Estados Unidos.
Seccion 3, Una hoja para firmarse de vacaciones estara preparada cada ano para el 30 de marzo. A los empleados se les dara la preferencia de vacaciones basado en la senoria del departamento y tendrean la seleccion de escojer antes del 15 de Abril. Despues del 15 de Abril, las vacaciones seran programadas en la base de primera persona primer servicion y sera aprobado por la Compania.
Seccion 4, Las vacaciones no seran acumuladas del ano a ano tendran que tomarse el ano siguiente de la fecha que sigue. Si la vacacion no es solicitadad durante el ano, sera automaticamente pagada.
Seccion 5, Empleados que soliciten puntualmente dos (2) semanas adeiantados recibiran el pago de vacaciones en el dia de pago regular imediatamente precedente el comienzo de las vacaciones.
Seccion 6, La Compania esta de acuerdo y considera la preferencia al empleado en el horario de vacacions pero la Compania tendra la ultima probacion y desision en esta matena y puede limitar la cantidad de empleados en vacaciones de cualquier departamento para mantener eficiente operaci ones.
Seccion 7, Los empleados que califican para vacaciones debajo de este articulo al tiempo de terminar su empleo seran pagados por vacacion pero no merceran a tomar las vacaciones.
Seccion 8, Esta entendido por todos los partidos que cualquier fecha de senoria arreglada que horita es usada por la Compania se mantendra por toda la vida de este contrato por el poposito de calcular y acumular los beneficios de vacaciones
Seccion 9, Al solicitar, todos los empleados con la exception de personal de departamento de Mantenimiento y Load Out, elegibles para vacaciones, recibiran el sabado antes de las vacaciones como una falta sin pago y escusado, proveriendo que tenga noventa (90) dias consecutivos de perfecta asistencia precediente de imediato del comienzo de vacaciones. De cualquier modo, esos empleados que no requieren la criteria y solisiten el sabado de descanso seran evualado en la base del individual.
PERIODOS DE COMIDA - PERIODOS DE DESCANSO
Seccion 1, Los empleados recibiran un periodo de comer por lo menos 30 minutos sin pago y no mas de una (1) hora del tiempo que estan programados por la compania. Este periodo sera programado por lo menos al cuarto 4 medio (4 1/2) hora no mas tarde que el quinto 4 medio (5 1/2) horUj rnenos ssis (6) horn de! di— de! trabajo complete?.
15
Seccion 2, Los empleados seran permitidios quince (15) minuots de periodo de descanso el cual comenzara durante la tercer hora de trabajo cada dia, El tiempo sera determinado de y hasta la estacion de trabajo y el horario de la compania,
Seccion 3, Si la compania a planeado mas de (8) ocho horas en el dia, una adicion al pago por descanso debera ser agregada por la compania despues del fin del tumo.
Seccion 4, Si la compania ha planeado mas de diez (10) horas de trabajo tai dia un tercer descanso debera ser planeado por la compania mas del 1/2 horas despues del segundo descanso antes del fin del tumo.
Seccion 5, Si tiempo extra sin estar previsto resultaen que el empleado vaya trabajar mas de 8 horas el segundo tiempo de descanso sera puesto por la compania durante la novena hora de trabajo y si mas de diez horas, el tercer periodo de descanso sera puesta por la compania durante la onzava horade trabajo. Si e! tumo de el empleado se pasa de 12 horas, un descanso pagado de 15 minutos a la trezava hora de trabajo sera agregada.
Seccion 6, Para el proposito de esta clausula, un dia de trabajo que exceda al horario normal por siete minutos o menos no seran calificados al factor de periodos de descansos mencionados en las secciones previas,
Seccion 7, En establediendo la segunda y tercera quebrada, la compania tiene la opcion de observar la quebrada o permitir pago por o en lugar de dicha quebrada,
EQUIPO SUMINISTRADO POR LA COMPANIA
Seccion 1, La compania le provee al empleado y el empleado tiene que asumir la obligacion de regresar o pagar por cualesquier equipo si la Compania determina su trabajo requiere dichos articulos. Botas de hule con punta de fiero para los empleados de mantenimiento, chairas, fundas, metalicos, de algodon, de polar, o cualquier otro tipo de guante, cuchillos, protection de los oidos, herramienta de mantenimiento, y equipo de proteccion requerido por la compania o el gobiemo con la exception de propio calzado autorizado el cual seguira siendo responsabilidad del empleado almenos notado de otro modo.
Seccion 2, Empleados son dados equipo que es propiedad de la compania el empleado debera firmar un recibo por el equipo como un recibo por el equipo como un acuerdo de responsabilidad por la seguridad y eficiente uso de tai y por la constodia de tai y el regreso a la compania. Equipo de la compania que no es regresado o tiene algun dano de su regreso sera pagado por el empleado. En tai caso que la compania le rebajara el costo de tai equipo del cheque del empleado,
Seccion 3, Empleados usando herramienta o equipo proveido por la compania seran pagados por el tiempo para reparar y preparar, proveendo tai preparation y reparo son requeridos por la compania. La compania a su opcion agna ciertos empleados tai deberes,
Seccion 4, La Compania Ie provee al empleado o empleados a afilar sus cuchillos para todos los empleados requeridos a usar cuchillos,
Seccion 5, La Compania le proveera la lavada de los guantes de algodon, batas de production a los empleados que son requeridos usar tales articulos, Estos articulos se quedaran en la propiedad de la compania, empleados tienen las mismas obligationes para el cuidado de estos articulos y el retomo o pago por los articulos proveidos,
Seccion 6, La Compania reemplazara, sin costo al empleado, guante de hule, mandiles y mangas de plastico para todos los empleados en el empaque y operadores de serrucho, matanza,
16
cuarto de cueros, y empleados de rendering, proveiendo que el articulo desgastado es intercambiado y no haiga evidencia que existe de ser destruido a proposito.
Seccion 7, La compania reemplazara, sin costo al empleado, redecillas para el cabello, proveriendo que el articulo es cambiadio y no hay evidencia que existe de ser destruido a proposito.
Seccion 8, La compania les dara la opcion a todos los empleados para que las botas de hule yseran deducidas del cheque si son ordenadas por la compania.
Seccion 9, La Compania les dara la opcion a los empleados de deducir del cheque el costo de chamaras proveriendo que el empleado trabaja en una area donde la Compania sienta que sera de beneficio para el empleado y es ordenada por la compania. La compafiia proporcionara chamaras a los empleados en el departamento del congelador, que realiza los trabajos siguientes: Hombres de Congelador/Carretilla Elevadora y Leadman.
Seccion 10, La compania reembolsara a empleados regulares de tiempo completo de mantenimiento por el costo de botas de cuero y casco de acero, cada ano del aniversario del CBA. Prueba de compra se debe proporcionar y el reembolso sera hecho al costo real, no excedera $100.00.
» SIN HUELGA - SIN CERRAR FUERA
Seccion 1, La Union esta de acuerdo que ninguno o nadie de los empleados del partido de negociaciones cubrido por este acuerdo sera autorizado individualmente o colectivamente, causa, ratificar, condonar, ayuda o tomarparte de cualquierhuelga, retraso, parar de trabajar, sentarse, piquetar cualquier otra inteferencia durante el trabajo mientras el termino de este acuerdo. En el evento que cualquier empleado sea involucrado en esta actividad, el empleado sera despedido imediatamente.
Seccion 2, La compania esta de acuerdo que habra “lockout” para ninguno de los empleados cubridos por este acuerdo; esta entendido que la Compania ejercera los derechos en este acuerdo y no constituir a “lock out.”
PLAN DE COMPRAS DE CARNE DE LOS EMPLEADOS
La compania esta de acuerdo que los empleados deben de tener un programa para la compra de came. La compania tendra descresion unica para todos los precios, metodos de standard de pagos y horas de operacion. Estos derehos exclusivos son consteder no mas para la compania.
PROCEDIMIENTO DE QUEJAS
Seccion 1, En casos de que haya alguna queja de un empleado de tiempo completo y la compania tendran que squir los siguientes pasos del acuerdo; la queja debe de ser procesada con los siguientes pasos:
PASO UNO - El empleado agredido discutira la razon con su supervisor imediato ,	dentro de dos (2) dias trabajados o la queja sera considerada serrada. Si el empleado y
el supervisor imediato no pueden resolver el motive dentro de los 2 dias trabajados despues de la discusion, el empleado agredido puede apelar esta queja al siguiente nasn r-----
17
PASO DOS - Si el Imotivo es apelado al paso segundo, la queja sera reducida a escrita que sea firmada el empleado agredido y por presentar al departamento del superintendiente. Todas las quejas con respeto a despido tienen que ser archivadas por escrito este paso dentro de siete (7) dias de calendario despues de la fecha de comision de la ofensa alegada. Cualquier queja involucrando un despido tienen que ser archivadas cinco (5) dias de calendario despues del despido. Cualquier queja que no esta archivada por escrito en este paso y con el tiempo limitado sera considerado como serrada. Siguiendo el recibo de la queja por escrito, el superintendiente del departamento o otro representante de la compania proveera una respuesta escrita de la queja dentro de cinco (5) dias de calendario. Si el motivo no esta resuelto, la Union puede apelar este motivo al siguiente paso.
La queja escrita debe identificar:
a. las verdades generales levantando la queja b. la reclamacion de la queja c. y la satisfaccion solicitadado
PASO TRES - Un representante de la Union o agente de negocio puede apelar la queja con presentando una copia de la queja y la respuesta superintendiente del departamento. A la division de manejamiento dentro de 7 (siete) dias de calendario de la fecha de la respuesta del superintendiente del departamento. La Union y la Compania discutiran y trataran de resolver el motivo. La Compania proveera a la Union con una respuesta escrita dentro de 7 (siete) dias de calendario despues de la discusion. Si el motivo no esta resuelto, la Union puede apelar el motivo al siguiente paso.
PRE ARBITRAJE - Dentro de los 7 (siete) dias despues de la fecha de la respuesta escrita por la Compania, el representante depersonal de la Union Local puede requerir una junta con el Vice Presidente, Mayordomo General para ver si la queja se puede resolver antes del arbitrage. Esta junta se lievara acabo mutualmente en el tiempo conveniente y cada partido puede incluir partidos adicionales si ellos desean. Si el motivo no esta resuelto, La Union por un representante de personal puede requerir arbitraje a la queja dicha soiicitud sera archivada por escrito dentro de 15 dias despues de la junta.
ARBITRAJE - Si dentro de 10 dias despues de haber recibido tai soiicitud escrita, los partidos no llegan algun acuerdo con el arbitro, cualquier partido puede solicitar 5 nombres del mediatador federal y un servicio de conciliacion. La Union elijira 2 nombres del panel de arbitradores propuestos y daran 2 nombres a la compania dentro de 10 dias despues del recibo de la Union del panel. La compania despues sacara 2 nombres y sometera lo mismo a la Union dentro de 10 dias despues del recibo de la compania de los nombres elejidos por la Union. El resto de los nombres del panel de arbitradores actuarancomo el arbitradorde la discusion. La decision delarbitradorde
18
la queja sera el final y amarrada con los partidos proveendo que no tendran autoridad mas de los terminos aplicados de las condiciones espesificas en este acuerdo. El arbitrador sometera su decision por escrito dentro de 30 dias despues de la conclusion de la sumision de preves. La compensacion de los gastos del arbitrador seran compartidos por igual por la compania y la Union.
En el evento que un empleado es reintegrado por un arbitrador, la responsibilidad maxima de la Compania sera los sueldos perdidos del empleado de National Beef Packing Company reducido por toda la compensacion recibido por el empleado durante el periodo de despedido de otro empleo, beneficio del seguro contra el desempleo, compensacion de trabajo, u otros sueldos.
Seccion 2 La presentacion de la queja debe ser hecha por un representante de la Union y el empleado en su tiempo propio de todos los pasos del proceso menos esos miembros del comite de queja seran pagados por el tiempo faltado durante el trabajo mientras atiendan el tercer (3) paso de las juntas y de pre arbitraje.
Seccion 3 El arreglo de cualquier queja de y despues del Paso Dos (2) sera reducido a escrito y firmado por los dos partidos. Tai acuerdo sera finalizado y cerrado por todos los partidos de este motive.
Seccion 4 El tiempo para perfeccionar cualquier paso del procedimiento de queja puede ser extendida con un arreglo mutual de la Compania y la Union. Arreglos de la extension seran escritos y firmados por un representante de los dos la Compania y Union.
Seccion 5 Un comite de quejas de no mas de cuatro (4) empleados regulares de tiempo completo seran designados por la Union de sus miembros. La Union le avisara a la Compania por escrito de los nombres del comite y cualquier cambio. Este comite sera permitido tiempo afuera con pago para atender el tercer paso de la junta y Pre-Arbitraje.
Seccion 6 En cualquier paso del procedimiento de esta queja, el comite de ejecutivos de la Union Local tendra la autorisacion final con respecto a cualquier empleado agredido cubierto por este acuerdo. Para negar o procesar la queja, reclamation, dificultad o discusion de juicio mas adelante del comite ejecutivo, tai queja o discusion de falta de meritosy falta de justification bajo los terminos para satisfacer el comite ejecutivo de la Union Local.
Seccion 7 La compania le proveera una copia de el archivo de acciones del empleado. Si se le ha dado disciplina al empleado afectado.
Seccion 8 Toda action disciplinaria sera administrada dentro de una jomada de 7 dias de trabajo siguendo el conocimiento de la infraction.
CLAUSULA DE AHORROS
Esta asimulado por los partidos que cada provision de este contrato esta en confbrmidad con todas las leyes aplicadas de los Estados Uni dos y el estado de Kansas. Si despues es determinado que podria violar alguna legalidad efectiva al gobiemo o la orden del estado o estatuto de obediencia con alguna provision o provisiones de este acuerdo. Los partidos acordados a renegociar tai provision o provisiones del acuerdo con el proposito de hacerlos conformes a tai go bi emo orden de estsdo o eststuto? y !ss otrss pro vis ones de este neuerdo sersn sfpr.tHdn!C1
19
medio de esto; pero quedaran en fuerza total y en efecto.
RENUNCIA
Seccion 1, La Compania y la Union por los terminos de este acuerdo voluntariamente descalifican el derecho de renuncias y acuerda que cualesquier otras no seran obligadas al pacto de colectividad a cualquier tema o referenia al motivo cubierto por este acuerdo o con respecto a cualquier tema o motivo referente o cubierto por este acuerdo aunque tales temas o motives que no han estado con el conocimiento o contemplation de cualquiera de los partidos de el tiempo que hallan negociado o firmado este acuerdo,
Seccion 2, Los partidos conocidos durante la negociacion que resulta en el acuerdo que cada uno alia tenido derechos limitados y oportunidades para ser demandadas y propuestos con el respecto cualquier tema o motivo, no han sido removidos por la ley o de cualesquier area del comite depropuestos y que el entendimiento del arreglo que los partidos despues y ejercer el derecho y La oportunidad de llevar acabo este acuerdo,
Seccion 3, Este es el acuerdo completo referendose al todos los sueldos y beneficios al cual cualesquier empleado sera dado derecho y ser entendido y acordado que la compania no tiene obligacion para pagar el sueldo o beneficios aparte de esos prohibidos especificamente aqui.
Seccion 4, En el evento de un nuevo trabajo es creado bajo el termino de este acuerdo, la compania descutira el reto aplicable para el nuevo trabajo con la Union, En la ausencia de acuerdos, la compania establecira un grado y pondra el trabajo. Despues que el trabajo ya haya sido operado por 30 (dias) y si el acuerdo no ha sido llegado la Union puede quejarse del grado establecido.
SUBCONTRATANDO
Los partidos a este acuerdo han discutido sub contratacion del desempeno del trabajo por los empleados de la Uni dad de acuerdos son los siguinetes:
Ambos partidos desean minimizar los efectos de la subcontratacion conforme la seguridad del trabajo a empleados y trabajaran con ese fin.
Cuando subcontratando operaciones que existen seran necesarias o deseadas, en juicio total de la compania, la compania notificara a la Union. Si la Union desea discutir los efectos de la seguridad de trabajo del empleado, los partidos se reuniran para ese proposito. La compania acuerda a demorrar cualesquier suspensin cuasada por subcontratacion hasta al menos (2) dos semanas subsiguientes a la noticia de la compania a la Union de las intensiones de la Compania, para que los partidos tengan amplio tiempo para suguerir metodos para avitar la suspension o minimizar los efectos adversos. La compania acuerda no subcontratar un departamento entero.
PERMISOS DE AUSENCIA
Section 1, La compania le provee salidas de ausencias a empleados de tiempo completo. Mientras en salida de ausencia, la senoria de los empleados continuara; El tiempo de salida no sera considerado como tiempo trabajado y la compania provee la salida con la continuation de beneficios de aseguranza por treinta (30) dias de calendario,
Seccion 2, SALIDA PERSONAL - Una salida por razones personales sera requerida por escrito y si aprovada por la compania, sera dada hasta por 30 dias y extendida por terminos adicionales no excediendo 30 dias sin la aprovacion de la Compania.
20
Seccion 3, SALIDA DE MEDICO - Una salida por razones medicas no relacionada con el trabajo puede ser requerida por escirto y sera acompanada con una explicacion del doctor del empleado. Emergencias de medico verificadas por la Compania le dara el derecho a la Compania a sus discrecion para poner al empleado en una salida de medica. Salida medica, si es concedida, sera por un periodo de no mas de cien ochenta (180) dias con la continucacion de aseguranza durante tai tiempo y subjeto a terminacion antes de recuperarse si esto ocurre dentro de este periodo inicial. Si las condiciones de medico continua, la salida puede ser extendida por la Compania debajo de tales condiciones, con o sin los beneficios, y con tai confirmaicon de medica como la Comapnia lo requiere, incluyendo examenes por un doctor seleccionado por la Compania. Si falla notificar la Compnaia de imediato y se ofrece a regresar a trabajar cuando su doctor de tratamiento lo da de alta sera violacion de los terminos de la salida medica y sera despedido.
Seccion 4, SALIDA DE UNION
A.	No mas de dos (2) empleados regulares de tiempo complete quienes son elejidos o apuntados a una posicion de tiempo complete, y es confirmado por la Union en escrito, sera concedido una salida sin pago o beneficios y continuara la senoria para el termino y no excedera de la vida de este Acuerdo. Desde una (1) semana de notificarpararegreesar al trabajo ellos seran puestos en su trabajo anterior sin perder senoria, proveiendo que ellos reportaron a su trabajo dentro de treinta (30) dias de calendario de la fecha de su posision de tiempo complete con los terminos de la Union.
B.	Empleados regulares de tiempo complete escojidos por la Union atender negocios de la Union fuera de la planta, sera con permiso de manejamiento de la planta proveendo salidas de ausencias sin pago por el periodo no excediento 30 dias. La compania limitara el numero de empleados sera concedidos salida a tres (3) no mas de 2 de cierto departamento requeriendo confirmation del negocio de la Union de la oficina de la Union y noticia por adelanto de la salida necesitada.
Seccion 5, Salida de Ausencia al Setvicio Militar Empleados regulares de tiempo completo que abondonan su empleo con la Compania para entrar a ser miembro activo del servicio militar tendran el derecho para ser empleados de nuevo como es concedido por la ley. Empleados regulares de tiempo completo quienes son miembreos de la guardianational, o del servicio militar de los Estados Unidos seran concedidos, ausencia o salidad para atender periodos de entrenamientos requieridos proveendo a la Compania con justificasion por escrito de tales ensayos o periodos de entrenameinto dentro de dos dias trabajados del recibo que cualquier ordenes o de cualquier otra justificasion escrita que el empleado ha recibido.
Seccion 6, SALIDA DEL SERVICIO AL JURADO - Empleados regulares de tiempo completo llamados al servicio dejurado en el candado, del Estado o Corte Federal se le concedera una salida de servicio dejurado cuando el empleado presente a su supervisor de imediato un copia de la cita de juicio dentro de dos (2) dias de trabajo del recibo de la cita. Proveeriendo el empleado acceda la noticia con anticipo requerido del dicho empleado y sera pagado la cantidad que ellos hubieran ganado si ellos no hubieran sido prevenido a trabajar por el servicio del jurado, pero no excedera ocho (8) horas al dia o cuarenta (40) horas por semana. Empleados de mantenimiento, programados al tumo de doce (12) horas seran pagados hasta doce (12) horas al (ha v a al mavimn dp trpintn - epic hnrac a la cpmana Para rali fir ar al tai naern pl rmnlradn j	------------------ _	vf------------------ ---------------—	j-----
21
le pagara a la Compania la cantidad recibida por el servicio del jurado, reteniendo cualquier cantidad recibida como gastos exceos del pago diario o por tai servicio del jurado. Empleados dados de alta del servicio de jurado durante el horario de las horas programadas para trabajar o anterior al horario programado del empleado seran notificados pronto a su supervisor quienes haran uno de los dos los despensaran del balance de ese tumo los rcquieran a reportarse al trabajo.
Seccion 7, Empleados en salida de ausencia se requiere que notifiquen a la Compania lo mas pronto por la razon que la salida fue requerida y no existe ya. Si fracasa en hacer esto sera terminacion de imediata de la salida o por despido.
Seccion 8, Cualquier empleado de cualquier tipo de salida quien empieza trabajar por cualquier otra personal o compania o quien comienza empleo por si mismo sera considerado como aver dejado el trabajo voluntariamente su empleo.
Seccion 9, Tiempo razonable sin pago, la cantidad del tiempo serdetermiadapor la compania, sin embargo, sin embargo, tales ausencias dispensadas no excederan siete (7) dias, seran otorgados a empleados que tienen los actos personales con el Servicio de la Inmigracion y la Naturalization. la documentation proporcionada que verifica los dias de la liberation se proporciona en el avance.
HOJA del FUNERAL
Seccion 1 Ausencias debido a la muerte de un miembro o la familia inmediata, de jomada completa y regular de empleado se trataran como una ausencia dispensada. Un empleado de jomada completa regular tan ausente sera pago esos dias que se planifican como jomada de trabajo para el empleado proporcionaron ellos estan en la nomina activa. El empleado sera pagado su cantidade principal echo horas de pago, excepto empleados de mantenimiento puestos en el horario en tumos de doce (12) horas, recibiran 12 (doce) horas de pago, por cada de tres dias consecutivos (uno del cual debe ser el dia del funeral) en el cual el empleado de lo contrario estaria puesto en el horario para trabajar.
Seccion 2, El empleado debe notificar a la Compania del proposito de su ausencia en o antes del primer dia de tai ausencia.
Seccion 3, El empleado debe ser requerido a dar prueba satisfactoria a la Compania de la muerte la relacion del empleado al difunto, la fecha de la funeral y la asistencia verdadera a la funeral.
Seccion 4, Cualquier pago de funeral no debe ser incluida en la computation de horas extras o cualquier otro tipo de pago.
Seccion 5, Familia imediata debe ser definida como esposo/a madre, padre, hermana, hermano, abuela, abuelo, suegro, suegra. hijastro, o hijo adoptivo del empleado viviendo en casa del empleado.
Seccion 6, Tiempo razonable, fuera sin pago, duration de tiempo de ser determinado por la Compania, sera concedido a empleados que estaran viajando a un lugar distante para atender al fuenral de un miembro de la familia inmediato, como definido en la Seccion cinco (5).
ERGONOMIA
Section 1, Programs de Ergonomia/Seguridad
•	La Compania asegura que atention significative es dado para temas sobre
22
ergonomia/seguridad en la planta,
•	La Compania reconoce que el invulcramiento del trabajador es crucial para el exito del cualesquier programs de ergonomia/seguridad.
•	La Compania esta de acuerdo en evaluar nueva technologia economica y conveniente y procesar camibios para riesgos factores previo a puesto de practica.
•	El programa de Ergonomia/Seguridad incluye una position regular de tiempo de monitor, nueve (9) monitores de ergonomia/seguridad y un comite unido de labor/supervisor ergonomia/seguridad.
Seccion 2, Regular de Tiempo de Monitor: El monitor sera responsible de:
•	Discusiones con el empleado en maneras de mejorar sus trabajos.
•	Someter proyectos a supervisors para consideration.
•	Trabajar con supervisors en proyectos ergonomicos.
•	Establecer una agenda y reunirse mensualmente con monitors de ergonomia para discutir proyectos en sus areas designadas y cualesquier problemas que esten teniendo con el programa.
•	Asistir juntas con comite unido de labor/supervisor ergonomia/seguridad.
•	Progreso de documentos sobre proyectos de ergonomia para el comite unido de labor/supervisor y entregarse los a los monitores de sus areas designadas.
•	Revisar regularmente la lista de trabajadores en trabajos livianos y alternatives, al igual que aquellos en el programa condicionado y trabajos que estan desempenando, con el Departamento de Enfermeria de la Compania. El Departamento de Enfermeria debe trabajar con el monitor regular de tiempo de ergonomia, si problemas resultan con respecto al trabajo asignado a los trabjadores heridos. El monitor regular de tiempo de ergonomia puede resolver con este tipo de problemas.
Seccion 3, Comite Unido de Labor/Supervisor Ergonomia/Seguridad: Miembros del comite seran responsable por:
•	Asegurar information del trabajador en la identification y resolucion de peligros ergonomicos.
•	Los miembros del Comite de Erogonomia/Seguridad recibiran dos (2) dias de entrenamiento por la Compania en un ano calendario. Estos se conduciran en junto ydiciembre. En el caso que un miembro nuevo es asignado al comite el/ella recibira la instruction dentro de 60 dias de la cita. Este dia de la instruction del inicial contara como uno de los dos dias anuales de instruction.
•	Medio dia sera tornado annualmente para dar un curso de repaso.
•	El Comite se junatara mensualmente para revisar y hablar sobre el progreso del programa y temas relacionados.
•	El Comite recibira de la Compania justificacion cuando economicamente conveniente al examinar los controles de ingenieria y no poner los en practica.
•	La Compania periodicamente revisara copias de el cuademo de bitacora de OSHA 200.
Section 4, Monitores del comite de Ergonomia/Segurida
• El Comite consistera de no mas de diez (10) empleados de negociacion, el cual deberal tener mas de un afio de senoria, todos todos designados por la Union, uno (1) monitor regular de
23
tiempo, dos (2) de cada primer y segundo tumo de Fabricacion, uno (1) de cada primer y segundo tumo de Matansa, uno (1) del departamento de Cueros, uno( 1) de Rendering, y uno (1) de Mantenimiento.
•	El monitor de Ergonomia (ME) tendran areas designadas de responsabilidad, tai cubriendo todo la planta.
•	El ME trabajar con la Compania, Departamento de Seguridad, el comite unido de labor/supervisor y el monitor regular de tiempo provee informacion al identification del elemento de tension de ergonomia, analisis de esos trabajos, y el desarollo y evaluacion de soluciones recomendadas.
•	El ME conducira dos veces al mes una caminada al rededor para inspeccionar la area designada para asistir en la identification de areas problematicas y ofrecer soluciones potenciales.
•	El ME sera incluido en todos los proyectos pendientes de ergonomia en sus areas y seran proveidos con tiempo para consultar con los trabajadores afectados para explicar cualesquieres cambios y para asistir en juntar informacion del empleado.
•	El ME sera proveido con reportes de peligros de ergonomia para presentar areas sospechas con problemas a la Compania.
•	La Compania pondra photos de monitores incluyendo el nombre del ME y area del trabajo en el boletin del pasillo.
•	El ME se reunira mensualmente con el comite unido de labor/supervisor de ergonomia.
•	El ME se le concedera un minimo de cuatro (4) horas por mes para conducir estas actividades. El Monitor Ergondmico / Monitor de Seguridad: El monitor ergon6mico de jomada completa se pagara en no menos que el equivalente del grado cuatro (4) de la division que el/ella trabajaba en el tiempo de la cita. En el caso el monitor viene de cualquier division con un grado de la pago mas alto que grado cuatro (4), ellos seran pagados el grado mas alto.
• La union designara uno (1) empleado a Hegar a ser el monitor ergonomico / delegado. Este individuo tendra un horario del trabajo de 8:30 de la mafiana hasta 5:00 de la tarde. El lunes a vi ernes y los s&bados designados, con una interruption del almuerzo de 12:30 de la tarde- 1:00 de la tarde. El/ella tendra la compania los deberes ergondmicos designados entre las horas de 8:30 de la maiiana y 2:30 de la tarde. En la compania’el gasto de s, esapersonaasumira los deberes caminantes de auxiliar de vuelo de 1:00 de la tarde hasta 5:00 de la tarde.
FONDO DE PENSION
Seccion 1 El Empleador contribuira veinticuatro dolares ($24.00) por mes a favor de cada y cada empleado elegible, proporcionando que ellos encuentran los requisitos para la elegibilidad cada tai mes. La cantidad mensual de contribution aumentara $1.00 cada ano del aniversario para la vidadel CBA.
Seccion 2 Elijibilidad para contribuciones de fondos se definira a incluir a cualesquier empleado quien tiene doce (12) tneses de empleo con el empleador, proviado cada tai empleado, de cada tai mes de empleo, a modo de ser elijible, deberia ver trabajado o obtener el minimo de ochenta (80) horas de tiempo derecho, horas extras, dias festivos y/o vacaciones para cada tai mes, pero excluye personas en salida de ausencia sin pago debido a incapacidad o heridads de
24
compensacion de trabajo.
Seccion 3, Empleados nuevos no seran elijiblcs a participar en el plan de retiro (401K.)
Seccion 4, La Union esta deacuerdo a “libre a ver las reglas” (ERISA sec. 4210) exonera el Empleador de cualesquier retiro obligatorio hasta los seis (6) anos despues de ejecutar un Acuerdo Participado con la UFCW Union Industry Pesion Fund.
BENEFICIOS DE SALUD
Beneficios de salud efectivos “sobre ratificacion de este acuerdo”. Esto es un sumario de beneficios. Detalles van a ser incluidos en el contrato del proveedor. Costos para el empleado sobre aseguransa de salud van a ser efectivos sobre ratificacion de este acuerdo a $16.00 por semana y aumentara $3.00 adicional por ano aniversario de este Acuerdo.
JFAM	EPO	FUERA DE ARIA	PPG	FUERA DE ARIA
3DUCIBLE DE 4ERGENCIA	$50	$100	$100	$200
SITA DE OFICINA	$20	$20	DED + 25%	DED + 45%
EDUCIBLE	$300/$600 anos 1,2,3 $400/$800 ano 4	$600/$ 1,800	$400/$800 anos 1,2,3 $500/51000 afio 4	$700/52,100
iRTE DE EGURANSA	90/10	65/35	80/20	60/40
AXIMO DE SU 3LSILLO	$2,000/54,000 afios 1,2,3 $3,000/$6000 ano 4	$5,000/$15,000	$3,000/57,000 anos 1,2 $4,500/510,000 anos 3,4	$5,000/ $15,000
<RJETA DE ESCRIPTION	Genetica $15 + $1 aumento cada ano Marca conocida $20 + $1 aumento cada ano		30%	
				
EG1BLE	180 DIAS		180 DIAS	
AN DENTAL:				
DUCIBLE PO A (LIMPIEZAS) POB MADURAS)	$50/$ 100 100% DESPUES DEL DED. 80% DESPUES DEL DED. 50% DESPUES DEL DED.	1	1	
25
TIPO C (PUENTES)				
MAXIMO	$75O/$l,5OO			
PLAN DE VISTA:	No empleados nuevos despues de 1/1/04			
DEDUCIBLE	0			
ARMADURA	;	$14.00			
LENTE DE VISTA INDIVIDUAL	$10.00			
LENTE DE VISTA CON ANTEOJO	$15.00			
LENTE TRIFOCAL	$17.50			
AHAKLE DE LENTICLAR	$17.50			
1 EXAMEN DE LOS OJOS POR ANO POR SUBSCRIPTOR	$17.00			
Todos los empleados regulares de tiempo seran elijibles para $5,000.00 de seguro de vida, a ningun costo al empleado, el primer (1) dia del mes siguente a los primeros (1) 365 dias de servicio continue.
SEGURO DE INCAPACIDAD
Seccion 1, Aseguransa de Incapacidad se va a proveer para todos los empleados en la unidad del regateo. Beneficios semanales van a ser pagados si un empleado es considerado elegible para estos benificios. La determinacion de elegebilidad va a ser concedido exclusivamente por la compania,
Seccion 2
A. Efectivo hasta 12/18/06, la cantidad semanal del beneficio sera $220.00. El maximo de ano comun sera $2,200.00. En 12/18/06 empleados elegibles recibiran una cantidad semanal del beneficio de $230.00 con un maximo de ano comun de $2,300.00 en quedarse vigente mientras dure del acuerdo.
Seccion 3
A.	Efectivo durante la vida de este contrato, la cantidad del beneficio semanal va a ser
$180.00. La cantidad maxima por un ano calendario va a ser $1800.00
B.	Para ser elegible durante un perjuicio, el empleado puede calificar en el primer (1) dia si el empleado puede proveer un documento de un medico indicando el tiempo que se requiere por el perjuicio siendo mas de ocho (8) dias seguidos.
C.	Elegiilidad - Un empleado nuevo va a ser elegible para Aseguransa en el primer (1) dia del mes siguiendo los primeros (1) 365 dias de empleo continuado.
26
SUELDOS
Seccion 1, El plane de salario para empleados cuvridos sobre estecontrato escomo sigue:
A. Divisiones de Matansa y por Division de Producto
	Upon Ratification	12/20/2004	12/19/2005	12/18/2006
Base	10.55	10.85	11.15	11.40
1	10.65	10.95	11.25	11.50
2	10.75	11.05	11.35	11.60
3	10.85	11.15	11.45	11.70
4	10.95	11.25	11.55	11.80
5	11.10	11.40	11.70	11.95
6	11.50	11.80	12.10	12.35
7	11.75	12.05	12.35	12.60
8	12.20	12.50	12.80	13.05
B. Division de Proceso
	Upon Ratification	12/20/2004	12/19/2005	12/18/2006
Base	10.35	10.75	11.15	11.40
1	10.45	10.85	11.25	11.50
2	10.55	10.95	11.35	11.60
3	10.65	11.05	11.45	11.70
4	10.85	11.25	11.65	11.90
5	10.90	11.30	11.70	11.95
6	11.30	11.70	12.10	12.35
7	11.55	11.95	12.35	12.60
8	12.10	12.50	12.90	13.15
C. Division de Mantenimiento
	Upon Ratification	12/20/2004	12/19/2005	12/18/2006
Base	10.55	10.85	11.15	11.40
1	10.60	10.90	11.20	11.45
2	10.85	11.15	11.45	11.70
3	11.10	11.40	11.70	11.95
4	11.50	11.80	12.10	12.35
5	12.35	12.65	12.95	13.20
6	12.90	13.20	13.50	13.75
7	13.25	13.55	13.85	14.10
8	14.30	14.60	14.90	15,15
D.	El pago al empesar para empleados nuevos va a ser $.50 bajo el pago base. Sobre la qualificacion del trabajo, al empleado sele pagara la cantidad qualificada por ese trabajo.
Seccion 2, Todo empleado que trabaje durante las horas de las 6:00 P.M. y 6:00 A.M. va a
27
ser pagado quince sentavos ($0.15) por hora arriba de su pago regular con la excepcion de que no se le pagara si el tumo de la manana de matansa empiesa 45 minutes menos antes de las 6:00 A.M.
Seccion 3, Cualquier empleado que no reciva un aumento cualquier ano de este contrato por la rason de que su pago original anterior de este contrato era mas arriba del gfado del acuerdo por los dos la Compania y la Union, por durante este contrato no tendra su pago reducido siendo que el empleado se este en su mismo trabajo durante este contrato.
GRADOS DE TRABAJOS
BASE RATE	
Fab	Kill
Anyl Ray	1st Hang Off
Bag Meat	2nd Hang Off
Bone Cannon	Angus Stamper
Box 50/Extruder	Apply Hot Wgt Tag
Box Chubs	Apply Rice Paper
Box Femur Bones	Bag & Tie Bungs
Combo Dumper	Carcass Check
Check Trim/Fat Belt	Carcass Prewash Oper
Clean Floors	Clean-up Outside/Offices
Combo Maker	Cold Chain Feeder
Feed Mayas	Computer Operator
Feed Table	Condemn Room Oper
Finger Trim	Count Contamination
Hang Off Chucks	Cut Bridge on Omasum
Kickout Cattle	Cut Off Front Feet
Knife Glove Room	Cut Off Horns
Knuckle Puller	Drive Cattle (Ramp)
Label Box	Ear Tag Station Operator
Pull Combo	Feather Bone Buster
Pull Paddle Bones	Flush Heads
Push Empty Box/Pole Man	Freezer Clean-up
Rework Leaker	Hang Paunch
Rubber Duck	Hock Vac
Scoop CO2 (Dry Ice)	Hook/ Flush Tripas
Sort Product	Hot Box Spacer
Stack Boxes	Joint Oxtails
Transfer Chuck Flap	Kill Supply Clerk
Transfer Short Rib	Mark Tail to Hang Hide
Trolly Popper	Paunch System Oper
Turn Loin (PRE ID)	Pull Temple Meat
Watch Metal Detector	Pull/Strip Tripas
Wrap Combos	Remove 1st Hind Leg Remove 2nd Hind Leg Remove Bung Bags
By Products
All New and Rehires
Clean Up Man (Hides)
QA
All New & Rehires
Maintenance
All Maint. New & Rehires Supply Room (warehouse) Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Corrugated Waste Pallet Repair Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Material Transfer Forklift Mechanic
28
Remove Filet Meat Remove Front Knuckle Remove Oxtails
Remove Tunic Tissue Runner
Saw Omasum
Screen Head Meat
Second Horn Cutter Spread intestines
Squeegie
Steam Vac Operator Tag Carcass & Head Trim Abomasum
Trim Aorta
Trim Membranes
Wash & Split Abomasum
Wash Tail
Wash Tendon/Trim Pizzle Watch Runaways Wizzard Abomasum
GRADE!	
Fab	Kin
Box Loader	Cattle Driver (Yards)
Box Machine Operator	Clothes Pin Putter Oper
Box Meat(except chuck & round)	Cut Hyoid Bone
Case Sealer	Cut Intestine to Length
Chuck Short Ribs	Cut/Save Przzles
Clean Bone/Chop Bone	Down Puller Operator
Clean Plate Bones	Forklift
CO2 Operator	High Trimmer
Computer	Laundry
Cut Brisket Off	Line Palleiizer (Freezer)
Cut off Clods	Neck Trimmer
Cut Off Paddle Bones	Pull Paunch from Table
Drop Flanks	Pull/Sep/Flush Lrg Intestine
Employee Meats Orders	Rail Off & Roll Angus
Feed Chain Pull Tag	Rail Off/ Rail Jacker
Forklift	Remove Kidney
Hang Rounds	Remove Pancreas Gland
High Stand Trimmer	Remove Spinal Cord
Inline Computer	Remove Sweatbreads
Mark Plates	Remove Trachea
Pull Chuck Short Rib	Remove/Save Ear Tags
Pull Chuck Tender	Save Inedible Heart/Lung/Liver
Pull Navel Eye	Save Pancreas
Pull Rose Meat	Side Puller Operator
Puli Teres Major	Squeegie/Blood Operator
By Products
Green Hide Trimmer Hide Dropper/Trimmer
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse
Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
29
Reject Line Retrimmer Roll Caps Rubberduck Run Pallet Jack Short Rib Trim Special Trim Split Short Ribs Trim Chuck Flap Trim Chuck Short Rib Trim Chuck Tender Trim Clods Trim Flank Trim Flap Meat Trim Hanging Tender Trim Inside Skirts Trim Neck Meat Trim Outside Skirts Trim Pectoral Muscle Trim Shank Meat Trim Teres Major Trim Upgrade Whizzard Knife
Tail Puller Operator
Tie Gut Sets Trim Glands Trim Heads Trim Lung/ Remove Heart Trim Mid-Lines
Trim Neck
Trim Oxtails
Trim Tripe/Remove HC
Trim Weasand Meat
GRADE 2
Fab
8300 Operator
Box Chucks & Rounds Cut Off Chucks K-Pac Operator Loin Wings
Mark Rib
Pull Ball Tri/Tips Pull Flank
Pull Short Rib Separate Rib Brisket Transfer Loin Wing Trim Balls & Tri Trim Briskets Trim Eye Trim Flat
Trim Insides
Trim Kalbi Eye Trim Knuckles Trim Strip Trim Top Butts
Kill
Computer Rail Off Load Out
Open Paunch Pre-Gutter Remove Peck Remove Pizzles Round Runner Save Tendons Save Weasand Meat Strip Weasand Trim Heads/Wizzard Knife Trim Liver & Heart Trim Tongues Unload Cattle/Wash Pens Whizzard Knife Heads
By Products
Tank Pull Head Trimmer Forklift Operator
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse
Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
30
GRADE 3		
Fab	Kill	By Products
Bone Fore Shank	Bung Dropper	Basement Operator
Bone Shoulders	Cap Bung	Skim Tank/ Feed Grade Oper
Button Bone	Clear Gullet	Grader/Folder
Packaging Utility Man	Drop Tongues	Stacker
Panel Operator (Ground Beef)	Hang Heads	Green Hide Graders
Pkg Analyst Roll Chuck	Hot Scale Knocker	Dryer Operator
Shank Boners	Manifestos	Maintenance
Trim Tender	Mgt Scale Computer Input Cooler Rod Weasands Saw Brisket Shackler Sticker Trim & Saw Briskets Tripe Scalder	Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 4
Fab
13th Bone
Bone Brisket/Clean Bone
Bone Strips
Box Manifester
Cap/Ph Meat/Trim Extensions
Drop Eyes and Flats
Drop Knuckles Pull Skirt Back Saw Femur Bone
Kill
Chisler/ Templer Cut Off Head Freezermen/Forklift Oper Intestine Rm Leadman Lead Man Tripe Open Mid Line Outside Rail Pull & Separate Fat Pull inside Skirt Rail Trimmers Saw/ Rib Man
By Products
Blood System/ Hammer Mill Forklift Oper/ load Meat Cooker Operator
Maintenance
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Weider Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
31
GRADES
Fab
Aitch Boners
Bone Navels
By Products
Flume/Flesher
Lead Man-Hide Take Up Render Oper (Edible-tallow op)
Kill	Maintenance
Cheek	Electrician
Freezer Lead Man	Refrigeration
Lead Man Cooler/Transfer Chain	Power Plant
Low Backer	Generation
Rim Over Brisket	P/S (Scale)
Rumper	Warehouse
Skin 1st Hind Leg	Rendering
Skin 2nd Hind Leg	Fabrication
Skin Flanks	Construction
Tripe Rm Lead Man	Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 6
Fab
Bull Saw Operator
Center Cut Back Rib Saw
Chuck Saw
Fore Quarter Knifer
Hind Quarter SawfJarvis Saw)
Mark Knuckles
Red Hat ($.15 LO.)
Red Hat (Combo Dock Manifester)
Rib Saw
Shell Saw
Short Rib Saw
Strip Saw
| Well Saws
Kin
Knife Room
Skin 1st Butt
Skin 2nd Butt
QA
QA Lineman
By Products
Lead Man-Flesher Lead Man- Gel Bone
Maintenance Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADE 7
Fab
Bone Butts
Drop Inside Rounds
Mark Paddle Bones
Kill
Gutter
Offal Lead Man
Split Saw Operator
By Products
Lead Man-West Rendering
Maintenance
32
Electrician Refrigeration Power Plant Generation P/S (Scale) Warehouse
Rendering Fabrication Construction Shop Mechanic Welder
Machinist Kill Mechanic Forklift Mechanic
GRADES
Fab	Kill
Bone Chucks	Lead Man
Bone Rib Pull Clods , Pull Tenderloins
Trainers
MISCELANEO
TABLEROS DE ANUNCIOS
La Compania proveera a la Union el uso exclusive un tablero de anuncios el pasillo principal, un tablero en la entrada con acceso directo de la caseta de entrada de Seguridad y proveera un (1) tablero, con una salida el ectri ca, dentro de la cafeteria para la Uni6n para anunciar sus avisos.
Education, Seguridad y Fondo Cultural
Section 1 El Empleador concuerda en contribuir, las cantidades siguientes por ano al Distrito de UFCW Local Dos Education, Seguridad y Fondos Culturales: $7,500.00 por ano del CBA.
Seccion 2 El empleador por este medio esta de acuerdo en dirigirse por los terminos del Acuerdo de Confianza el cual controla la operacion del Fondo y por este medio esta de acuerdo en aceptar a los fideicomisarios del Empleador del Fondo quienes han sido seleccionados como proveido en eso, como sus representantes en la administration junta del Fondo.
Seccion 3, Las contrbuciones previas deben ser utilizadas por los fidecomisarios del Fondo de Education, Seguridad Cultural por la operation de un programs de Educacion, Seguridad y Culture de acuerdo con tales terminos y condiciones y reglas y regulaciones cuales los fidecomiarios pueden de ahora en adelante adoptar. Dicho Fondo debe tener su oficina principal en la Ciudad de	y debe ser administrada por un consejo de Fidecomisarios
consistiendo denn numeroigiial deFidecomisaiois de la Union ye! Empleador en acuerdo con la
33
Declaracion de Confianza.
Seccion 4, El empleador por la presente reconoce las provisiones del Acuerdo de Confianza sobre la autoridad de Fidecomisarios para compeler y reforzar pagos de contribuciones requeridos.
Seccion 5, Las reglas de eligibilidad para cubrimiento, y los beneficios que deben ser proveidos para empleados y/o sus dependientes deben ser como proveidos en el plan de beneficios del fondo. Las provisiones contenidas en este Articulo tocante a las fechas por el pago de contribuciones al Fondo no debe cargar sobre la fecha cuando el cubrimiento comienza.
MEMORANDUMS DE ENTENDIMIENTO
I.	Imprenta del Contrato/Traduccion
Los partidos estan de acuerdo que el contrato y sunario de Seguro de beneficios sera imprentado en Ingles, Espanol y Vietnamita. La Union traducira lo de arriba en Vietnamita, a su costo exclusivo. La compania imprentara lo de arriba a su costo exclusive.
Los partidos reconocen que las traducciones estan siendo hechas para la conveniencia de los empleados de la parte de a negotiation. La compania y union se han puesto de acuerdo, sin embargo, que la version de ingles mandara en todos los asuntos.
II.	El Espacio Para Oficinas
La Compania acuerda en proporcionar a la union, si ningiin costo, el espacio para oficinas en una ubicacion dentro de la facilidad de planta.
DURACION DE TERMINACION
Este acuerdo sera efectivo y se permanecera en fuerza completa y en efecto desde el dia 22 de diciembre de 2003, hasta media noche del dia 16 de diciembre de 2007. Cualquier partido puede, en o sesenta (60) dias antes de diciembre 16, 2007, dar noticia al otro partido de lo que desea el partido dando cual noticia para terminar este acuerdo. Si tai noticia no es dada, el Acuerdo ovara solo por el periodo de un ano de exito hasta que tai noticia sea dada.	t
Por la Compania
34
Por la Union
35