
1{W7O
2002-2007
AGREEMENT
Between
LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION
CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS
OF AMERICA NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER. INC.
And
LOCALS 7,186,214,322, 433 and 589
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
OF
NORTH AMERICA
AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO
LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA
NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.
Theodore J. Czerw
Assistant Managing Director 1900 Western Avenue Albany, New York 12203
Telephone: (518)456-1134
FAX: (518)456-1198
INDEX
Preamble............................................ 1
I.	Liability........................................... 1
n.	Definition.......................................... 1
ID.	Geographic Jurisdiction.......	3
IV.	Union Jurisdiction.................................. 4
V.	Pre-Job Conference.................................. 5
VI.	Union Rights........................................ 6
VII.	Management Rights................................... 7
Vin.	Work Conditions..............r.....	•	.8
IX.	HoursofWork..................9
X.	Holidays........................ , ?f	10
XI.	Show-Up Time...........	.	;	( -	11
XII.	Payday and Mode of Payment............... 11
XIII.	Laborer Foreman.........	12
XIV.	Subcontracting........................... .	13
XV.	Safety......	...;	'	14
XVI.	Joint Policy on Substance Abuse.................... 15
XVII.	Pension, Welfare, S.U.B., Annuity
and Training Funds................................. 15
XVm.	Labor-Management Cooperation.........	17
XIX.	Jurisdictional Disputes....	17
XX.	Watchmen and Guards................................ 18
(i)
ARTICLE
PAGE
XXI.	. Status Quo on Certain Equipment....;...	18
XXII.	Arbitration........	$	<	19
XXHI. Deductions..........	21
XXIV	. Equal Employment Opportunity......	23
XXV	Most Favored Employer	■	.	. 23
XXVI	Apprenticeship.....	.	23
XXVII	Savings Clause..........;.	t	24
L (’
XXVffl. Wages.............	25
XXIX Duration and Termination...........	28
Individual Employer...^....	29
(ii)
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made this 1st day of April, 2002, by and between the LABOR RELATIONS DIVISION, CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION, of the ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA, NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC. (hereinafter referred to as the "Association"), acting for and on behalf of its present and future .members, and LOCALS 7,186,214,322,433 and 589 of the LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, affiliated with A.FX.-C.I.O. (hereinafter referred to as the "Union”).	.....
Pursuant to the Uniform District Council Constitution of the Laborer's International Union of North America, Laborer Locals 7,186,214,322,433 and 589 are affiliated Locals of the Upstate New York Laborers’ District Council (“District Council”) and, as such, collective bargaining and ratification is conducted by the District Council on behalf of Laborer Locals 7,186, 214,322.433 and 589. Entering into this agreement will not bind the parties to the terms of any other agreement entered into by the District council on behalf of its other affiliated Locals.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to stabilize employment tri the Heavy and Highway Construction Industry, agree upon wage rates, hours, and conditions of employment.
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned Association and Union, in consideration of the mutual premises and covenants herein contained, agree as follows:
ARTICLE I	- LIABILITY
1.	The Association and the Unions named herein are negotiating agents for their present and future members. For any breach of this Agreement the liability of the members of the Association and the Local Unions shall be several and not joint and the liability of the Association shall only be that of negotiating agent without liability for the acts of its respective members.
2.	The Association shall notify the Union in writing within seven (7) days after the time that a new member joins the Association and becomes a member of the L.R.D./A.G.C. - Central New York Region.
ARTICLE II	- DEFINITION
1.	This Agreement is to cover all Highway and Heavy Construction which, for the purposes of this Agreement, is defined as including, but not limited to, the construction of: highways, roads, streets, alleys, grade crossings, driveways, sidewalks, curbs, guard rails, fences, culverts, parkways, parking areas, runways, taxiways, ramps and aprons and related work for excavation for conduit, bases and foundations for lighting and water lines and de-icing systems; athletic fields; highway
1
and railroad and similar structures; railroad and street railway projects; railroad track work; sewers; sewage treatment projects;.pumping stations; sedimentation beds; water mains, grade separations, foundations incident to the work herein described; abutments, retaining walls, viaducts, track elevations, elevated highways, drainage and reclamation projects; reservoirs and water supply projects; pure water projects; power plant construction outside the building line and inside the building line to the first floor level; water pollution control treatment plants; water power developments, hydroelectric developments, transmission lines, duct lines, pipelines, docks, dams, dikes, levees, revetments, irrigation and flood control projects, channels, channel cutoffs, dredging projects, jetties, break waters, locks, piers, pile driving, industrial sites, school sites, tank farms, bulk plants, storage tanks and reservoir replacement tanks, windmill facilities, bobsled, luge runs, ski jumps; ski slopes, outside skating rinks, outside synthetic tracks, outside synthetic playing fields, and all earth moving, including the installation, operation; maintenance and disassembly of construction equipment and.plants used in connection with and servicing the aforementioned work.
2.	Certain types of work hereinabove described are more specifically covered as follows:
(a)	On pipeline construction both liquid and vapor from the first metering station or connection of the main transmission carrier to the distribution carrier, and transmission and distribution systems, underground and above ground communication systems, foundations and excavation on power transmission lines, oil static lines. Tank farms, bulk plants, and pumping stations are excluded.
(b)	Construction of sewer (sanitary and storm) and water lines and mains;
(c)	Sewer and water plant construction definedas any structure for which the purpose is water purification or sewage treatment;
(d)	Borings, culverts and tunnels (for highway and railroad crossings) incidental or in conjunction with the work mentioned above at (a), (b) and (c);
(e)	The work mentioned in (b), (c). and (d) of this section on industrial, commercial, and school sites.
(f)	Work covered in Section 2 shall be performed pursuant to this Agreement in sofar as it doesnot conflict with the national pipelineagreement.
(g)	Worker and foremen conditions for this work are specifically described in Article XIH, Section 5
2
ARTICLE ID - GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION
1.	. This Agreement is to cover all Heavy and Highway Construction work in the geographical jurisdiction of Locals 7;486,214; 322, 433.and 589 as provided for in Section 2.	. a//; . u/.rc.-A .;r	’»<
■ a-. ■ ".z	■.	...a ■
.2.-.	The-geographic, jurisdiction as stated will not be changed for the
purposes of this Agreement during the duration of such Agreement.
r a LOCAL/NO.j:7-- Counties, of BROOME, TIOGA ‘(Townships of Richford, - Berkshire;; Newark, Valley,; Owego, Tioga,1' Barton,: and ...Nichols), CHENANGO (Townships, of .Linklaen, Otselic, Smyrna, Pitcher, Pharsalis,% Plymouth,.North Norwich, German; McDonough, Preston/Norwich, Smithville,*. Oxford, Guilford^ Greene, Coventry, Bainbridge, and Afton), and DELAWARE (Townships of Sidney, Masonville, Walton/Tompkins, Deposit, Hancock; and Colchester).
Business Manager
John Hutchings.™ A 98 Main Street <
’	/.Binghamton, NY 13905
. *(607)723.-7543
,h	Affjf/rFAX: (607)723-=4342 ;
;	•	; . c	•"’/;? nsi. ’•.■;■■■ i; .a ;
c-g:/::?1.’	■ n.-	.. •-/	> ■•:/?■
LOCAL NO. 186 - Counties of WARREN. ESSEX, & CLINTON.
. i ;-H.	/A:a:;:-1 A'■•/.?.
Business Manager	25 Elm Street
. Raymond W. Jessey -	-P.O. Box 928	'	/
a: . . * / . Plattsburgh;NY<12901 (518)561-3240
. .	< .vvFAXa (518) 561-6507
LOCAL NO. 214 - County of OSWEGO.
Business Manager	.
William Shannon	23 Mitchell Street
. -	. .^Oswego, NY 13126
(315)343-766177713 FAX: (315) 343-0501
3
LOCAL NO. 322 - Counties of LEWIS, JEFFERSON, ST. LAWRENCE, and FRANKLIN. ’
Business Manager • 4916 Maple Street
Richard Daddario	'* P.O. Box 361
. . Massena, NY-13662 ’ (315)769-8731 '
■ J FAX: (315)769-8522
LOCAL NO. 433 - County of ONONDAGA.
Business Manager
Gabriel Rosetti	234 West Genesee Street
■’ -Syracuse, NY 13202
- ‘	(315)471-1591/4812
• FAX: (315)474-4025
LOCAL NO. 589 - Counties of CORTLAND, TOMPKJNS, TIOGA > ’ (Townships of Spencer arid Candor), and SCHUYLER (Township of
Catherine). -
Business Manager	■	‘	'r j’
John Maxson	622 West State Street
Ithaca, NY 14850-
"-*"(607)27*2’3122 -	'
FAX: (607) 277-6703-
ARTICLE IV - UNION JURISDICTION
1.	This Agreement is to cover all watchmen,'flagmen (all crafts), fire watchmen, traffic control men, laborers, foremen (grade, pipe, concrete, forms, seeding, asphalt, clearing and grubbing, clean-up, stonelaying) in the performance of: the laying of all types of pipe and conduit, including the relining and inspection, whether mechanical or physical of existing pipe and the fusion of plastic pipe; the installation of open trench shoring and shield; the loading and unloading and distribution of all materials by any means; the handling, loading, unloading, distribution, installation, dismantling, removal, stockpiling, resetting of all guard rails and guide rails, highway signs and road markers; drilling, installation and grouting of anchor systems; handling and installation of noise barriers and traffic barriers, whether permanent or temporary; the spreading and pouring and raking and tamping of all asphalt and concrete materials and the bull floating (strike off) of all concrete; curing of concrete; the laying of all types of stone or manufactured curb, rip-rap, paving
4
blocks, concrete blocks (paving), Belgium Block; assembling and placing of Gabion and all similar types of baskets; the handling, loading and stringing of all wood products by hand or power; unloading and installation of lagging (wood, concrete, and steel), the sharpening of all air tool bits and drills and bull points; any and all types of heaters to be attended and handled and fueled by Laborers at all times when in use except where existing agreements provide otherwise: the handling, the laying and placing of forms used for curbing, gutters, roads and sidewalks and the stripping of same; the placing, setting and maintenance of all flares, blinker lights and reflectors; the cutting and chipping of road joints; the handling, the loading and unloading and distributing of chain- link;fefice; handling and erecting of wire fence; the sandblasting and applying of sealers and hardeners and epoxy on concrete and asphalt work; the nozzle operators on sandblasting and guniting operations; the signaling of all materials (manufactured or otherwise) whichrjs* .handled.,or put in place by laborers; single diaphragm and 1-1/2" pumps to be attended, handled and fueled by laborers; the operating of all types of machines used to seal any type of joints; the operating and servicing of mortar mixers and conveyors used in laborers' work regardless of number; the operating and servicing of rock drilling machines; the blasting and dynamiting of all rock; the placing of allpre-castand prestressed materials except when placed or installed by the manufacturer pursuant to its collective bargaining agreement; handling, unloading, loading, assembling and laying of all multiplate; the operation of all air, gas, electric, oil and other, type of motor-driven tools including, all pusher type equipment; the .handling, tending and maintaining of Homehte and like generators; wrecking and demolition; containment membrane liner; reinforeed^earth walls. The foregoing applies in the performance of all the aforementioned work and all other work coming under the jurisdiction of the L.I.U. of N.A. - A,F.L>C.*I.O; ?. -i
2.	Self-contained crawler drill; grooving machine (status quo), for parts of Locals 35,186 and 322< i.ec, the gepgraphic jurisdiction of those Locals included within the geographical jurisdiction oflUOE Local 106.
ARTICLE V - PRE-JOB CONFERENCE
• * ,.-.i . .. <' J'?*’:' r*’ •'	,	* ■*	" i -
1.	There shall be a mandatory pre-job conference. The Employer agrees to meet with the Union for. a pre-job conference prior to the commencement of any work on the subject prpjectand the same shalbapply to any and all subcontractors.
2.	In the event that an Employer violates this Article, the Union may serve a five (5) day notice ofrintention to strike on such Employer. If the Employer does not comply within five (5) days, the. JJnion may strike such Employer.without such action being a violation of the no-strike clause:-ofthis contract. ’
.	.	-	.■	t	/vr.r,!'’	-,■.4	*■ ■	-I---;
3.	Where a.subcontractor has not had a pre-job conference; the five (5> day notice shall also be. served. on the prime contractor. , ,j ;
5
ARTICLE VI - UNION RIGHTS
1.	All employees covered by this agreement, as a condition of continued employment, shall, commencing on the eighth (8th) day following the beginning of their employment,, or the effective date of this agreement, whichever is the later, acquire and, for the duration of their employment, .maintain membership in the union to the extent enforceable under law.
2.	Failure of any employee covered by this Agreement to meet the requirements described in paragraph 1 above, will, upon the Union's written request, result in his discharge by the Employer.
3.	. The Employer agrees that in providing opportunity for employment it
will give priority to persons who have had one (1) year or more of service since January 1, 1981 in the construction industry in the type of work covered by this Agreement, and in the various geographic areas described in Article m, Section 2 of this Agreement. It is understood that this clause is not applicable to Union employees who have previously been in the employment of an LRD contractor.
4.	The Employer and the Union agree' that the foregoing priority shall be exercised without regard to union membership or nonmembership and the Employer agrees to give the Union.an opportunity to provide such additional employees as he needs.
5.	It is agreed that on each job the Union Business Manager shall appoint a working Shop Steward who will be named at the pre-job conference. The Laborers' Steward will be employed at all times that any laborers: work is performed or any Laborers are employed on the project except that on overtime and/or specialty work, the Steward can only assert seniority, provided he is qualified to do the work. He will be paid for all time lost due to not having been notified by the Employer or the Employer’s agent to report for work. He will be allowed sufficient time to perform his duties and will not be discharged, laid-off, or transferred by reason of the performance of his duties as Steward without prior approval of the Business Manager.
6.	The Laborers’ Steward shall be notified prior to any hiring or layoff.
7.	(a) At the Business Manager's request, the Laborers'Steward will
be assigned to a service truck when and if a service truck is operating on the project. When the service truck is not operating on the project or in use on the project, the Steward will be assigned to other work. It is the intent of this section that the Steward be engaged as a productive working employee at all times consistent with Section 5 of this Article.
(b)	. When the service truck is sent off the project, the Laborers'
6
Steward will not accompany such truck, unless ordered to do so by the Employer.
(c)	. When there is more than one (1) service truck operating on a
project, whether a laborer or laborers shall be assigned to such truck or trucks, shalkbe at the option and.discretion of the
-r	Employer consistent with the jurisdiction of the Union. .
8.	Authorized representatives of the Union shall be allowed to visit jobs during working hours to interview .the; Employer and the Employees, but in no way r-	shall such person or persons interfere with orhinder die progress of the work. . .
9.	(a) Employees injured at work shall be paid for the time spent
:	going* to thedoctor’s office for treatment at the time of injury.
If the doctor certifies™ writing that the Employeeisunableto .return to work that day^the injured Employee shall be paid for >	-	. thebalance.of thatworkingday. .	!.;r.
(b)	. The injured.employee shall be allowed two (2) hours timefrom
work for additional visits to the doctor for injuries sustained
,	while in the Employer's service without loss of pay. It shall be
1	understood, however,-that, such visits during iworking hours
V-	shall be made only? when no other arrangements can be made
and an affidavit is received from the doctor stating the necessity for each visit.
<.*	(c). -.The.. injured workman shall, if- at all ^possible, be given
;	*	. - ; < preference to any light work, if the same is available, that may
be performed on thejob,provided, however; that he is still in
j' l-. theemploy of the;Employer where the injury* occurred and the **	\?,?. h ? doctor certifies.ini.writingihat the employee can do the work to
which he is to be assigned. -	< f
- ARTICLE VII - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.	The direction.of employees, including the making and enforcing of rules to assure orderly and efficient operations, the determination of .	employee^competency, and the scheduling of work are rights vested
exclusively in the Employer. . '	- ;
2.	The operation .of the business; including the introduction of new or improved methods and facilities; the determination of the amount of supervisionnecessary and the size composition of the work force and crews are rights vested.exclusively in the Employer.
3.	The Employer retains the.righi at any time ro Lequest a specific job
7
j applicant whether or not he/she has previously worked for the Employer and regardless of his/her position on any hiring list or out of work list. If the Employer elects to use the facilities of the Union to recruit job applicants he shall advise the Union on the prior day, the number of employees needed,-the specific job applicants requested, and/or the qualifications and skills of job applicants whether or not specifically requested.
4.	The rights set forth herein are not exclusive, but merely indicate the type of matters or rights. which belong to and are inherent to management.
ARTICLE VHI - WORK CONDITIONS
1.	The Employer shall furnish all.necessary tools that the Employees are to use.	"
2.	(a) At the time of hire or such, later date as may be appropriate,
employees covered by this Agreement shall be furnished
. slipover rubber boots, rainsuits, and hats which shall remain the
, ?	property of the Employer and be returned at the termination of
use or employment. -	. .
.. :	..	'• . ■	..j”
(b) . At the first full pay period following the issuing of such articles, the actual cost to the contractor of said articles shall be deducted from the pay of each such employee covered by this contract. - Upon termination of employment, such employees who return the articles issued will be refunded the amount deducted from pay.
3.	The Employer shall supply special gloves for the performance of work necessitating their use.
4.	The Employer shall provide warm suitable shelter of sufficient size where all laborers may eat their lunch and hang their clothing. The Employer shall also assume responsibility in case of loss of fire. No tools, building equipment, or combustible material shall be stored therein. Employees shall be required to execute a verified proof of loss in case of fire. ~
5.	The Employer shall provide and the Laborers shall maintain clean and sanitary toilet and drinking facilities. .	, r.
6.	(a) The Union and the Employer expressly agree that a stable work
force is required at all times in this seasonal industry and that the absence of individual employees has a serious impact on the
8
Employer's project productivity and efficiency.
(b) Absences -from scheduled work are to be discouraged and accordingly siich absences are just cause for discharge of an ' employee or employees and it shall be the decision of the Union whether to take recourse to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IX - HOURS OF WORK
1.	The work week shall consist of Monday through Friday.
2.	Normal workday shall consist of eight (8) hours with one-half (M) hour
for lunch. The starting time shall be set by the Contractor except that starting time shall not be changed frorif day to day;	*■ -r ,?T‘
3.	Two shifts may be .worked intwenty-four (24) hours-and shall be of equal duration and at the same rate. However, in a two-shift operation, where the combined number of hours worked by the two shifts is sixteen (16) or less, each shift shall be paid eight (8) hours pay arstraighr- time. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, when a shift is shut down'by reason of completion of the shift work to be performed or conditions beyond theEmployer’s control;:the affected shift shall be paid on the basis of the show-up time provisions contained herein in Article XI. This clause is equally applicable to the three (3) shift provisionshereinafter contained in Section 4 below. Thus, it is understood that there is no guarantee that on a given day. one shift might nor vary due; to< weather, equipment breakdown. Or changes in operation schedules.	<•	c.- • -i;	v—3 -V
-.-a	-At'i.::7:
: <4. . . Three shiftsmay be workedrirrtwenty-four (24) hours and shall be at the rate and durauan. as set forth below. ;	? . = ? 4 ’ <*
1st Shift
8 hours’ work:	z 8 hours' pay ■
2nd Shift
. 7.-1/2 hours'work; : . i 8 hours’ pay
7 hours' work	8 hours’ pay - 1	: ■
. Every shift shall have one-half (Vi) hour for lunch. When three (3) shifts are worked, the second and third shift shall be considered for payroll purposes as having' worked in their entirety on the same day on which the first shift started. On multiple shift work, the work week shall start not earlier than 5:00 a.m. The Contractor shall set the starting time.	. .	; ? .
9
5.	Prior to the start of shift work, the Employer shall give forty-eight (48) hours notice to the Business Manager. When the shift work to be performed shall be less than ten (10) working days in duration,.prior agreement of the Business Manager shall be required. In the event of an emergency or directi ve of the letting agency, prior agreement for shift work of less than ten (10) working days* duration is not required, but notice will be given to the Business Manager prior to the starting of such shift work.
6.	. One and one-half (1-1/2) times the. rates set forth in this Agreement shall be paid for work performed outside the scheduled, workday and all work performed on Saturday. All work on Sunday will be paid at double time.
7.	On private (non-posted rate) work, four (4), ten (10) hour days may be worked at straight time during a week, Monday thru Friday.
8.	All eligible employees shall be allowed time off to vote on Election Day in.accordance with applicable law. ■ •
9.	FLEXTIME. With the respect to any project that is 100% Federally funded, awarded by a Federal Agency,.the payment of overtime after eight (8) hours will not apply. Overtime will only be required to be paid after (40) hours.
10; A single irregular, work shift can start any time between 5:00 pm and 1:00 1:00 am. All employees who work a single irregular shift on governmental mandated night work shall be paid an additional $1.75 per hour. This provision shall be effective for work bid on or after July 1/2002. It is understood and agreed'that if the single irregular shift language is not included in the NYSDOL prevailing wage rate schedules, the premium is waived. . r	.
i ARTICLE X - HOLIDAYS
. -1. Paid holidays to be observed are Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and New Year's Day. irrespective of the day of the week on which the holiday may fall. If the holiday falls on Saturday, it will be celebrated on Saturday. Employees who work a Saturday holiday shall be paid double time plus the holiday pay. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Employer has the .option to either work Friday and pay Saturday as. the holiday or, not work Friday and pay for the day in lieu of the Holiday. If the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be celebrated on Monday. In the event that men work on this Sunday holiday, they shall be paid double time. In the event that men work on' Monday, they shall be compensated at double time plus the holiday pay. Accordingly, the Monday following the Sunday is treated as the holiday.
2.	Any employee laid off within the week in which a holiday falls shall receive holiday pay, provided the holiday occurs after the date of hire. However, if a new employee is employed by an Employer for one (1) day only during this period, he
10
shall not be entitled to holiday pay. i: .-n : -
3.	A man must work the working day before and the working day after a
holiday to receive holiday pay. However, an employee not able to report because of proven sickness, death in .immediate family, or accident shall be entitled to holiday pay. .	■	~	• n -	■■ ■	-s ■	'i;	. — ...
•4. If a man is ordered out'and reports for work on a holiday, set forth in Section 1 above, and does not start, then he shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours straight time in. addition.to .the straight time.given for said paid holiday. If he starts work on a paid holiday, he shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours pay at double time plus the holiday pay:.-	:
ARTICLE XI - SHOW-UP TIME
1.	Any laborer who reports for work at the regularly appointed starting time, unless he has been notified on the previous day that his services will not be required, shall be entitled to:show-up.time of one (1) hour at straight time. The Employees shall remain on the job for the one (1) hour period unless otherwise directed by the Employer. Employees directed to stand-by beyond the one <1) hour period shall be paid show-up time plus such additional stand-by time.
2.	Employees reporting formwork at starting time shall, if put1 to work, receive a minimum payipf one;(!).hour,or actual hours-worked ;whiche verbs greater.
.	' !"~u '	<1 y~.	■ -	'	i :: ... V;'Tp"
ARTICLE XII r PAYDAY AND MODE OF PAYMENT <
1.	Employees performing work under this Agreement shallbe paid once a week on the job. No more than six (6) days’ pay shall be withheld. If the payday falls on a holiday, payment shall, be. made bn the-workday-preceding such holiday. On failure to pay on the regularly scheduled payday, the Employer will pay a penalty of two (2) straight time hours for payday and for. each succeeding day on which he fails to pay where such failure to pay is willful or due to conditions within the Employer’s' control. ., ■ ..	.’u..’. ■
2.	All wages shall be payable in lawful currency, enclosed in an envelope which shows the employee's name arid Employer s-name, regular hours worked plus overtime hours worked, all lawful deductions,' arid the amount due or by a negotiable payroll check showing all of the above information drawn upon a commercial bank within the region, payable upon demand at-par. .	- ■ '
3.	If any employee is discharged or laid off, all accrued wages shall be due and paid immediately, except that an employee may be paid by check mailed within twenty-four (24) hours. If not mailed within 24 hours, such employee shall be paid an additional $25.00 for each additional 24 hour period the check was riot mailed.
11
ARTICLE Xm - LABORER FOREMAN
1.	When more than three (3) employees covered by this Agreement are employed,‘a Laborer Foreman will be designated by the Employer. Designated Foremen shall assume the keeping of time for Employees covered by this Agreement.
2.	Laborer Foreman (grade, pipe, etc.) shall be designated by and at the discretion of the Employer and shall be assigned to such duties and responsibilities as the Employer, the Dirt Superintendent, or other supervisory personnel may determine in its or his sole discretion. The Employer or his representative shall be the sole judge of whether such employees are qualified to perform the assigned work.
3.	The wage rates for foremen covered by this Agreement are as follows:
(a)	Grade Foremen - two dollars ($2.00) over basic rate.
(b)	Other Foremen - one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) over the
highest classification covered by this Agreement which such foremen supervise.
:	(c) Any foremen covered by this Agreement may be employed on ‘ ' *' ■' a weekly basis at a salary agreeable to the Employer and the ■foremen.
4.	The Union agrees that no restrictions shall be placed upon the selection of Foremen by the Contractor or the use of Foremen freely among Locals throughout the territorial jurisdiction of this Agreement (100% mobility), provided they are a member of a Union party to this Agreement.....................
5.	(a) Foremen shall be named as may be required by the Employer
and at the Employer's discretion. In the event that more than one foreman'is employed on a project, the Union shall be ' afforded an opportunity to supply 50% of such men.
(b)	On gas distribution, electric and telephone work there shall be fifty percent (50%) mobility between the local unions with respect to foremen and workmen. The first foreman may come from the Employer.
(c)	On other work covered by Article II, Section 2, there shall be fifty percent (50%) mobility with respect to foremen and twenty;five percent (25%) mobility among the unions with respect to other workmen '
12
ARTICLE XIV - SUBCONTRACTING
1.	It is agreed that if the Employer subcontracts job site work falling within the terms of this contract, provision will be made in each subcontract for the compliance by said subcontractor with terms, conditions of employment, wages, and fringe benefit contributions not less than those contained in this Agreement.
2.	A subcontractor .is defined, as any person, firm, partnership, self-employed person or corporation .who agrees, under contract, oral or written, with the general contractor or his subcontractor to perform on the job site any part or portion of the work covered by this Agreement.
3.	With respect to subconnactors who are not members of the Labor Relations Division-Central New York;Region, A.G.C., or who have not signed the contract as an individual Employer, the following rules shall apply:
(a)	Such subcontractors shall be required to remit fringe benefit payments on a weekly basis.
(b)	On the first failure,of such subcontractor to remit fringe benefits
or first instance on. which the.subcontractor is delinquent, the Union shall notify die Prime Contractor, of said failure to remit or delinquency.
(c)	. After having been. notified qf. a. failure, to, remit or .of a t delinquency, the.^ontr^toi; shall be .responsible, for.each such fringe benefit payment pursuant to Section 3(d) below.
.	(d) After notification by the Union, the Employer is responsible for
checking with the Funds to determine whether the regular payments are being made. .However, once any non-payment has been rectified,and the subcontractor resumes payments as required under 3(a), the Prime Contractor is relieved of any responsibility to check with the.Funds until notification is again received in writing by the Union of further alleged delinquency.
(e)	The Prime Contractor's responsibility is limited to fringe benefits applicable to its project on which the defaulting subcontractor is employed.
(f)	The Prime Contractor does not assume the above responsibility with respect to subcontractors who are members of the L.R.D.-Central New York Region, AGC, or who are individual signatories to the labor contract.
13
. 4;- Off-site gravel or material pits, the material from which is used for a particular project covered by this Agreement,' shall be operated under the terms of this Agreement when the pit is owned, leased, operated by or under the control of the Prime Contractor or another corporation or company of which the majority ownership is held by the Prime Contractor or its majority owner or owners.
* * - 4 /
5.	It is recognized that there are specific subcontract requirements for D/M/WBE participation in most public works contracts and that certain exceptions to the subcontracting clause may be required for the Employer to comply with these requirements. Every effort will be made by the Employer to arrange a pre-job meeting with these subcontractors and the Union. It is understood that in no way shall the enforcement of this clause allow other trades to perform the work of this Union.
6.	By mutual agreement, an Employer may subcontract to non-signatory specialty subcontractors and use his best efforts to arrange a pre-job conference.
ARTICLE XV - SAFETY
1.	No employee shall be required or assigned to engage in any activity involving dangerous conditions of work or danger to person or property in violation of an applicable statute, court order, or governmental regulation relating to safety of person or equipment.
2.	In the event that the Employer violates Section 1 above, a withdrawal by the Union of the services of the man or men engaged in the particular operation shall not be in a violation of this contract by the Union.
3.	The Employer and the Union do hereby agree to work together to promote safety on the job for the benefit of all employees. Safety rules and regulations will be made known to all employees and the use of safety equipment will be continually promoted by both parties. ’ •
< * '
4.	(a) The Union and the Employer-agree that willful neglect and
failure by an employee to obey company safety rules and regulations; or to obey safety rules, standards and regulations as prescribed pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health Act or other governmental regulation of legislation; or to use properly such safety devices or equipment as are provided by the Company shall be just cause for- discharge.
(b)	The Union agrees- to cooperate with the company in encouraging employees to observe' the safety regulations prescribed by the company and to wear properly and utilize safety equipment as required by the company and to work in a safe manner.
14
(c)	The Union furtheragrees that Union representatives visiting job sites shall obey all company safety rules and regulations and . shall obey all safety rules, standards, and regulations prescribed pursuant to the Occupational Safety and Health Act or other governmental regulation or legislation, and shall wear and use properly all safety devices or equipment employees on the job .site are required to wear and use.
ARTICLE XVI - JOINT POLICY ON SUBSTANCE ABUSE
.	1. The Employer; and Union are committed to provide a safe work environment for its employees and the public.and also maintain a reliable, productive, quality work force, and thus affirm that construction job sites subject to this Agreement must be alcohpl and drug free. . ::, w ;
2.	Employees whose job performance is impaired by the use of alcohol or drugs create an unacceptable safety risk to .themselves; co-workers, and public.
3.	Employees who violate the.joint policy on substance-abuse shall be subject to discipline up to;and includmgimmediate discharge without recourse io the* grievance procedure, t;	: v .	p :
ARTICLE XVII - PENSION, WELFARE, S.U.B., / . ANNUITY AND TRAINING FUNDS ;
‘	nj '?■?■	•"	*: .
1.	(a) The Employer hereby :.agrees to contribute :the ^amounts'
hereinafter provided for in Article XXVID of this Agreement
. to.designated Laborers Pension,: Welfare, S.U.B., Annuity, and i:	■ Training Funds (hereinafter singularly and collectively referred
:i;v. ; l;to jas '‘Fund”) for.each, actual rhoiir worked by employees covered by this Agreement. Iris the purpose of this Article to; provide that where a Local Union party to this Agreement has 4 established a Fundjointly trusteed by Labor and Management, then said contributions shall be paid to said Local Fund in the amounts hereinafter<set forth in this Agreement. An annual
? financial report willbe.submitted to the AGC from each local • > union benefit fund to which AGC employers contribute.
(b)	;: The Employers party to thia Agreement accept the Trustees now
serving on such Fund and hereby waive the right to name new, other successor, or additional trustees,: except that the parties agree/that; one (1) Union Trustee and one (1) LRD/AGC Trustee shall be appointed to the ( Upstate ) Laborers Regional Training Fund. . .
15
2.	The Employer agrees to contribute the amount per hour hereinafter set forth in Article XXVIII for each actual hour worked, except where an employee is paid pursuant to the 1+ actual hours worked clause herein provided for at Article XI of this Agreement, in which case contributions shall be paid on the same basis as the 1+ actual hours worked clause. .	•
3.	Each Local Union party to this Agreement shall be considered as an Employer under this Agreement for the purpose of paying the contributions mentioned in this Article on its Employees.
' 4.	(a) In the event thattheEmployer does not make contributions to
the Fund as provided for herein, the Employer agrees that he will be charged with all necessary litigation and accounting
' expenses incurred by the Trustees of the Fund in collecting the monies due hereunder and that a money judgment may be rendered against- such . Employer for such litigation and accounting expenses in 'addition to a judgment for unpaid contributions.	-
'>■ (b) Litigation and accounting expenses shall be determined so as . ■ not to be in excess of rhe minimum fee schedules for the legal and accounting professions in the area in which such work is performed. _ '.................................; ,	- >• :
5.	(a) Each Employer shall furnish the Trustees of'the respective
Funds with periodic reports as required by the Fund showing the names, social security numbers, hours worked, and location of-job of each employee performing work' covered by this Agreement.
(b)	Subcontractorscovered by Article XIV, Section 3 shall remit contributions on a weekly basis: ' ’
(c)	In the event that no’workers are employed during the report period; a negative report and/or a final report shall be filed.
(d)	Monthly reports are due the 15th day of the month following the month on which contributions are being made.
6.	The books and records of each Employer pertinent to the employment of Employees covered by this Agreement shall be made available at all reasonable times for inspection and audit by a licensed-CPA employed by the Fund, including, without limitation, payroll sheets, W-2 Forms, New York State employment reports, Social Security reports, ledgers, vouchers,, and any other pertinent items concerning
16
payrolls. Inspection shall be restricted to a verification of payments made and/or due to the Fund. Cost of such inspection shall be borne by the Fund, except in cases where an Employer is delinquent in making contributions, in which case the delinquent Employer shall bear the cost of inspection and audit. Delinquency is 'defined ?as continual late payments and not honest errors.
ARTICLE XVIII - LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION <
The Employer and the Union, recognize that they must confront issues of mutual concern which are more susceptible to effective resolution through labormanagement cooperation than through the collective bargaining process. To seek resolution of these mutual concerns, to address issues regarding health and safety, and to advance mutual interests through labor-management cooperative efforts, it is agreed that the Employer shalj contribute to the.. New York State Laborers-Employers Cooperation and. Education Trust and’to the New York Laborers' Health and Safety Fund for the term of this Agreement; including any extensions or renewals thereof. The Employer , shalk contribute to then New York State Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust as. provided for in Article XXVID for each actual hour worked. The Employer shall also .contribute to the New York Laborers' Health and Safety Fund as provided for in Article XXVHI for each actual hour worked. The Employer shall submit all contributions and all contribution reports to the designated Laborers' Local Fund Office?.: The Fund .Office . shall promptly forward the contributions and contribution reports to theLaborers Regional Office. Trust Division, for the accounts.of the Truskand Fund,. .TheEmployerand the Union hereby adopt and agree to be bound by the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the New York State Laborers-Employers Cooperation and Education Trust, as amended, as well as the Agreement and Declaration of Trust establishing the New York Laborers* Health and Safety Fund, as ampndecV . i. r v	."
.	. ARTICLE XIX - JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
1.	The parties hereto mutually agree that in the event of a jurisdictional dispute with any other Union or Unions, the dispute .shall be submitted to the International Unions for settlement.: ? . . .....	.•-j
2.	Neither party, shall order or.permit any lockout, strike, or other work stoppage or slowdown. Further, the Union will not aid; support or permit unauthorized strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages by its members with respect to a jurisdictional dispute.;.	: .?■. j- r	■
-	_■... <■*•?: '•> v ■
3.	If the International Unions are unable to resolve said dispute within five (5) days (Saturday, Sunday, and Holidays excluded) then;.
4.	The parties to this Agreement.shall have exhausted their internal remedies and may then seek resolution through the NLRB and/or the Courts'. No legal action may be initiated before.such internal remedies are exhausted.
17
5.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, only a court Has the power to determine whether or not a particular dispute arising under this Agreement is jurisdictional and excluded from the grievance/arbitration provisions.
ARTICLE XX- WATCHMEN AND GUARDS
1.	Guards are to be excluded from the bargaining unit. Guards may be used for the security of the contractors' equipment and material only and they will not at anytime be required to punch time clocks or perform work of employees covered by this Agreement.
2.	Watchmen are employees on projects requiring A coverage under Item 619 (Maintenance and Protection of Traffic) and such employees are covered by only the following provisions of this Agreement: Article VI, Sections 1,2,3,9(a), (b), and (c); Article VDI Article XIV, Sections 2 and 3; Article XV; Article XVI Article XVH Article XVIII’Article XXHI Article XXTVand Article XXVII
3.	When watchmen service is subcontracted, the provisions of this Article shall apply equally to such subcontractors.
- 4. The 1+ actual hours worked clause of this contract (Article XI) does not apply to watchmen. The hourly rate shall'be paid al-straight time for actual hours worked without regard to the day of the week or whether a holiday is involved. Time and one-half (1-1/2) shall.be paid for hours worked in excess of forty (40). Overtime for watchmen shall be computed only on hours worked as a watchman without regard to hours that such man shall have worked on the project as a laborer.
■ -	.	..	• ; • - I, :.
5.	The duties of a watchman shall include maintenance of -barricades, lights and signs, and similar non-productive maintenance and safety functions, acting as fire watch, but shall not tend fuel fires.'
6.	Watchmen Rates: The watchman’s rate shall be 75% of the basic (a) rate, plus fringes. Such basic rates shall be rounded to the nearest one-half (l/i) cent.
ARTICLE XXL STATUS QUO ON CERTAIN EQUIPMENT
1.	The parties hereto recognize that the operation of certain equipment and work assignments may raise questions regarding jurisdiction"of work in areas of one or more of the local unions party to this Agreement. The equipment involved is:
(a)	Hydraulic Seeder
(b)	Concrete Curb Machine
(c)	Asphalt Curb Machine
(d)	‘ Snorkel - •
18
(e)	Stump Remover
(f)	Blower for Burning Bush
(g)	Hydraulic Motorized Pin Puller
(h)	Self-Propelled Concrete Saw
(I)	Application of Temporary and Permanent Road Markings
Q)	Scaffolding
(k)	Welding
(1)	Use of a Laser Level
(m)	Coating of Penstocks
. >	2.	Pending final determination of the jurisdiction of the above equipment,
such equipment and the operation thereof shall remain "status quo."
ARTICLE XXII ARBITRATION
; . C-	-J : J	;	I-:.:	-
1.	During the term of this Agreement, neither party shall order or permit any lockout, strike, or other work stoppagejor slowdown. Further, the Union will not aid, support or permit unauthorized strikes; slowdowns, or .work stoppages by its members.
2.	Grievance Procedure: All grievances. or . disputes involving any controversy, dispute, or misunderstanding arising as to the meaning, application, or observance of any provisions .of. this ^Agreement shall be.-handled’in the manner hereinafter set forth, Jt is;a^eed that .all-matters,pertaining to the interpretation of this Agreement must ;be .referred; directly. to the Joint Committeev provided. .that; if a grievance has not been filed,.the matter shallnot be. a subject: of arbitration until a grievance isfiled.	■.	.. •
Step 1. All grievances must be made known in writing to the other party within sevent*J7)1palendar>days;after the; reason :for such, grievancehas occurred. The aggrieved employee's or (employees' shop, steward or another authorized representative of the Union shall first submit a written grievance lathe Job Superintendent, or his i duly authorized representative. The Shop Steward or another authorized representative of the Union of the Employee;or the Employees involved shall be present at any meeting between the Job.Superintendent and such employee or employees. The Job Superintendent or his duly authorized representative must make a written disposition of the matter within twenty-four (24) hours;after the submission of such , written grievance thereto.
Step 2. If the disposition of. the. matter by the Job Superintendent or his duly authorized representative is not satisfactory, the matter must be . taken up by the Business Agent, and representative of the Employer with authority to act within forty-eight (48) hours of the written disposition set forth in Step 1.
Step 3. If the disposition of the matter in Step.2 is not satisfactory, either party has a right to file its grievances with the Joint Committee referred to in Section 2 of
19
this Article within seventy-two (72) hours after Step 2.
3.	The Unions and Association who are signatories to this shall together establish for the duration of this Agreement, a Joint Committee. The Joint Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives of the Employers and three (3) representatives of the Union. All meetings of the Joint Committee must be attended by each member or his alternate, but the absence of any memberor alternate shall not invalidate the action of the members of the Joint Committee who are present.
It shall be the function of the Joint Committee to settle disputes and grievances which cannot be settled in accordance with Steps 1 and 2 of the grievance procedure. The Joint Committee shall formulate rules of procedure to govern the conduct of its proceedings including the time, date, and place of meetings.
A decision by a majority of the Joint Committee shall be final and binding on the parties and employees involved.. Failure of either party' involved to comply with any final decision of or to submit to the jurisdiction of the Joint Committee shall give the other party the immediate right to all legal and economic recourse.
4.	Rights of the Joint Committee: The Joint Committee shall have the right to investigate all facts pertaining to the dispute. The Joint Committee shall, upon each dispute or grievance processed in accordance with this Article after completion of or as a part of Step 2, have the right to examine time sheets and any other records pertaining to the computation of compensation'of any individual or individuals whose pay is in-dispute. Both parties shall be entitled to present such evidence and witnesses in support of their position as they see fit. /	• ••”
5.	Arbitration:. If a grievance cannot be satisfactorily settled by a majority decision of the Joint Committee, the grievant shall request a list of seven (-7) arbitrators from (1) the pane) arbitrators of the New York Board of Mediation’; (2) the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, or (3) the labor panel of the American Arbitration Association for final and binding decision. Such request shall be no later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the oral announcement of the Joint Committee's decision, by the grievant or his duly assigned representative. Further, any arbitration agency named shall be used only for every third arbitration that may arise between the parties to the end that arbitrators be selected on a rotating basis in the order in which the agencies are hereinabove listed. The arbitrator shall be selected by alternately eliminating names from the seven (7) person list until one remains; the grievant or his representative shall strike the first name. Upon failure to comply with the provisions of this entire section on the part of the grievant, the grievance shall be deemed to have been closed without decision.	.. v . .
The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, modify, detract from, or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto. If the arbitrator should determine that the grievance is not covered by this Agreement, he shall return the grievance to the parties without decision and the
20
grievance shall be closed. In such case; the costs, if any, shall be borne by the grievant.
6.	; Violations concerning wages, hours, and’all fringe benefit payments shall not be subject to the grievance procedure;? In such cases, the Union, shall give three (3) working days notice to.the Employer that the Union will withdraw its men from the Employer's service. If the Employer contends there is a question of fact regarding the alleged violation, he may file a grievance within the aforesaid three (3) working days with a copy to the,Local Union and a copy to the Co-Secretaries of the Committee. When a grievance has been filed, there shall be no work stoppage pending resolution of the grievancepursuant to:Article XXU(2)(3) and subsequent provisions of this Article. Work jurisdiction, that'is, disputes with respect to whether one group of employees or another group of employees shall perform certain .work on the project is expressly not arbitrable under this contract.-,.. .	?
7..	, Any discharged employee may file a grievance no later than four (4)
days after discharge by a wnttennoticesuhmitted to the Project Manager or Super-intendent and the Local Uni on .and such grievance shall be immediately processed in accordance with the steps of the grievance procedure. . -.
8. . The administrative costs of the Joint Committee shall be bome equally by.the Employers and the Union. \	?	' ■’
. 9.. , - The costs, of arbitration; which.shall include the fees .and expenses of the arbitrator,shall be bomeby.tfteGornpanyjn case its principal contention is rejected by.the artjitrator, and.by'^e.Union in case itsprincipal contention is rejecied<bythe ■ arbitrator, except, however, that each party shall pay the.fees of its own representati ves and witnesses. Any dispute as to whose principal contention is rejected shall be determined by the arbitrator^ Inthe caseuthatboth? parties' principal contention is upheld in part, the arbitrator, shall ,designate.what pan of the costs are:to be borne by which.part.y;accordingto the relative merits of each party's position.- : •	. r.- '
.... .. 10. The Union -and Association-;expressly agree .that the Contractors/ present and future, who comprise; the multi-employer bargaining group, do-not subscribe to, are not a part of.nor are theyto.anyextent bound by the Impartial Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes or the rules, regulations, or procedures of the Impartial Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes: .	:	.
. ■
ARTICLE XXIII-DEDUCTIONS i	s r--
. ( 1, -The Employer shall deduct .from the basic wage rate of employees covered by this Agreement, the amounts hereinafter set forth .in Article. XXVin for each actual hour worked by such employees.
2.	.No deductions shall be made-for any such employee unless the employee has deposited-with the Employer.his copy of. an executed authorization form, which shall in no event be irrevocable, for a period of more than one(l) year or the
21
termination date of this Agreement whichever shall be the less.
3.	Executed copies of the authorization cards will be kept on file by the Union and the Employer.
4.	The Employer assumes no obligation with respect to the obtaining of authorization cards, it being understood that this is a duty and obligation of the Union.
5.	With respect to any such Employee for whom authorization cards have not been furnished, the gross basic wage rate appearing hereafter at Article XXVIH shall be paid to the Employee on a straight and/or time and one-half basis as shall be applicable under this contract.
6.	Deductions shall be made in the first full payroll.period following the furnishing of authorization cards.
7.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company in reliance upon authorization cards furnished by the Employees and/or Union.
8.	The Employer agrees to deduct and transmit to the New York State Laborers’ Political Action Committee five cents ($.05) for each hour worked from the wages of those employees who have voluntarily authorized such contributions on the forms provided for that purpose by the Union.* These transmittals shall occur monthly, and shall be accompanied by a list of the names of those employees for whom such deductions have been made, and the amount deducted for each such employee. The Employer shall retain one (1%) percent of the gross proceeds from the checkoff as reimbursement for the Employer's costs in administering this checkoff. .The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any and all claims, actions and/or proceedings arising out of said New York, State Laborers Political Action Committee.	,
22
ARTICLE XXIV-	EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
The Employer and the Union mutually agree that they will comply and cooperate with all laws, codes, rules, regulations, executive orders, and administrative decisions, whether state or federal, dealing with nondiscrimination in training, membership, employment, job tenure, promotions, and every other matter covered by such laws, codes, etc. not herein expressly mentioned. The use of masculine or feminine gender in this agreement shall be construed as including both genders.
ARTICLE XXV	- MOST FA VORED EMPLOYER
1.	If the Union enters into any aigreement with any individual Employer or group of Employers performing work covered by the terms of this Agreement and that Agreement provides for more favorable wages, hours, or conditions to any other Employer, the Employers signatory hereto; after sending written notice of such intention, shall be afforded the privilege to adopt such advantageous terms and conditions.
2.	This clause shall hpt apply to isolated or emergency situations which may occur from time to time under regular cdhditions, nor shall this clause apply to any project agreement that is put in place before the bid. , " \	...
i	*	1	.	f*	1 * *■»■	?
ARTICLE XXVI - APPRENTICESHIP ■ ■ ’ . ■ --- ‘ ...........................................■
i	, %	■■■’,'*'*<’ t';'?■ F ■ ■' / ’ r * r	*' >11** **	* '1	'	' / *
1. A registered apprenticeship training program is’to be established for each Local, that fully complies withjair^bvenimehtarrequiremehts, indenturing apprentices tQjhe program.	.	.
‘	2. There will, be a Joint' Apprenticeship Trainirig.Committee (JATCj for each
Local's program consisting Of representatives from the union and the employers who will administer the ful'es aiicf regulations’ ftjf the apprenticeship, program for each Local. , ’:J; .7’ 'j.■Sr1: ’ J ; i-J”.' " ’'ir‘	■-. I r>. •-"*	■
t ,., . /	, -	, ■	. ►	... -. ■	9 • v * »■ ♦ 1	•'f • *• .» * f	, ■
3.	New applicants for membership who cannot provide reasonable proof,of 4.000 or more hours of employment as a Construction Craft Laborer (or, alternatively. cannot demonstrate equivalent skills in a placement examination administered by the JATC shall, whenever possible, enter the Apprenticeship program. The failure of any Apprentice io maintain his or her Apprenticeship status may obligate the Employer to discharge such person upon notice from the Union.
4.	The Apprenticeship and Training Standards approved by the Federal Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training or State Apprenticeship Committee are hereby incorporated by reference as a part of this Agreement.
5.	The ratio of apprentices to journey workers on any project site is 1:3. Apprentices shall be covered by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and shall be paid according to the following schedule of wages and fringe benefits:
23
Hours of Credit	Wage Rate
0-999 ' 1,000-1,999 2,000-2,999 3,000 - 3,999 4,000 and over	60 % of basic rate (a) 70 % of basic rate (a) 80 % of basic rate (a) 90 % of basic rate (a). Journey Worker
The corresponding percentage of fringe benefits to be paid will be determined by each Local JATC.
6.	All wage increases are subject to an apprentice completing the preceding 1,000 hour increments. .	...........T •
7... Apprentice applicants are required to have a substance abuse test and physical prior to acceptance into the program or union, unless precluded by State or Federal law.
ARTICLE XXVII - SAVINGS CLAUSE
In the event that any State or Federal Statute or Law shall supersede or invalidate any clauses in this Agreement, such Statute or Law shall prevail over any such clause; however, the other provisions of this Agreement shall be valid and remain in full force and effect. In the event that any section or portion thereof shall be declared invalid, it is further agreed that the parties hereto shall meet within a period of sixty (60) days to redraft a new section or portion thereof, which shall be valid and which shall replace that section or portion thereof declared invalid. ”...	/
24
ARTICLE XXVm - WAGES
1.	A Laborer shall be paid for the entire day at the rate applicable to the highest classification in which he has worked that day, if he works four (4) or more hours in the higher classification.
2.	Whenever the letters (a), (b), (c), and (d) appear hereinafter, the use of the . letter shall be considered as describing the following work classifications:
(a)	Basic Rate, Drill Helper, Flagmen, Outboard and Hand Boats.
(b)	Bull Float, Chain Saw, Concrete Aggregate Bin, Concrete Bootman, Gin Buggy, Hand or Machine Vibrator, Jack Hammer,
• ■	'	. Mason Tender, Mortar Mixer, Pavement Breaker, Handlers of all
• Steel Mesh, Small.Generators for Laborers'tools, installation of bridge drainage pipe, pipe layers, vibrator type rollers, tamper, drill doctor, tail or screw operator on asphalt paver, water pump operator (1 Vi and single diaphragm) nozzle (asphalt, gunite, seeding, and sand blasting),’Laborers bn chain, link fence erection, rock splitter and power unit, pusher type concrete saw and all other gas, electric, oil, and air toot operators, wrecking laborer.
<	(c> .. All rock or drilling.machine operators (except ijuarry master ahd
1 similar:type),.acetyiene torch operators, and asphalt raker,
’	. ,* .. ,,r.: '.powderman?** =:	; ■"'•* ' v
(d) Blasters, form setters, stone or granite curb setters. -
3.	Wage rates, Welfare, Pension, S.U.B., Annuity, Training, L.E.C.E.T., and N.Y. Health and Safety contributions and deduction amounts are set forth below.
NOTE: The base wage appearing below includes the amount to be deducted for each actual hour worked for DUES.
25
CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION LRD/AGC LABORERS - 6 UPSTATE LOCALS 2002- 2007 HIGHWAY-HEAVY WAGE RATE SCHEDULES Effective July 1,2002 - June 30,2003
ZONE!
Welfare	Pension	LECET H.&S.	Training	Annuity	♦Dues Ped.	*Pac B«L	Total
Local 7 (Binghamton) a)$20.19 $235	$330	$.15	$30	$1.00	'$-43%	■■■■	$27.89
b)$2039 c)$2039 d)$20.79			- -				$28.09 $2839 $28.49
Local 433 (Syracuse) a)$1934 $335	$235	$30	$35	$2.00	-4%	$-.05	$2739
b)$19.44				1			$28.09
c)$19.64			, - *				$2839
d)$ 19.84			1		-		$28.49
Local 589 (Ithaca) a)$18.89 $2.90	$330	$.15	$30	$2.45	-5%	■■■■	$2739
b)$19.09 c)$1939 d)$19.49							$28.09 $2839 $28.49
ZONED					
Welfare	Pension	LECET H. &S.	Training	, *Dues *Pac Annuity Ped. Ped.	Total
Local 186 (Plattsburgh) ' a )$ 19.99 $4.65	$235		$.15	$.40	-$130 —	$27.54
b)$20.19 c)$20.39 . d)$2039 Local 214 (Oswego) 1 a)$ 19.84 $4.15	$2.00 =	T $.15 '	$.40	$1.00	-7%	"—'	$27.74 $27.94 $28.14 $27.54
b)$20.04 c)$2034 d)$20.44 . Local 322 (Massena) a)$20.14 $330	$235	$.15	"$.40	$30	-$135 —	$27.74 $27.94 <$28.14 $2734'
b)$2034 c)$20.54 d)$20.74					$27.74 $27.94 $28.14
♦Deductions upon receipt of signed authorization cards from employees. A percentage deduction will be on gross wages exclusive of fringe benefits.
Effective July 1,2003: $1.00 Gross increase for each classification
Effective July 1,2004: $135 Gross increase for each classification
Effective July 1,2005: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification
Effective July 1,2006 - June 30,2007: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification
Prepared By:
Labor Relations Division Associated General Contractors New York Slate Chapter. Inc. 5/15/02
2002 LIUNA cny wage schedules
26
<
4.	The wage rates for foremen covered by this Agreement are as follows:
(a)	Grade Foremen - Two dollars ($2.00) over the basic rate.
(b)	Other Foremen - One dollar and fifty cents($1.50) over the highest
classification covered by this Agreement which such foremen supervise... „
(c)	Any foremen covered by this Agreement may be employed on a weekly
basis at a salary agreeable to the Employer and the foremen.
. 5. DRILLS'.' Individual wagon drills, trackmounted drills, jack-leg drills and multiple type drills shall require a drill helper except that the Union and the Employer recognize that in certain cases one helper may be able to service more than one drill: In such cases, the manning shall be pursuant to a project agreement between the Union and the Employer.	”	.
.6. HAZARDOUS WASTE. When an employee covered by this Agreement performs hazardous waste removal; lead abatement and removal; asbestos abatement and removal work on a State and/or Federally designated waste site, and where relevant State and/or Federal regulations require employees to be furnished, and those employees use or wear required forms of personal protection, then in such case an employee shall.recei ve.the basic hourly rate plus $2.00 per hour.	J;:
' ‘ 7. DAVIS-BACON PROJECTS. The application of Davis-Bacon iyage rates posted bn a 100% Federally funded project shall be negotiated between the local business manager and prospective bidders, on a project by project basis.o •--	: 4 .. v > • h» ..
»	8. In the event that work not traditionally assigned to laborers isr by mutual
consent of the parties, performed by laborers, a rate appropriate to the classification will be paid to the affected worker for the actual hours such work was performed. ^. ,; ? .
27
ARTICLE XXIX - DURATION AND TERMINATION
It is agreed by both parties that al! the conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from April 1, 2002 to March 31,2007, and during each calendar year thereafter, unless on or before the 30th day of January, 2007, or any year thereafter, written notice of change to this Agreement be served by either party upon the other party.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly subscribed by their duly authorized representatives the day and year first above written.
FOR LOCAL 589 '
28
INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER
In consideration of the time, efforts, and sums expended by the Union, the Labor Relations Division and the Employer in the negotiation of the foregoing contract, in consideration of the similar time, effort and sums expended and to be expended in its administration, and further consideration of the mutual promises and obligations of the Union, the Labor Relations Division and its member contractors, and Employers, the undersigned individual Employer agrees:
1.	That he (it) has read the foregoing collective bargaining Agreement, dated April 1,2002, and agrees, as ah individual Employer to be bound by each and all of the terms, conditions and provisions.thereof and also agrees to be bound by the interpretations and enforcement of the Agreement. He (It) further agrees to famish both the Labor Relations Division and the Union with signed copies of this Agreement.
2.	That.he.(it): waives the right to name or participate in the selection of any management trustee to any and all jointly trusteed funds provided for in said Agreement, further agrees to accept the trustees now named to these funds as his designated trustees, and agrees to be bound by the provisions of the trust indentures creating the respective funds.
NameofFirm	rL'
By:_______________Kt;, ZY/W	?________
An Authorized Officer; Title
Firm Street Address
City and State „ Y
Telephone Number 1	* ' -
Local Union:	~	Y;
By:______________________________________
Authorized Representative ’
Date: •	~ : ‘	.
UNION COPY
29
INDIVIDUAL EMPLOYER
In consideration of the time, efforts, and sums expended by the Union, the Labor Relations Division and the Employer in the negotiation of the foregoing contract, in consideration of the similar time, effort and sums expended and to be expended in its administration, and further consideration of the mutual promises and obligations of the Union, the Labor Relations Division and its member contractors, and Employers, the undersigned individual Employer agrees:
1.	That he (it) has read the foregoing collective bargaining Agreement, dated April 1,2002, and agrees, as an individual Employer to be bound by each and all of the terms, conditions and provisions thereof and also-agrees to be bound by the interpretations and enforcement of the Agreement. He (It) further agrees to furnish both the Labor Relations Division and the Union with signed copies of.this Agreement.
2.	That he (it) waives the right to name or participate in the selection of any management trustee to any and all jointly'trusteed funds provided for in said Agreement, further agrees to accept the trustees now named to these funds as his designated trustees, and agrees to be bound by the provisions of the tnist indentures creating the respective funds.
Name of Firm	j “J*/; A.
By:-------------------------------------------
An Authorized Officer, Title
Firm Street Address
City and State
Telephone Number	•'
Local Union:______________________________
By:_______________________________________
Authorized Representative
Date:____________________________________
NOTE: This page to be filled out in duplicate and one copy forwarded to: Labor Relations Division New York State Chapter, Inc.
Associated General Contractors of America
1900 Western Avenue
Albany, New York 12203
LRD/AGC COPY (LABORERS) (6 UPSTATE LOCALS)
2002-2007cny iiuna agreement
30
• 'SDaily Labor Report - AGC of New York, Laborers Negotiate
Page 1 of3
Q G Search Contents^
BNA, Inc.
Daily Labor
REPORT
No. 70
Thursday, April 11, 2002 ISSN 1522-5968
Page A-3
News
Construction
AGC of New York, Laborers Negotiate Highway Contracts Covering 3,800 Workers
Negotiators for the Associated General Contractors' New York State Chapter Inc. and eight Laborers' International Union locals have reached agreements-some final, some tentative-covering approximately 3,800 laborers performing highway work in the state, according to association and union sources.
The parties have a tentative agreement with Laborers Local 210 in Buffalo, a ratified contract for five years with six upstate locals, and a ratified pact for two years with Local 35 in Utica.
The AGC chapter also reached a tentative contract with Buffalo-based International Union of Operating Engineers Local 17 on a three-year agreement providing $4.75 more over term. A tentative settlement between the parties April 8 ended a strike by 1,000 or so union members against AGC-rep resented highway contractors in the Buffalo and Jamestown areas that began April 1 (69 DLR A-6, 4/10/02).
in addition, the AGC chapter and the Empire State Regional Council of the Carpenters and Joiners of America in Hauppauge have conducted initial talks for one new agreement covering highway work in New York outside of the New York City area, Gordon Knapp, Carpenters regional director, said April 9. Approximately 800 Carpenters are working under an extension of two agreements with the AGC state chapter that expired March 31, he said. Current hourly rates under the extended AGC agreement with Carpenters Local 281 in Johnson City are $23.07 journey level wage and $6,705 employee benefit fund contribution total. Current rates under the extended AGC agreement with Carpenters Local 66 in Olean are $20,635 journey level rate and $7.91 employee benefit fund contribution total.
Laborers Local 210 in Buffalo and AGC negotiators reached a tentative contract April 4, Ted Czerw, assistant managing director of the state chapter, said April 8. The tentative, three-agreement would provide successive increases of $1.25 per hour (3.8 percent more), $1.25 per hour (3.7 percent more), and $1.30 per hour (3.7 percent more), he said. The current total wage and employee benefit fund contribution rate under the pre-existing contract between the parties was $33.86, he said.
Laborers Local 210 officials could not be reached for comment. Local 210 represents approximately 1,800 workers on highway projects.
Multi-Local Upstate Agreement

AGC has negotiated a five-year agreement that went into effect April 1 with six upstate Laborers locals: Local 7 in Binghamton; Local 186 in Plattsburg; Local 214 in Oswego; Local 322 in Massina; Local 433 in Syracuse; and, Local 589 in Ithica. However, new first-year rates will not go into effect until July 1, Czerw said.
http://pubs.bna.com/ip/BNA/dlr.nsf/id/a0a5klb7p6
4/11/02
K&70
CENTRAL NEW YORK REGION LRD/AGC LABORERS - 6 UPSTATE LOCALS
2002- 2007 HIGHWAY-HEAVY WAGE RATE SCHEDULES Effective July 1,2003 - June 30,2004
ZONE I
	LECET		♦Dues	♦Pac	
Welfare Pension	H.&S.	Training	Annuity Ded.	Ded.	Total
Local 7 (Binghamton)					
a)$20.49 $2.80	$3.70	$.15	$.65	$1.10	$-5%	$-.05	$28.89
b)$20.69					$29.09
c)$20.89					$29.29
d)$21.09					$29.49
Local 433 (Syracuse)					
a)$19.49 $3.55	$3.05	$.20	$.60	$2.00	-6%	$-.05	$28.89
b)$19.69					$29.09
c)$19.89					$29.29
d)$20.09					$29.49
Local 589 (Ithaca)					
a)$19.54 $2.90	$3.45	$.15	$.30	$2.55	-5%	—	$28.89
b)$19.74					$29.09
c)$19.94					$29.29
d)$20.14					$29.49
		ZONE II			
	LECET		♦Dues *Pac		
Welfare Pension	H. &S.	Training Annuity Ped. Ped._			Total
Local 186 (Plattsburgh)					
a)$19.99 $4.65	$3.35	$.15	$.40	—	-$1.90 —		$28.54
b)$20.19					$28.74
c)$20.39					$28.94
d)$20.59					$29.14
Local 214 (Oswego)					
a)$20.49 $4.50	$2.00	$.15	$.40	$1.00	-7%			$28.54
b)$20.69					$28.74
c)$20.89		*			$28.94
d)S21.09					$29.14
Local 322 (Massena)					
a)S20.29 $3.70	$3.50	$.15	$.40	$.50	-7%	—	$28.54
b)$20.49					$28.74
c)$20.69					$28.94
d)$20,89					$29.14
♦Deductions upon receipt of signed authorization cards from employees.				A percentage deduction will be	
on gross wages exclusive of fringe benefits.					
Effective July 1, 2004: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification
Effective July 1,2005: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification
Effective July 1,2006 - June 30, 2007: $1.25 Gross increase for each classification
Prepared By:
Labor Relations Division
Associated General Contractors
New York State Chapter, Inc.
6/9/03
2003 LIUNA cny wage schedules
•Daily Labor Report - AGC of New York, Laborers Negotiate
Page 2 of3
In addition, AGC and Laborers Local 35 in Utica have settled for two years, according to a union source.
The upstate agreements cover approximately 2,000 workers, according to Bill Shannon, Local 214, business manager who participated in the negotiations. The settlements are fair agreements, he said.
The new contract provides successive annual increases of $1 per hour (3.7 percent more), per hour (3.6 percent more). $1.25 per hour (4.3 percent more), $1.25 per hour (4.1 percent more), and $1.25 per hour (3.9 percent more), Czerw said.
Total wage and benefit fund contribution rates under the prior agreement between the parties were $27.09 for Zone I (Locals 7, 35, 433, and 589) and $26.84 for Zone II (Locals 186, 214, and 322), according to Czerw.
Members of Local 214 have not yet ratified the proposed agreement, Shannon said. Although a union membership meeting is scheduled for April 8, allocation may not be determined until next month, he said. Prior rates for Local 214 members are $19.09 for the base rate and $7.55 for the employee benefit fund contribution total, he said.
Members of Local 186 ratified the agreement March 28, a Local 186 official said April 8. Union members debated allocation of the first-year, $1 per hour raise with some members. wanting the entire amount applied to wages and others wanting the amount split between wages and benefit fund contributions, he said. Ultimately, the union decided for an even split with 50 cents going to wages and 50 cents going to the health and welfare fund contribution, he said.
New hourly rates for Local 186 are $19.99 base wage (50 cents increase) and $4.65 health and welfare fund contribution (50 cents more). Other employee benefit fund contribution rates were carried over at $2.35 per hour for the pension fund, 40 cents per hour for apprenticeship and training, 10 cents per hour for the La borers-Em ployer Cooperation and Education Trust, and 5 cents per hour for safety, he said.
Two-Year Agreement for Utica Area
For Local 35 in Utica, the two-year agreement calls for $1.35 per hour more for wages and benefits in the first year and 95 cents per hour more the second year, a Local 35 official said April 9.
The initial $1.35 per hour increase will be allocated on July 1 as 75 cents to the base wage rate, 35 cents per hour more for the health and welfare fund contribution, 20 cents more for the pension fund contribution, and 5 cents to inaugurate an annuity fund contribution, he said. Those increases will raise the base rate from $19.25 to $20 per hour, the health and welfare fund contribution from $3.65 to $4 per hour, and the pension fund contribution rate from $3.59 to $3.79 per hour, he said.
Other benefit fund contribution rates will carry over at 15 cents for a combined LECET and safety fund, and 25 cents for apprenticeship, the official said.
Laborers Local 35 members approved the agreement at a membership meeting in March, he said.^
By James Skovron
http://pubs.bna.com/ip/BNA/dlr.nsf/id/a0a5k 1 b7p6
4/11/02
Note to files K 8993 and 8470
Early in 2002, LIUNA Local 35 was transferred from the Central New York Region to the Albany Region. As a result, it was agreed between the AGC and LIUNA that Local 35 would be covered under K 8993 and be removed from K 8470. The enclosed memorandum of agreement between the parties authorizes the change as of April 1, 2002. As it also states, Local 35's wages will change to those of Locals 157 and 190 effective July 1, 2002.
JKS 4/22/02
04/22/02	14:05
CHAPTtn OFFICE
1000 Maaiftn *»«** albany. Now 7w* 11903'0007
ft laphora ;(S 10} *«■11M
FAX:	(510) AM-MM
KJ. CMlaIMfOftWt Kak. Vtoo Pmldont
WESTERN REQIONAL OFFICE
+++ COMP LVLS TRENDS ©002/002
®	i-__
ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA
NEW YORK STATE CHAPTER, INC.
March 27.2002
• 7DM Soulhwootaro Blvd, Orehord PoA, New Ta»U Uli? T«ftpheno:t7in 874-5500 Fax:	|TiQ) 67«-MO1
Mr. Sam Marchio Business Manager LIUNA Local 35 112 South Street Utica. NY 13501
Dear Sam;
As you know, negotiations were recently concluded between the Central New York Region LRD/AGC and LIUNA Locals 7, 35. 186, 214, 322,433 and 589. It was brought out during negotiations that Local 35 was being transferred to the Eastern District Council of Laborers which includes
Years
Local 157 Schenectady and Local 190 Albany. It was understood and agreed that Local 35 could transfer from the Central New York agreemenftothe * Albany Region LRD/AGC agreement at the appropriate time deemed best for fLocal 35,
Local 35 has chosen to become pan of the Albany Region LRD/AGC agreement and has the consent of the LRD/AGC to do so.
Therefore, effective April 1, 2002. Local 35 will be bound by the terms and conditions of the 2000-2004 Agreement between the Albany Region LRD/AGC agreement with LIUNA Locals 157,4k; ¥90 and effective July 1, 2002 will have the same gross wage rate as Locals 157 & 190. Concurrently, all reference to Local 35 will be stricken from the newly negotiated April 1. 2002 - March 31, 2007 Central New York Region LRD/AGC agreement with LIUNA Locals 7, 186,214,322.433 and 589.
Sincerely.
Theodore J. Czcrw Assistant Managing Director
Sam Fresina
• Eugene D. Hallock, III Jonas Havens Ron Wolfe John E. Maloy, Jr.
cc: William Shannon Rocky Bums Casey Bums Stephen Compagni Todd Curran David DeJohn
local 35 transfer