CONTRACT ID#
COLLECTIVE EARGAINING AGREEMENT
Dated December 17, 2001
by and between
THE NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY REGIONAL JOINT HOARD, ’ LOCAL 132-96-102 UNITE
and
PLASTIC SOFT MATERIALS MANUFACTURERS ' ASSOCIATION, INC.
Term: December' 17, 2001 to December . 16, 2004
TABLE-OF CONTENTS
HEADINGS	PAGE
Union Recognition.....•................................... I.
Union Security......................................  -	.	2
Coverage.cf Agreement.....................................  3
Hours...................................................... 3
Overtime...................................................  3
Minimum Scales...............................................4
Progression Rate............................................ 5
Transfers..............................  . . ............... e
Increases in Wages.......................................... 6
Reduct i on of Wages ......................................  8
Eci idays....................;............................   9
Eene fit Funds......................................... 11
Sick/Ferscnal Days . ................................. 22
Vacation Benefits.................	........................ 22
Bereavement Pay........................................ 2 6
Discharge...............................................    26
Trial Period........................................  .	27
Distribution of Work..................................      27
Pay Day...........................................    -	■	2&
Reporting'fc-r Work......................................   2S
Dual System of Work........................................ 2P
Work by Employer Prohibited.........................  .	’29
Homework Prohibited..............■........................  30
Miners  ................................ .  ...............  3	0 ..
Tool s....................................;	....... 30
Damage to Material................................1 . . . .	30
Jnsi de’-Contracting Prohibited". . .................". .	31
Individual Contracting Prohibited...........’......".	. .	31.
Waiver of Agreement Prohibited..........................   31
Moving cf Shop..........................................   31
Shop Chairperson......;...............■.....■............ .32
Union Communi cat i on with Shop Chairperson................ 3	3
Price Committee........................................    33
Authority Limited (Workers).................'........	...	23
Examination of Books anc Records.......................... 34
Visitation cf Shops....................................... 34
Outside Work.............................................  36
Consol i cat ion and Mergers............................   38
Strikes, Stoppages and	Lockouts....-....................   36
Written Notice cf Strike................................   36
Non-Payment cf Wages.............'........................ 38
Lockout................................................ 39
Check-Off . .......................................   .	39
Discontinuance of Business............................... 4 0
Dissolution of Partnership............................. 40
Individual Liabilities cf Principals...........'.........  41
Liability of Members cf Association.................... 43
Table of Contents (Page 2}
HEADINGS	PAGE
Liability of Former Association Members.................	43
New Members of Association.........'........................ 4E
Certificates of Ratification of Agreement/
Certification of Association Authority.................... 4E
Subs!diaries, and Affiliates....'........................... 46
Collections cf Waces/Remecies cf Union.....................  47
Arbitration/Acjustment cf Disputes and
Grievance Procedure.................................. -4 7
Impartial Chairman.......................................... 4E
Written Notice cf Hearing............................... 4?
Settlement of Disputes.................................. SO
Copies cf Arbitration Awards......................... . . . SO
Compliance/Remecies of Union............................ SI
Author! zed . Union Agent............................... S3
Cost cf Living Increase/Escalation Clause............... E2
Disability Insurance.............’.................  .	. .	54
Health and Safety Standards...............-. . ............. E4
Performance cf Any Provision..............................   E5
Nc Discrimination............................ . . ......	55
Reorganization............................................   E€
Warnings.............................  \............ .	...
Jury Duty...............................................	57
Leave of Absence............................................   5	7
Authority Limited (Union)...'............................. . 55
Conflict with'Law........................................... 56
Savings Clause............................................   5S
Successors and Assigns...................................... 55
Association Authority..............■........................ 55
Term cf Agreement.. ......................................   55
- i i -
AGREEMENT mace this 17th day of December, 2 001., by &nc between the PLASTIC SOFT MATERIALS MANUFACTURERS ' ASSOCIATION, INC., a New York corporation (hereinafter referred tc as the . "Association") and the NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY REGIONAL- JOINT EOARD, LOCAL 132-SE-102, UNITE (hereinafter referred tc as the "Union"),
WITNESSETH:
. WHEREAS, the members of the• Association are engaged in the manufacture of rubberized and plastic novelties and kindred products; and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire tc continue tc cooperate in establishing conditions in the industry which will tend tc secure for the workers- a living wage and improve the standards of Tabor, and tc provide methods for a'fair and peaceful adjustment of all disputes.
NOW, THEREFORE,. in consideration of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
UNION,RECOGNITION
1.	(a) ” The Association, bn behalf of itself and its
members, acknowledges that the Union represents a majority of the workers employed in the Association-wide unit consisting of the workers covered by this Agreement employed by the respective
members of the Asseed atdon, anc has teen designated by sai.d ; werkers as their sole'and exclusive collective bargaining representative. The Association, on behalf.of itself anc its present anc future members, agrees tc recognize the Union during the entire period of this Agreement as the sole anc exclusive collective bargaining representative cf all of the Association, members’■ employees covered by this Agreement. It is further agreed that neither the Association nor any cf its members, nor any cf their respective agents, shall, directly or indirectly, discourage membership in the Union.
UNION SECUKITY
(b)	It shall be a condition cf employment that all workers covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union' in good standing on the cate of.execution of this Agreement shall remain members in good standing, anc those who are net members' on the date cf execution cf this Agreement shall, on the thirtieth ■(30th) day following the date cf execution of this Agreement, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition cf employment that al 1 ■employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after the date of execution thereof shall, on the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in
good standing in the Union.
COVERAGE GF AGREEMENT
(c)	This Agreement shell be applicable tc all employees except clerical employees, sales people, watchmen and -supervisory employees with authority tc hire and discharge.
HOURS
2.	The regular hours' of employment shall, be thirty-five (35)' per week, equally divided into the first five (S) working days (Monday tc Friday inclusive) of the week, each day consisting of seven (7) hours.
OVERTIME .
3.	(-a) -All work perf drmed ’ cut side ■ of the regular scheduled
-daily-hours established in the shops of the respective members of the Association shall be-’deemed overtime. Overtime shall be’paid for- at the rate of time and one-half, except that the first one-half (1/2) hour of overtime in each regular work day may be paid at the rate of straight time. However, if a worker comes in late, overtime will only be paid after the worker has worked seven (7) hours that day, but the first half hour of overtime in
that working day may be paid at the rate of straight time. Furthermore; in the event a worker shall unjustifiably absent himself during any work week, the worker shall not receive overtime pay until after completing the regular weekly hours cf work. Notwithstanding the above, curing a work week in which a holiday falls on a scheduled work day, and. a worker dees not work on the holiday, then overtime, will be paid after a werker has worked his regular w*eekly hours minus the paid hours for the hcli day.
(b) All work performed cutside .the first five (E) working days cf the week shall be paid fcr at the rate cf time and one-half. All work performed on the seventh day cf the work week shall be?paid at double the worker’s regular rate cf pay.
MINIMUM'SCALES
.4.	(a) Experienced workers (both piece and time workers)
shall receive net less than the following minimum hourly wage.
scale:	EFFECTIVE LATE 12/17/2001.
Cutters, Shippers and Receiving Clerks ■	e E . 4 c
All Other Classifications	$ E . 4 0
4
(b) All new employees shall receive an increase of" at least twenty-five (25C) cents per hour after forty-five (45) days of employment, regardless of the rate at which he was'hired, and regardless of any ether increase tc which he is also entitled under the terms of this Agreement.
(c)(i) Workers whose earnings on a piece work basis are greater than the respective minimums herein provided for shall receive the greater amount. In calculating their earnings on a piece work basis, workers shall be entitled tc the increases provided fcr in paragraph ”5 (b) " below.
(ii) The Union will consult, with members of the Association'regarding.conversion of wage structures tc piece rate on a shop basis where appropriate.
"PROGRESSION RATE ■	. ’	•
"(d) In the event that during the term- of this - ■ Agreement, the Federal or State hourly minimum rate of pay shall be increased to a figure in excess of. Five Dollars and Fifteen cents ($5.15) , then each of the minimum scales provided fcr in . subdivision "(a)" of this paragraph shall be increased to such extent as shal1 be required sc that they shal1 not be less than
twenty-five (25<“) cents in excess-cf the Federal cr State hourly
minimum rate, whichever is higher.
TRANSFERS
(e) If a worker is transferred tc another operation, such worker shall receive, during the .first twc (2? weeks in the new operation, not-less than eighty (E0%) percent cf his average earnings during his last four (4) weeks cf full employment prior to the transfer. Thereafter, he shall be paid cr the basis’of his earnings at the rate for. the new operation. Such transfer, however, shall be only upon mutual consent. •
INCREASES IN WAGES
5.	(a) All time werkers covered by this Agreement shall,
receive wage increases’ as follows:
(i)	Effective December 17, 2001, a wage increase cf twenty-five (25C-). cents per hour over their then respective wages.
6
(ii)	Effective December 16, 2002, a wage increase cf twenty-five (2EC) cents per hour ever their then respective wages.
(iii)	Effective December if, 2003, a wage .increase cf twenty-five (2EC) cents per hour ever their then respective wages.
(b) All piece workers employee coring the term cf this Agreement shall receive wage increases as follows:
(a) Effective December 17, 1001, all piece workers shall receive an increase cf twenty-five (2EC) cents per hour.'over their respective total weekly earnings as calculated immediately prior tc December 17, 1001, (i'. e-. , over -their total weekly'earnings inducing-all increases ■in effect immediately prior to- that date); -	• -
(ii)	Effective December 10, 2002, all piece workers shall receive an' increase cf twenty-five (2Et) cents, per hour over their respective total weekly earnings as calculated immediately prior to- December IE, 1002,. Ci . e, , ever their total weekly earnings including all increases in effect immediately prior to that cate)’.
(iii)	. Effective December 15, 2003, all piece
workers shell receive an increase of twenty-ffve ' (25C) cents per hour ever their respective tctal weekly earnings as calculated immediately prior to December 15., 2003, (i,. e . , ever their tctal weekly earnings including all increases in effect immediately prior tc that date).
The foregoing increases for piece workers shall be applicable tc piece workers hired'after the respective effective cates cf such increases as well &£ tc workers hired prior tc such effective dates: For example, a worker, hired on August 1, -2001 shall, from-the .commencement cf his‘employment, be entitled tc receive his basic piece rate earnings plus the. twenty-five’ (2E<) cents per hour increase referred tc in subparagraph (i) above,, plus-the twenty-five (25C) cents'per hour' increase referred tc-in subparagraphs- (ii) and (iii) above.
- ‘The wage increase ref erred-to- above will only be granted, tc those employees who- have been employed for three (3) months or more as cf the. effective date cf the negotiated increase.
REDUCTION OF WAGES
6. During the term cf this Agreement, wages, prices and standards now existing or hereafter established shall, net be
E
1ewerea.
HOLIDAYS
*7.	(c) .Except es otherwise provided in subdivision (e) cf
this paragraph, all werkers shall be paid for the holidays hereinafter referred to, on which days they shall net be required tc werk. Such holiday pay shall be granted irrespective of the day cf the week on which the holiday may fall.
The paid holidays referred tc are
New’ Year’s Day
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday Washington's Birthday Good 'Friday Decoration Day Independence pay Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Day Day before Christmas ■ Christmas Day
(b)	The'workersshai1 receive a full cay’s pay fcr each cf the hcjfcays referred to above/
If. -a worker, although called in tc work, shall, voluntarily absent himself curine a week in which cne cf said holidays shall occur, such worker's pay fcr that hclicay shall be in' the same proportion as the number of hours worked by him curine that week-bears tc the number cf working hours in that week.
(c)	Should any cf the paid holidays provided fcr herein occur while a worker is on vacation, he shall, nevertheless-be paid for that holiday in addition tc receiving his- vacation pay .
(d)	(i) A day's holiday pay fcr piece workers shall be based on their regular average hourly earnings multiplied by seven (7) , except as otherwise provided in'subdivision (ii) belcw.	'	_
(ii)	In 'shops working seven and c-ne-half (7&) hours per cay, a day's holiday pay for piece-workers and time, workers shall be based on their regular average hourly earnings multiplied by seven and one-half (7^).
(e)	The Employer shall not be required tc pay a worker for any paid holiday provided fcr herein which shall occur during the first thirty (30) days of such worker's employment.
10
BENEFIT FUNDS
&. ■(a) Retroactive tc January 3, 2 001, the contribution rate tc the benefit funds is seventeen anc five eighths (37.€25%; percent (e.g. 4.5% tc the 1LGWU National Retirement Func and 32.575% tc the Eastern States Health anc Welfare Func anc .25% tc the Elastic Scft Materials Manufacturers. Industry Fund.
(b; Effective December 17, 2001, each member cf the Association shall pay monthly tc the Union towards the Funds hereinafter referred tc seventeen and five-eighths (17.625%)	- '
percent (which percentage shall be decreased tc fifteen (15%) percent effective February 1, 2002; and further decreased tc thirteen (13%) percent effective July 1, 2002, and further increased tc fourteen and one-half (14.5%) percent effective. January 1, 2 003;. and further increased tc. fifteen .and one-half (IE.5%) percent effective July 1, 2003)-of the total weekly payrolls- of all- its employees covered by ;this Agreementfrom the thirty-first day of their first day of employment.
After receipt of the foregoing payments from the members cf the Association,)the sums sc collected shall be allocated and paid ever by the Union towards the following trust funds:
11
(1) Effective ‘December 17 , 2 001, tc the 1LGWU Eastern States Health & Welfare Func, cr its successor, a sum equivalent tc twelve and seven eighths (12-7/6%) percent, which percentage shall be decreased tc ten anc one quarter (10.2E%). percent, effective February 1, 2002 (which percentage shall be further cecreasec tc eight anc one quarter (f.25%; percent effective July 1, 2002; anc which percentage shall then be increased tc nine anc cne quarter ( 5 . 2E%) percent effective Ouly 1, 2002) cf -the. total weekly payrolls cf. all cf the werkers covered by this Agreement, from the thirty-first cay cf their first cay cf employment. .
Centributicns tc the Health anc Welfare Func'shall net include earnings cf werkers in excess cf Twenty Cne Thousand ($21,000.00) ' Del 1 are in any calendar year.---	'.I..
(id) Tc the ILGWU’National Retirement Fund retroactive tc January 1, 2001, a sum equivalent tc four anc cne-half (4.5%) percent (which percentage shall be increased tc six (€%) percent effective January 1, 2003) cf the total weekly payrolls of all the employees covered by this Agreement, from the thirty first day cf their first cay cf employment.
12
r
(iii)	Tc the Elastic Fcft Materials Manufacturers Industry Func .25% cf the cress payrolls per paragraph E (d) below.
(iv)	In acciticn tc the payments provided for above, each member cf the Association shall pay: ■
(I) monthly tc the Inion, towards the Health and
■- yvWeT'fare Fund, or its successor, for the period
December 17, 2001 to- June 30, 2002, a sum equivalent tc 0.13% of the .total weekly payrolls cf all its employees' covered by this Agreement, from the first day cf their employment, plus additional sums as may he necessary, tc enable said Fund tc .make payment cf the Employer’s share cf Federal Social Security Taxes with respect tc the benefits paid’by said Fund tc the workers; and
. *’ (-2). On a 'monthly basis; for persons employed or \ attached' tc the Employer as cf December 17, 2001, (and for persons hired after. December 17., .2 001, .who have been.' employee one year with the Employer) the Employer will pay the Cc-Fay related tc medical insurance for an individual of ■ Twenty Three ($23.00) Dollars per month, including the month in which a worker is laid off plus one (1) additional month tc the Health and Welfare Fund.
13
(3) Effective February 1, 2002, each member of the Association shea 3 pay, for each eligible covered worker who is otherwise eligible tc receive benefits from the Health arc Welfare Func, the fell owing sums for an over the counter prescription drug plan per month, per employee (single benefit)•.
2/3 Z02		3/	1/0;	3/1/04
. $2E . 00		'r -	0.00	o ■Ur
- The fellewi	ng chart	reflect	s the ccr	itribvtions due:
: /2/02	22/27/02	2/2/02	’ 7/2/02	2/2/03 '	7/j/Oj	271/04
NRF	4 . 5	4.5	4 .5	' 4 . E	6.0	6.0	’ 6 . 6 ■
E&W	12.E 0 E	12.575	10.25-	5.25	E.2E	E.2E 5.25
FICa'	.13	. 13	. 13	- 0-	. - 0 - ,	- 0 -	- 0 -
Cc-Fay $23.00,.	$23 ’.00	$23 . 00.'	$23.00'	$23.00 $2 3.‘00 $23.00
Fresc Drugs -0-	-0-	$25.00	$2E . 0 0	$30.00 $30.00 $36;00
Promotion	.25	.25	. .25	.2E	.25	.25	.25
After receipt cf the payments provided for in this grammatical paragraph, the sums sc- collected shall-be paid ever by the Union tc the Health and Welfare Func,.-cr its successor.
(c) The aforesaid Health and Welfare Fund which was established pursuant tc collective agreement prior tc January 1, 1546, has been and will he maintained by the Union for the purpose cf providing workers eligible therefor with health,-welfare and ether benefits and services in accordance with the
14
(3) Effective February 1, 2002, each member cf the Association shall pay, fcr each eligible covered worker' who is otherwise eligible tc receive benefits from the Health and Welfare Func, the fell owing sums for an over the counter prescription drug-plan per month, per employee (single benefit): ' 2/1/02-	■	■ 1/1/03	1 /I /04
$25.00	$30.00	$36.00
The following chart reflects the contributions due:
1/1/G1	1t/17/01	1/1/07	•77.1/07	22; 4U	7/1-/C-?	, 1/1/04
NRF	,4.5	4.5	4.5	4 . E	6 . 0	6 . G	6.0
H&W	12.*’E^E	‘ 12 . ETE 10.25 ■	5.25	6 .25	5.2 5	5.2E
F1CA .	.13	.13	.13	-0-	'0-	-0-	-o-
Co-Pay $2j! . 00	$23'. 0 0 .$23.00	$23 . 00-	$23.00	$23.00	$23.00
Pre sc. Drugs - 0 ■	’ $25.00	$25.00	$3 0.00	$30.00	$3 6.00 ’
Promotion .25	.25	;25		* 2 c	.25	.25
After receipt cf the payments provided- fcr in this grammatical paragraph, the sums sc collected shall be paid over by the Union tc the Health and Welfare Fund, or its successor.
(c) The aforesaid Health and Welfare Fund which was established pursuant tc collective agreement prior tc January 1, 1546, has been and will be maintained by the Union fcr the purpose cf providing workers eligible therefor with health, welfare and other benefits and services in accordance' with the
14
Ey-Laws ci Rules anc Regulations adoptee by the Union fcr that purpose, as same may be amended from time tc time.
Neither the Association nor any of .its members shall have any right, title or interest in said Fund cr the acmi.ni strat ion thereof. Nc individual worker shall have any right, title or interest in, cr claim against his Employer's payments towards the Health anc Welfare Func, cr its successor, or against said Fund except as may be provided by the Union's By-Laws cr Rules and Regulations fcr said Fund.
■ All portions of the Fund are hereby declared tc be an irrevocable trust created pursuant tc Section 302 (c)E .of the Labor Management Relations’Act cf 3341 which shall endure as long as the purposes cf its creation under this Agreement shall exist.
The Association, on behalf cf itself anc its members .and' the Union, ■ hereby acknowledge . the estah-3 i shment "cf the sai c . Heal th . . ’ and Welfare Fund, and do hereby acknowledge the due, proper and. lawful, appointment of the trustees presently constituting the ■ Board cf Trustees cf the said Fund, and do hereby ratify and approve the Rules and Regulations heretofore adopted by said Board of Trustees anc their actions pursuant thereto, and de agree tc be bound by said Rules, and Regulations, as same may be amended, and do hereby authorize anc empower said Board-cf ■ Trustees, as same may be constituted from time tc time pursuant tc the provisions of this paragraph and pursuant tc said Rules
15
end Regulations as same may be amended, tc administer said Fund in accordance with said Rules and Regulations and any and all amendments thereto hereafter adopted pursuant tc said Rules'ana Regulations.
Except for such monies as, in the sole judgment cf the Board cf Trustees are required for current operating expenses and tc make payment cf benefits as the same accrue, the monies of the Health and Welfare Fund shall, from time tc time, be deposited in accounts in-federally insured banks and/or invested in such securities as shall be legal investments for trust funds as provided in the Rules and Regulations cf the Fund adopted by the Trustees, as same may be amended.
None cf the monies paid into the'Health and Welfare-Fund shall be'used .for any purposes other than tc pay. the benefits added to,/amended or modified, and to pay the operating and administrative expenses thereof including, but not limited tc, the expenses cf setting up the Fund on a sound actuarial basis, cf maintaining, if necessary, -an cffice and paying the expenses incidental ,tc the operation thereof and the employment’ cf any necessary personnel, .to pay for the collection cf amounts due from those in default, tc pay for the maintenance of records and books cf account, and tc purchase equipment which may be necessary .therefcr, ■ tc pay for the regular and annual audit cf its accounts and printing copies thereof, and tc pay all reasonable counsel fees and disbursements incurred by the Fund.
IE
payments mace by a member cf the Association tc the Func and payments cf benefits by the Func shall not constitute cr be deemed wages due tc the werkers. Nc member cf the Association, shall have any right, title, interest cr claim; legal cr equitable, in cr tc any sum paid by him! or by any ether member cf the Association tc the Func, er against- the Func itself. No worker shall have any right, title, interest cr cl aim, 1egal or equitable, in cr.tc his Employer's cr any ether Employer's payments tc the Func. Rights of werkers against the Fund shall be governed exclusively by this numbered paragraph, including the Rules and Regulations and the detailed basis upon wThich payments from the Func will be made as .adopted cr amended by the Eoardcf Trustees. Title tc the monies paid intc the Fund shall be vested in and remain exclusively' in the Board cf. Trustees of the Fund anc no' benefits or monies payable from the- Func shall be subject in any manner tc- anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment,' pledge, garnishee, encumbrance, or charge and. any ■ attempt to anticipate, alienate, 'sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber dr charge the Fund shall be void. Nor shall any monies-paid intc the Fund be subject tc cr payable fcr the debts, contracts, liabilities cr torts cf the parties entitled tc receive such money, .(i , e . , beneficiaries of such trust under .the terms cf this Agreement).
17
If the Ecard of Trustee shall fine that any payment tc- the Func by an Employer was erroneously cr mistakenly made, the Ecarc may direct repayment tc the member cf■such sum.
An annual audit cf' the Health anc Welfare Func shall be mace by certified public accountants tc be designated by the Ecard cf Trustees.statement cf the result- cf such audit shall be mace available fcr inspection by interested persons at the principal office cf the Fund and at such ether places as may be designated by the Board cf Trustees.
Failure by any member cf the Association tc timely pay the amount due from him hereunder to the- Fund shall- be deemed a breach-cf this Agreement by such member of the Association anc by such member only, end not a failure cf consideration on the part ■ of the Association cr any other member. The Ecarc cf Trustees shall have the right tc enforce payment. The Uni.cn, as a party tc the Agreement, shall alsc have the right tc enforce payment fcr the'benefit. of sale Fund. The Impartial Chairman-shall~have the authority tc assess interest against any member of the Association whe is delinquent in such payments tc- the Fund.
(d)	-The percentage cf the payroll paid in 8(a) above includes a payment from, each member cf the Association tc the ’’Plastic Soft Materials Manufacturers Industry Fund" in a sum equivalent tc .25% of the gross payrolls cf all its workers covered by this Agreement. The "Plastic Soft Materials.
18
Manufacturers Industry Func", established fcr the purpose cf funding the promotion cf the industry and other related activities, shall be' administered by a Board cf Trustees. Said Board-cf Trustees shall in its sole discretion determine the manner in which the purpose cf the Func shall be implemented, the amounts tc be expended in furtherance cf such purpose, and other matters involved in the administration cf said Fund. The Board cf Trustees shall be composed only of Employer representatives who shall, be designated by the Association. The Board cf. Trustees shall have the power,tc adopt by-laws, rules and regulations.and tc make all decisions, thereunder and in connection with the administration cf the Fund as it may deem-advisable.
(e)	In the event that the Board cf Trustees cf the ILGWU Eastern States Health and Welfare Fund resolve tc merge or terminate said Fund and further resolve tc transfer the remaining assets cf said’Tund tc another Health and .Welfare Fund that can provide substantially similar benefits tc workers covered by this Agreement, then the contributions required tc be made under this Agreement shall continue tc be made and paid tc.said other Health and Welfare Fund designated by the Board cf Trustees cf.the ILGWU Eastern States Health and Welfare Fund.
(f)	The parties agree that, the aforesaid 1LGWU National Retirement Func heretcfcre establdshed, ehajj continue tc be administered by its Board cf Trustees in accordance with the Rules and Recul'aticns adopted for each Fund.
The Association, on behalf cf itself and itsmenbers, and the Union acknowledge the due anc proper appointment cf the Trustees presently constituting the Ecard of Trustees of the Funds, do hereby ratify and approve the Rules and Regulations heretcfcre adeptec by said Ecarc cf Trustees for the Func and their'acts pursuant thereto, and de agree tc’be bound by said Rules and Regulations, as same may be arienced, and co hereby authorize and empower said Board, cf* Trustees, as same may be constituted frcrri time tc time pursuant tc the Rules and • Regulations of the Fund, as same may be.amended, tc ‘administer said Fund in accordance with saicbRules and 'Reculat ions and any and all. amendments thereto' hereafter adopted pursuant tc said Rules and Regulations.
Neither the Association nor. any cf its members shall have any right, title or interest in or tc- any cf the said Funes. No individual worker shall have any right, title .or interest in cr claim against Employer's payments towards any of the said Funds, cr against the Funds themselves, except as may be provided by the Rules and Regulations governing said Funds.
(c)	interest shall be payable by Employers on celincuent employee benefit fund contributions at a rate of nine (?%} percent per annum.
(h)	Should the United States Ccngress erect National Health Care Legislation which'is signee intc jaw, the Association shall have the right tc reopen.anc,renegetiate paragraph 8(a) only upon seven (1) days written notice tc the Union. In no event shall the reopening result in reducing benefits which the employees enjoy under this Agreement.
(i)	If at ary time curing the term of this Agreement, the Trustees cf the 3LGWU National Retirement Fund shall either (a) ‘ terminate the. 1LGWU National Retirement Fund cr .(b) declare that there is nc longer an unfunded liability tc contributing employers or"(ci otherwise upon the Agreement cf the Association and the Union; .it is agreed that the Association, on behalf cf its members, may negotiate with the Union a substitute Association sponsored retirement program.(which may also be. individual employer sponsored as well) that al low’s members cf the Association tc end their contribution obligation tC' the ILGWU-National Retirement Fund in a manner and under conditions consistent with relevant Pension Law.while maintaining substantially equal or better retirment benefits for covered workers employed by members cf the Association.
21
SICK/PERSONAL DAYS
S. (a) Each worker whc has been employee in his shop at least one <2) year but jess than five (E) years shall be entitled to three (3) cays cf sick/perscnal cays with pay. Each worker who has been employee in his shop at least five (E) years shall be entitled tc five (5) days cf sick/perscnal leave with pay. At the end of each such period,, each such worker shall be paid fcr any such days of sick/personal leave not utilized curine that.
period.
VACAT1ON BENEFITS
(b)	The Employers shall pay annual vacation benefits to all workers as follows:.
(i)	All workers employee.fcr three (3).years cr mere, but. less than seven (7) .years', as cf uune 30th of the year in which the vacation is tc be given, shall receive a vacation benefit cf one (1) week's pay.
(ii)	All workers employee for seven (7) years or more as cf dune 30th of the year in which the vacation is tc be given, shall receive a vacation benefit cf two (2) weeks’ vacation pay.
(iii)	All'workers employed fcr twenty (20). years or mere.shall receive an additional three (3) days vacation with pay.
(iv)	In addition tc the above, effective in the year 2003, the Empjoyer shall pay that portion cf vacation pay tc workers previously paid by.the 1LGWU Eastern States Health and Welfare Fund pursuant tc the current benefit rules cf that Fund.
The. vacation benefits provided for above shall be paid tc the respective workers by the Employer prior tc their leaving for vacation. It is understood and agreed that said vacation benefits shall be in addition tc any benefits which the workers . may be entitled tc receive from the Health and Wei1 are‘Fund. Fcr workers 'entitled tc three (3) weeks’ vacation, the third week need not be ccnsecutive with the other two, but may be granted at the option O' the Employer at any time prior tc December 31st of the same year.
(c)	-.For the purpose cf determining a worker’s eligibility for vacation benefits .provided :fcr in this paragraph, the following shall apply:
-(i	) The length'cf -a worker’s employment shall be measured from the date he was first hired by his Employer until dune 30th of the year in which the'vacation is tc be given. However, should the worker quit or be justifiably discharged after■he was first hired, and then subsequently be rehired, the length cf his employment ■ shall be measured from the date he was rehired, provided
that both of the f cl lowing conditions shall, be complied with: (1) the worker shall be informed by.the Employer at the time cf such rehiring that his eligibility .for vacation benefits hereunder will be measured from such rehirinc date; and (2) a joint written statement by the Employer and the worker involved shall be filed with the Union within five (5) days after the date cf such rehirinc that . the worker's eligibility for vacation benefits will be calculated from such rehirinc date. In the event that either cf the foregoing conditions shall net be complied with, the length cf the worker's employment shall be measured from the date he was first hired by the Employer.
(ii)	In determining length cf employment, no deduction shall be made for absence due .to. -illness, layoff.cr any other justifiable cause.
(iii)	However, an employee laid.off for a ■period of twelve (12) months shall no longer be considered a member of the shop's work force.
(d)	For 'the purposes cf this paragraph, the vacation benefits provided for hereunder shall he calculated as follows:
24
(j) In the case of week workers, a week’s vacation pay shalJ be deemed tc be an amount equivalent tc two and one-half (2-1/2%) percent of the respective worker's cross earnings during the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the vacation is ■ tc be given, but not mere than a week's pay at the. respective worker's regular rate.
(ii)	In the case cf piece workers, a week's vacation pay shall be deemed tc be an amount-equivalent tc 1/5Oth cf the respective worker's cross earnings during the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which the vacation is tc be given.
(e)	, Employers- shall whenever possible request vacation', time in writing giving thirty (30) days notice. Permission tc go on-vacation shall not be unreasonably withheld by the Employer but the Employer's production needs may be taken into, consideration to avoid major disruptions.
'	.	I
BEREAVEMENT FAY
(E) All werkers shell be entitled tc three (3) days' bereavement pay f.cr werk lest cue to the death cf a ccverec worker's parent, spouse, chile cr sibling. ATI werkers shell be entitled tc cne (1) cay bereavement pay for work lost cue tc the death of a ccverec worker's mether-in-law,•father*in-law cr craneparent . To be el i ci hie for the bereavement pay,, the worker must have been with the Employer for cne (1) year anc must produce proof cf. death tc his Employer.
El gCHARGE
3 0.	(a) No worker shall be discharged without cooc anc
sufficient cause. In case, cf any dispute regarding a discharge, the matter shall be disposed of in the same manner as hereinafter provided for the adjustment cf disputes. If the. di scharce is., found tc be justified, the worker shall he compensated for the loss cf his earnings curine'the period cf such discharce,.1 ess any unemployment insurance he may have received cr wages he may have earned during such period.
2 6
TRIAL PERIOD
(b) During the first sixty (€0) cays cf their employment, workers'shal1 be deemed tc be cr & trial period, curing which period they may be dischargee.
DISTRIBUTION OF WORK
II.	(a,' At ail times, work shall be distributed among the workers as equally as may be practicable. ’If there is not sufficient work fcr all, whatever werk there is shall be distributed among all the workers in each branch cf ‘work in 'the shop- as equally as may be practicable.
(b)	If any Employer suspends work at any time during the.period cf this Agreement, the shop Chairperson shall be the last employee laid off and shall .be the first employee in his or her craft tc be callee back tc work.
(c)	The prevision cf subdivision (a) tc the contrary notwithstanding, any member cf the Association presently operating under a seniority system in regard tc layoff and recall, may continue tc sc operate. Both the Union and such member cf the Association shall at any time have the right to ■ request modification of such seniority systems. •
(c)	In the case cf & member cf the Association who is presently operating pursuant tc the previsions cf sub-division (a)t both such member cf the Association anc the Union shall at any time "have the right to request, an int-rccuct i on ■ cf a seniority system cf layoff anc recall/
PAY DAY
12.	(a) Wages shall be paid weekly fcr all work performed
curing the preceding week. .Such weekly wages shall be paid on 'the customary pay day heretofore observed by the respective-members cf the Association, but not later than Wednesday fcr all work performed curing the preceding week.
Wages shall be' paid in cash. However, should a member of the Association desire to pay wages by check, it may do- sc ■ provided that it shall:
"(i)' Comply with .all requirements cf law. concerning payment cf wages by check; and (di) Obtain prior consent cf the Union tc payment of wages by check; and
(iii-i Comply with such safeguards as the Union may prescribe in connection with the payment cf. wages-by check.
REPORTING FOR WORK
(b) Workers shell not be required unreasonably tc
remain in the shop curing the cay when there is no work for them. All workers who are requested tc.report fcr work shall be supplied with at least one-half (1/2) cay’s work or be paid therefor. However, should an act -cf Gcc prevent an Employer from supplying work, the Employer will only be required tc pay the affected workers fcr two (2) hours, rather, than one-half cay's P&y-
DUAL .SYSTEM OF WORK
11. There shall be no dual system of. work (i . e. , both week arid piece work) in the same branch cf work in the shop of any member of the Association.-	•
WORK BY- EMPLOYER PROHIBITED
•14. No officer, director or stcckhclcer.cf a corporate member*of the Association, no partner cf a partnership member, -no individual member cf the Association, and no foreman shall perform, any work in any of the operations covered by this Agreement.
HOMEWORK PROHIBITED*
jS. He homework' in connection with the manufacture cf the ■products cf the uiemtere cf the Association, or any parte therec anc nc work in tenement houses, basements cr any unsanitary cr unsafe building shall be permitted.
MINORS
16.	Nc minor, below sixteen (16) years cf ace shall be employee in the manufacture of any cf the products, .or any part thereof, cf any member cf the Association. .’
TOOLS’
17.	. (a) The respective members of the Association shall, furnish' all. necessary' tools to the werkers without., charge.
DAMAGE TO MATERIAL
•(b) The -members cf the Association shall not charge werkers for camage tc‘material unless caused wilfully or by gre neglect.	.
1-0
.INSIDE CONTRACTING PROHIBITED .
IE. There shall be nc contracting cr. subcontractinc inside, the shop cf any member cf the Association.
I NTT VIDUAL CONTRACT!NG FRGEIE 1 TED.
19.	(a) Nc member cf the Association shall enter into any
individual contracts with any cf. its workers; ncr shall it accept security from any cf its workers.
WAIVER OF AGREEMENT PR OH!EI TED'
(b) No workers cr group'd workers shall have the right tc-modify cr waive any prevision cf'this Agreement.
MOVING OF EHOF
2 0Nc member of the Association shall meve its shop tc a place more than fifty (EG) miles from Times Ecuare, New York City. After a move, should travel costs to the firm exceed the regular single fare established by the MTA, employees who followed with the firm shall be reimbursed the travel costs in excess cf the single MTA. fare, but net mere than One Dell ar and fifty-cents ($1.EO) per day.
31’	•
Notwithstanding the moving cf the shop in accordance with the foregoing, this 'Agreement shall remain applicable tc and. binding thereon.
■SHC* CHAIRPERSON -
21.	(a) • There shall be at all times in the shops cf each
member of the Association a Shop Chairperson chosen by the workers or designated by the'Union.' All complaints anc grievances arising in the shops shall be taken up in the first instance fcr settlement anc adjustment between the Shop Chairperson anc the Employer. It is understood‘and agreed that the Shop Chairperson is the representat'ive cf the workers (not cf the Union) only fcr the purpose cf making an attempt tc adjust such complaints or grievances. Any adjustment. made by the Chairperson ’shall 'be subject tc. the approval or disapproval cf' the Union. In the event that the matter shall not be adjusted, as hereinabove provided, ■ it shall be settled in the manner hereinafter provided for the settlement of disputes.
(b)	Employers shall pay each Chop Chairperson eight (8) hours-pay per year fcr attendance at Uni on-sponsored meetings or seminars.
UNI ON COMMUNI CAT J ON - KI TH SHOP .CHAI RFERSON
(c)	Each member.cf the Association shall be responsible fcr delivery tc the Shop Chairperson cf all mail addressed tc him/her at the shop by the Union/ and shall, call the Shep Chairperson tc the telephone tc answer all telephone calls tc him/her at the shop by the Union.
PRICE COMMITTEE
22.	' There shall be at all times in the shop of each member cf the Association a Price Committee chosen by the workers cr designated by the Union. All piece prices shall in the first . instance-be settled by the Price Committee and the respective-member cf the Association. . If they fail i‘n such settlement/ the matter shall be disposed cf in the manner-hereinafter provided fcr the- settlement cf.disputes.
AUTHORITY LIMITED (WORKERS,)
23.	Neither the Shop- Chairperson,,Price Committee nor any croup cf workers is authorized tc cause cr encage in any unauthorized strike or stoppage, cr tc order the discharge of any worker, nor shall they, for any purpose whatsoever, be deemed the agent cf or authorized tc act on behalf cf the Union.
EXAMINATION OF EPOKS AND RECORDS
24.	The respective members cf the Association shall, upon request by the Union, submit arl bocks and recorcs showing payroll, labor costs and product ion, for examination by the Union for the purpose cf ascertaining whether the terms cf this Agreement are being complied with. The failure of a member cf the Association tc submit such bocks anc records shall be presumptive evidence of any violation complained of anc shall justify the sustaining of the-Union's complaint.
VISITATION OF SHOPE
25.	Representatives cf the Union shall have free access tc the shops of • the. respective members of. the Asscci at ion during-business hours fcr the purpose cf taking up complaints and for the purpose-ci ascertaining whether the terms.of this Agreement are being complied, with. A represent ative of the Association, if available, shall accompany the Union represent ative on such vi si t s .
34
OUTSIDE WORK
■26. Nc member of the Association shall permit’any work to be performed for it, directly or indirectlyoutside of its own shop by any other concern, and nc member cf the-Association shall purchase any cf its products from'any other concern, unless the workers cf the inside shop cf the member -of the Associat ion ere fully supplied with work.
CONSOLIDATION AND MERGERS-
27. Nc member cf the Association shall- enter ante a partnership with any other person, firm or corporation, alter its enterprises from a personal to a corporate form, or consolidate or merge its enterprise with that cf any other person,-partnership or■corporation unless this new partnership er the new corporation or the consolidated or merged enterprise assumes all accrued obligations tc- the workers cf such member cf the Association, and.in addition assumes all the obligations cf this Agreement fcr the balance cf the term thereof. Upon the formation cf such a partnership or upon such a ecnsej i cat i on-or merger taking place, such new partnership or the consolidated cr merged enterprise shall give preference in employment tc the
workers of the absorbed enterprise over all other workers except those then employed by 'the concern which continues in business.
STRIKES, STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
2£.	(a) There shall be no strike, stop-pace cr lockout
curine the term cf this Agreement, but work shall proceed in operation pending the determination cf any complaint, dispute, or grievance as hereinafter provided. This provision, however; shall net apply when a member cf the Association fails tc submit to Arbitration cr when a member of the Association fails to comply with a joint deci si on.reached by the representatives of the Union anc the Association, cr with an Award cf the Impartial -Chairman within twenty-four. (24) hours after rendition, cr where any Employer is deemed tc be in non-compliance under the express terms of any other provision cf this Agreement -
WRITTEN NOTICE OF STRIKE
(b)	Should the workers cf any shop cr factory cause a stoppage of work.or shop strike, for reasons ether than those aforementioned, written notice shall be given by the Association to.the Union.
3 6
The'sole obligation cf the Union shall be, within forty-eight (46) hours after receipt of’said notice, tc pest on the Employer’s front door, or on another place designated by the. Employer, a deciaration'that such action is unauthorized and that its striding members are tc terminate such'action and return tc work immediately, notwithstanding the existence cf any picket line.
Upon wr i 11en not i f i c at i on by t he Empl oyer t c the Un ion that the action referred tc in the preceding paragraph has not brought about a termination cf the strike cr steppage, the Union shall send, by first class mail., to each of-its members reported by. the Employer tc the Union tc be engaged cr particfparing in such strike cr work stoppage, addressed tc him cr her at his cr'her last known address (which address shall be furnished by -the Employer), the following notice signed by Local 132-EE-102,. which -may also be posted by the Employer within'the shop or factory, affected thereby:
’’Date
Tc all members cf Local 132-EE-102, UNITE:
You are advised that a work stoppage is in progress at .__________________. . This action is.
- unauthorised by Local 132-EE-I02.
You are directed tc immediately return to your respective jobs and tc cease any action which may affect production. The matter in dispute will be processed as provided in your Union Contract,"
Good faith comp-1i ance by the Union with the fcxecc-ing. provision shall be deemed-full compliance with its obligation, hereunder and the Union shall have nc further obligation tc the Employer under this Agreement.
No employee shall be-deemed tc have abandonee his cr her
employment until after the expiration.of the forty-eight (4E) hour period following written notification by the Association to ■the Union of said strike cr stoppage. Upon failure cf any employees tc return tc work within twenty-four (24) hours 'after the expiration of the forty-eight <4€) hour period, the Employer may, at his option, consider that such employees have abandoned their employment; but should the Employer re-employ such employees, it shall treat, all such employees alike and shall not', ciscriminate against or among them.
NON-PAYMENT. OF WAGES '
(c)	Anything herein contained to'the contrary notwithstanding, steppage from work fcr non-payment cf wages within.twenty-four (24) hours from the due date thereof shall be deemed justified -under this Agreement. ’
36
LOCKOUT
(6) There ehald be nc lockout by any member cf the Association curing the term cf this'Agreement, nor shall any member of the Association withhold 'any work from; the workers because cf any dispute in the shop. Should a member of- the Association cause a lockout in its shops, the Association shall, within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice thereof from the Union, direct said' member cf. the Association to. terminate the lockout, and tc-re* employ the workers involved. Should such member of. the Association fail, within twenty-four ’(24) hours thereafter, tc abide by the direction cf the. Association, it should be diable-to the workers for the full amount cf the w-ages lost by them subsequent tc the. expiration cf the twenty*four (24) hour period last mentioned,- in addition to any damages sustained by the Union.
CHECK-OFF
2S, Subject to the existing requirements cf law for written authorisation from the 'individual, workers, each member of the Association shall deduct monthly from the earnings cf the workers the Union dues, initiation fees and assessments cf such workers, and forthwith remit same to the. Union. Monies sc deducted shall, be deemed trust funds in.the’hands cf the Employers.
DISCONTINUANCE OF EUSJNESS
•3G■	(a) Should a member of the Association (in the. event
that'the firm is individually owned) discontinue the business now being conducted by him, he shall continue tc be bound by this Agreement, and should he continue or resume business in a line of work intended tc be covered by this'Agreement, he shall be bound by all cf the terms and provisions cf this Agreement during the entire balance'cf the term hereof.	■	.
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSEIF
. <b) In the event of the dissolution cf a partnership member cf the •Association, each partner shall continue tc be bound by this Agreement, and should a partner continue or resume business in a line cf work intended tc be reverse by this ■ Agreement', he. shall be bound by all cf the. terms and. provisions of this Agreement for the full term thereof.with the same force and effect as if he had individually entered into this Agreement.
40
INDIVIDUAL L1AE1LIT1EE OF PRINCIPALS'
33. No principal cf a member .cf the Association shell, during the term provided for in this Agreement, become engaged ,or interested, either directly or indirectly, in any ether firm or corporation (either individually,' cr as a partner, or as an officer, director cr stockholder) encaged in a line cf work intended to be covered by this’ Agreement, unless said other firm cr corporation shall be cr immediately enter into contractual .relations with the Union, for the term of this Agreement, pursuant tc an agreement in all respects' similar hereto.
It is agreed that should any principal cf a member cf the Association violate the foregoing provisions cf this paragraph,• such violation will have an adverse effect upon the Union's interest in the establishment anc maintenance cf labor standards under Union's interest in the'.establishment arid maintenance cf labor standards under'Union agreements.
Should any principal of a member cf the Association become engaged cr.interested in any other firm or corporation in violation of the foregoing provisions cf this paragraph, and should such ether firm or corporation operate contrary tc any cf the provisions cf this Agreement, then such principal shall be liable fcr damages and the Union be entitled to such other relief
41
(including injunctive relief) as the Impartial Chairman may aware, in the same manner as if such principal, as the owner of such other firm or corporation, had individually entered into a contract with the Union covering such other firm or corporation upon terms identical tc those herein contained and such contract were being violated by it. Any claim for damages and other relief hereunder by the Union against such principal shall'be finally determined by Arbitration in the same manner as proviced herein for the adjustment - of disputes;
As used in this paragraph, the term "principal of a member 'of the Association" shall be understood to mean any officer, director or stockholder of a corporate member of the Association, any partner.of a partnership member cf the Association, and the owner of any individually owned member of the Association.
The officers, directors and-stockholders cf each corporate member cf the Association-and the partners of each partnership member of the Association shall- execute a cert i'ficate . in. which they will individually acknowledge and assume the obligations and ‘liabilities on their part to be observed under the provisions .of this Agreement,
42
LIABILITY OF MEMBERS. OF ASSOCIATION
32.	(a) All persons, firms ano corporations who are
s members of the Association at the time cf the execution of this Agreement; and all persons, firms "anc corporations becoming members thereof subsequent to the--execution of this Agreement,' shall be and continue to remain individually liable under this Agreement during the entire term thereof, irrespective of whether or not said members shall cease to be members of the Association prior to the date set for expiration of this Agreement, and their individual liability hereunder shall be deemed to have survived the termination cf such membership. Should a member cf the Association cease to'be a member thereof prior'to the expiration of this Agreement, the term ■ "member of- the Association" used in this Agreement shall nevertheless be understood tc.. continue tc refer to such former member of the Association during the balance of the term of this Agreement.
LIABILITY OF FORMER ASSOCIATION MEMBERS
(b) However, should a member of the Association resign, be suspended or expelled from the Association, or its • membership be terminated for any reason whatsoever, then and in such event:
43
(i)	Any and all disputes, complaints, controversies, claims and grievances between such former Association member and the Union or any of the workers arising under, out cf or in connection with or in any manner' related to this•Agreement, shall be taken up for settlement and adjustment directly between representatives of the Union anc such former Association member; and, such former Association member shall have no right to representation by the Association in the adjustment thereof. Should'such former Association member and the Union fail' tc adjust any such matter, same 'shall be submitted to Arbitration for final determination before the person designated as Impartial Chairman pursuant tc the provisions of
■ paragraph ”36" hereof. Such Arbitration shall be governed by the provisions of paragraph "3£” except that the fees and expenses
■of the Impartial Chairman shall be paid by 'such member.
The provisions of subdivision ”(d)" cf paragraph "38” shall apply as well, with respect to all complaints, disputes, controversies, claims and grievances between the Union cr any of the workers and such former Association member.
(ii)	In cases of disputes, the decision of the'Union representative shall be deemed binding and shall be complied with by such former Association member unless and until the same is reversed by the Impartial Chairman. Should the former Association member fail to comply with such decision of the Union
44
representative as aforesaid, the workers shall not be obligated to continue with their work, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding.
NEV? MEMBERS OF ASSOCIATION
33.	Before admitting a new member, the Association shall inform the Union, in writing, of the application for membership. If a strike or dispute shall be*pending between the applicant and the Union, at the time, the Union shall sc inform the Association and the applicant shall not be admitted as a member until all disputes have been adjusted.
■ CERTIFICATES OF RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT/ CERTIFICATION OF ASSOCIATION AUTHORITY
34.	The Association agrees to furnish to the Union, at its request, a certification in writing'that it has been authorised by its members to enter into this Agreement. Each member of the Association shall certify in writing that it has authorized the Association to enter into this Agreement, and that it will be bound thereby with the same force and effect as if such member had individually entered into this Agreement.
45
SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES
35.	(a) Subsidiaries and affiliated firms or corporations
cf members of the Association, and/or firms or corporations owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the members of the Association or by any "principal of a member of the .Association1' '(as. said term is defined in paragraph "31" hereof) shall be deemed bound by all of the terms of this Agreement in the same manner as if, as members of the Association, they had authorized the Association to enter into this’ Agreement on their behalf.
(b)	In the event that a subsidiary' or affiliated.firm or corporation of a'member of the Association, or' a firm”dr corporation directly or indirectly owned cr controlled by a member of the Association or by a principal of a member..of the Association, shall fail to. comply with the terms of this Agreement, then such member of the Association shall be liable to the Union and.the workers for all damages sustained thereby as if such member of the Association itself had violated this Agreement.
46
COLLECTIONS OF WAGES/REMEDIES OF UNION
36	.' It is hereby agreed that the. Union shall be entitled as a matter of right to relief restraining the-respective members of the Association from any breach or threatened breach cf this Agreement. In addition thereto, the Union shall 'be entitled to any monies due to the werkers for wages 'and to any damages sustained by the workers or the Union as a result of a breech of contract by any member of the Association. Any payments made to the Union for monies due to employees for wages shall be deemed payment of wages for the account of such employees.
ARBITRATION/ADJUSTMENT’ OF
DISPUTES AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
37	.	(a) ■ "Any and all disputes, complaints, controversies,
claims and grievances whatsoever•between the Association or any of' its members and the Union, or any of the workers 'covered' by this Agreement, arising under, out of or in connection with, or in any manner related to this Agreement, including, but without limitation, any claim arising out cf any alleged dissolution or termination cf the business.of any member of the.Association prior to the expiration cf the term of this Agreement, shall be taken up for settlement and adjustment by representatives of Union.and the Association. Should any such matter not be fully
47
adjusted as.aforesaid, it shall be submitted to Arbitration before the Impartial Chairman' hereinafter named, or designated as hereinafter provided, as Arbitrator, whose award shall be final and binding in addition to granting such other relief as. he may ■deem proper, the Award of the Impartial Chairman may contain provisions directing or restraining acts and conduct of the parties. Any such award may be enforced by appropriate proceedings in law or in equity.
The taking of the oath of the Arbitrator is'hereby expressly waived.
The fee of the Impartial Chairman shall be borne equally by the Union and the member of the Association involved in the Arbitration.
IMPARTIAL CHAIRMAN .
■(b) The parties, hereby designate Marshall. L. Rosenberg, Esquire, of 225 West -24th Street, New York, New York, as Impartial Chairman under this. Agreement. Should the Impartial Chairman herein named resign, refuse tc act or be incapable of acting, or should the office .become vacant for any reason, then the parties shall designate'another Impartial Chairman in his place within five (5) days after written demand:upon either party by the other for such designation. In the event that the office
48
cf the Impartial Chairman shall be vacant, the New York State Board cf Mediation shall designate such substitute shall have the same powers as the Impartial Chairman designated above.
WRITTEN NOTICE OF HEARING
(c)	Written notice of hearing before the Impartial Chairman may be served personally or by ordinary mail. Personal ^service of such notice forty-eight (4£) hours prior to the hearing shall be deemed sufficient. If notice is served by mail, deposit of same in the mails at -least seventy-two ' (72) hours (exclusive of Saturday and Sunday) prior tc the hearing, addressed to the last known address of the parties, shall he deemed sufficient.
In the. event that a party to. an Arbitration proceeding hereunder shall wilfully default in appearing before the Impartial Chairman at the time and place designated.by the latter for hearing pursuant to written notice served as hereinabove provided, the Impartial Chairman is hereby empowered to take testimony and evidence of the party appearing and to render his Award thereon. Such Award shall, be final and binding with the same force and effect as if both parties had appeared.
4£
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
(d)	It is agreed that the machinery provided herein for the settlement of ad 1 cisputest claims, controversies, complaints, and grievances arising under, out of or in connection with, cr in any manner related to this Agreement, shall be the exclusive means for the determination thereof/ and that neither the Association or any of its members, nor the Union or any of. the workers covered by this Agreement, shall institute any action or proceeding against the other in any Court of law or equity, state or federal, other than respecting enforcement of an Arbitrator's Award■rendered hereunder. This provision shall be a ■ bona fide defense in any action cr proceeding instituted contrary' to this Agreement. If any issue should arise as to.the validity of any Article of this Agreement, or the arbitrability, substantive or procedural, cf any written complaint, the Impartial Chairman shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to determine, such issue.	-
COPIES OF ARBITRATION AWARDS
(e)	Copies of Arbitration Awards made by the Impartial. Chairman may be served upon all parties in the Arbitration proceeding by regular mail. Any papers, notices or process
so
■ i necessary-or proper fcr the confirmation cf an Arbitration Award rendered by the Impartial Chairman hereunder in any Court cr-fcr the entry of judgment on any such Award, may be served upon all parties by mail, ’addressee tc the last known address of such party or to its attorney. The parties hereby expressly waive the requirements for personal service set forth in CPLR Section 403(c) regarding application to the Courts made in conformity with this Article.
COMPLIANCE/REMEDJES OF UNION
36.	In the event.that an Employer shall fail tc comply within twenty-four (24) hours with a joint decision cf the representatives cf the parties hereto, cr with a decision of the Labor Board, or with an'Award cf ’the Impartial Chairman, its shop may be treated, at the option cf the Union, as non-union; and the workers shall not be required to work for such Employer until said decision or Award has been fully complied with, and such Employer shall, be liable for all losses sustained by the workers and the Union as a result thereof. Such Employer’s obligations under the provisions of■this Agreement shall, nevertheless,-continue during the balance of the term thereof.
AUTHORIZED UNION AGENT
35.	It is hereby agreed that WILLIAM LEE shall be deemed the sole scent authorized by the Union to deal .with .the Association and the members thereof concerning matters affecting the. . Association, but no one shall be deemed an agent unless he is designated by the Union in writing.
COST OF LIVING INCREASE/ESCALATION CLAUSE
40.	(a) In the event that the cost of living for
October, 2002 shall be more than five (5%) percent higher than its level as of October, 2001, as shown by the Consumer Price-Index of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics for-those months, then in su’ch event, the Union shall have a right to request an increase in the wages and-scales for the workers covered by this Agreement,' giving credit for a five (5%) percent deductible; provided, ■ however,- such'increase shall be limited to two (2%) percent, and become effective as of December 16, 2002.
In the event that the cost cf .living for October, 2003 shall be more than‘five (5%) percent higher than its level as of October, 2002, as shown by'the Consumer Price' Index of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics fcr those months, then in such event, the .Union shall have the right to request an increase in wages
52
and scales for the workers covered by this Agreement, giving credit for a five (5%) percent deductible; provided, however, -such increase shall be limited to two (2%) percent, and become ■effective as of December 15, 2003.
It is further understood that the granting of any increase pursuant to this paragraph "40(a)" shall' not affect the rights of the employees to receive the increases provided in paragraphs "4” and "5” of this Agreement; and, conversely, the increases provided in paragraphs "4" and "S" shall not affect the employee's. rights, to receive increases pursuant to this paragraph "40(a)".
(b) If the wages are increased under the previsions of subdivision- " (a)" of this paragraph and subsequently thereafter there occurs a decrease in the cost of living as shown by said Consumers Price Index, then the Association may request a conference for the purpose of revising the amount of the aforesaid increase. In the event the parties fail to agree, then the matter shall be deemed a dispute and shall be submitted to the Impartial Chairman, whose decision shall be final and binding upon the parties. It is specifically understood and agreed that if a decrease is granted hereunder, such decrease shall be in a percentage not in excess of the percentage decrease in the cost of living upon which.if is based; provided, however, that such
S3
decreese shall in no event exceed the amount cf the increase previously granted under the previsions of subdivision ” (a) " of this paragraph. .
If is further agreed that a decrease may not be. granted hereunder less than twelve (12) months subsequent to the granting of‘a wage increase under the provisions of subdivision Ma)” of this paragraph.
Should the Association and the Union fail tc agree upon an increase requested by the Union pursuant to the foregoing . provisions of this paragraph, the matter shall be deemed a dispute under-this Agreement and shall be submitted, to the Impartial Chairman for final and-binding arbitration.
DISABILITY INSURANCE ’ '
41.	Each member cf the Association shall provide disability ; insurance coverage for all covered employees,, as required by the . New York or New Jersey Disability Benefits Law.
HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS
42.	(a) Employers shall comply with all standards of
health, sanitation and safety including all regulations, of the local fire department, as may be required by law.
54
(b) Employers retain exclusive responsibility to provide a safe and healthful work place and working conditions. 'The intent of this paragraph is not to diminish the Employer's exclusive responsibility or make the Union, its agents or representatives, liable for any worker's job related injury, illness or death.
■PERFORMANCE OF ANY PROVISION
43.	The failure of either party of this Agreement tc require strict performance cf any provision of the Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver or abandonment of any of the rights or remedies' provided herein for a violation cf the' Agreement, or any provisions thereof; nor shall*'it constitute a waiver or abandonment of'any right-cr remedy Herein-provided for a subsequent violation cf any prevision of the Agreement.
NO DISCRIMINATION
44.	An Employer shall not discriminate against any worker or applicant for employment- because of - race, creed, color, national origin or ethnic origin, immigration status, sex, age or physical handicap, except as required by law.
REORGANI ZATION
45-	. With the consent of the Union,, or in case of disagreement-, upon Award' of the Impartial Chairmen, an Employer shall have the right in good faith to reorganize its factory on such terms and with such provisions as the Union or the Impartial. Chairman may designate.
A reorganization in good faith shall mean a bona fide reduction of the number of employees.necessitated by a permanent . curtailment cf its business or a fundamental change in the character of its business. Should employees be displaced, they shall be laic off in order of their seniority by the department or operation with the Employer, the. junior employees being laid . off first., .If more work becomes available, laic off employees shall be recalled first tc work on inverse order of their layoff, before any new employees are hired.
WARNINGS
46.	A.l 1 ■ warnings shall be deleted from a worker’s file one (1)’ year, from the date of■the warning.
JURY DUTY
47.	Workers shall be entitled'to the difference between a regular week's earnings'anc pay received for Jury Duty service. Workers shall be entitled tc a maximum of two (2) weeks’ Jury Duty pay. In order to be eligible for this pay, workers must be employed for one (1) year or more 'and must give the 'Employer seven (7) days notice prior to serving on Jury Duty.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE '
48.	In addition to any other leave of absence, members of-the Association shall'grant, upon .request cf the Union, up to sax (6) months leave of absence without pay to male and female workers for .the birth or adoption of a child (hereinafter ‘'Parenting Leave11) . Proof cf such birth or adoption must be ■ furnished upon request. \
The member of the Association may hire a provisional worker for a period not to exceed six (6) months to take the place cf any employee who is on Parenting Leave Upon date of hire, the member cf the Association shall give the-Union and-the provisional worker notice of the worker's provisional status.
57
During such period, provisional workers shall be .entitled to all the rights of ‘regular workers under this Agreement.
Any employee granted a Parenting Leave of Absence shall not lose any rights and shall be'entitled tc his or her regular job prior to such absence upon return to work.
AUTHORITY LIMITED (UNION)
4°.	It is agreed that the Union, party to this Agreement, acts on its own behalf, and is not acting or authorized to act as agent of or for the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. .
CONFLI CT WI TH LAW
50.	If- any provision of this Agreement shall,-at any time during the term thereof, conflict with the .Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, as amended, then such provision shall be deemed modified to continue in effect tc the extent (most .favorable to the Union) permitted by the applicable law. However, -if at any time thereafter such provision shall no longer conflict with the law, then it shall be deemed restored to the Agreement .with the-same force and effect as if it had never been in conflict with the law.
58
SAVING CLAUSE
51,	It -is agreed that if any provision of this Agreement, er the application thereof, shali.be held invalid, the remainder cf this Agreement, cr the application thereof, shall not be affected thereby.
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
.	52. . This Agreement shall be binding upon the respective, parties hereto, their successors 'in interest and assigns.
ASSOCIATION AUTHORITY
53.	The Association represents that this Agreement was authorized by its members and that- its officers were authorized to sign it' on behalf' of the Association, and its' respective members .■
TERM OF AGREEMENT
54.	This Agreement shall go into effect as of the ITth day of December, 2001, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 16th day of December, 2004.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set
their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY REGIONAL JOINT EOARD, LOCAL 132-98*102, UNITE
Ey:
William Lee, Manager Secretary
PLASTIC SOFT MATERIALS
MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION; ■ INC.
C:\PSOFTHM.fcGK 3/:-/0i EtC
60