ll)f
41
LABOUR AGREEMENT
SOURCE,			^3/
TERM.	vtp\u mi		
No. Of EMPLOYEES		&	So
MOMSRE D'f.MPLOYES		J	
between
Corner Brook Pulp and Paper Limited
and
The Canadian Paperworkers’ Union Forestry Workers Local 60
January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1992

OOOO/C.teZ,
AGREEMENT
Between
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED
And
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 60
EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1989 to
DECEMBER 31, 1992
U^toi—‘O^co-^ocrjui^cotOMO'^co^o^inJ^Loioi—*
CONTENTS
Article
Page
Purpose .......	  2
Term of Agreement .	............... (j)
Recognition and Jurisdiction .	,	,	3
Rates and Classifications............ 5
Union Membership .................... 5
Annual Vacation ..................... 8
Holidays With Pay..................  11
Adjustment of Grievances ........... 13
No Strike - No Lockout.............. 18
Working and Living Conditions ...	18
Hours of Work .......................31
Seniority .........................3 9
Semi-Incapacitated Employees ...	45
Safety...............................46
Discipline...........................47
Commuting ..... .................... 48
Walking and Riding Time ......	49
Cookhouse and Bunkhouse Staff ...	50
Bereavement Leave .................. 51
Training.............................52
Fringe Benefits ..... .............. 52
Jury Duty..........................5 3
Leave of Absence ..................  53
Other Provisions...................  54
Special Provisions ........	55
Scaling .............................56
Retroactivity .......................57
Schedule A.........................  59
Schedule B...........................67
Schedule C...........................68
Schedule D...........................71
Letters of Understanding .... 78-90 Detailed Alphabetical Index............................91-103
THIS AGREEMENT made at Corner Brook in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador this 25th Day of July, Anno Domini One Thousand Nine Hundred and Ninety.
BETWEEN
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED of Corner Brook, Newfoundland (hereinafter called the "Employer") of the one part
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY LOCAL 60, (hereinafter called the "Union") of the other part
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1
ARTICLE I - Purpose
1:01 - It is the general purpose of this Agreement to set forth the working conditions, living conditions within the power and/or ability of the Employers to control the hours of work, the rates of pay and all other items that both parties have agreed to through the process of collective bargaining. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property, and also seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of ail employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1:02 -
(a)	In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the words "Employer"or "Employers"shall mean the Company and any non-working Contractor, i.e, a Contractor who is not an employee under the Agreement, bound by the Agreement, and of whom the Union has received written notice by the Company to the effect that he is to be treated as an Employer for the purpose of this Agreement.
(b)	For the purpose of Article VIII, the term
"Contractor"shall mean a non-working Contractor who is an Employer as per Clause 1:02	(a).
ARTICLE 2 - Term of Agreement
2:01 - This Agreement shall come into force on the date of its signature by the parties and shall' remain in full force and effect to and including the 31st of December 1992 and from year to year thereafter, unless either party
£
desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of December of the particular year that such is its desire.
ARTICLE 3 - Recognition and Jurisdiction
3:01 - All employees of Corner Brook Pulp and Paper Limited, including all employees on the seniority list of Corner Brook Pulp and Paper Limited, engaged in woods operations in the province of Newfoundland, save and except Woods Manager, Assistant Woods Manager, Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents, General Foremen, Foremen, Assistant Foremen, Scalers, Assistant Scalers, Technical, Clerical and Office Staff, Guards, 'TowerMen, Gatekeepers, persons employed in silviculture operations, non-working Contractors, non-working Sub-Contractors, persons employed in supervisory, advisory or confidential capacities and those above the rank of Assistant Foremen.
3:02 -
(a) The Employer agrees that if contracts are made, such Contractors shall be required to apply all the terms of this Agreement including the wage rates, i,e, it is understood and agreed between the parties hereto that any person who works on the , woods operations of the Company in any capacity referred to in the Wage Schedules attached hereto or any new classification to be added thereto under Article 4 shall be considered to be an employee of an Employer for purposes of this Agreement.
(b) It is further agreed that Contractors
and/or Sub-Contractors who themselves work and any employees whom they hire shall be considered employees of the Employer who awards such contracts, and the Agreement
3
applies in the same manner as it does to other employees except as provided in Article 8, Clause 8,05 (b),
(c)	Employees of Contractors engaged for the purpose of erecting structures outside the limits of the Company are not covered by this Agreement when such employees and the Contractor are bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with the Canadian Labour Congress.
3:03 - Anyone performing work, except for the purpose of instruction, in case of emergency or casual assistance, as listed in the job classification set out in the Wage Schedules, attached to and forming part of this Agreement including new job classifications under Article 4, shall be considered employees of the Employer within the terms of this Agreement.
3:04 - Supervisory personnel shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee listed in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, including new job classifications under Article 4, except for the purpose of instruction, in case of emergency or casual assistance.
3:05 - The Employer has the exclusive right to select members of the Bargaining Unit t o act as sub-foreman on any operation. Employees who act in this classification shall receive all terms and conditions of the Labour Agreement.
3:06 - The jurisdiction area of Application under this Agreement shall be the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador and shall cover those job classifications listed in the Wage Schedules which are part of this Agreement including job classifications under Article 4,
3:07 - The Employer shall not be asked to act upon and shall not be responsible for questions of jurisdiction which may arise between the Union and any other Union or Unions. It is also agreed that the Employer's operations
4
shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union or Unions.
ARTICLE 4 - Rates and Classifications
4:01 - The Wage Schedules are attached hereto, and form part of this Agreement.
4:02 - For job classifications, and experimental jobs used in the procurement of wood fiber used in the manufacture of newsprint or for fuel, not listed in the attached Wage Schedules, the Employer shall set estimated or temporary rates of which the Union will be notified in writing within thirty (30) days from the date the new job commences. Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedules. After a trial period of sixty (60) days, any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedules and attached hereto. Upon failure to reach agreement on the rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance procedure. It is understood that the sixty (60) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties of this Agreement. The employees concerned shall be entitled to all the benefits of the Agreement from the date the new job commences.
4:03 - All rates under this Article may be made retroactive to the end of the trial period by an Arbitration Board.
ARTICLE 5 - Union Membership
5:01 - The Employer agrees that it is in favour of its employees, covered by this Agreement, becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5
5i02 - All employees shall become members of the Union within seven (7) days from the date they begin work covered by this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment. All members shall maintain their membership in good standing as a condition of continued employment through the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union having to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union, in writing, at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5:03 - It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Employer, in writing, of any employee who has refused to join the Union or any member who refuses to maintain his membership in good standing, and an Employer shall not be required to release an employee until notice in writing has been received. In the event of such release, the Company will not be required to issue the notice of lay-off as contained in Clause 12:13.
5:04 - The Employer shall deduct each month,
Y from the wages of each employee within the yj Union's jurisdiction, the regular monthly I working membership dues of the Local Union and, V on his behalf, remit the same to the Local Union.
5:05 - If an individual employee, who is a member of the Union or wishes to become a member, so desires, the employer agrees that it will, on his behalf, and upon his written request, deduct Union Initiation Fees and/orback dues from monies due him.
5:06 - Remittance of all deductions accompanied by an itemized list, in duplicate, showing the payroll number, name, S.I.N., address, date of birth, and amounts by individual and totals by camps or work areas, shall be sent to the Local Union as soon as possible, but, in any event, not later than two (2) weeks from the end of the calendar month in which it is deducted.
5:07 - The Employer shall advise the Union from time to time of the Employer's labour
6
requirements. When hiring additional employees, the Employer will give preference to Union members who have applied in writing within the previous six (6) months, and who are capable of doing the work required of them.
M,B, This does not apply to employees with recall rights.
5:08 - The Union shall furnish the Employer with a list of Local Officers and a list of Representatives and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur.
5:09 - Union Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all Woods Operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Ernployer's operations on condition that said Representatives will abide by the regular rules and regulations of the Employer. Credentials carried by the Union Representatives shall consist of Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union. Accredited Union Representatives shall be provided with board and lodging, if available, on an Employer' s premises at $5.50 per meal. It is recognized that on commuter operations a special situation is created malting it necessary for the Union Representatives to sign up men during working hours. This shall be done after consultation with, and with the consent of, the Foreman or his representative. It is agreed that the Foreman will be instructed by the Employer to permit the Union Representative to sign up men during working hours when this is possible without undue interference with production. In so doing, the Union agrees that said Union representatives shall have due regard for production.
5:10 - Employment of any New Employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days. During the period of Probation, any New Employee who proves unsatisfactory in work performance may be disciplined up to release from employment without recourse to the Grievance Procedure.
7
Discharge for cause other than poor work performance may be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 6 - Annual Vacation
VACATION TIME
6:01 - The Employer shall grant vacation time off to employees covered by this Agreement in accordance with the following provisions:
An employee's vacation entitlement in any calendar year is based on his accumulated seniority as of the end of the previous computer payroll year.
A. Less than 150 days - One (l)day vacation for each 30 days of seniority.
U Bv
150
949 days - Two (2) weeks vacation.
r)	C.	950 - 1549 days - Three (3) weeks vacation.
1550 - 4400 days - Four (4) weeks vacation.
0 ^ E.
Iy
4401 days or more - Five (5) weeks ;atic
B.
el c.
than
for each 30 days of seniority.
150 - 900 days - Two (2) weeks vacation.
901 - 1500 days - Three (3) weeks vacation.
Cjfy 0 /
■"?/ ? "
D. 1501 - 4000 days - Four (4) weeks vacation. 4001 - 6500 days - Five (5) weeks vacation.
/jy-'O E'
F. 6501 days or more - Six (6) weeks vacation.
6:02 - Vacation pay shall be paid to employees on the following basis:
8
(a)	4% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees who qualify under 6 101 A and B above.
(b)	6% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees who qualify under 6:01 C above.
(c)	8% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees who qualify under 6:01 D above.
(d)	10% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees who qualify under 6:01 E above and 12% of gross earnings to employees qualifying under 6:01 F above.
6:03 - An employee who loses his seniority rights through voluntary separation shall have his vacation credits included with his pay, at time of separation.
6:04 - Employees wishing to take vacation time off during the prime vacation period (July 1 to October 1) must apply, in writing, for such .vacationtime off not later than May 15 of that calendar year. Employees wishing to take vacation time off during any other time must apply for such vacation at least six (6) weeks in advance of the date requested. All vacation time off must be approved by the Employer before being taken. If, for any reason, the employee cannot be granted his vacation on the date requested, the employee shall be so notified, in writing, at least three (3) weeks in advance of the date requested, at which time the employee shall also be notified of his/her approved vacation dates.
6:05 - The Employer shall provide vacation application forms in multiple copies so that an employee shall have for himself a copy of his request signed by the appropriate Company official.
6:06 - Subject to the foregoing an employee
9
shall be granted vacation time off on dates requested unless it causes acute manpower shortage in his classification at his job site, During the prime vacation period (July 1 to October 1) not more than two (2) consecutive weeks vacation will be granted. Extended vacation will be granted to employees travelling out of the Province. Vacation periods are not to be divided into shorter periods than one (1) week, seven (7) calendar days. Vacation pay will be paid in proportion to the time taken unless the employee makes a request in writing to be paid differently.
6:07 - Should two or more employees apply for the same vacation dates, the date of application shall determine. Should the date of application be the same, seniority shall determine.
6:08 - Vacation shall commence on the first day of an employee's normal work week, unless other arrangements can be made between the employee and his supervisor so that adjustments in the scheduling of crews can be kept to a minimum. Vacation pay in accordance with Clause 6:02 shall be on a separate cheque and paid not later than the Friday preceding the day that the vacations are due to commence.
6:09 - Employees who do not wish to take vacation time during the current year will, upon application on forms,provided, be paid all the earned percentage of accumulated gross earnings to the end of the previous computer payroll year. Such employees shall be paid not later than three (3) weeks after the date of application.
6:10 - If an employee has not collected his Vacation Pay as provided in this Article, the Company shall pay same at the end of the second payroll year, but only up to the end of the previous computer payroll year.
6:11 - If during the life of this Agreement any legislation is proclaimed which provides for more vacation pay than is provided for in this
10
Article the legislation shall have effect from the date of proclamation.
ARTICLE 7 - Holiday With Pay
7:01 - Holiday with pay will be granted to all Woodlands' employees who are eligible under the provisions of this article. Such holidays are as follows:
SewdYgErdayDay
I	Victoria Day
(' i 1	Memorial Day
Labour Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
\
The holidays as outlined above will be observed on the official date declared by Provincial Legislation, where applicable. If any of the above holidays fall on the employee's scheduled day or days off, the employee will be granted an alternate day or days off as a paid holiday or holidays.
7:02 - To be eligible for pay for the holidays, as outlined in Clause 7:01, employees must qualify as follows:
(a)	For employees whose names have not been
entered on the seniority list as per Clause 12:03, the required days worked between holidays shall be fifteen (15) days with the exception of Sew Year's Day. In the case of Sew Year's Day, employees must be available for work on the days between Boxing Day and Sew Year's Day. An employee who qualifies for Christmas Day also qualifies for Boxing Day.
(b)	Employees must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after, the holiday, except when the employee is on vacation or is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall
11
be paid if he otherwise qualifies.
Employees on vacation or absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence. A special leave of absence for any of the above holidays may be granted to employees who have to travel long distances to be home for the holiday, provided that a request for such leave is made five (5) days before the holiday.
(c)	Employees who otherwise qualify but are laid off on any of the twenty-five (25) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday will be paid for the holiday.
7;03 - An employee does not have to report before or after the stipulated day as per 7:02
(b), if his regular employment is not available.
7:04 - All employees qualifying for a paid holiday, except those working on negotiated piecework rates, shall receive pay for the holiday at their regular rates. Those working on negotiated piecework rates shall receive pay for the holiday at the general labour's hourly rate, plus eight (8) percent.
7:05 - All employees who qualify for a paid holiday and work on the paid holiday will receive pay €or the time worked at time and one-half and, in addition, will receive the "Holiday Pay" for which they qualify.
All employees who do not qualify for pay for a holiday and work on such holiday shall receive pay for time worked at time and one-half. Days absent from work while on vacation, and all days for which an employee received pay or part pay, shall be considered as days worked for the purpose of qualifying for a paid holiday.
7:06 - The Company will provide a floating holiday to all employees who have accrued one hundred and fifty (150) days of seniority and worked a minimum of twenty-five (25) days in
12
the previous year. Floating holidays shall be paid on the basis of eight (8) hours at the , regular straight time rate. (Pieceworkers ( shall be paid eight (8) hours times the the general labour's hourly rate, plus eight (8) percent.)
Effective June 1, 1981, the Company will provide an additional floating holiday to all employees who have accrued two hundred (200) days seniority and worked a minimum of fifty (50) days in the previous year. Effective January 1, 1982, the Company will provide a further floating holiday to all employees who C have accrued two hundred (200) days seniority ^ and worked a minimum of one hundred (100) days in the previous year.
Time off must be arranged with the employee's immediate supervisor, and an employee who does not take the floating holidays when the Woodlands are operating will be paid for the days during the last week of operations prior to the regular fall shutdown. The floating holidays will not be accumulative from year to year,
Except €or an employee retiring, or on sick or accident leave, any employee not returning to work in the calendar year will not be entitled to floating holidays nor pay for same in that year.
7:07 - It is further agreed that an employee may elect to take eight (8) hours pay in lieu of time off.
ARTICLE 8 - Adjustment of Grievances
8:01 - It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given the Foreman, or his Representative, an opportunity to adjust his complaints, and it is agreed that an
13
employee must be hired and have clearly made known to him the name of the Foreman or the Foreman's representative before commencing work.
8:02 -
(a)	Where possible, the Union shall arrange for the election, from its working membership at each camp ox worksite by the members therein, of a Union Committee of up to three (3), one of whom shall be the Union Steward and spokesman for that Committee. Immediately after an election, the Union Committee in the camp or worksite will notify the Foreman, in writing, as to the name of the Union Steward and Committee members, and the Foreman will acknowledge, in writing, the receipt of such notice.
The Foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
(b)	It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Committee members.
8:03 - A grievance under the Provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference including the degree or extent of disciplinary action between the parties or between any one of the employees and his Employer covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the Provisions of the Agreement.
Stage 1:
Complaints of employees must first be taken by the employee himself directly to the Foreman and/or his representative or the contractor and/or his representative for adjustment without undue delay but, in any event, not more than thirty (30) days immediately following the occurrence or event giving rise to the
14
complaint. It is understood that an employee may, if he so desires, be accompanied by the Union Steward and/or representatives. If the complaint is not adjusted satisfactorily within three (3) days, the matter becomes a grievance and must be taken up at Stage 2. No employee's grievance will be recognized until the foreman has first had an opportunity to settle the complaint, providing the employee remains employed under the same Foreman. If the employee is no longer employed under the same Foreman, the grievance may be taken up commencing at Stage 2 ,
Stage 2:
The matter shall be taken up by the Union Committee and/or Union Representative with the Divisional Manager or his representative as the case may be, within three (3) days from the end of the three (3) day period in Stage 1, in writing, on forms to be supplied by the Union. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with, in writing, at all stages thereafter.
The Divisional Manager ox his representative shall make a reply, in writing, and failing a satisfactory adjustment within three (3) days, then:
Stage 3:
In all cases, the matter shall be referred to the Woodlands Manager or his representative, within three (3) days from the end of the decision period in Stage 2. Failing a satisfactory adjustment in such other cases within four (4) days, then:
Stage 4:
Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
Fail ire of the grievor or the Union to process a grievance to the next step in the Grievance Procedure within the time limit specified shall
15
not be deemed to have prejudiced the Union on any future similar grievance.
8:04 - The Employer will notify the Local Union Secretary, in writing, at the time of discharge or suspension of an employee, giving the reasons for such discharge or suspension. A grievance arising from a claim of unjust discharge or suspension may be processed beginning at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure, in writing, not later than six (6) days after receipt of notification. Where it has been finally established by an Arbitration board that an employee has been improperly discharged or suspended, he shall be reinstated
in his former job without loss of seniority, and the consideration of his grievance shall include the determination of the extent if any, to which he shall be compensated for lost pay, and reimbursement for the premium cost of any health and welfare coverage currently in effect. Arbitration will in no way award redress exceeding that which the employee would have earned in the Company's employ had he not been improperly discharged or suspended.
8:05 -
(a)	If the Union has a grievance as defined in Section 8:03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b)	Grievances of employees who are defined in Article 3, Section 3:02 (b) shall commence at Stage 2.
8:06 -
(a)	In Arbitration, the Employer and the Union shall each select one member, these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the name of the other party's nominee and shall forthwith inform the other party of the name of the nominee. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding
16
on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two members selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, within ten (10) days, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower to appoint a third party, and such appointee shall be accepted by both parties as Chairman. If the party to wham notice is given fails to select an arbitrator within the period of five (5) days after receiving the notice, the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower shall, on the request of either party, name an arbitrator on behalf of the party who failed to select an arbitrator.
(b)	Ey agreement of the parties, a sole arbitrator may be appointed in lieu of an Arbitration Board. A sole arbitrator shall be bound by the same rules and regulations as outlined elsewhere in this Article.
(c)	The Arbitration Board shall file their decision with the parties within the fifteen (15) days of the hearing.
8:07 - It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement, and that is shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement, except arbitrations under Article 4.
8:08 - Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the members of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board. The decision of the majority of the members of the Arbitration Board shall be the decision of the Board and, if there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board.
17
8:09 - Time limits specified in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties, or by mutual consent of the respective nominees to an Arbitration Board. Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, specified in Article 7 shall not be included in any time limits of this Article.
ARTICLE 9 - No Strike - No Lockout
9:01 - It is agreed that all disputes shall be settled in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 8 of this Agreement and that there shall be no strike caused, called or supported by the Union or its members against the operations covered by this Agreement nor lockouts by the Employer during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 - Working and Living Conditions
10:01 - The Employer agrees to abide by the terms and conditions of the Logging Camps Act 1960, the amendments thereto and the Regulations thereunder. The Union agrees that the employees covered by this Agreement will co-operate with the Employer in maintaining the general rules of cleanliness and order in the living quarters, mess halls, outhouses and surroundings of camps and places of work.
10:02 - Subject to this Agreement, it is clearly understood and agreed that it is the sole right of the Employer to administer woods operations, direct employees in such a way as to ensure maximum efficiency, change its methods or system of operation and distribute work. The Union shall be advised of any significant change in operations at least thirty (30) days in advance of the introduction of such change.
10:03 - The Employer agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation ways and means of improving conditions for all employees
18
covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this .Agreement.
10:04 - The weekly pay period shall be the period commencing at 8:00 a.m. each Sunday and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
Pay cheques will be available at the end of the regular shift on the first Friday following the end of the weekly pay period. However, there may be occasions when such things as weather conditions, computer breakdown, transportation difficulties, etc., will arise which will prevent the Company from meeting this commitment. If such is the case, cheques will be distributed as soon as they are available.
For each pay period a memo of earnings slip will be issued to each employee giving the following information:
-	The period covered, hours and/or days worked.
-	Rates of pay.
-	Number of cubic metres, number of piles, earnings and deductions.
-	Walking and Riding Time.
-	And any other pertinent information.
10:05 -
(a)	When van purchases are made, the employee will be given an itemized bill showing date of purchase and price of each item.
(b)	Except in case of emergency, in camps, van shall be available and open a minimum of two nights a week on Tuesday and Thursday for a least two hours each night between the hours of 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
(c)	Van shall be sold to employees at employers invoice cost.
10:06 -
(a)	Only factory built buses, automobiles or snowmobiles shall be used for the ground
19
transportation of employees. Such vehicles to be kept clean and in good repair so as to provide the safe and comfortable transportation qualities intended. Same to have adequate seating accommodation for all on board and be equipped for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. When boats are used for the transportation of employees, they shall likewise be kept clean and in good repair with due regard for the comfort and safety of employees.
(b)	Shelters shall be provided at waiting and/or lunching places and shall be equipped with oil stoves or wood stoves that are equipped to meet the regulations allowing their use during the fire season. Shelters shall be of smooth wall construction inside and shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the summer, shall be tightly floored, have windows and, in addition, shall have seating accommodation and table space for each employee, i,e, shelters shall be such that an employee can relax and eat his lunch or wait in comfort. It is nevertheless agreed that when it is necessary to take fire prevention precautions in the summer, no fires will be permitted is such shelters. Notices to this effect will be placed on camp bulletin boards and in buses on commuter jobs.
A committee composed of one (1) Union representative and one (1) Management representative shall be formed in each operating area to inspect all lunch shelters. The Company agrees to consider any reasonable recommendations made by said committee. Any time lost by the Union representative will be reimbursed.
(c)	Where employees provide a Coleman stove for their own use in lunch shelters, the Employer will make such stoves available at cost less a subsidy of $10.00 per stove.
20
The Employer will provide free fuel and will also stock parts for sale at cost.
The use of such stoves shall not be restricted during the fire season unless Government Regulations dictate otherwise.
10:07 - The Union agrees that its members will observe all regulations pertaining to the prevention of forest fires as established by the Provincial Government and the Company. All employees shall fight forest fires when called upon to do so by an authorized person.
Employees taken from their job to fight forest firs will be paid their regular rate for such work, except those working on negotiated piecework rates who will be paid the general labour rate and from the time they are taken from their job. It is further agreed that the Employer will make every effort to limit the daily working time on fire fighting to eight (8) hours.
10:08 - When pulpwood has been destroyed by Eire before being scaled, such wood shall be paid for at the agreed rate. The Employer will make every effort to establish the quantity of wood burned with a reasonable degree of accuracy.
10:09 - Employees losing personal belongings through fire while on the Employer' s Woods operations will receive 100% of the cost of the following items lost: one pair of mitts, one pair of socks and one suit of rainwear or a jacket. Individuals who lose personal belongings through fires caused by their own negligence will not be compensated.
10:10 - Employer regulations require every chain saw operator to have a reliable fire extinguisher on his person when using a chain saw during the fire season. The Employer will make available suitable fire extinguishers for operators. The fire extinguisher shall be on loan to the employee and he shall return it in good condition to the Employer. If the fire extinguisher has been lost or damaged he shall compensate the Employer for the cost of same.
21
10:11 -
(a)	At each operating camp and where practical on worksites, a separate building will be provided for the storage and repair of power saws and shall be large enough to be adequate and have sufficient space for storage, and in addition, shall be adequately lighted and heated, and equipped
with work bench and vise to facilitate
repairs of power saws. It is recognized as most desirable that repairs to mechanical equipment and welding be performed under shelter. The Employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to ensure this condition.
On cutting operations, under Schedules C and D, the Employer will supply chain saws and parts to be sold at the Employer's invoice cost to the employee, if so requested.
(b)	On cutting operations under Schedules C and D, it is agreed that the employees are required to supply their own power saws. However, the Company shall have on all such operations, spare power saws that the employee may rent, should the employee's saw break down. Such spare saws shall be available on the basis of one (1) spare saw for every five (5) cutters.
The Company may charge the employee $8.00 per day ($1.00/hour) hire for such saw.
The period of hire shall not be longer than five (5) days.
10:12
(a)	Marked gas (which is exempt from Provincial Gas Tax) and oil for chain saws will be made available for purchase in camps and on worksites to employees for chain saw purposes only.
(b)	The employer will supply a chain file as required,
22
(c)	Saws and spare parts will be sold at employer's invoice cost.
10:13 - When an employee is transferred to cutting operations from another classification, the Employer will rent the employee a saw for a reasonable period of time at the rate of $8.00 per day, ($ 1.00/hour), gas and oil paid for by the employee.
10:14 -
(a)	Tradesmen such as mechanics and carpenters may be required to supply all hand tools for their personal use, customarily furnished by tradesmen of their craft. Mechanics tools over one half inch drive and taps and dies shall be provided by the Employer free of charge. The Employer will assist tradesman in the procurement of metric tools as required.
(b)	Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all hand tools required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. When tools are provided on loan by the Employer such tools will be charged in full if not returned. If returned in worn out or broken condition, they will be replaced by the Employer.
10:15 -
Day workers using their own power saws will be paid on the following basis:
(a)	For road cutting $8.50 per day. Gas
and oils to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
(b)	For improvement jobs $8.00 per day.
Gas and oils to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
23
(c)	The foreman is to decide if the chain saw is to be used and inform the employee to take his saw to the job, in which case he will be paid the full day's hire whether his saw is used or not.
(d)	Saws are not to be left on the job indefinitely for hire purposes, i.e. an
employee on being told that his saw is
required on a certain day will not be able to leave it there for another day or days and expect to collect hire.
ii) Schedule "C" workers used for road cutting will be paid the greater of:
a)	Under Schedule "C" or
b)	General labour's rate times the hours worked plus an allowance of $1.50 per hour worked. This allowance includes cost for saw, parts, chains, bars, files, fuels, lubricants and maintenance.
10:16 - The Employer agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching on their woods operations except by mutual agreement between the parties and under conditions mutually agreed to before any shacking or batching commences.
10:17 - It is agreed that the Employer will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health, and it is the duty of the employees to co-operate in this regard. Employees' living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week, and the Employer will continue to provide improved camp facilities.
10:18 -
(a)	All camps shall have inside toilet
facilities, single tier beds, and shall be furnished with a wardrobe type storage locker for each employee for hanging of his
24
clothes. The locker shall be of sufficient height for an inside shelf at the top and inside storage of footwear at the bottom.
(b)	Inside toilet facilities, washroom and drying rooms shall be accessible without travelling outdoors.
(c)	Employees on other than regular day shift shall have separate sleeping quarters to enable them to obtain proper rest.
(d)	Cookhouse and bunkhouse staff shall have separate sleeping quarters, separated from the kitchen and dining room facilities to the extent that these operations will not unduly heat or disturb their sleeping quarters.
10(19 - Camps shall be constructed so as to accommodate all employees with not more than two (2) per room. The rooms shall measure approximately 8' x 10' ,
All beds and mattresses shall be of good quality and maintained in a serviceable condition at all times.
When present stocks of mattresses have been exhausted all future replacement mattresses will be spring filled. The Employer shall supply bedding consisting of pillows, pillow cases, sheets and blankets, Pillow cases and bed sheets will be changed once a week.
Blankets will be changed as required. Such bedding must not be removed from the Company's premises except by those employees who must do so in the course of their duties.
10(20 - All camps shall be of smooth wall construction inside. All camps shall be maintained in such a manner as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the summer.
10:21 - All camps shall be properly lighted and it is agreed that flat wick lamps are
25
inadequate for proper lighting. All camps of a permanent or semi-permanent nature shall have electric lighting. Where practical, painting will be done to aid in the desirable conditions.
10)22 - All camps shall have separated proper washing facilities including adequate showers. The Employer will provide proper facilities for washing clothes in the form of washing machines and an adequate supply of hot and cold water.
In camps where washing machines are presently made available for the use of cookery personnel, such machines are to be made available to all other employees. The Company will investigate the temperature control problem for showers and will make the necessary adjustments to correct the problem as far as practical.
10’. 2 3 - All camps shall have separate drying rooms adequate to the extent that it will not be necessary for employees to have wearing apparel and/or footwear drying in their sleeping quarters. It is agreed that drying rooms must be large enough to accommodate all employees, each of whom shall have, €or his use only, a hanger type device to facilitate the drying of wearing apparel.
10:24 - All camps shall have a recreation room for the use of employees. Such rooms shall be large enough and equipped to accommodate at least half the employees in a comfortable manner,
10:25 - All bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10:26 - The Employer will provide a Colour T.V, set for the use of the camp where T,V. is available and, in addition, where future replacements are made, a colour T.V. set will be provided for Cookhouse Personnel. Radios will also be provided.
26
10:27 -
(a) Food shall be handled in a sanitary manner at all times. Food served to employees in the camps shall at all times be of high quality and of reasonable variety and sufficient quantity.
(b)	Fruit juices shall be supplied for breakfast.
(c)	Fresh apples and fresh oranges shall be made available in cookhouse five (5) days a week. Two additional items of fruit shall be made available two (2) days per week.
(d)	Every reasonable effort will be made to make available two (2) varieties of fresh meat for all take-out lunches. Suitable material will be supplied for the wrapping of lunches.
(e)	A hot mid-shift lunch shall be made available to night shift employees who are within walking distance of the cookery.
All others shall have available a suitable lunch shelter which, in addition to provisions contained in this Agreement, shall be adequately lighted.
(For the purpose of this Clause, walking distance shall be defined as a distance which will permit an employee to travel on foot from his work site to the cookery for his lunch and return to his work site within the time period allotted for lunching.)
(f)	The Employer shall maintain in all camps, noncarbonated fruit flavoured cold drink dispensers. The Employer shall maintain steam tables in all camps, except in Camps 183 and 18 4 ,
When new camps are constructed sufficient electrical appliances will be supplied to meet the needs of the cookery.
27
(g)	An exhaust fan will be installed in bunkhouse washrooms and in the cookhouses.
(h)	Food coolers will be provided in all cookhouses.
(i)	The Employer will provide reconstituted milk in all camps.
(j)	The Employer will install propane gas operated refrigerators in the three Sea Mules, engaged in towing on inland waters.
10.28 -
(a)	Where a mid-day meal is taken a ten minute coffee break is allowed in the morning and in the afternoon.
(b)	Where employees lunch away from camp, they may decide themselves on a crew basis, to take their lunch at mid-day with ten minute coffee breaks in the morning and afternoon, or they may have two regular lunch periods of 40 minutes each per day.
(c)	During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on the Employer's time.
(d)	The present practice regarding evening snacks will continue.
10:29 -
(a) The board rate will be frozen at $2.13 per meal, $6.39 per day, for the life of this Agreement.
(b) An employee who reports to the cook on or before 7:00 p.m. on Thursday that he will not be eating supper at the camp on Friday shall not be charged for the supper meal, nor shall he be charged for any meals while away from the camp on weekends. However, if it becomes evident that this is being abused, the Company will revert to the practice of charging for the Friday evening meal.
28
10:30 - The following clothing allowance will apply:
For cooks, second cooks, and cookees who are required to wear white clothing, sixty-five (65) cents per day. This allowance is being paid to the above mentioned staff with the understanding that a white shirt and white pants shall be worn in the cookhouse at all times.
All other employees who have accumulated a minimum of two hundred (200) days of seniority at the end of the previous computer payroll year shall receive on the first pay cheque after spring recall a $50,00 annual clothing allowance.
Any employee, upon proof of purchase of safety footwear, shall receive a subsidy of 30% of the cost to a maximum of two (2) pairs per year.
10:31 - Except as may be worked out in Seniority Provisions, employees are not permitted to transfer from one camp or worksite to another except where operations have been terminated or curtailed in the camp or on the worksite at which they are employed.
10:32 - All employees transferred on a temporary basis from one camp to another at the Employer's request shall be paid all authorized travelling expenses. Travelling expenses will include board, lodging and wages while in transit.
10:33 - Hand cleaner and waste rags shall be made available for mechanics and others repairing mechanical equipment, at their place of work.
10:34 - When camps are in use, the Employer agrees to put forth reasonable effort to maintain camp access roads in fair condition.
29
10,35	- The Employer agrees that when requested by a Union Representative carrying proper credentials the foreman or his representative shall grant the use of the dining room for the holding of Union meetings, subject to availability of the room. Arrangements will be made with the foreman and chief cook.
10:36 - It is agreed that the Employer and the Union shall co-operate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Employer agrees to maintain good work trails and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that at least one member of the crew in each camp or on each worksite will be qualified to render first aid.
It is agreed there shall be emergency First Aid Kits in all camps, and where practical at or near worksites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation of men. All employees will be provided with a mini-safety kit.
10:37 - Mobile radio telephones shall be installed in all camps, in suitable booths, and shall be made available to all employees. Employees using this service must do so at their own expense.
When suitable two way communication is available, it will be installed in commuter buses that are not monitored by a second vehicle to and from the job site.
10:38 - The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a private bedroom in the bunkhouse.
10:39 - All garage environment will be maintained so that there is no danger to employee health due to exhaust fumes.
10:40 - Whenever the employees or the Union organizes a Recreational Committee in a camp, the Employer will appoint a member to that Committee, Such Committee will review the
30
recreational needs of that particular camp and make recommendations to the Employer. The Employer will give due consideration to all reasonable recommendations.
10:41 - Bulldozers will be equipped with temporary cabs in the winter months to protect drivers from the elements. Such cabs need not to be elaborate and may be constructed from any wind retardant material.
10:42 - Employees working in the main garage at Brakes 1s Cove who are required to work overtime in excess of one hour without prior notice will be provided with a meal. The cost of the meal will not exceed $6.00, and the lunching time required to eat such meal will be limited to twenty minutes. Prior notice means prior to the start of the shift.
10:43 - The Employer shall provide, for the sole use of the Union, a Bulletin Board, similar in all respects to that of the Employer's at each place where the Employer has a Bulletin Board.
ARTICLE 11 - Hours of Work
11:01 - The standard work week for operations shall be six (6) days per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.
11:02 - .
(a) The regular work week shall be forty (40) hours, composed of five (5) shifts of eight (8) consecutive hours per day, meal time excepted, from Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive for all employees, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. It is agreed that workers to whom this Clause applies may be required to work in excess of their regular work week or work day, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this
31

Article. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b) Meal time for lunches, i,e, the mid-shift meal or lunch, shall be one hour after approximately half of the work time of the shift has expired, or as otherwise agreed between the parties.
11:03 -
(a)	For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m, Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
(b)	A holiday, under Article 7, shall begin at 7:00 a.m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a,m, the day following the holiday.
(c)	An employee ' s scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11:04 -
(a) The day shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m, meal time excepted.
(b)
f
he niaht shift shall consi&fc^of eight (8) onsecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 .m. and 5:00 a.m. meal time excepted.
Effective date of ratification, a night shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work,
(d)	On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a,m, or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and ' shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry the regular shift differential.
32
(e) Tf it- hpmmp-; necessary to work a three (3) TfFiTft operation, the first	'tKS" ’
day shift, shall be worked within the time specified in 111 04	(a) with the second
shift immediately following the first shift, and the third shift immediately following the second shift. Under these conditions, the work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours plus the shift differential as provided for in 11 i.O4 (c) for the second shift, and a shift differential on the third shift of fifty-five (55) cents per hour (effective date"~oT'’ratification) •
Meal time shall be 20 minutes and on the Employer's time, approximately four (4) hours after the shift commences.
(f) The hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) shall be scheduled and posted on the Company and Union Bulletin Boards not later than 7:00 p.m, on Thursday of the previous week. Failing such posting, unless the employee is personally notified, before the regular quitting time of his fifth weekly shift, of a change in his schedule for the coming week, the schedule of the week previous shall apply. The starting and stopping times and shift schedule shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly periods subject to the following:
1,	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change.
When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked, and if not, time and one-half shall apply. An
33
employee cannot be short shifted by reason of changing shifts, i,e, if this takes place he shall be paid for the shift or shift lost at his regular rate.
2,	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements, such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a two hour period, and in such cases the work shift shall take place between the hours of 7 s 00 a.m. to 6(00 p,m. or 7:00 p.m, to 6:00 a,m, as the case may be.
11:05 - If an employee is required to work on his scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday or a holiday under Article 7, such overtime shall be scheduled and posted in the same manner and with the same conditions applying as for the hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) under 11:04 (f). If he is available for posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall received two (2) hours pay at time and one-half. If requested by the Employer, the employee must remain available for the two (2) hours to be eligible for such pay. If work commences during the two (2) hour period, he shall receive pay at time and one-half for all time worked plus time and one-half for idle time when available or two
(2)	hours at time and one-half whichever is the greater.
(a) Employees covered under Schedule A will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours on Sunday except in the case of ship loading and unloading in which case employees covered under Schedule A will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours on Sunday.
(b) An employee called out after the completion of his regular shift will be paid a minimum
34
<D -C
of four (4) hours or time and one-half for hours worked, whichever is greater. It is understood that employees who are notified that they are required for work after their regular shift has been completed and they are informed of this prior to the end of their regular shift will not be eligible for a call out payment but will be paid in accordance with the overtime provisions under this Article.
11:06 - The Employer has the right to enforce the hours of work. Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day, or shift, all hours worked on Sunday, except as provided for in 11:05 (a), all hours worked by an employee on his scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled day or shift, and all hours worked on holidays under Article 7 shall be paid for at time and one-half. Time and one-half shall not apply to fire fighting.
Double time shall be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on Sunday.
11:07 - Time spent travelling to and from work shall not be considered as time worked, unless otherwise specified. Walking and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in this Agreement.
11:08 - Cooks, second cooks, cookees, watchmen and bunkhousemen are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement providing €or a 5-day work week and eight (8) hour work day or shift. In lieu thereof, they shall receive alternate weekends off from Friday noon until Monday noon without loss of pay. If Friday is a holiday, time of€ without loss of pay shall begin on Thursday noon. If Monday i s a holiday, time off without loss of pay will be xtended to Tuesday noon; in both cases, as his oliday with pay if he qualifies. This is not to be construed as a right upon which a claim for extra pay may be made if not availed of.
35
11:09 - In cases of lay-off, cookhouse and bunkhouse staff shall be paid, in lieu of their earned time off, for all days worked since their last scheduled weekend off at the calculated rate per day which is equivalent of their actual rate for days worked, i.e. 5 l/2 days per week.
11:10 -
(a) Employees working on incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed rate will be governed by the following breakdown clause:
Should a machine break down, an employee who has to stop work before he completes his shift shall have his time calculated as follows :
1.	The Employer shall pay all the remaining hours lost from work on incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed rate during the shift at the employee's regular rate of pay.
2.	Fellers and buckers may be required to continue cutting, in which case this may be done on their regular cutting strip until such time as it interferes with their ability to earn bonus.
At this point, they will move to another strip other than the one on which they were working at the time of breakdown. In so doing, all hours worked on the separate strip shall be kept separate and apart from any hours worked on incentive bonus and all wood produced during such time will be considered the Employer's wood and will not be included with the wood produced on bonus.
With reference to all of the foregoing, the Skidder Operator shall be required to make every reasonable effort to immediately notify the Supervisor.
36
(b) All other employees shall be governed by the following breakdown clause:
An employee reporting for work as directed shall not be sent home because there is no work available due to a mechanical breakdown. In such cases, the employee will be offered alternate work (which may include cutting under Schedule C) to complete the first day of such reporting, at his regular rate of pay or the prevailing rate for the job performed, whichever is higher.
4
ci>
In 11:10	(a) and 11:10 (b), alternate work
shall be offered for the next shift. In such cases, the employee shall be paid at his regular rate for such alternate work. In both of the foregoing Clauses, if it becomes necessary to change an employee's shift, in order to offer such alternate employment, the Employer will not be subject to the penalty provided for in Clause 11:04 (f) 1. of this Agreement. Furthermore, in both of the foregoing Clauses, should an employee refuse to perform the alternate employment, he loses his rights to the provisions contained herein,
If no alternate work is available, the employee shall be paid the shifts referred to above at his regular rate.
With reference to all of the foregoing, the employee must remain available for work.
Where any breakdown continues for more than the shifts referred to above and no other suitable work is available, the employee shall be offered cutting under Schedule C but shall not lose his seniority if he elects not to accept it.
If the breakdown continues for more than one full week beyond the week in which the breakdown occurs, or if, as a result of the
37
breakdown, a decision is made to phase out the broken down machinery, the employee may, if he sd;.desires, exercise his divisional seniority as per Article 12,
Any employee who elects not to exercise his seniority or accept the alternate work will be laid off. Recall will be in accordance with Clause 12:01.
Note - for the purpose of this Article, power saws are not considered to be machines.
(c)	Strip width shall not exceed 20 metres for 2,50 metre length pulpwood and 24 metres for 1,25 metre length pulpwood. On side hill roads, pulpwood should not be handled more than 4,5 metres on the lower side of what is known as a side hill road. Wood must be piled on the upper side of a side hill road and all piles must be suitable for scaling.
11:11 - When work has to be discontinued after commencing, an employee shall be paid one-half (1/2) day if he works less than four (4) hours and a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.

11:12 - An employee, who during his scheduled work week reports for work at his scheduled /starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, shall receive <two hours pay—at his regular rate unless he was notified previously that work would not commence, and providing that when requested to do so by the employer, the employee shall remain available for work for the two hours.
An employee in a camp operation shall be deemed to have reported for work once he leaves the immediate camp premises. Camp premises is defined as the area that is covered by a radius of 300 meters from the main entrance door to the cookhouse. An employee on commuter operations shall be deemed to have reported for work when he arrives at the marshalling point.
38
This Clause does not apply when the reason for non-commencement is due to Acts of God.
Us 13 - An employee who, when recalled, reports for work as directed and no work is available, shall be paid for all regular working hours spent waiting to go to work at the rate of the job for which he was recalled. It is understood the employee can be offered alternate employment and, if refused, he is not entitled to any payment.
12s01 - The Company recognizes the principle of Seniority, so that in promotions, demotions,
reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in the work required. In the application of the above, and where all other conditions of this Article are met, the junior employee shall at all times be the first laid off and the last recalled.
12s02 - Seniority for the purpose of this Agreement shall mean all days worked plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lost because of sickness or injury (certified £>y a licensed physician, dentist, chiropractor, optometrist, or registered nurse in an outport hospital or clinic) and authorized leaves of absence up to a maximum of thirty (30) days in any calendar year. An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union, or is on authorized leave of absence on Union business, shall accrue seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed in a management position shall accrue seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months. In both cases, twelve (12 months dating from when the first such change of employment status took place, unless one (1
ARTICLE 12 - Seniority
39
year has expired since the last change of employment status.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, sub-foremen shall accrue and retain seniority while working in that capacity, it being understood and agreed that sub-foremen are within the bargaining unit.
12:03 - An employee shall be entered on the seniority list once he has completed his probationary period as per Article 5:10,
12:04 - When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of lay-off, employees will be informed of such approximate date. An employee will be called by telephone or notice will be sent to his given address with as much notice as is possible before the employee will be required to report €or work. Each employee will be required to report for work on the date specified unless other arrangements have been made. It is the employee's responsibility to notify the Employer of any change in his detailed address and telephone number.
If an employee fails to report for work or does not acknowledge recall, in either case due to circumstances beyond his control, he shall lose the right to the job for which he was called and has no bumping rights but may exercise his seniority rights for the first job that becomes available. Before an employee will be considered for the first job that becomes available, he must register in writing with the Employment Office.
In recalling employees following a general shutdown, the Employer shall be allowed a leeway of 10 days, i,e, it shall not be a violation of any employee's seniority rights during recalling if a junior employee is recalled first, provided the senior employee is given work not latex than 10 days after the junior employee commenced work. It is understood and agreed that the provision of 10 days leeway does not apply to any work that may
40
become available during the period of the general shutdown. It is further clearly understood and agreed that the 10 day leeway does not apply following temporary lay-off such as may be caused by weather and the conditions resulting therefrom. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when emergency jobs of short duration have to be done during periods of general shutdown, the Company will not be required to recall the most senior employees.
12.05 - From May 1, 1965, an employee who has established seniority shall lose all-seniority if he:
1.	Quits the employ of the Company.
2.	Is discharged and not reinstated.
3.	Fails to answer recall, or fails to report for work, in both cases without satisfactory reasons, following leave of absence or recall from lay-off.
4.	Is laid off for over twenty-four (24) months.
5.	Has not complied with Article 5 of the Collective Labour Agreement.
12:06 - Subject to the provisions of 12:02, employees who are prevented from continuing work because of sickness or accident may retain their seniority during the period of absence required to recover from such sickness or accident, it being understood, however, that a medical certificate of fitness shall be required for purpose of rehiring.
12:07 - Employees who have to leave the job because of personal injury or sickness shall when cleared for work in accordance with 12:06, return to the job from which he left if same is continuing. However, should a lay-off occur while the employee is off on accident or sick, he shall then be recalled in the same manner,
41
with the same conditions applying as all other employees.
12:08 - Days referred to in this Article are working days and where the term camp is used, it shall also mean commuter operations.
12:09 - When an employee is entered on the Seniority List for the first time, he shall be designated as working in the Division in which he commences work. Effective September 30,
1972, all employees working on that date were designated in the Division in which they were working.
12:10 - All permanent transfers from one seniority division to another shall be voluntary, and can take place only when there is no one in the division to which the transfer is being made, who has seniority and desires the vacancy.
12:11 - When an employee is temporarily transferred, his Seniority will only apply in the division indicated on the Seniority List. Days accrued while on temporary transfer shall be applicable in the division to which he is designated.
12:12 - When an employee is transferred on a permanent basis, the employee's Seniority shall apply in the division to which he is transferred.
12.: 13 - In the case of a planned general shutdown, a notice will be posted on all Bulletin Boards in areas where the shutdown applies. In cases of lay-off other than those caused by Acts of God employees shall be given one (1) week's written notice of such lay-off or one (1) week's pay in lieu thereof. For the purpose of this Agreement, and Act of God shall include weather conditions and any other conditions over which the Company does not have control.
42
12:14 - In cases of abnormal curtailment of operations within a seniority division, the employee's Seniority shall apply in the adjacent seniority division as arranged between the Employer and the Union.
12:15 - Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, it is understood and agreed that an employee shall not exercise Seniority to the extent that the Employer shall have to hire him and provide board and lodging on any'commuter operation.
However, should the Employer find it necessary to hire an employee who is not a bona fide resident of a community from which a commuter operation is being carried on, the Employer shall provide the employee with board and lodging for which the employee shall pay not more than the agreed camp rate.
12:16 - Lists of names of the employees for whom Seniority is established as above shall be submitted to the Union Office within 30 days following the end of the quarter, showing accumulated seniority as of the quarter's end.
In addition, the Company shall post Seniority Lists in all camps and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur. The list will show, in addition, each employee's occupation or occupations, date of birth, and address.
Seniority Lists will be confirmed as accurate if no protest is received within thirty (30) days from the date of posting such lists in camps and/or buses on commuter operations.
12:17 - For the purpose of this Article, the Woods Operations of the Company shall be
divided as follows:
1.	Western Division
2.	Central Division
3.	Eastern Division
43
An employee shall only apply his seniority in his designated Division.
12:18 - In promotions, demotions, hiring, transfers, lay-offs, recalls from lay-offs, and subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in the work required, Union members shall at all times receive preference over non-union employees.
12:19 - All job vacancies in new
classifications that are established under ' Article 4 of the Labour Agreement will be posted so that all employees within the operating division who wish to apply for the job may do so. The notice will be posted for a period of twenty (20) working days. Employees who apply for job vacancies under this clause will be considered subject to skill, efficiency, aptitude, ability to perform the work required and seniority. (On commuter operations, jobs will be posted in buses.)
Once a year during the month of either January or February, the Company will provide a form a t each job site on which an employee may indicate if he wishes to change his classification.
This information will be considered when job crews are being planned or when vacancies are being filled.
Once a year during the month of either January or February, the Company will provide a form at each job site on which an employee may indicate if he wishes to transfer from one job to another in his present job classification.
This information will be considered when job
crews are being planned or when vacancies are
being filled.
The above arrangements will apply only to an employee's designated division.
/	12:20 - In case of lay-off, the job steward
fn/*/ wiH be given preference of employment over all 4 / other employees provided he is capable of p* performing the available work efficiently.
44
The above provisions will only apply if the job steward is a regular employee (thirty (30) days or more of seniority).
12:21 - When lay-offs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each employee so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority to transfer to another job within the same Division if he so desires, subject to the principles of Clause 12:01. Transfers will be made only if the employee, having received the advance notice of lay-off in accordance with Clause 12:13, advises the Company in writing of his desire to be transferred, two working days after the notice of lay-off (posted or by individual notice). Forms will be provided by the Company for this purpose.
The above Clause will only apply where other operations within the Division will continue for a period exceeding one (1) week.
12:22 - Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, an owner/operator can operate his own equipment.
In exercising the above, equipment operators must be Union members who come from within the bargaining unit for pulpwood mechanical felling, forwarding, processing and loading operations. If the exercising of the above results in an employee who would otherwise have the right to such employment being unemployed, the employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to find alternate employment for such employees.
ARTICLE 13 - SEMI-INCAPACITATED EVIPLOYEES
13:01 - The Company will give individual consideration to each case of accident resulting in temporary or permanent partial physical disability by trying to reintegrate said employee in a job provided he has the * required skill, efficiency and ability to
/>
V
45
perform the work required and provided such an opening exists.
ARTICLE 14 - Safety
14:01 - In order to promote safe conditions within the Woods Operations of the Employer, every employee and every representative of the Employer must co-operate fully and make known dangerous conditions or practices and help to eliminate them.
14:02 -
(a) Every employee, who suffers an injury is required, subject to circumstances prevailing, to present himself as soon as practical, to his Supervisor, or his representative who will arrange for first aid treatment and, in the case of a serious injury, have arrangements for medical treatment.
(b) In case of delays exceeding two weeks in obtaining Workers' Compensation payments, the Company will, upon request, arrange to advance an amount not exceeding the Workers' Compensation payments due.
14:03 -
(a) The Company and the Union mutually agree
that it; is desirable to obtain and maintain a good accident experience on the Woodlands Operations. To this end, the Employer will continue its search for improved and more varied items of safety apparel in order to offer maximum protection to its employees.
(b) The wearing of safety hat, safety footwear and safety pants are a condition of employment. Safety hats and harness, eye protection (either shields or goggles) and hearing protection will be made available to employees on loan. Winter liners are to be purchased by employees. The Employer
46
will pay annually a $10.00 subsidy toward the cost of approved safety pants.
14:04 -
(a) The Employer agrees that all those engaged in the transportation of employees in Employer vehicles will follow good and safe transportation practices.
(b) The Employer agrees to require all others engaged in the transportation of employees on Employer's roads to engage in safe transportation practices.
14:05 - No employee will be required to work alone in an isolated location that is considered dangerous.
14:06 - Hearing protection devices will be made available to all employees. For those employees working in areas where the noise level is in excess of eighty-five (85) decibels, the wearing of hearing protection devices shall be mandatory.
14:07 - Noise level checks will be made whenever a change of equipment or process causes a significant change in noise level. Records of noise level readings will be made available.
ARTICLE 15 - Discipline
15:01 - Disciplinary action by an Employer may be taken against an employee for just cause.
15:02 - Any employee subjected to disciplinary action, other than discharge, will be considered to have a clear record if he has no further disciplinary action taken against him, under this Article, €or a period of twenty-four (24) months.
47
ARTICLE 16 - Commuting
16:01 - A commuter for the purpose of this Agreement is an employee not obtaining board and lodging in a camp.
16:02 - Each community from which employees commute shall have an agreed central place or places as a marshalling point for the purpose of commuting. (See Letter of Agreement regarding marshalling points for ten year operating plan.)
16:03 - The Employer will provide free and acceptable transportation for commuters from the marshalling point to the disembarkation point in the work area. When transportation is by road, factory-built buses or automobiles will be used.
16.04	- Employees shall not be allowed to commute to an operation in their own vehicles except by arrangement between the parties.
16:05 - If it becomes necessary to hire an employee who is not a bona fide resident of a community from which free transportation is provided, board and lodging will be provided in that community by the Employer at the agreed camp rate.
16:06 - Where camps are operating and board and lodging is available, employees who use their own transportation, will not receive a commuting allowance.
16:07 - Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, bona fide residents of a community within walking distance of their place of work may commute on foot or otherwise, and walking time shall apply from the marshalling point in the community with 3 miles each way on his own time as for other employees.
48
ARTICLE 17 - Walking and Riding Time
17:01 - Walking and riding time will be
established on the following basis:
(a) For the purpose of this Article, it is
agreed that an employee walks at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
(b)	Time allowances for riding from the designated starting point to the disembarkation point will be established between the parties.
Where a commuter bus makes frequent stops to allow employees to disembark, the time lost shall not enter into the calculation for walking and riding time.
(c)	Where travelling time to the place of work is composed of walking and riding time, it shall be combined.
(d)	Walking and riding time from a camp shall be reckoned from the dining room door to the employee's place of work.
(e)	Walking and riding time for commuters shall be reckoned from the marshalling point to the employee's place of work.
17:02 - Employees will be'paid for walking ^ and/or riding time to and from work over one / ^
(1)	hour each way on the basis of a flat rate of $9.00 per hour.
Effective January 1, 1992, flat rate will be $9,00 per hour after forty-five (45) minutes.
17:03 - Walking and/or riding time shall not exceed one and one-half hours each way.
17:04 - Where two separate jobber crews travel on the same bus from the same marshalling point to separate disembarkation points, there will only be one designated riding and walking time.
49
ARTICLE 18 - Cookhouse and Bunkhouse Staff
18s01 - The cookery staff supplied €or the work force, including Supervisory personnel, shall be as shown below. For the purpose of the Article the cookery staff will not be considered part of the work force.
WORK FORCE
1	-	15	employees
16	-	55	employees
56	-	81	employees
82	-	106	employees
107 - 132 employees
133 - 155 employees
156 - 180 employees
181 - 205 employees
COOKERY STAFF 1 cook
1 cook, 1 cookee 1 cook, 1 second cook, 1 cookee 1 cook, 1 second cook, 2 cookees 1 cook, 2 second cooks, 2 cookees 1 cook, 2 second cooks, 3 cookees 1 cook, 2 second cooks, 4 cookees 1 cook, 2 second cooks, 5 cookees
For further increases in the work force, the cookhouse staff shall be increased proportionately.
It is agreed that this Schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing work are introduced.
It is agreed that the bunkhouseman will be hired when the camp opens and the bunkhouseman will be given assistance as and when required.
When the number of employees in camp reaches one hundred ten (110), an additional bunkhouseman will be added, making a total of two bunkhousemen. An extra bunkhouseman will be added for every additional ninety (90) employees thereafter. In determining the number of bunkhousemen to be hired, supervisory personnel shall be included when calculating the number in the work force.
50
18:02 - Fuel for heat and cooking will be supplied by the Employer, prepared and ready for use,
18:03 - Cookery staff shall not be required to do work aside from kitchen and dining room duties. The bunkhouseman is not permitted to work at the preparation of food or the washing of dishes.
18:04 - On Camp operations where night shift work is carried out, a member of the existing cookhouse staff will be assigned to the night shift. The rearrangement of the work load will facilitate cookery service during the night shift without an added work load on the day shift staff.
18:05 - Cooks who are required to work in excess of what is accepted as their normal hours of work in the preparation of food for firefighters will be paid the general labour rate per hour for all such time worked.
//,
ARTICLE 19 - Bereavement Leave
19:01 - When death occurs to a member of an employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers shall be paid
eight (8) hours at the general labour's hourly
rate plus (8) percent) for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. When death occurs to a member of an employee's family other than the immediate family, leave will be granted under the same conditions, to a maximum of three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. One day must
be the day of the funeral, and pay will only be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during this period.
19:02 - Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted to the Company by the employee,
51
accompanied by written verification from an acceptable authority. Such verification shall designate the employee's relationship to the deceased.
19:03 - For the purpose of this Article, immediate family is defined as husband, wife, child, stepchild, and adopted child. Family other than immediate family is defined as father, father-in-law, stepfather, mother, mother-in-law, stepmother, foster parents, grandparents, brother, brother-in-law, stepbrother, sister, sister-in-law, stepsister.
ARTICLE 20 - Training
20s01 - The Company and the Union recognize the value of a training plan, and will co-operate in solving any problems which may arise if a plan of training is instituted.
For the purpose of providing such co-operation an advisory committee will be set up, consisting of equal representation of the Union and Management.
21:01
following:
ARTICLE 21 - Fringe Benefits
Lans consist ol
/C/e -y &k)b)£) /J
The Group Insurance Plans consist c?f owing:	,C/^	'	'	'	'
Life Insurance Plan;
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan; Weekly Indemnity Plan;
Long-Term Disability Plan:	_ j
Dental Plan;
Health Insurance Plan; and Vision Care.	&1
7 I I ll //
' C,-.
0
7 </)”

Group Insurance Plans will be maintained in force for the term of the present Collective Agreement.
In all cases, the provisions of the Group Insurance Plan is set out in the Master Policies. The interpretation, application and administration of the Group Insurance Plan	.
shall be governed exclusively by the provisions of such Master Policies.
Copies of Master Policies will be made available to the Union.
21:02 - A Pension Plan shall be maintained in force £or-*tiTe'lTiif)Tr-cnt~t'hie—present Collective Agreement. The provisions of the Pension Plan are set out in the Pension Plan Text. The interpretation, application and administration of the Pension Plan shall be governed exclusively by the provisions of such Pension Plan Text.
ARTICLE 22 - Jury Duty
22:01 - Any employee who presents evidence of his being called to serve as a juror or as a witness in a criminal or quasi criminal case shall be reimbursed for regular scheduled hours lost at straight time pay at the rate he would have otherwise received.
If an employee is called for duty as in above and is scheduled to work the midnight shift immediately prior to Court convening, he shall have the shift off with (8) hours pay.
(Pieceworkers shall be paid the general labour's rate.)
ARTICLE 23 - Leave of Absence
23:01 - Leave of absence without pay, and without benefits, up to a maximum of three (3) months, may be granted at the discretion of Management for the following reasons:
P) Attendance at a recognized establishment of learning.
53
When the employee has to be dealt with according ‘to law.
iii)
iv)
Candidacy for public office at the Federal or Provincial level. Such leave may be extended until seven (7) days have elapsed following the date of the election.
Legitimate personal reasons.

Before a leave of absence will be considered, the employee must apply in writing.
23*02 - Any employee elected at the Federal or Provincial level will be granted a leave of absence without pay, and without benefits, to extend to one (1) term in office.
23:03 - Female employees will be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of four (4) months without pay and without benefits.
23:04 - The Company may require an employee to exhaust his normal vacation entitlement before commencing a leave of absence.
Other Provisions - Piecework (Without Guarantee)
A flat rate for cutting wood for each camp or worksite will be set up a t the beginning of each cutting season. Rate to be established before cutting begins, and the cutter shall be informed of his cutting price before starting work. The Contractor or Foreman will rotate the cutters in order to obtain equalization of cutting chances for each camp or worksite.
At the start of each cutting season, the Company will provide the Union with a list containing the names of all Contractors with wham Contracts are made for the production of pulpwood, also the camps or worksites to be operated by the Company, and the name of the Foreman supervising same, such lists to be
54
promptly amended from time to time as additions or deletions take place. The lists will also show by classification the estimated quantity of pu^pwood to be produced, the cutting price per ra and the locations of the cutting area for each Contractor or Foreman. At the end of each labour contract year, the Company will provide the Union with a breakdown of the wood produced, as per the above agreements, which w^ll show the average price paid per cutting mJ for each classification. Such average price shall derive from varying prices paid for wood cut on the whole of the Company's operation.
Special Provisions Guaranteed Rate
The Employer reserves the right to place any part of the Woods Operations on a piecework basis, excluding the cookery, and the piecework rate to be paid for such work will be based on the conditions affecting the work. However, in placing any part of their Operations on a piecework basis, the Employer agrees that the Hours of Work Article will apply and that over a settlement period not less than the rate for the classifications affected will be paid. If there is no rate, the general labour rate shall apply. This does not apply to cutting under Schedule C, the rates for which are in the Agreement and for which there is no guaranteed daily rate.
An employee cutting under Schedule C rates or incentive bonus system, who works overtime at his regular job, shall be paid on the basis of his regular rate and for overtime shall receive, in addition, half time at the hourly rate for the work being performed. If there is no rate for the work, the general labour rate shall apply. This shall be kept separate and apart and shall be shown thusly on memo slips.
The Employer agrees that there will be no lumping of established classifications, i.e. when a financial remuneration is provided for
55
in the Agreement, it shall be kept separate and apart and shall be shown thusly on memo slips. It is understood that any work covered by a guaranteed daily rate will be considered as a classification, and the rate set for the rental of owner-operated or employee owned equipment shall be considered a classification for the purpose of this paragraph.
The Employer will set a rate for the rental of each piece of mechanical equipment that is owner-operated or owned by an employee and this rate or rates shall not be lumped with any other financial remuneration provided for in the Agreement, but shall be solely for the rental of equipment and shall not be a variable rate, i.e. the financial remuneration of an employee shall in no way whatsoever be taken from the earnings of the owner-operated or employee-owned equipment.
Commuting allowance and walking and riding time shall not be lumped with any other rate.
If hauling is on piecework, the rates to be paid shall be determined by the Contractor or Foreman. In determining such rates, due consideration shall be given to:
(a)	the price ranges established for piecework
(b)	the conditions affecting the work for hauling.
Scaling
(a) For the purpose of this Agreement, a "cubic metre" shall mean the solid wood content of a pile of pulpwood scaled on a stacked basis and converted to solid measure using a factor of ,6641 in the case of 1,25 m. length pulpwood and a factor of ,6250 in the case of 2,50 m. length pulpwood.
56
(b) It is agreed a piececutter is entitled to know the amount of wood he has cut before it is removed and conditions become such that it is impossible for him to check the accuracy of his scale. To this end, all cut and piled wood shall be scaled on the strip. All cut and bunch wood shall be scaled on the landing to which it is forwarded. The cutter will be given reasonable time to check his scale before the wood is removed. The present practice with respect to the scaling and reporting of pallet wood shall continue.
Oh tree length operations, the employee shall be notified how much wood he has produced before conditions are such that he is unable to check the accuracy of his scale. On commuter operations, information will be posted on the bus or in the lunch shelter.
Employees will be notified as soon as possible after their scaling tables are changed.
Retroactivity
Unless specified elsewhere in this Agreement, any changes made to prior Agreements and shown herein shall not be retroactive.
57
IN WITNESS OF AND IN AGREEMENT WITH THE FOREGOING, the undersigned, being duly authorized to do so, have signed
on this 2 S* day of JOL'-i	1990 a t Corner
Brook in7~the P rov in c 'eT'oT~NewTdundla nd .
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
58
SCHEDULE "A'
HOURLY WAGE RATES
DECEMBER 31, 1988 TO JANUARY 1, 1992
-A
~7
Mechanical Classifications
*
^ Mechanic 1st Class - Certified
VO
Mechanic 1st Class - Uncertified Mechanic 2nd Class Mechanic - Helper and Learner , Electrician 1st Class - Certified Welder 1st Class - Certified Welder 1st Class - Uncertified Welder 2nd Class Power Saw Mechanic
Actual
Rate
3 1/12/88
Adj .
Rates	Effec. Effec. Effec. Effec.
Adj. 31/12/88	1/1/89 1/1/90	1/1/9 1 1/1/92
$14.88
13.53
12.49
12.00
14.88
14.88
13.53
12.49 12.51 *
$.11
.25
.36
.43
.11
.11
.25
.36
.35
$14.99
13.78
12.85
12.43
14.99
14.99
13.78
12.85
12.86
$15.44
14.23
13.30
12.88
15.44
15.44
14.23
13.30
13.31
$17.09
15.88
14.95
14.53
17.09
17.09
15.88
14.95
14.96
$18.17
16.96
15.78
15.36
18.17
18.17
16.96
15.78
16.04
$19.04
17.83
16.65
16.23
19.04
19.04
17.83
16.65 16.91
*Must possess a Certificate of Qualification or a Certificate recognized by the Provincial Government.
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURLY WAGE RATES DECEMBER 31, 1988 TO JANUARY
1992
Driver Classifications
Actual
Rate
31/12/88 Adj
Adj . Rates 31/12/88
Effec. Effec. Effec. 1/1/89	1/1/90	1/1/91
Truck Driver	-	Knuckle	Boom
Truck Driver	-	Trailer
Truck Driver	-	Pallet
Truck Driver	-	Single and	Tandem
Axle Hauling on Body
12.43	.37
12.30	.39
12.07	.41
11.89	.42
12.80	13.25
12.69	13.14
12.48	12.93
12.31	12.76
14.90	15.73
14.79	15.62
14.58	15.41
14.41	15.24
Effec . 1/1/92
16.60
16.49
16.28
16.11
SCHEDULE "A'
HOURLY WAGE RATES
DECEMBER 31, 1988 TO JANUARY 1, 1992
**
Logging Equipment Operators
Functions
Harvester
Processor
Delimber
Slasher
Wood Loader
Feller Buncher
Forwarder
Clam Bunk Skidder
5
4
3 2
4 3 2
Actual
Rate
31/12/88 Adj
Adj .
Rates Effec. Effec. Effec. 31/12/88	1/1/89	1/1/90	1/1/91
12.62	.37
12.58	.37
12.52	.37
12.48	.37
12.58	.37
12.52	.37
12.48	.37
12.43	.41
12.43	.41
12.43	.37
12.34	.38
12.34	.38
12.34	.38
12.99	13.44
12.95	13.40
12.89	13.34
12.85	13.30
12.95	13.40
12.89	13.34
12.85	13.30
12.84	13.29
12.84	13.29
12.80	13.25
12.72	13.17
12.72	13.17
12.72	13.17
15.09	15.92
15.05	15.88
14.99	15.82
14.95	15.78
15.05	15.88
14.99	15.82
14.95	15.78
14.94	15.77
14.94	15.77
14.90	15.73
14.82	15.65
14.82	15.65
14.82	15.65
Ef fee. 1/1/92
16.79
16.75
16.69
16.65
16.75
16.69
16.65
16.64
16.64 16.60
16.52
16.52
16.52
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURLY WAGE RATES
DECEMBER 31, 1988 TO JANUARY 1, 1992
m
to
Actual
Rate
31/12/88 Adj
Adj .
Rates Effec. Effec. Effec. 31/12/88	1/1/89	1/1/90	1/1/91
Logging Equipment Operators (Cont'd.)
Cable Yarder Grapple Skidder Cable Skidder Tractor Muskeg
J5 and Equivalent
$12.34	$.38
12.23	.36
12.19	.36
12.14	.36
12.07	.36
11.89	.42
$12.72	$13.17
12.59	13.04
12.55	13.00
12.50	12.95
12.43	12.88
12.31	12.76
$14.82	$15.65
14.69	15.52
14.65	15.48
14.60	15.43
14.53	15.36
14.41	15.24
**Definition insert at end of Schedule "A".
Production Classifications
Cable Skidder Operator Feller and Bucker
9.57
9.28
9.57	10.02	11.67	15.43
9.28	9-73	11.38	15.14
Effec. 1/1/92
$16.52
16.39
16.35
16.30
16.23
16.11
16.30
16.01
SCHEDULE
"A"
HOURLY WAGE RATES
DECEMBER 31, 1988 TO JANUARY 1, 1992
Actual
Rate
31/12/88 Adj
Ad j.
Rates Effec. 31/12/88	1/1/89
Effec, Effec. Effec. 1/1/90	1/1/91	1/1/92
Road and Site Preparation Equipment Operators
Gravel Loader
Bulldozer
Grader
Carryall or Earthmover Air Track Compressor Jack Hammer
12.23
12.23
12.23
12.19
12.19 12.14 11.86
.40 12.63 .40 12.63 .40 12.63 .36 12.55 .36 12.55 .36 12.50 .43 12.29
13.08	14.73
13.08	14.73
13.08	14.73
13.00	14.65
13.00	14.65
12.95	14.60
12.74	14.39
15.56	16.43
15.56	16.43
15.56	16.43
15.48	16.35
15.48	16.35
15.43	16.30
15.22	16.09
Miscellaneous
Crane Operator Carpenter - Own Tools Leading Hand Dynamite Man
12.44
12.22
12.20
11.92
.40 12.84 .71 12.93 .36 12.56 .42 12.34
13.29 14.94 13.38 15.03
13.01	14.66
12.79	14.44
15.77 16.64
15.86	16.73
15.49	16.36 15.27 16.14
SCHEDULE "A"
HOURLY WAGE RATES
DECEMBER 31, 1988 TO JANUARY 1, 1992
Actual	Ad j .
Rate	Rates	Effec. Effec. Effec.
31/12/88 Adj. 31/12/88 1/1/89 1/1/90 1/1/91
Miscellaneous (Cont'd.)
O'
Carpenter - Company Tools Saw Filer - Slashers Bus Driver Painter
General Labourer Sawmill
11.91	.42
11.91	.42
11.89	.42
11.96	.43
11.72	.45
12.33	12.78
12.33	12.78
12.31	12.76
12.39	12.84
12.17	12.62
14.43	15.26
14.43	15.26
14.41	15.24
14.49	15.32
14.27	15.10
Sawyer Edger Man Canter
Planer Operator Tail Sawyer Trimmer Jack-Up-Man
12.32	.39
12.03	.42
11.98	.42
11.98	.42
11.86	.43
11.72	.45
11.72	.45
12.71	13.16
12.45	12.90
12.40	12.85
12.40	12.85
12.29	12.74
12.17	12.62
12.17	12.62
14.81	15.64
14.55	15.38
14.50	15.33
14.50	15.33
14.39	15.22
14.27	15.10
14.27	15.10
Effec. 1/1/92
16.13
16.13 16.11 16.19 15.97
16.51
16.25
16.20
16.20
16.09
15.97
15.97
Ln
For the purpose of this Agreement:
(a)	A Harvester is a self-propelled multi-function logging machine that fells trees and
performs at least one additional function.
(b) A Processor is a multi-function machine that does not fell trees but performs two or more functions at least one of which further processes trees or parts of trees.
(c)	Processing can include one or more of the following:
(i)	Delimbing
(ii)	Slashing (shearing or bucking)
(iii)	Chipping (trees or parts of trees)
(iv)	Barking (trees or parts of trees)
(d)	Functions performed by Harvesters and/or Processors:
(i)	Felling (includes bunching)
(ii)	Delimbing
(iii)	Slashing (shearing or bucking)
(iv)	Forwarding (transports load by carrying)
(v)	Skidding (transports load by dragging)
(vi)	Chipping (trees or parts of trees)
(vii)	Wood loading (piling trees or parts of trees on or off trucks, rail cars, conveyors and decks)
(viii)	Barking (trees or parts of trees)
<y\
a-s
Classifications
SCHEDULE "B"
BASIS - HOURS PER DAY AS REQUIRED BY THE JOB
Actual
Rate
31/12/88 Adj .
Adj . Rates 31/12/88
Ef fee. 1/1/89
Ef fec. 1/1/90
Effec. Effec. 1/1/91	1/1/92
ON
Steel Tugs - Humber Arm, "DEER LAKE" and "INDIAN LAKE"
Chief Engineer Assistant Engineer Mate
Deck Hand
95.58 4.30 95.21 4.28 93.75 4.22 92.83 4.18
99.88
99.49
97.97
97.01
102.71
102.32
100.80
99.84
113.08
112.69
111.17
110.21
118.30
117.91
116.39
115.43
123.77
123-38
121.86
120.90
Classifications Cookhouse Staff
First Cook Second Cook Cookee
Bunkhouseman
92.94	3.70
90.92	3.96
89.39	4.17
89.39	4.17
96.64
94.88
93.56
93.56
99.47
97.71
96.39
96.39
109.84
108.08
106.76
106.76
115.06
113.30
111.98
111.98
120.53
118.77
117.45
117.45
Miscellaneous
Watchman
Sub-Foreman
88.93	4.19
94.86	3.46
93.12
98.32
95.95
101.15
106.32
111.52
111.54
116.74
117.01
122.21
SCHEDULE "C"
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES FER M (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
Cut and Pile
1.25	Metre Rough Pulpwood g 2.50 Metre Rough Pulpwood
Combination Bunch and Pile
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood Cut and Bunch
1.25	Metre Rough Pulpwood
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood
Bundling Wood 3
Rate Per M
Actual Rate (Dec. 31/88)
Min.	Std.	Max.
12.93	14.15	16.36
14.12	16.31
13.23	15.29
11.81	12.87	14.78
12.37	14.27
.70
Adjusted Rate (Dec. 31/88)
Min. Std. Max.
13.19	14.43	16.69
14.40	16.64
13.49	15.60
12.05	13.13	15.08
12.62	14.56
70
SCHEDULE "C
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M'
J
(WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
Cut and Pile
1.25	Metre Rough Pulpwood
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood
Combination Bunch and Pile
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood Cut and Bunch
1.25	Metre Rough Pulpwood
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood
Bundling Wood 3
Rate Per M
Effective (Jan. 1/89)
Effective (Jan. 1/90)
Min. Std. Max.
Min. Std. Max.
13.54	14.82	17.14
14.79	17.08
14.85	16.24	18.79
16.21	18.73
13.85	16.02
15.18	17.56
12.37	13.48	15.48
12.96	14.95
13.56	14.78	16.98
14.21	16.39
70
I70
U
O
SCHEDULE "C"
3
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
Cut and Pile
1.25	Metre Rough Pulpwood
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood
Combination Bunch and Pile
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood Cut and Bunch
1.25	Metre Rough Pulpwood
2.50	Metre Rough Pulpwood
Bundling Wood 3
Rate Per M
Effective (Jan. 1/91)
Min.	Std.	Max.
15.51	16.96	19.62
16.93	19.56
15.85	18.34
14.16	15.44	17.73
14.84	17.12
.70
Effective (Jan. 1/92)
Min. Std. Max.
16.20	17.71	20.49
17.68	20.43
16.55	19.16
14.79	16.13	18.52
15.50	17.88
70
1.	$0.04 per M will be paid on all wood produced in respect of poor bush bonus.
2.	Cutters will not cut strip roads while cutting on their strips.
SCHEDULE "D"
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M3
PALLET LOGGING (1.25 METRE ROUGH PULPWOOD)
	Actual Rate			Adjusted Rate		
	(Dec	. 31/88)		(Dec	. 31/88)	
	Min.	Std.	Max.	Min.	Std.	Max.
5-Man Crew						
Feller and Bucker	9.58	11.35	15.34	9.67	11.46	15.48
Skidder Operator	2.54	3.00	4.03	2.56	3.03	4.07
	12.12	14.35	19.37	12.23	14.49	19.55
4-Man Crew						
Feller and Bucker	9.58	11.35	15.34	9.67	11.46	15.48
Skidder Operator	3.32	3.98	5.37	3.36	4.02	5.41
	12.90	15.33	20.71	13.03	15.48	20.89
5-Man Crew
1*0
Feller and Bucker Skidder Operator
4-Man Crew
Feller and Bucker
Skidder Operator
SCHEDULE "D"
3
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M
PALLET LOGGING (1.25 METRE ROUGH PULPWOOD)
Effective (Jan. 1/89)
Min. S td. Max.
9.93	11.77	15.90
2.62	3.11	4.18
12.55	14.88	20.08
9.93	11.77	15.90
3.45	4.13	5.56
13.38	15.90	21.46
Effective (Jan. 1/90)
Min ■	Std.	Max.
10.88	12.90	17.42
2.85	3.41	4.58
13.73	16.31	22.00
10.88	12.90	17.42
3.78	4.51	6.08
14.66	17.41	23.50
SCHEDULE "D"
3
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M
PALLET LOGGING (1.25 METRE ROUGH PULPWOOD)
5-Man Crew
U
u>
Feller and Bucker Skidder Operator
Effective (Jan. 1/91)
Min.
11.36
2.97
14.33
Std.
13.47
3.56
17.03
Max.
18.20
4.78
22.98
4-Man Crew
11.36	13.47	18.20
3.95	4,71	6.35
15.31	18.13	24.55
Effective (Jan. 1/92)
Min.
11.86
3.09
14.95
11.86
4.12
15.98
Std.
14.06 3.72
17.78
14.06 4.94
19.00
Max.
19.00 4.99
23.99
19.00 6.63
25.63
Feller and Bucker
Skidder Operator
SCHEDULE "D"
3
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M
TREE-LENGTH LOGGING
4-Man Crew
U
Feller and Bucker Skidder Operator
3-Man Crew
Feller and Bucker
Skidder Operator
Actual Rate (Dec. 31/88)
Min.	Std ■	Max.
5.16	6.32	7.85
1.83	2.14	2.74
6.99	8.46	10.59
5.16	6.32	7.85
2.68	3.19	4.08
7.84	9.51	11.93
Adjusted Rate (Dec.	3 1/88)
Min.	Std.	Max.
5.22	6.38	7.93
1.85	2.16	2.77
7.07	8.54	10.70
5.22	6.38	7.93
2.71	3.22	4.12
7.93	9.60	12.05
SCHEDULE "D"
3
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M
TREE-LENGTH LOGGING
4-Man Crew
Feller and Bucker Skidder Operator
Effective (Jan. 1/89)
Min.	Std.	Max
5.36	6.55	8.14
1.91	2.22	2.85
7.27	8.77	10.99
Effective (Jan. 1/90)
Min.	Std ■	Max.
5.88	7.18	8.92
2.08	2.44	3.12
7.96	9.62	12.04
3-Man Crew
Feller and Bucker
Skidder Operator
5.36	6.55	8.14
2.79	3.31	4.23
8.15	9.86	12.37
5.88	7.18	8.92
3.05	3.63	4.64
8.93	10.81	13.56
[Jh CO
SCHEDULE "D"
3
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M TREE-LENGTH LOGGING
jTSf
X"'
4-Man Crew
Feller and Bucker Skidder Operator
3-Man Crew
eller and Bucker kidder Operator
Effe ctive (Jan. 1/91)
Effe ctive (Jan. 1/92)
Std
Std
7.50
2.55
7.83
2.67
10.05
10.50
7.50
3.79
7.83
3.96
11.29
11.79
NOTE:	As of January 1 , 1985 , all employees working under Schedule "D" shall supply their own
chain saws. Said employees shall receive an allowance of $1.50 per hour worked. This allowance includes cost for saw, parts, chains, bars, files, fuels, lubricants and maintenance.
When a production crew is temporarily reduced from 4 to 3 men, except when an employee is taking a floating holiday, as outlined in Schedule "D" , the rate for the 3-man crew shall take effect immediately where possible, but in any event not later than one full day following the reduction. When an employee is taking a floating holiday, the higher rate will not be paid.
•-o
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED
To:	C , P,U,, LOCAL 6 0
During negotiations for renewal of the labour agreement, discussions were held relative to a contractor's failure to meet his financial obligations under the grievance procedure or his financial obligations to his employees.
Insofar as the grievance procedure is concerned, on receipt of written notice from the Union of a contractor's failure to perform any act within the time limits required, Corner Brook Pulp and Paper Limited will either rectify such failure without undue delay, or failing same, agrees to be substituted for the contractor during the remaining steps of the grievance procedures.
With regard to the financial obligations of a contractor to his employees, should the employee of such a contractor be unable to effect a settlement of such obligations by the contractor, in accordance with the agreement, Corner Brook Pulp and Paper Limited agrees to reimburse the contractor's employee to the extent of the financial loss suffered by the employee, which includes paying to third parties, deductions which should have been paid by the Contractor.
For and on behalf of Corner Brook Pulp and Paper Limited.
S.R. Weldon, Woodlands Manager.
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED
To:	C.P.U,, Local 60
Job Stewards
With reference to Clause 12,20 of the Labour Agreement, the following provisions shall apply relative to recall.
In case of recall, the Job Steward shall have preference of employment over all other employees provided he is capable of performing the available work efficiently.
It must be understood that this provision will only apply where a Job Steward .is being recalled to a camp or operation where he was originally elected as Steward.
The above provisions will only apply if the Job Steward is a regular employee (thirty (30) days or more seniority).
S.R, Weldon, Woodlands Manager.
79
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED and
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 6 0
Marshalling Points For Ten Year Operating Plan
Operating Area
North Branch Ocean Pond Rainy Brook Crabbes River West & East Bald Mountain
Robinsons
Trout Brook
Marshalling Points
(1)	Robinson's,
(2)	Jeffrey's,
(3)	McKays
Bus to originate in Robinson's and proceed to T,C,H, via Jeffrey's. St. David's, St, Fintans and Highlands, employees will meet the bus at intersection of St, David's and T.C,H,
(1)	St, David's
Bus will originate at St, David's and proceed to the T.C.H, and pick up employees from Jeffrey's, Robinson's, McKays, Heatherton, at intersection of Robinsons Road & T,C,H,
(1)	Camp 185 or Coal Brook,
from which bus will
originate.
(2)	Intersection of Stephenville Road and Hansen Highway.
80
Operating Area
Trout Brook (Cont1d.)
Bottom Brook and Camp 185 Area
Marshalling point
(3) Intersection Stephenville Crossing Road and Hansen Highway.
(1)	Camp 185 or if operation commuted, the following will apply,
(2)	Coal Brook from which bus will originate,
(3)	Intersection of Stephenville Road and Hansen Highway,
Glide Lake
Goose Arm including Camp 10 Brook, Camp 8 Brook, Kennedy Lake
(4) Intersection Stephenville Crossing Road and Hansen Highway.
(1)	Intersection Glide Lake Road and Trans Canada Highway.
(2)	If over 10 employees from Howley are required for this operation, a bus will originate at the Post Office in Howley,
(1)	Intersection of Route 430 and Nicholsville Road.
(2)	Intersection of Nicholsville Road and Goose Arm Road.
(3) If over 10 employees from Howley are required for this operation, a bus will originate at the Post Office in Howley,
(1) Intersection of Route 430 and Nicholsville Road.
81
Grindstone Pond
Operatinu Area
Grindstone Pond (Cont1d,)
Pyrin 1 s Brook
North Lake
Marshalling Points
(2)	If over 10 employees from Howley are required for this operation, a bus will originate at the Post Office in Howley,
(1)	Intersection of Glide Lake Road and T.C.H.
(2)	Intersection of T.C.H. and new Pynn's Brook Road.
(3)	If over 10 employees from Howley are required for this operation, a bus will originate at the Post Office in Howley,
(1)	Intersection of Route 430 and Nicholsville Road.
(2)	Intersection of Nicholsville Road and Goose Arm Road.
T.C.H. East
(1) Intersection of Glide Lake Road and T.C.H.
Hughes Brook -	(1) Bus will originate at
Old Man's Pond	Me Ivers and marshalling
point will be established enroute to Hughes Brook.
Corner Brook Lakes Camp 187 or Camp 184
Camp 184;	Camp 185 or Camp 184
Pikes Brook South
Pelley's Brook	(1) Camp 184; Camp 185 or
Camp 187 or if operation commuted, the following will apply,
82
Marshalling Points
(2)	Bus will originate in Coal Brook at an established marshalling point.
(3)	Intersection Stephenville Highway and Hansen Highway.
(4)	Intersection of Stephenville Crossing Highway and Hansen Highway.
(1)	Camp 185 or Camp 187 or if commuted, the following will apply,
(2)	Bus will originate in Coal Brook at an established marshalling point.
(3)	Intersection Stephenville Highway and Hansen Highway.
(4)	Intersection of Stephenville Crossing Highway and Hansen Highway.
Little Grand Lake (1) Camp 185 or if
operation commuted/ the following will apply.
(2)	Bus will originate in Coal Brook at an established marshalling point.
(3)	Intersection of Stephenville Highway and Hansen Highway.
(4)	Intersection of Stephenville Crossing Highway and Hansen Highway.
83
Operating Area
Pelley's Brook (Cont’d,)
Stray Pond
Operating Area	Marshalling Points
South Brook Valley (1) Intersection of Glide
Lake Road and T,C,H,
(2) Intersection of T.C.H and South Brook Road.
Hinds Lake	(1) Post Office - Howley
(2) If over 10 employees from Deer Lake are required for this operation, a bus will originate at the intersection of Glide Lake Road and T.C.H,
Halls Bay
Tommys Arm
Indian River Shoal Pond
(1)	Trition to South Brook.
Bus will originate at Triton and pick up employees from Cards Harbour, Pilleys Island, Roberts Arm, South Brook enroute, Employees from Port Anson and Miles Cove
will meet bus at
intersection to the Roberts Arm highway.
(2)	Springdale.
Bus will originate from
Springdale and pick up employees from Little Bay, Beach Side at intersection to the Springdale Road.
(1)	Triton to turn-off to operation as above.
(2)	South Brook.
Kings Point.
Gull Pond
Kings Point. 84
Operating Area	Marshalling Points
Voyins Brook	Hampden,
Upper Humber -	sop's Arm.
Main Sop's Arm
River
Burlington
6 Mile Valley
East River
River of Ponds, Western Bluey, Brians Pond
Battsau Barrens
Rocky Pond
NOTES
Middle Arm Burlington
Westport
Hawkes Bay
Bus originates at Parsons
Pond.
(1)	Hawkes Bay.
(2)	Parsons Pond.
Port Anson. Bus will originate from Port Anson and will pick up employees from Roberts Arm at the Roberts Arm intersection.
The designation of a marshalling point at the end of a bus route is dependent upon there being at least 10 employees that are using that marshalling point.
Marshalling points may be established for less than 10 men where that point falls along the bus route.
All marshalling points will be located so that the travel time will not exceed 1,5 hours from an operation to a marshalling point.
85
(3)
(4)	Only one bhs will be used to transport employees from the marshalling point at Hawley to Deer Lake. This bus will stop at the Deer Lake marshalling point so that employees may join another bus, if necessary, before proceeding to either the Glide Lake operation or any one of the operations on the North Shore of Deer Lake.
(5)	Should a change in operation occur or
other circumstances warrant, the parties will amend the marshalling points to accommodate same.
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
86
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
between
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED and
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 60
A)	Scaling Committee
As a result of our discussion during negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed to establish a Committee during the life of the Agreement to study all aspects of scaling. This Committee will consist of a maximum of six (6) persons with equal representation.
The objective of the committee is to make recommendations to the Woodlands Manager and the Union.
Cost of the Committee to be borne by the Employer.
B)	Seniority
As a result of our discussion during negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed to establish a Committee during the life of the Agreement to study all aspects of seniority. This Committee will consist of a maximum of six (6) persons with equal representation.
The objective of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Woodlands Manager and the Union.
87
FOR THE COMPANY
FOR THE UNION
88
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CORNER BROOK PIJT/P AND PAPER LIMITED
To:	C.P.U., Local 60
ANNUAL JOINT SAFETY MEETING
1
2
During spring of each year, the Company will arrange a Joint Union-Management Safety Meeting to be held at a Company camp.
One (1) Union and one (1) Management Representative from the Occupational Health and Safety Committee will prepare a tentative Agenda.
3.	Said Agenda will be confined to matters affecting Health and Safety and will be submitted to Management and Union for approval,
4.	The purpose of this meeting is to develop and support joint participation in Health and Safety on Company operations.
5.	Management and Supervisory Personnel, Executive Officers of the Local Union and a Union Representative from each operation should attend.
6.	Board and lodging will be at Company expense at said camp.
7.	Employees attending the JJoniexeiifig, who would have been scheduled to work at the time of the meeting, will be paid eight (8) hours at their regular hourly rate for each day lost.
S.R. Weldon, Woodlands Manager.
89
LETTER OF AGREEMENT between
CORNER BROOK PULP AND PAPER LIMITED and
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 60
II) It is agreed that the Company may purchase pulpwood in round wood and/or chip form from pulpwood contractors operating on both crown land and company limits to a total of 35% of its annual requirement.
2)	It is further agreed that for purchased wood from the Company limits, employees working on such operations will not be covered by the collective Labour Agreement.
3)	The Company will notify the Union of the name and location of the above pulpwood contractors on Company limits.
4)	The Company will advise the Union of
quantities purchased at the end of May and December of each year.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed this Agreement by their duly authorized representatives on this	day of
1990.
90
DETAILED ALPHABETICAL INDEX
'A"
Clause Page
Abnormal curtailment of operations Access roads Accidental death and dismemberment Accident - Leave
12,14
10,36
21,00
11
8 ,09
8,06a
8 , 07
8,08
8,06a
8,06a
43
30
52-53
12,02	39-40
	- Seniority	12,06	41
"Act of God" - Definition		12 ,13	42
Advisory	committee on training	20.01	52
Agreement	-	Purpose -	Term; termination or	1.01	2
Alternate	change work - Breakdown;	2 ,01	2-3
10b
06c
08
37-38
17
17
refusal
Arbitration Board-Decision Final -Expenses -Extension of time limits -Failure to appoint nominee or arbitrator -Functions and limitations -Majority decision
-Minister of
Labour
-Time limits on appointments -Time limits on decision	8,06c
Arbitrator - Sole	8,06b
Average price for wood - Notice Other to Union	Provisions 54-55
18
16-17
17
17
16-17
16-17
17
17
”B"
Back dues
Bargaining unit - Sub-Foremen Batching
Bereavement leave - See Funeral Leave
Board and lodging - Commuters Board rate
5,05	6
12,02	39-40
10.16	24
19,01	51
12,15	43
10,29a	28
91
Clause Page
Brakes Cove - Overtime meal Breakdown - General - Employee available; layoff' longer than one week; power saws - Guaranteed rate Bulldozer - Cabs Bulletin Boards Bumping - On lay-off
- Loss at recall Bunkhousemen
- No handling food, dishes Bunkhouses - See camp
10.42
11.10b
11,10a
10.41
10.43
12.21
12.04
18.01
19 ,03
10.19
31
37-38
36
31
31
45
40-41
50-51
51
25
'C"
11.05, 11.05b
Call-out
Camp access roads	10.36
Camp premises - Definition	11.12
Camp - Private transportation	16.05
- Sleeping quarters, night
shift	10.18c	25
Camp staff - Pay in lieu of time
off at shutdown	11.09	36
-	Sleeping quarters	10.18d	25
-	Weekends off;
working hours	11.08	35
Camps operated by Company -Notice to Union
34-35
30
38-39
48
Camp standards-Bedding,bedrooms
-Construction -Drying Rooms -Facilities -Food service -Lighting -Recreation rooms -Television, radio -Washing facilities 10 Chain saws - See power saws Change in operations - Notice to Union	10.02
Change of shift - Breakdown	11,10b
Change of termination of Agreement	2.01
Check-off - Union dues	5.04
Other
Provisions
10.19
10.20
10.23 10.18a,b
10.27
10.21
10.24 10.26
22
54-55
25
25
26
24-	25 27-28
25-	26 26
26
26
18
37-39
2-3
6
92
Clause Page
Claims for funeral pay Classification changes Classification - New - Rate Clothing allowance Coffee breaks
Coleman stoves - Fuel, parts Commuter buses - Two way radios Commuter - Definition Commuter operations -Union sign-ups
Commuter allowance - No lumping
19,02 12 , 18 4,02 10.31
10 ,28 10,06c 10,39 16,01
5.09
Special Provisions
16 .06
-	Where a camp exists Commuting - Board and Lodging
-	Marshalling point
-	Transportation Conditions of employment
-	Safety pants
-	Safety hats
-	Union membership Contracting limitations on
mechanics
Contractor - Definition
-	Definition for Article 8 Contractors - Bound by Contract
-	Excluded from Agreement
-	Producing pulpwood -
Notice to	Union	Other
Provisions
-	Working	3.02b
Cookery staff	18,01
-	Night shift	18,04
-	No other work	18,03
Overtime rates	- Fire	fighting 18.05
16 .05 16.02 16.03
14.03b
14,03b
5,02
3 .02a 1,02a 1,02b 3 ,02a
3,02c
Cooking fuel Court proceedings - Leave Cubic metre - Definition Cutter - Rotation
.	.	3
Cutting price per m
Cutting rates
18.02
12,02
Scaling
Other
Provisions
Other
Provisions
- Pallet Logging	Schedule	"D"
- Tree length logging	Schedule	"D"
- Without guarantee	Schedule	"C"
93
51-52
44
5
29
28
20-21
30 48
7-8
55-56
48
48
48
48
46-47
46-47
6
3
2
2
3
4
54-55
3-4
50
51 51 51 51
39-40
56-57
54-55
54-55
7 1-73 74-76 68-70
Clause Page
Cutting wood - Rates
Other
Provisions 54-55
"D"
Daily wage rates	Schedule "B"
Dangerous work	14.05
Day off hours - Definition	11,03c
Day off - Rate if worked	11.06
- Scheduled to work	11.05
Day shift - Hours	11,04a
Day workers - Own saws	10.15
Days lost - Sickness or injury 12.02 Death in family - Leave (see funeral leave Demotions - Seniority Dental Plan
Discharge - Notice to Union;
Redress if unjust - Seniority
Disciplinary action - Just Cause Discontinuation of work Divisions	12.17
- Designation	12.09
Double time - Sundays	11,05a
Dues check off	5.04
19.01
12.01 21.00
67
47
32
35
34-35
32
23-24
39-40
51
39
52-53
16
41 47 38
43-44
42 34 6
"E"
Education - Leave	12.02	39-40
Employee - Definition 3.02 a, 3.03	3,4
Employees - Co-operation in
cleanliness	10.01	18
Employer and Union
- Living Conditions	10.03	18-19
Employer - Definition	1,02a	2
Employer' s rights	10.02	18
Evening snacks	10.28	28
Exclusions from Union	3.01	3
up ii
Family - Definition Fellers and buckers
Breakdown
19.03	52
11.10a	36
94
Clause Page
Fire extinguishers -Loss or damage;
power saw operators; supply Fire - Personal belongings
-	Pulpwood destroyed Fire fighting
-	Cookery staff
-	Daily working time; pay
-	Time and one half Fire prevention
-	Coleman stoves
-	Lunch shelters
-	Power saw operators First aid
-	In case of accident Floating holidays Food service Footwear - Subsidy Fringe benefits
Fuel - Cooking
- Power saws
Funeral leave - Conditions; pay; time
Funeral pay - Claims
"G"
Garages - Exhaust fumes General start-up - Leeway Grievance - Definition; stages; time limits
-	Procedure
-	Union - "between the
parties"
-	Unjust discharge
-	Working contractors Group Life Insurance
10,
10 , 10 ,
10
09
08
19
19
,01
,02
21
21
21
51
51-52
31
40-41
14-15
13-14
16
16
16
52-53
"H"
Hand Cleaner Hard hats
Hauling - Piecework - Rates
10.34	29
14,03b	46-47
Special
Provisions 55-56
95
Clause Page
Hiring - Preference to Union Members - Seniority
Holiday hours - Definition
5,07
12,01
11.03b
Day counted for	
eligibility	7 , 06
Eligibility	7 ,02
Falling on day off	7,01
Floating	7,07
No work, days before	
and after	7 , 04
Pay	7,05
Qualifying time -	
Christmas Day	7 , 03
Rate if worked	11,06
When observed	7,01
Worked	7,06
Hourly wage rates	Schedule "A"
Hours of work - Camp staff	11,08
"I"
6-7
39
32
12-13
11-12
11
13
12
12
13
35
11
12-13
59-66
35
Immediate family - Definition	19,03	52
Initiation fees - Union	5,05	6
Injury - First Aid; reporting	14,02	46
Isolated locations	14,05	47
"j"
Job classifications	-	New	-	Rates	4,02	5
Job posting	12,19	44
Jurisdiction-Area; classification	3.06	4
-Disputes between Unions	3,07	4-5
Jury duty - leave Just cause
12 , 02 15,01
39-40
47
"L"
Lay-off - Loss of seniority	12,05	41
- Notice	12,13	42
K
96
Clause
-	Seniority
-	Transfers bumping) Leave for injury or sickness
- Return
Leave of absence Leeway - On recall - On lay-off Living conditions - Cleanliness; sanitation Lockouts Logging Camp Act Lumping
Lunch breaks
12,01
12,21
12,07 12.02 12 , 04 12,21
, 17
,01
-	Three Shifts
Lunches shelters - Coleman Stoves
-	Standards; Union-Management Committee
10 9 , 10,01 Special Provisions 10,28 11,02b 11,04e 10,06c
10,06b
M"
Marked Gas Marshalling point Maternity Leave Meals
-	On weekends Meal time
-	Three Shifts
Mechanics-Contracting limitations Medical attention - In case of accident
10,12a 16.02 12,02 10 ,27 10,29b 11,02b 11,04e 3,02a
14,02
Medical - Drug Plan	21,00
Metric Tools	10,14a
Mobile radio telephones	10,39
"N"
New classifications - Rates
Night shift - Cook
-	Differential
-	Hours
Non-commencement of work Notice of recall
12 , 18 4,02 18 . 04 11,04c 11,04b 11,12 12,04
Page
39
45
41-42
39-	40
40-	41 45
24
18
18
55-56
28
32
33
20-21
20
22
48
39-40
27-28
28
32
33 3
46
52-53
23
30
44
5
51
32
32
38-39
40-41
97
Clause
Page
"0"
Officers and representatives of
Union - Lists Overtime
-	Meal
-	Rate
-	Schedule "C"
5.08	7
11.02a	31-32
10.44	34
11.06	35
Special
Provisions 55-56 Owner - Operators	3.01, 12.22	3/45
-	Operation of equipment 10.14b, 12.22	23,45
-	Rental rates - No Lumping Special
Provisions 55-56
„P"
Pallet logging Pay - day; delays; memo of earnings; week - in event of breakdown Pension Plan Piecework
Schedule "D" 71-77
10.04	19
11.10a	36
21.00	52-53
-	Cutting rates	Schedule
-	Minimum rates; overtime rates; without guarantee; hauling rates
-	Pallet logging
-	Tree length logging Piecework - Hand tools Policy grievance Poor bush bonus Power says - Day workers
-	Storage, repair; supply to pieceworkers
Preference - To job steward
-	To Union Members	12,
-	Hiring	5,
Private vehicles - Commuting	16.
-Where a camp exists	16.05
Promotions - Seniority	12.01
Purpose of Agreement	1.01
68-70
Special Provisions Schedule "D" Schedule "D" 10.14b 8.05
Schedule "C" 10.15
10.11a 12.20 18 07 04
55-56
71-77
71-77
23
16
68-70
23-24
22
44-45
44
6-7
48
48
39
2
98
Clause Page
"Q
Quitting - Seniority
12.05
11R"
Rates - Daily	Schedule	"B"
- Hourly	Schedule	"A"
-	Pallet Logging -	Piecework without	Schedule	"D"
guarantee	Schedule	"C"
- Tree length logging	Schedule	"D"
Recall - Approximate date; notice; reporting for work; failure to report; leeway	12.04
-	Failure to report - Seniority	12.05
-	No work available	11.13
-	On Leave, injury or sickness	12.07
-	Seniority	12.01
Recognition of Union	3.01
Recreational Committee	10.40
Refusal - Alternate work	11.10b
- Union membership	5.03
Rehiring - Certificate of fitness 12.06 Remittance of deductions to Union 5.06
Reporting for work
-	Camp; Commuters	11.12
-	Failure to report - Seniority 12.05
-	Recall
-	Unable to report Retroactivity
12.04
12.02
- New classification rates Return passes Rotation of Cutters
4.03
12.06
Other
Provisions
41
67
59-66
71-77
68-70
71-77
40-	41 41
39
41-	42 39
3
30-31
37-	38 6
41
6
38-	39 41
40-41
39-	40
5
41
54
"S"
Safe practices Safe transportation Safety apparel - Footwear
10.36	30
14.04	47
14.03	46-47
10.30	29
99
Clause Page
Saw rental - Transfer from another classification	10
Schedule 11C" - Breakdown	11
-	Own saws; spare saws; hire
for spare saws	10
-	Saw rental	10
Scheduling hours	11
Seniority
- Accumulation; definition; days not worked; employed by Union or
in Management
-	Curtailment of operations
-	Effective date
-	Extended breakdown
-	Failure to report on recall
-	Loss
-	Principles Seniority lists
-	Designation of Division
-	Entry Shacking Shift changes
Shift differential - Nights
- Third Shift
Shift scheduling Shifts - Two shifts
- Three shifts Shutdown - Emergency jobs
-	Seniority
-	Notice Sickness - Leave
-	Seniority Side hill roads
Skidding operations - Supply of saws; rental of personal saws; gas and oil
Skill, efficiency, ability Sole arbitrator Stages of grievance Starting times - Staggered Steward - Super seniority Strikes
12 12 12 11 12 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 , 12 . 10 , 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11.
12 , 12 , 12 ,
12 , 10,
,13 , 10b
, lib , 13 . 04 f
02
14
03 10b
04
05 01 16 09
03 16
04	f 04c 04e 04f 04d 04e
04
13
02
06 30
23
37-38
22
23
33
39-	40 43
40
37-38
40-	41
41
39 43
42
40 24
33-34
32
33
33-34
32
33
40-
42
39-
41
29
41
40
100
Clause Page
Strip roads - Cutters on strips Strip width
Sub-foreman - Selection; coverage by Agreement - Seniority
(Summer road construction -operation of equipment Sunday hours - Definition Sunday - Double time Super seniority - Job steward Supervisors - Work restrictions suspension - Notice to Union;
redress if unjust
Schedule "C"	68-70
10.30
3.05 12 , 02
10,14b 11,03a 11.05a 12 . 20 3,04
8 ,04
29
4
39-40
23
32
34
44-45
4
16
it rpii
Telephones	10,39
Temporary lay-off - Leeway	12,04
Term of Agreement; termination or change
Three - Shift operation; third shift differential Tools - Tradesmen; metric;
provided by employer -Pieceworkers Trades adjustments Tradesmen- Hand tools Transfers- Between camps
-	Between Divisions
-	On lay-off
-	Seniority
-	Permanent transfer
-	Temporary transfer
-	Travelling expenses
-	Within classifications 12 Transportation - Safe practices 14
- Standards
Travelling time Tree length logging	Schedule "D"
Two-Shift operation	ll,04d
2,01
11,04e
10,14a 10 , 14b
Schedule "A" 10.14a 10,32 12 , 10 12,21 12 ,01 12 ,12 12
11 10,32 , 18 04 10,06a 11,07
30
40-41
2-3
33
23
23
59-66
23
29
42
45
39
42
42
29
44
47
19-20
35
71-77
32
101
Clause Page
"U1
Union business - Seniority, leave of absence
Union Committee Union - Dues check-off
-	Exclusion; recognition Union grievances
Union- Hiring preference to members
-	Initiation fees; back dues
-	List of officers, representatives
-	Meetings in dining room Union membership - Conditions of
Employment; suspension of member by Union - Solicitation
Union - Preference to members
-	Refusal to join
-	Remittance of deductions Union representatives - Board;
credentials; visiting operations Unions steward - Room Unjust discharge or suspension -Grievance procedure; redress
5
5
12 . 5 , 5
5
10
,02
,01
18
03
.06
0 9 38
"V"
Vacation - Commencement, method and
timing of payment	6.08
-	New legislation	6,11
-	Pay	6,02
- Pay in lieu	6,09, 6,10
-	Pay upon separation	5,03
-	Planning and
scheduling	6,04, 6,07
-	Time off, basis for
entitlement	6,01
Van -	Bill	10,05a
-	Minimum hours	10.05b
-	No profit	10,05c
39-40
14
6
3
16
6-7
6
7
30
6
5
44
6 6
7
30
16
10
10-11
8-	9 10 9
9-	10
8
19
19
19
102
Clause Page
w
Wage rates - Daily - Hourly Wage Schedules Walking and riding time
-	Basis
-	Limits
-	No lumping
-	Pay
-	Two crews Weekly Indemnity Winter rate - Piecework witho
guarantee Work discontinued - Pay Working alone Working contractors
-	Grievance
Working hours - Camp staff
-	Day shift
-	night shift
Worksite operated by Company - Notice to Union
Work week - Employees - Operations
Schedule "B" Schedule "A" 4.01
17.01
17.03 Special
Provisions
17.02
17.04 21.00
ut
Schedule "C" 11.11
14.05 3.02b 8.05
11.08
11.04a
11.04b
Other
Provisions
11.02a
11.01
67
59-66
5
49
49
55
49
49
52-53
68-70
38
47
3-4
16
35
32
32
54-55
31-32
31
"X Y Z
103