AGREEMENT
Between
E.	B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
LOCAL 2693, i W A Canada (hereinafter referred to as the '’Union")
SEPTEMBER 1,	1993 TO AUGUST 31, 1998
00035 (04)
INDEX
Adjustment of Grievance .......... .
Bereavement Pay ....................
Board and Lodging...................
Bulletin Boards ....................
Commuters
Commuter Allowance ...............
cookery Schedule ...................
Cost of Living Allowance . . . .
Dental Care Plan ...................
Fuelwood Rates .....................
General Wage Increases ........... .
Holidays with Pay ..................
Hours of Work.......................
Hourly Rates .......................
Job Description
Mechanics .......................
welders .........................
Jury Duty...........................
Long Term Disability ...............
Medical, Surgical, Drug and
Hospital Care Plans .............. .
No Strike-No Lockout ...............
Pension Plan .......................
Period ............................
Piecework .........................
Piecework Rates .................
Piecework Rates Laundry ....
Purpose ...........................
Rates and Classifications . . . . Recognition - Jurisdiction . . . Salvaging Pulpwood on Right-of-Way
Scaling ...........................
Silvicultural Agreement ............
Seniority .........................
Trade Apprentice Program	. . . . .
Travel Allowance ...................
Union Membership ...................
Vacation with Pay ..................
Vision Care Plan ...................
Walking Distance and Riding Time
Weekly Indemnity ...................
Working-Living Conditions . . . . .
ARTICLE	PAGE
8
17
19 13 21 21 21 21
20 21 21
7
11
21
(J)
(K)
(B)
(E)
(A)
(A)
8
30
31 29
42
43 45 36 31 41 36
6
19
31
47
49
18	31
16	30; 94 to 48
14
9
2
1
21
3
21
12
21
5
6
XXI
21
16
10
29
11
51
1
37
39
41
1
34
1
(H)	41
37, 41 55 to 58 25 46
(L)	45
3
5
33
(F)	41
30, 87 to 93 12
INDEX
Addendum:
To The Agreement
Silvicultural Work.................«... 55,56,57,58
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Silviculture - Hours of Work ................
Air Transportation ..........................
Camp Cookeries Weekends .....................
Climatic Controls ...........................
Disability Plan .............................
Disability Plan C.P.P........................
Early Start - Fire Season ...................
Holidays With Pay ...........................
Hours of Work ...............................
Labour Shortage - Camp 12 ...................
Layoffs and Recalls .........................
Seniority on Layoff .........................
Major Medical ...............................
Piecework ...................................
Piecework - Crew Size .......................
Posting Work Schedule .......................
Privately Owned Equipment ...................
Recognition - Jurisdiction ..................
Recognition - Jurisdiction (Volume) .........
Third Party Operator ........................
Recognition - Jurisdiction (Allocated Fibre)
Travel Time .................................
Truck and Bus Drivers' Licence ..............
Washing Facilities Cookery Personnel ........
Amendment to Article VI (Vacation Pay) ......
Camp Costs...................................
Inter Camp Transfers ........................
Training ....................................
Cookery Personnel ...........................
59
60 61 62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75 & 76
77
78
79
80 81 82
83
84
85
86
87
88
1
ARTICLE I ~ PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions, and living conditions as specified in Article x of the Agreement and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognised as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1, 1993 to August 31, 1998 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desire to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September 1st, of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
The Collective Agreement will be renewed for a period of three (3) years, September 1, 1993 to August 31, 1996, following which the Agreement will be i-e-opened for the sole purpose of negotiating general wage increases only for a further two (2) year period from September 1, 1996 to August 31, 1998.
All other provisions of this Collective Agreement taking effect on September 1, 199 3, will remain effective up to and including August 31, 1998.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a) . The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in Woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company. For purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on job classifications which may be established and become part of the attached wage schedule during the term of this Agreement.
2
article hi - recognition - jurisdiction ~ Continued
3.01	(b). The employees of Contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the. Company shall be considered employees within the terms of [this} Agreement; save and except the employees of Contractors and/or the Contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are' engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement, with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body, covering such work.
3.01 (c) . The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a Third Party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the six negotiating companies, shall have
^a^ agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.01	(d) . This section is subject to the provision of Letter of Understanding - Recognition - Jurisdiction.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose
employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergencywhich involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV ~ RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, thematter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods includingmaj or alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least 30 days advance notice in writing.
3
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.03	- Continued
During the 30 day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union, and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the wage schedule.
Following the implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached wage schedule. In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within 30 days of the effective date of the change or alterations the matter may be referred to Stage III of the Grievance procedure. The 30-day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
New rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached wage schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from day work to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees
covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitations as hereinafter provided.
5.0	2 (a). Subject to the provision of the Labour Relations Act and the regulations made thereunder, any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
4
ARTTCLP V - unioN MEMBERSHIP - Continued
5.02	(b) . The Company shall, after complying with Article XII Seniority, advise the Union from time to time of the Company's labour requirements. When hiring additional employees the Company will give preference to Union members who apply and who are capable of doing work required of them. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week.
5.02	(c) . New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall, upon hiring, advise all new employees by letter to report to the Union Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5.03	An individual employee, who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, the Company agrees that it will deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5.04	Remittance of all deductions shall be sent to the Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemised lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled, stated date of birth, and amount by camps. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the following month.
Each employee's tax slip T-4 shall show the amount of union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business and shall report to camp supervisor or clerk on arrival at Camp. Credentials carried by the Union Representatives shall consist of a certificate of authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Union; and said representatives to be provided board and lodging if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.06	The Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Union
Officers and Representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur. The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes.	Failure to
advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
5
ARTICLE VI ~ VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a). Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of termination of employment, or at the employee's option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken. Administration - Company agrees by April 1, 1981 at time vacation with pay credits are paid, amounts and income tax deductions will be set out separately on pay stub.
See Letter of Understanding - Vacation Pay.
6.01	(b). Each 2 % increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time off.
An employee who has worked continuously for one (1) year, must take his full entitlement to time off, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his supervisor.
An employee has the right to take his full entitlement to time off, whether or not he has worked continuously for one
(1)	year at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his supervisor.
6.02	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
(a.) 4% of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than 800 days.
(b.) 6% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days.
(c.) 8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked
2,000	days or more but less than 4,000 days.
(d.)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have
worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5,400 days.
(e.)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have
worked more than 5,400 days.

Supplementary Vacation with Pay.
6
ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH PAY - Continued
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
1	Week ( 2 % of gross earnings)
2	Weeks	(	4	%	of	gross	earnings)
3	Weeks	(	6	%	of	gross	earnings)
4	Weeks	(	8	%	of	gross	earnings)
5	Weeks	(10	%	of	gross	earnings)
It is agreed that employees with vacation entitlement will be encouraged to utilize a scheduled vacation period shutdown as part of their vacation time entitlement.
6.03	Days worked for purposes of this Article shall mean
all days worked, plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor, plus the total number of days on Union business, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty and bereavement leave in any calendar year. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of service for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid
without the performance of work for the following holidays: New Years Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
When any of the above holidays falls on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
Age 60 -Age 61 -Age 62 -Age 63 -Age 64 -
The holidays, Dominion Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on any such other day as may be mutually agreed to by the parties to this agreement.
7
7.02	In the case of Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day holidays, qualified employees to be eligible for holiday pay, must work their last work day or shift preceding the holiday and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shift following the holiday.
7.03	In the case of Labour Day, Christmas, Boxing Day and New Years Day, there will be a scheduled shutdown excluding essential services.
It is agreed that dates will be arranged by the parties. Either party may initiate discussions at least two (2) weeks prior to the holiday. See Letter of Understanding - Christmas Shutdown.
Qualified employees to be eligible for holiday pay must work their last day or shift preceding the holiday shutdown and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shift following the holiday shutdown.
7.04	Notwithstanding the preceding it is further agreed that qualified employees shall receive pay for the holidays.
(a) . Where they have been laid off for lack of work in the thirty (30) days immediately preceding the holiday.
(b>. Where an employee who qualifies under Section
12.02	is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 30 day period.
(c)	. Where a holiday or holidays occur during their
absence from work on an authorised vacation provided they return to work on time.
The employee shall be entitled to additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
(d)	. Where for reasons beyond an employee's control
he has not been able to report to work on time he shall receive pay for the holidays.
(e)	See Letter of Understanding re: early departure.
8
(f). Where an employee qualifies under Section 12.02 and is recalled and works any time during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.05	In the special case of Christmas, Boxing Day or New
Years holiday, a qualified employee who has requested and who has been granted a leave of absence not more than ten (10) days before the holiday and who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready to work on time, will be paid for the holidays. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
Where in accordance with 7.03 the scheduled Christmas, Boxing Day, New Year's shutdown includes the three (3) holidays, the employee who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready for work on time will be eligible for pay for the three (3) holidays.
Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.06	(a). If qualified, a day worker shall be paid a day's pay at his or her regular rate, and a pieceworker a day's pay at the Feller Limber rate, for each holiday.
7.06	(b). If qualified, a day worker who is requested to work on any holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate; double time for all hours worked after having worked eight (8) hours on the holiday. In addition he shall receive one day's pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday.
7.06	(c). Pieceworkers shall not work on holidays.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that
complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
9
8.02	(a). The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act as spokesman for that committee. In the absence of the Steward the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02 (b) . It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner toward the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men or other Union members.
8.02	(c) . To be eligible for electionas Union Steward an employee
must have established seniority under Section 12.02 of Article XII.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the
employee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours.	No grievance shall be
recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman in accordance with this procedure, in writing will be disposed of by the foreman, in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
STAGE 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or the Union Representative with the District Logging Superintendent within ninety-six (96) hours in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The District Logging Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 -Within ten (10) days the matter shall be taken up by officers of the Union and/or their representatives with the Manager - Logging Operations of the Company or his representative. The one exception to this procedure shall be in the soecial case provided under Section 8.08 of this Article. In this 'case the matter may be taken up by the employee himself, or with the knowledge and consent of the employee, by Union representatives by presenting the case to the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative in writing.
10
In either of the above cases the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative shall make a reply in writing within seven (7) days. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 4 - The matter shall be referred within fifteen (15) calendar days to the General Manager - Forestry Division or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union President or his representative. Either party may request the presence of the President of the Northern Ontario District Council of I. W. A. Canada, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days then,
STAGE 5 - Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.05	In Arbitration the Company and the Union shall each
select one man; these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Ministry of Labour to appoint a third party.
Nothingherein shall prevent the parties frommutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.06	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for jobclassifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates thereof. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.07	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and legal holidays shall
not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
12.
8.08	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that
his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary
to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.09 Each part of this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8 . 10	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to
the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure.
8.11	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section
8.03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager - Forestry Division, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.12	Notwithstanding the above, the time 1 imits established
in this Article may be extended if mutually agreed upon by both parties.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported
by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
12
ARTICLE X - WORKING - LIVING CONDITIONS 1. GENERAL CONDITIONS
10.01	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each
particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.02	It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, and recreation. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.03	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall
cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain
a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions andpractices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of chairman shall alternate between a Company chairman and a Union chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate with copies going to the Company office, the Union office and the Camp bulletin board.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at the regular or premium rate as may be proper.
10.04	The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will be maintained by his supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.05 It is agreed that there shall be properly equipped first aid kits sufficient for normal reauirements, located at or near all worksites and in all vehicles or boats regularly used for the transportation of men.
Two (2) employees from each district safety committee will be trained as required under Bill 208.
TRANSPORTATION
13
10.06	Only factory built vehicles shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places.
The Company will provide radio communications on the bus used to transport the employees from the marshalling point to the worksite on the West Branch commuter operation.
The Company will provide two-way radios in Drott Feller Buncher and on the Cartier commuter operation when operating within range of the present radio system.
In respect to the Ramsey operation, a Company Supervisor will escort the buses travelling to and from the camp and worksites. In circumstances where this may not be practical, any irregularity from normal bus arrival will be immediately investigated.
The Company will install C.B. Radios in all West Branch haul trucks.
HELICOPTERS - AIR TRANSPORTATION
Refer to Letter of Understanding
3 . CAMP CONDITIONS
10.07	It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a T.V. set where T.V. programmes are receivable and will provide separate drying rooms, wash rooms, inside toilets and showers. A lock up storage type locker will be provided for each
14
3, CAMP CONDITIONS - 10.07 - Continued
man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
10.08	All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36M in width spaced 38" apart. All mattresses shall be either air foam, plastifoam or spring filled. In construction of new camps, the Company agrees to construct all living quarters into suitable rooms having no more than two (2) employees per room.
The Company agrees to supply two cleansheets and one clean pillow case per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived in camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once eachmonth, and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in a serviceable condition at all times.
10.09	The Company agrees that pest control measures will be carried out in the camps and in the camp areas as and when required.
The Company will look into possible remedial measures to alleviate the sandfly problem at all camps. All lunch shack screening will be maintained in good repair and pest control equipment made available.
10.10	All night shiftworkers shall have separate sleeping
quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical.
The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business;
10.11	All main bunkhouses will be provided with drinking
fountains and paper drinking cups. Washroom facilities will be made available to the laundry workers at Ramsey.
The Company will install ice machines in the camp at Ramsey and Camp 12.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employee's cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps. Air conditioning units will be installed in cookeries.
15
10.12	Night watchmen - delete clause - current incumbents, are to be protected for as long as they remain watchmen.
10.13	At each operating camp, a separatesuitable and heated building shall be provided for the repair and storage of power saws. said building, also to contain sufficient lock-up type lockers for storage, work bench, vise and chain breaker. Compressed air will be provided in the power saw and repair building. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters.
4. KITCHENS
10.14	Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficientquantity and shall include fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
10.15	Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable food stuffs shall be handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all times.
10.16	The Company will continue to supply butter at meals to employees.
10.17	Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers, allowing self service for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.18	Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.19	At the request of the camp Grievance Committee, suitable lunch shacks will be provided where there are concentrations of men. Such shacks to be heated during the period October 1st to April 30th and during the summer months shall have protective screens. The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch shack for year round use.
10.20	There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon, and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
10.21	The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons, on loan and other suitable uniform apparel at cost,
and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
INSURANCE
16
10.22	The Company will provide free insurance coverage against
loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee owned power saws at full replacement value to a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and will provide additional free insurancecoverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools while on Company property or work sites. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in adesignated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employee owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire wilfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee owned power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
6. PAY CONDITIONS
10.23	Company will agree to implement a weekly pay commencing first week in January, 1989. Discussions will be held with the local union grievance committee to review the procedure we will follow. Pay will be distributed after 4:00 p.m. Thursday.
10.24	Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on a Friday payday, payment will be made on Thursday of that week.
10.25	In instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employee's payroll credit.
10.26	A Time and Earnings statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued vacation pay credit and deductions covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp.
10.27	Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination,
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.28	The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (1) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale Slips will be given to each pieceworker at least 48 hours prior to the wood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information where applicable - butt size and species as outlined on page 37/38, or number of pieces (tree length), riding and/or walking bonus, footage of strip or main road cut, and poor bush bonus.
17
7. COMPANY SUPPLIED EQUIPMENT
10.29	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair iob,. he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment, as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
10.30	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be providedwith free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced
when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
The Company agrees to stock safety type power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at the invoiced cost to Company.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
8. SAFETY EQUIPMENT
10.31	The company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all
safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and mitts.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety pants at twelve dollars ($12.00) below cost price to the Company, effective September 1,	1994 increase safety boots subsidy at
twenty dollars ($20.00) per pair to thirty dollars ($30.00) per pair below cost price to the Company and safety gloves and mitts to power saw operators and to persons handling cable, at seven dollars ($7.00) below cost price to the Company.
Effective September 1, 1996 increase the boot subsidy from $30.00 per pair to $40.00 per pair.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
TRANSFERS CAMP TO CAMP
9 .
10.32	The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company's request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intentions to do so and shall be paid 20 cents per km. for using own vehicle.
Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding rate per day for pieceworkers and normal travel time, outside an employees scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of 8 hours at the regular straight time rate for dayworkers and the above rate for pieceworkers.
Refer to Letter of Understanding - Re: Hours of Work.
10.	MECHANIC FIELD PAY
10.33	(a) . Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bush garage shall receive 500 per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate.
<b). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a main camp garage required to perform work of their trade away from a main camp garage will be paid 50b per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main camp garage.
The Company agrees that the tradesmen assigned to the "Slasher" (Ramsey) will be paid in accordance with 10.33
(b)	.
(c)	, Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paid 500 per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
11.	COVERALLS
10.34	The Company will supply mechanics, welders, and machinists suitablecoveralls and provide for laundering the same, two per week, free of charge.
12.	CLIMATIC CONTROL
10.35
See Letter of Intent attached (re: Climatic Controls).
19
ARTTCT.F, XT - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a). The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The workweek for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in day work jobs on the day shift Monday to Friday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section
11.05	(a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
11.01	(b) . For the purpose of this agreement Sunday, a paid holiday and the "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.02	(a). The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., mealtime excepted.
11.02	(b) . The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted.
However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift
may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement be scheduled to commence prior to 7:00 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of 11.03 (b) .
11.02 (c) . During the period of May 1 to September 30, two shift scarification operations may commence at 6:00 a.m..
11.03	(a). Effective September 1, 1991 a night shift differential of fifty-five cents ($.55) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work.
11.03 (b) . On other two-shift operations the first shall consist
of	eight	(8)	consecutive	hours,	mealtime	excepted,	and	shall
commence at 7:00 a.m. or after, the second shift shall consist of	eight	(8)	consecutive	hours,	mealtime	excepted,	and	shall
commence prior to 7:00 p.m., and shall carry a shift differential of fifty-five cents ($.55) per hour.
20
11,03 (c) . On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows:
		Starting	Time	Stopping		Time
		(between the	hours of)	(between the	hours	of)
1st	shift	7 a.m. -	8 a.m.	3 p.m.	- 4	p.m.
2nd	shift	3 p . m. -	4,p.m.	11 p.m.	- 12	a.m.
3rd	shift	11 p. m. -	12 a.m.	7 a.m.	- 8	a.m.
Shift Differential
1st Shift, Nil:	2nd Shift, $.45 per hour:	3rd Shift, $.55
per hour.
Effective September 1, 1991
1st Shift, Nil:	2nd Shift, $.55 per hour:	3rd Shift, $.65
per hour.
21
11.03	(d). The hours of work and the "sixth day" for dayworkers
and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:	(see
Letter of Understanding).
1.	An employeemay not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2.	The Company and the Union agree to extend the
starting time interval from the present one hour to a maximum of	two	hours.	The	extended interval	will	only be	used	where it
is	beneficial	to	the operations and	the	Company	will	endeavour
to keep the starting time interval to one hour or less.
11.03	(e) , If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work
week is required for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive 4 hours' pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section 11.05	(a) provided he remains
available for the four hour period if sorequested by the Company.
11.04	(a). A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full
day or	shift	for	reasons beyond his	control, shall be	paid for
one-half day if he works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.
A tree length pieceworker who will lose more than one hour work for reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of one (1) hour at the feller, limber, tree length skidding rate, provided he reports to	the	supervisor,	remains available	and	accepts	alternate work
if so requested by the Company.
RAINY DAYS - The company agrees that a decision will be made at the work site upon arrival for work on rainy days.
In the case of time lost in excess of one (1) hour for reason of lack of assignment to a cutting area and/or time required in excess of one (1) hour to travel from one assigned cutting area to another, payment shall be made for all hours lost.
22
11.04	(b). A day or shift worker who reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work due to reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours' pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section 11.04
(a)	will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shift, the time and one-half provisions of Section
11.03	(d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts. Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercisehis seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established locally.
11.05	(a). Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on his designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Double time will be paid after 8 hours of work on an employees designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and Sunday.
23
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
11.05 (b) . Employees in the cl as si f i cat ions specified below may
be required to work in excess of 8 hours per day or shift and 4 0 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
(a)	Cook	(d).	Cookee
(b)	:	Baker	(e)	Chore boy
(c)	.	Second	Cook	(f)	:	Watchman
For employees in the job classifications listed above the hours of work per day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1.	The regular work day or shift shall be 8 consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shift of 8 hours may be scheduled in any 12 hour period divided into not more than 2 parts provided there is a break of at least 8 hours between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of 5 consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2.	Time worked in excess of outside of the scheduled 8 hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.	An employee in the above listed classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available at the start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day if he remains available for the start of the second half of his scheduled shift.
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day
24
or shift for the "sixth day" or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
- an employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5.	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of 8 hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6.	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of fifty-five cents (550) per hour for each second shift worked.
7.	The present standard of service by chore boys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
11.06	Walking Distance and/or Riding Time shall not be considered as time worked. Walking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distance and Riding Time section of the wage schedule of this agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after
completing his day or shift, or more than one (1) hour before the start of the day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid time and one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of the day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05	(a) shall apply after he
has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
An employee who is called out for work on his "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (b) from the starting time of the call out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
25
12.01 The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, inpromotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after layoffs.
The present seniority list is frozen as of July 1, 1988 and in future date of hire shall be the basis of calculating seniority.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12.01 shall apply, and the employee shall be credited with thirty (30) days of accrued seniority.
12.03	(a). Subject to the memorandum of understanding seniority will be applied on a company-wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer to a job for which he is qualified, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Company, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employeesgiven notice.
26
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are occasioned by the completion of seasonal activities, company-wide seniority will be applied only when operations continue in other camps for more than (1) week, otherwise the camp will be the unit of application of seniority on seasonal layoffs.
12.03	(b) . Intransfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work, the rate specified the Feller-Limber, Tree Length Skidding shall apply, or the rate of the job classification whichever is higher.
Employees accepting a job posting shall remain in that job for a minimum of three (3) months from the date he is qualified unless displaced from that job because of lay-off or bumping procedure. An employeemay post from a camp to a commuter operation during the three (3) month period.
12.03	(c) . The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
It is agreed, however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this agreement. Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and the newly created jobs.
27
12.03	(d) . A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that a vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit it shall be filled on a company-wide basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of notice of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a. copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company agrees that all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of layoff as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union office by April 3 0th of each year, an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break inseniority and the Company seniority in days as specified in Section 12.01, as at March 31st, of the same year. The list will show, in addition, each employee's occupation and address.
12.07	A list shall be prepared for and be posted in each camp and its contents shall be available to all employees in camps, showing their seniority standing. The list shall be brought up to date at the end of each month.
28
12.08	An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of this article shall retain such seniority for twenty-four (24) months during layoff. Employees with 5 years or more of continuous service will retain recall rights for a period of thirty-six (36) months following date of lay-off. An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this article shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days in any calendar year and will retain the total accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of this article upon proof of Union membership in good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generally employed on seasonal operations and who have not acquired seniority, in accordance with this article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit during the off season, provided that this does not interfere with the application of seniority of any employee. Such personnel shall apply for Union membership prior to being placed on the job and maintain their Union membership in good standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of newmethods and equipment, affectedemployees shall be offered alternate employment in accordance with Section 12.01 of Article XII to meet the Company's labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company.
When jobs are discontinued, due to curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII. If an employee requires training to perform the alternate job effectively, he will be trained by the Company, provided the job he has applied to be trained for, is expected to last for a period of three (3) months or more.
It is understood that this does not apply to seasonal
layoff.
29
12.11	Severance Pay - Effective date of ratification an
employee with three (3) or more years of service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one week's pay for each year of completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment.
It is understood that an employee who chooses to receivethe severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee's name will be removed from the seniority list.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the riqht to post notices dealincr with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of the camp foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	(a). Effective first of month following date of ratification, for each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII the Company agrees to pay the premium for Blue Cross or its equivalent and semi-private hospital care plans. The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Workmen's Compensation claim or a Short term disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
If the Company's contribution exceeds the premiums required for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care plans, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending arrangement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required, such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
Effective f irst of the month following ratification, the Company will continue coverage for the laid-off employee to the end of the month following month of lay-off.
Effective date of ratification, the Company will compensate an employee when a fee is charged by a physician for completion of medical certificate required to support a claim for benefits pursuant to the Weekly or Long Term Disability Plans. Such payment shall be to a maximum amount of $15.00 per certificate and will be initiated upon presentation of a receipt from the attending physician.
ARTICLE XV
LIFE INSURANCE
30
15.01	The Company will provide $50,000 of Life Insurance
for each employee while actively employed. The cost to the employee will not exceed .300 per $1,000 per month. For employees not actively at work on that date the increase in insurance will become effective on the date he returns to active employment.
ARTICLE XVI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost
of Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of Weekly earnings forty (40) hours times an employee's regular rate and pieceworkers forty (40) hours times the feller, limber and tree length skidding hourly rate) up to a maximum of four hundred and eighty ($480.00) per week, for an employee who commences weekly indemnity on or after the first of the month following date of ratification. Weekly Indemnity will commence on the first day in case of a noncompensable accident and after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness or on the date when admitted to a hospital within the first three (3) days of illness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
Effective September 1, Effective September 1, Effective September 1, Effective September 1,
1994	- $495.00 per week
1995	- $510.00 per week
1996	- $525.00 per week
1997	- $540.00 per week
16.02	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan. The Plan forms part of the agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix "A" . The premium cost of the Plan will be borne by the Company. Remove maximum benefit.
ARTICLE XVII “ BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to a member of an employee's
immediate family, that is an employee's father, mother, wife, husband, brother, sister, children, grandparents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers eight (8) times the feller, limber, tree length skidding hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the scheduled work days lost during this period. In the case of death of spouse or children the employee will be granted five (5) days leave with pay.
31
Any claims for bereavement pay will be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It is understood that for purposes of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
ARTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY OR WITNESS
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury
service, or subpoenaed in a court of law the Company shall pay, for each day of suchservice, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate (Pieceworkers eight (8) hours pay based on the feller, limber, tree length skidding hourly rate) and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XIX - BOARD AND LODGING
19.01	Effective September 1, 1994, increase the charge for
board and lodging to $3.50 per calendar day.
ARTICLE XX - DENTAL CARE PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with
participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
2. Plan Design
(a). Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. Basic Plan and Rider No. l.
32
(b). Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50%) .
Maximum $1,000 per calendar year per person.
Effective first of month following date of ratification amend plan to provide for 1992 O.D.A. Schedule fees.
Effective September 1, 1994 provide for 1993 O.D.A Schedule of fees.
Effective September 1, 1995 provide for 1994
O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1996 provide for 1995 O.D.A schedule fees.
Effective September 1, 1997, provide for 1996 O.D.A
schedule fees.
Company wi 11 pay increase premium for this coverage.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
33
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefitswhere such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTTCT.F, XXT - VISION CARE PLAN
Effective January 1,1991, the Company will provide a vision care plan which will provide for expenses incurred by an amount and/or his covered dependents when prescribed by a physician or optometrist as follows:
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses including contact lenses up to a total payment of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per family member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years.
Effective September 1, 1996, the benefit amount will
be increased to one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per insured family member in any two (2) consecutive calendar year period.
WAGE SCHEDULE
34
A. HOURLY RATES _______JOB CLASSTFTCATTON
SEPT.	SEPT. SEPT.
1/93	1/94	1/95
Baker
Bodyman Mechanic Classl,B,l Bodyman Mechanic Class "A"
Bullcook or Chore boy Bus Driver
Buck Tree Lengths on Landing Bucker, Piler, Tree Length Skidding Car Man
Carpenter (Qualified)
Chokerman, Tree Length Skidding Cook (1-20 Men)
Cook (20 Men or Over)
Cook, Second
Cookee
Electrician
Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding
Fire Patrol Man
Handyman
Helper, Bulldozer, or Tractor
Helper, Power Grader
Helper, Mechanic
Helper, Class “A" Mechanic
Jackhammer Driller
Labourer
'B»
'A”
T
Machinist Class Machinist Class Mechanic, Mechanic, Mechanic, Mechanic, Mechanic, Operator, Operator, Operator, Operator, Operator, Operator,
"A" "A" 1
Class Class Lead
Bulldozer "B"
Bulldozer "A"
Compressor Crane
Drott Feller Buncher Front End & Overhead Loader Operator, Machine Night Warm-up Operator, Mechanical Skidder Wheel Type Power Grader
Power Saw Non-Productive
Operator,
Operator,
Operator, Prentice Operator, Ramsey Central Slasher Operator, Slasher Operator, Slasher Deck Operator, Tree Harvester
20.59
21.60
23.35
19.54
19.59 20.08 20.08
19.59
23.35 20.08 20.89 21.27 20.57
19.24
23.35 20.08 19.10
19.70
19.26
19.26
19.27 19.73
19.31 19 . 10
21.59
23.35
20.60 21.61
23.35 23.68 23.80
20.55
21.25 19.39
20.70
20.48
20.31 19.64 20.08
20.31 20.08 20.24
20.49
19.96
19.97 20.96
20.80 21,11
21.82	22.15
23.58	23.93
19.74	20.04
19.79	20.09
20.28	20.58
20.28	20.58
19.79	20.09
23.58	23.93
20.28	20.58
21.10	21.42
21.48	21.80
20.78	21.09
19.43	19.72
23.58	23.93
20.28	20.58
19.29	19.58
19.90	20.20
19.45	19.74
19.45	19,74
19.46	19.75
19.93	20.23
19.50	19.79
19.29	19.58
21.81	22.14
23.58	23.93
20.81	21.12
21.83	22.16
23.58	23.93
23.92	24.28
24.04	24.40
20.76	21.07
21.46	21.78
19.58	19.87
20.91	21.22
20.68	20.99
20.51	20.82
19.84	20.14
20.28	20.58
20.51	20.82
20.28	20.58
20.44	20.75
20.69	21.00
20.16	20.46
20.17	20.47
21.17	21.49
A. HOURLY RATES
Continued
35
JOB CLASSTFTCATTON
SEPT.
Powder Man Slasher Serviceman Timberman,. Experience Truck Driver, Single Axle,
Haul on Body
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle,
Hauling Trailer Truck Driver, Hauling Trailer (over 102" in width)
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle,
Body Haul, Other Truck Driver. Float Truck Driver; Self Loading Truck Driver, Tree Length Self Loading Truck Driver, Supply Truck Truck Driver, Hauling Multiple Trailer Tree Planter, New Hire Tree Planter, Transfer Watchman, Camp Watchman.. Nightman Welder, Helper Welder, Helper Class "A"
Welder TT Welder T
Welder Class "A"
Welder, Lead
Wheel Skidder Crew, Felling and Skidding
19.22
19.61
19.62
19.59
20.21
20.28
19 .97 20.21
20.23 20.48 19.47 20.01 19.10 20.08
19.31
19.31 19.28 19.72 20.61 21.61 23.35 23.80
20.08
Crew Leader - . 35 per hour plus regular daily rate.
SEPT.
19.41
19.81
19.82
19.79
20.41 20.48
20.17
20.41 20.43 20.68 19.66 20.21 19.29 20.28
19.50
19.50 19.47 19.92
20.82 21.83 23.58 24.04
20.28
Hourly Rates - Adjustments - Reflected in wage schedule.
SEPT.
19.70
20.11
20.12
20.09
20.72
20.79
20.47
20.72 20.74 20.99 19.95 20.51
19.58
20.58
19.79
19.79 19.76 20.22 21.13 22.16 23.93 24.40
20.58
An employee who is assigned to train another employee shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty cents (30C) per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the feller-limber rate plus thirty cents (300) per hour.
It is agreed that incentives may be applied in conjunction with the above daily rates which pertain to mechanical
operations.
A day worker using power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw rental of -
Effective date of ratification, $11.00 per 8 hour day or shift when felling and limbing.
36
Effective date of ratification, $11.00 per 8 hour day or shift when felling and limbing.
Effective date of ratification, $12.00 per 8 hour day or shift when bucking at a landing on a skidding operation.
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control he will be paid one-half day's rental when he works less than four (4) hours and a full day's rental when he works more than four (4) hours.
General Wage Increase (Reflected in wage schedule)
Increase all hourly rates:
Effective September 1, 1994 increase all hourly daily wage rates by 1.0% per hour.
Effective September 1, 1995 increase all hourly daily wage rates by 1.5% per hour.
Effective September 1, 1996 - to be negotiated.
Effective September 1, 1997 - to be negotiated.
SILVICULTURE
Effective January 1,	1995 delete hourly rates from the wage
schedule
B. COST OF LIVING.ALLOWANCE
Effective September 1, 1978 a supplement of seventy-three cents ($.73) per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
37
C. PIECEWORK RATES - Cutting and Piling
RATES PER SINGLE CORD
SEPT.
1/93
40.20 61.87 30.89 45.02
38.20
If the cutter is required to pile two species separately, an additional twelve cents (120) per cord will be paid on all wood separated. For Strip cutters, a bonus of $1.64 per cord will be paid on each consecutive 660 feet of strip running under 12 cords per acre, and on such portions of strip less than 660 feet in length.
For strip cutters, a bonus of $2.73 per cord will be paid on each
consecutive 660 feet of strip running under 7 cords
per acre, and on such portion of strips less than 660 feet in
length.
PIECEWORK CUT AND SKID TREE LENGTH
1.	Cut and Skid Tree Length
Rates:	per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per
attached schedule.
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
No poor bush bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
Supplement of seventy-three cents (,73d) per hour will be paid in accordance with Article XII-B.
2.	Measurement
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be clearly marked on each butt by the scaler.
3
Crew Size
38
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed 2 employees at any time.
4.	Skidding Distance
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 ft. for a three (3) man crew skidding tree length.
Skidding distance shall not exceed 900 ft. for a two (2) man crew skidding tree length or full tree when skidway placement not adjacent to a road.
Skidding distance shall not exceed 1,200 feet for a two (2) man crew skidding tree length or whole tree to a road.
5.	Sorting Bonus
When at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
6.	Walking and Riding Time
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Section F of the Wage Schedule (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
7.	Skidway Preparation
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 5% of base earnings will be paid.
39
CUT 6 SKID FULL TREE RATES PER TREE METRIC
BUTT
DIAMETER	SPRUCE (, BALSAM
C.M. SEPT.1/93 SEPT.1/94 SEPT. 1/9S
12 0.413 0.413 14 0.627 0.627 16 0.822 0.822 18 1.130 1.130 20 1.422 1.422
0.413
0.627
0.822
1.130
1.422
22 1.749 1.749 24 2.131 2.131 26 2.568 2.568 28 3.024 3.024
1.749
2.131
2.568
3.024
30 3.417 3.417 32 3.707 3.707 34 3.965 3.965 36 4.545 4.545 38 5.125 5.125
3.417
3.707
3.965
4.545
5.125
40 5.795 42 6.499 44 7.197 46 8.140 48 9.242
5.795 5.795 6.499 6.499 7.197 7.197 8.140 8.140 9.242 9.242
50	10.217
52	11.073
54	11.985
56	13.983
58	15.218
10.217	10.217
11.073	11.073
11.985	11.985
13.983	13.983
15.218	15.218
60 16.136 62 17.037 64 18.075 66 19.024 68 19.900
16.136
17.037
18.075
19.024
19.900
16.136
17.037
18.075
19.024
19.900
70	20.756
72	21.625
74	22.495
76	23.366
78	24.227
20.756
21.625
22.495
23.366
24.227
20.756
21.625
22.495
23.366
24.227
80 25.094	25.094	25.094
82 26.105	26.105	26.105
SEPT.1/93
0.317
0.540
0.781
1.094
1.392
1.706
2.053
2.436
2.895
3.234
3.448
3.615
4.028
4.480
4.936
5.330
5.853
6.341
6.839
7.340
7.848
8.357
8.859
9.364
9.870
10.378
10.883
11.411
11.922
12.426
12.937
13.464
13.977
14.485
14.996
15.545
JACKPINE SEPT.1/94
0.317
0.540
0.781
1.094
1.392
1.706
2.053
2.436
2.895
3.234 3.448 3.615 4.028 4. 480
4.936
5.330
5.853
6.341
6.839
7.340
7.848
8.357
8.859
9.364
9.870
10.378
10.883
11.411
11.922
12.426 12.937 13.464 13.977 14.485
14.996
15.545
SEPT.1/9
0.317
0.540
0.781
1.094
1.392
1.706
2.053
2.436
2.895
3.234
3.448
3.615
4.028
4.480
4.936 5.330 5.853 6. 341 6.839
7.340
7.848
8.357
8.859
9.364
9.870
10.378
10.883
11.411
11.922
12.426
12.937
13.464
13.977
14.485
14.996
15.545
40
CUT & SKID TREELENGTH RATES PER TREE (METRIC)
JACKPINE SEPT.1/94
SEPT 1/93
12
14
16
18
20
0.550
0.636
1.094
1.505
1.899
0.550
0.836
1.094
1.505
1.899
0.550
0.836
1.094
1.505
1.899
0.419 0.419 0.721 0.721 1.041 1.041 1.459 1.459 1.853 1.853
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
2.335
2.843
3.420
4.034
4.557
4.941
5.286
6.059
6.835
2.335
2.843
3.420
4.034
4.557
4.941
5.286
6.059
6.835
2.335
2.843
3.420
4.034
0.000
4.557
4.941
5.286
6.059
6.835
2.271 2.271 2.738 2.738 3.252 3.252 3.059 3.859
4.311 4.311 4.596 4.596 4.818 4.818 5.371 5.371 5.972 5.972
40
42
44
46
48
7.729
8.660
9.599
10.853
12.321
7.729
8.660
9.599
10.853
12.321
7.729
6.660
9.599
10.853
12.321
6.583 6.583 7.191 7.191 7.805 7.805 8.454 0.454 9.115 9.115
50
52
54
56
58
13.623 14.765 15.980 18.645 20.292
13.623
14.765
15.960
18.645
20.292
13.623
14.765
15.980
18.645
20.292
9.7 66 10.465 11.140 11.811 12.485
9.786
10.465
11.140
11.811
12.485
60
62
64
66
66
21.517
22.716
24.103
25.366
26.536
21.517
22.716
24.103
25.366
26.536
21.517
22.716
24.103
25.366
26.536
13.158 13.158 13.837 13.837 14.510 14.510 15.216 15.216 15.887 15.887
70
72
74
76
78
27.674 28.832 29.993 31.154 32.311
27.674
28.832
29.993
31.154
32.311
27.674
28.832
29.993
31.154
32.311
16.567
17.250
17.951
16.634
19.312
16.567
17.250
17.951
18.634
19.312
80	33.458	33.458	33.458
82	34.804	34.804	34.804
19.993	19.993
20.720	20.720
SEPT. 1/95
0.419
0.721
1.041
1.4S9
1.853
2.271
2.738
3.252
3.859
4.311
4.596
4.828
5.371
5.972
6.583
7.191
7.805
8.454
9.115
9.7 86 10.465 11.140 11.811 12.485
13.158
13.837
14.510
15.216
15.087
16.567
17.250
17.951
18.634
19.312
19.993
20.728
E. FUELWOOD RATES
Cutting fuelwood per face cord split 4 1 x 8 1 X 22" - 30"
41
22" - 30" Poplar Jack Pine L Tamarack 22" - 30" Birch
22" - 30" Cutting in Camp Yard
F.	WALKING DISTANCE AND RIDING TIME
Sept
1/92
22.86 28.11 17.81
(1.) Where a day workers travelling time from camp to working place is comprised of riding and/or walking time, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at his regular rate of pay.
(2.) Where a pieceworker's travelling time from camp to working place is comprised of riding and/or walking time, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at the feller, limber rate.
(3.) For the purpose of this agreement, it is agreed that pieceworkers and day workers will walk at the rate of 3 miles per hour.
G,	SCALING
For the purpose of this agreement a stacked cord of eight foot
(8*) rough pulpwood shall be 50" x 100" x 41; a stacked cord of
peeled pulpwood shall be 100" x 48" x 4‘.
H.	SALVAGING PULPWOOD ON ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY
SEPT.
1/92
Rate per cord I. PIECEWORK RATES FOR LAUNDRY	46.02
Blankets	SEPT. 1/92 159.2
Sheets	52.1
Aprons	39.1
Pillow Cases	40.2
Towels	35.2
Laundry Bags	40.3
42
Bed Spreads White Trousers
The Company agrees to remit to laundry workers all
payrolled laundry deductions from the area serviced by such laundry.
J. COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions:
(l.J Commuters are employees who:
( a . ) Are resident within reasonable riding and/or walking
distance of the area of operations, and
(b.) Who are not provided board and lodging by the Company.
(2.)	(a.) An employee who is not a resident within reasonable
riding and/or walking distance on a commuter operation, who exercises his seniority in accordance
with Article XII on this operation, shall receive:
Effective date of ratification $9.47 per day
Effective September 1, 1991 $9.94 per day
Effective September 1, 1992 $10.47 per day
In lieu of being provided board and lodging in a camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days). He shall continue to receive the commuter allowance for the term of the agreement or until such time that:
(i.) He returns in accordance with the provision of Article XII, Seniority, to employment in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
If an employee, who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of a commuter operation, elects not to fill a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident, and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commuter allowance as per Article 2	(a) above, for the remaining period
43
he continues to be employed on this commuter operation,
(ii.)	He	has	established himself as a resident of
the particular commuter operation.
(iii.)	He	is	laid off	in	accordance	with	the
provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
(b.) A new employee who is not a resident and who is hired to work in a commuting operation, shall receive $9.47 per day effective date of ratification, $9.94 per day effective September 1, 1991, $10.47 per day effective September 1,	1992 in lieu of providing
board and lodging in camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days) up to 100 days or until such	time	that:
(i.)	He	is	employed	in	accordance	with	the
provisionof Article XII, Seniority, in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
If an employee, who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of
a commuter operation, elects not to fill a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commuter allowance as per Article 2 (a.) above, for the remaining period he continues to be employed on this commuter operation.
(ii.)	He has established himself as a resident of
that particular commuting area of operations.
(iii.) He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
(c.) Anemployee from a campoperation, or from a commuter operation which he is a resident, exercising his seniority to a job of equal status in accordancewith Article XII on a job posting and by so doing becomes a nonresident of a commuter operation, will not be eligible for the commuter allowance as of September 1, 1984 as per Article 2	(a.) above.
3.	(a.)
44
The company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated marshalling point or points, to and from the parking site or sites in the operating areas.
(b.) Time spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling
on the Company transportation vehicle from a marshalling point to a parking site plus time spent walking from the parking site to place of work, in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
(a.) Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
(b.) Pieceworkers at the feller-limber rate.
(c.) Pieceworkers shall be paid in accordance with subsections 1, 2 and 3 of III Walking Distance and Riding Time.
Walking time based on the rate of one-quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
4. Marshalling Points
West Branch Commuter - Marshalling point as presently established.
Sultan Commuter - Marshalling point will be at present location - Company gate south of Sultan. The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from Sultan. A central departure point in the town of Sultan will be established locally.
Gogama Commuter - Marshalling point to he the junction of Highways 144 and 560. The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from Gogama. A central departure point in the town of Gogama will be established locally.
Cartier Commuter
(a.) For operations North of Benny the Marshalling point will be Benny. The Company will arrange to provide transportation from Cartier. A central departure point in the town of Cartier will be established locally.
(b.) Foroperations South of Benny, the Marshalling
point will be the central departure point established in (a.). The Company will arrange to provide transportation from Benny to the marshalling point.
OO
(2.)
(3.)
(4.)
K. COOKERY SCHEDULE
45
Number of
Persons	Eatincr	Cook	Second Cook	Cookee
1 -	15	1		
16 -	30	1		1
31 -	55	1		2
56 -	80	1	1	2
81 -	110	1	1	3
111 -	140	1	1	4
For every 25-man increase in camp, one extra person will be provided. It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced.
1.	The Company agrees that shift workers shall be served at least two (2) hot meals per day in addition to any hot lunches.
2.	Three-shift operation:	where more than 10 men and
less than 20 men are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned. Where 2 0 men or more are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be added to the cookery schedule, and assigned with the cookee at night.
L. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
A travel allowance will be paid for each week of active employment for all employees who have established seniority.
Effective the week following ratification increase weekly rates by 6% - ($13.42) and effective September 1, 1991 increase weekly rates by 6% - ($14.23) and effective September 1, 1992 increase
weekly rates by 6% - ($15.08).
Allowances will not be paid to any employee where transportation is provided from a designated marshalling point to a recognized commuter operation.
The allowance will not be paid for any full week that the employee is not at work. Where any employee is at work for only part of the week, he will receive the full allowance.
Allowances for new camps shall be relative to the foregoing when such camps become operational.
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME
46
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with
the provisions of Section 12.03	(c) (Job Postings).
Employees who meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement, during which time the employee may return, or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the Ontario Apprentice Programme may be retained in his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfil the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The apprenticemay receive a weekly training allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Course. The Company will supplement this Allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40) times his regular hourly rate of pay. Calculation of the Company's portion will be based on the government allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at home while attending the Trade School.
If the apprentice is required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attending school.
6.	An apprentice's entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enroled.
7.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following his course of studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
47
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME - Continued
8. If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the term of his apprenticeshipbecause of academic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
MECHANICS:
Helper
Required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. Shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class "A". A helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at anytime during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class MAn
He shall under the direction of mechanics of a higher classification work on all types of equipment used on woods operations; shall be capable of performing the following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
MECHANIC II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
MECHANIC I:
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
MECHANIC T:
Continued
48
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed byhimself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has special training and/or is assigned on only one type of equipment he will automatically beratedas a Mechanic
MECHANIC CLASS "A":
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
MECHANIC CLASS "A"- 1:
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class "A" and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have an advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment subsystems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
MECHANIC LEAD:
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic Class "A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.

49
Helper:
Required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class MAM. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at ar.y time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class "A11:
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1,	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity of working in other positions.
2.	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
WELDER II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
WELDER I:
Shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficientmanner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
WELDER CLASS "A":
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
50
WELDER CLASS "A" - Continued
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary trade certificate,
Welders presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a trade certificate.
WELDER LEAD:
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualification set out under Welder Class "A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other welders.
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a trade certificate.
TRADESMEN’S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to IV opening, sockets up to and including V drive and IV opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18" in length, hammers, chisels, punches and screwdrivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over V* drive, spanners over lV opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen are required to be in metric measurements such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
Once each year during the month of November, a group which is comprised of the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent, Mechanical Supervisors and two qualified representatives of the Union will determine by review whether helpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent and Mechanical Supervisor.
PENSION PLAN
51
The Company will provide and administer a non contributory pension plan for all hourly-rated Forestry employees with 1 year continuous service (165 days).
Normal retirement will be the first day of month following attainment of age 65. An employee with 10 years of Company service can elect to retire at age 55 however the monthly payments will be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
BENEFIT
Effective January 1, 1994 amend current pension plan to provide for a monthly benefit equal to Twenty ($20.00) dollars times years of continuous service for all past and future service.
Early Retirement Reduction Factors
Effective January 1994, those employees with ten (10) years of Company service can retire between the age of 60 and 65 with a 5% reduction in their pension for each year they retire prior to age 65 as noted in the table below:
Age	% or Pension Payable
65	100%
64	95%
63	90%
62	85%
61	80%
60	75%
Guaranteed Payments	
If a retired employee's	death occurs before he has
_	_	dved 60
monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income payments will continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the 60 monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension
If a married employee with 10 years of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee's surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month followingdate of death. If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be actuarially reduced.
52
Disability Benefit
An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled vill be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
Supplemental Plan
Effective first of month following ratification, for each employee who contributes $55.00 per month, the Company will contribute an equal amount of $55.00 per month.
Vesting rights - after 1 year.
Minimum 1 year continuous service.
cost and administering of the plan will be the responsibility of the Company.
Effective first of month following date of ratification
(February 26, 1991)
Employees who are off work due to a Workers'
Compensation or a Weekly Indemnity claim for a period
of up to twelve (12) months can continue to
contribute $55.00/month towards the Supplementary
Pension Plan.
Supplemental Plan
Effective January 1, 1995, the current supplemental plan as outlined in the current Collective Agreement will become compulsory for all employees on the seniority list at that time provided they have one (1) year of continuous service.
The obligation to join the Supplement Plan will remain voluntary for those employees who are 55 years of age and over as of the date of ratification of this Memorandum of Agreement.
Special Retirement Allowance
For those employees retiring between the age of 60 and 65, a special one (1) time retirement allowance will be paid based on the following formula.
$1,000 per year of service up to a maximum of $25,000. This maximum will decline by $2500 per year until 1998 at which time it will be $15,000. This special Retirement Allowance will end with those employees retiring in 1998.
53
Employee Retiring	$1,000 per year of Service
Between the acre of 60 and 65 up to a Maximum benefit of
1994	$25,000
1995	$22,500
1996	$20,000
1997	$17,500
1998	$15,000
The parties agree that joint information sessions on the Supplemental Plan and the Flat Benefit Pension Plan will be arranged as soon as possible following the ratification of the 1993-1998 Collective Agreement.
54
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 17th day of April, 1994
A. Mantha
55
ADDENDUM: TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
______E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.______
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
IWfi - CANADA
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
Signed on the 18th day of January, 1979.
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation) the Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silviculture work under the provisions of the collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	RE:	Article V - Union Membership
(a) .	The employees hired to perform seasonal
silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
(b) .	The Company shall put these employees on
check-off at the time of hire and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit same to the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2.	RE:	Article VI - Vacations with Pav
For each aforesaid employees, Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to each employee at the time of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
3.	RE:	Article VII - Holidays with Pav
(a).	For such aforesaid employees who qualify under
section 12,02 shall be paid without the
56
performance of work for the holidays listed in
7.01	excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid. Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence.
(b)	The provisions set out in Sections 7.04
*	(b) , 7.04 (c), 7.04 (d), 7.04 (e) , 7.04 (f)
and 7.05 are not applicable.
4 . RE:	Article X - Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said Employees while so engaged.
5. RE:	Article XTT - Seniority
(a)	. The Company recognizes the principle of seniority
for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b)	. Employment of any new employee shall be considered
probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
(c)	. A separate seniority list shall be established and
maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
(d)	. An employee, on the silvicultural seniori ty list,
hired on other production operations will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the
57
seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
6.	The provisions set out under:
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
Article
XIV	- Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital
care Plans,
XV	- Life Insurance,
XVI - Weekly Indemnity,
XVII	- Bereavement Pay,
XVIII- Jury Duty Allowance,
XIX - Dental Care Plan and
Appendix MAM - E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd. Long Term Disability Plan are not applicable for the aforesaid employees.
7. RE:	Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
8. RE:	Wage Schedule
SILVICULTURAL WAGE SCHEDULE
HOURLY RATES:
Classi fications	Sept.1/93 Sept.1/94
Tree Planter	19.10	19.29
Labourer	19.10	19.29
Crew Leader	35c? in addition to regular hourly
rate.
PIECEWORK RATES MANUAL PLANTING
Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock	lO^C? per tree
Tube Seedlings (Paper Pots)	per tree
Site Unprepared
58
Bare Root Stock
Tube Seedlings (Paper Pots)
11%C per tree 9%C per tree
(Employees on the regular seniority listing will not be assigned to manual planting on piecework rates).
Effective January 1, 1995, delete hourly rates from the Wage Schedule.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON,
General Manager Forestry Division.
Signed for the Union
F, MIRON,
President.
: /HW/T'/-, %
W. McIntyre, Presidefttb,
Signed for the Company:
Local 2693
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
FORESTRY DIVISION
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
IWA-CANADA
/Hereinafter referred to as the IjUnionUl
RE; SILVICULTURE OPERATIONS (TREE PLANTING)
It is understood and agreed that in the application of the Addendum to the Collective Agreement, the following will apply.
ARTICLE XI - Hours of Work
11,01	(a.)
The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
It is agreed that pieceworkers may be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or work week, and will be paid in accordance with the overtime provision following.
The regular work day shall be eight (8) consecutive hours mealtime excepted. However, at the request of the employees Or the Company and by mutual agreement, the work day of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period, divided into not more than two (2) parts, provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between days worked.
Overtime:
Employees who are requested to work in excess of their scheduled eight (8) hours per day will, in addition to their piecework rates, receive premium pay for all such overtime hours worked based on one-half (U of the rate calculated by dividing the total trees planted in the scheduled five (5) days by the total hours worked.
All trees planted by employees on their designated sixth day (Saturday Or Monday) and/or on Sunday, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1.5) times the rate.
Signed
Signed
Signed
at Sudbury, Ontario, this 22nd day of February, 1991.
for the Union:
for the Company:
E. C. ricManus, Vice1 ^resTSent Forestry & Wood Products
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
RE:	AIR TRANSPORTATION
Whereas the Company intends to use air transportation when it is practical and economical to do so.
Employees presently on the work force who are not able to fly will be given an opportunity to transfer to a position that they can occupy in accordance with the provision of the collective agreement.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 14th day of June, 1988. Original signed by:
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J.	B. ATHERTON
General Manager of Fibre Supply
FRED MIRON
President, Local 2693
Signed for the Union:
Signed for the Company
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
E"! C. McManus, Vice President,-
Forestry & Wood Products
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Camp cookeries will close on non operational weekends.
Original Letter Signed April 14, 1983
For the Union: F. Miron, President, Local 2693
For the Company:	J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division.
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President,
Local
2693
Signed for
the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE:	EQUIPMENT CABS AND CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company will provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls or air conditioning (where practical) on the purchase or lease (excess of 12 months) on new bulldozers, graders, buses and harvesters.
Signed for the Union:
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
This will confirm the Company's interpretation of disability as defined in Section 1 (b) of the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan.
It is our understanding and interpretation that an employee is entitled to benefits, for which he may be eligible under the provisions of the Plan as a result of non-occupational injury or illness when unable to perform his regular duties and the Company is unable to offer him alternative suitable employment. It is understood the employee will be expected to accept the alternative employment, if it is available. If an employee voluntarily accepts employment with another employer, the employee will not be eligible for benefits under this Plan.
Original Letter signed January 18, 1973
For the Company: E. F. Boswell, Vice-President
For the Union:	T. Mior, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Union:
si $
Signed for the Company:
~e7?C. McManus,' Vice ^President
Forestry & Wood Products
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE:	ONTARIO WOODWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
SECTION 7 fa)
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when the employee's disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee's physician. If the application is approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the amount of CPP/QPP primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
Original signed December 16, 1980:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:	{,
Signed for the Company:
C.McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
LETTER
65
OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2 69 3 - IWA CANADA
RE:	EARLY START TIME DUE TO
FIRE HAZARD SHUT DOWN
It is understood that operations may commence up to 2 hours early when the Ministry of Natural Resources directs operations to be shut down. Arrangements will be discussed with local union steward and the employees involved at the start of each fire season.
Original Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June, 1988 FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON	FRED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	President, Local 2693
Supply
Signed for the Union:	_ ^	c
W. McIntyre “President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
EC C
McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
66
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Reached Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
Covering employees departing before completion of last shift prior to a holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the end of his last shift before a holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Company sufficiently in advance of his leaving to provide for rescheduling or replacement, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and the Union, either at camp level or management level. Under these circumstances the employee will not be penalised for Holiday Pay where early departure is necessary due to transportation problems either by rail or other means.
Permission for these requests will not be unreasonably refused.
Original Memorandum signed:
For the Union: D. W. Labelle
For the Company: L. F. Lounder
Signed for the
W. Mclntfy^e, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C.	it
Forest ^
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
RE:	ARTICLE XT - HOURS OF WORK
Notwithstanding the specific terms of Article XI - Hours of work, it is understood that the work-week and hours of work may be amended to provide alternative scheduling.
Such alternative scheduling shall not include provision for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a operating unit basis, and all terms will be subject to agreement between the Union, the Company and the employees involved.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June 1988. FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
FRED MIRON
President, Local 2693
J. B. ATHERTON
General Manager of Fibre Supply
Signed for the Union:
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
FORESTRY DIVISION
AND
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject:	Camp 12 - Skilled Labour Shortage
This letter outlines the procedure that will be followed if and when the Company experiences a temporary shortage of skilled labour at it's Camp 12 operation.
When it becomes known that a temporary skilled labour shortage is present at Camp 12, the Company and Union representatives will convene a meeting and explore all avenues to overcome the shortage of skilled labour.
Signed this 22nd day of February 1991, in Sudbury, Ontario.
Signed for the Company:
Signed for the Union:
69
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., FORESTRY DIVISION ESPANOLA ONTARIO
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ARTICLE 12.03	(a)
It is agreed that in the administration of 12.03 (a) (layoffs and recalls),, at time of layoff emolovees will indicate whether they wish to be recalled (1) on Company-wide basis, or (2) to their regular camp when it opens. It is understood that where an employee elects option (1) and is recalled to a camp other than his regular camp, he will return to his regular job when it becomes available. If in the event that his reaular iob is abolished he will be transferred to the job in his regular classification to which he is entitled by seniority.
Original Memorandum signed:
For the Union: D. W. Labelle
For the Company: L. F. Lounder
Signed for the Union
Signed for the Company:

E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
70
TETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE:	SENIORITY RIGHT OF AN EMPLOYEE IN THE EXERCISE OF
HIS SENIORITY UNDER 12.03 fa) UPON NOTICE OF LAYOFF
An employee, who has been notified that he is to be laid off, may accept layoff or exercise his seniority right, and occupy a job that is continuing and which he has the qualifications on the basis of 12.01 to occupy, and which is either vacant or filled by an employee with less seniority.
The jobs, that he is permitted to exercise his seniority to occupy, shall be in the following preferential order:
(a). Camp Unit
(1)	. on a job with a comparable rate to the job he was laid off,
(2)	. on	a job with a	higher rate,
(3)	. on	a job with a	lower rate in	comparison to	the	rate of	the
job he was laid off.
In the event that the	employee does	not have	sufficient	seniority
to occupy	a job as set	out under (a)	- (1) and	(2),	and	he	does	not
prefer to exercise his seniority on a job as set out in (3), he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority at a camp where board and lodging are provided, or a commuter operation, either at his election:
(b) . Company Wide
(1)	. on a job similar, or a job with a comparable rate to the
job he was laid off,
(2) . on a job with a higher rate,
(3) . on a job with a lower rate in comparison to the rate of
the job he was laid off.
Original Signed February 3, 1977:
For the Union:	T. Mior,President, Local 2693
For the Company:	J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company: _	/a^
E"!	C~. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
e. a. eddy Forest products ltd.
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
If due to legislative action, any type of corporate assessment is levied to fund any of the above plans, the agreed to amounts will be used first to offset direct costs to the Company and in no case will the Company's contributions exceed the agreed to amounts.
Original Letter signed January 18, 1979:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company:	J. B .Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union
W. McIiYty're, Presid§fft, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
r7
//—|C tr~
E. C. M&anus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2 6 93 - IWA CANADA
PIECEWORK - TREE LENGTH
1.	Implementation
(a)	. Piecework will be implemented in the cut and skid operations
by September 1, 1985.
(b)	. When piecework and mechanical harvesting equipment are
operating out of the same camp, the Company will designate separate operating	areas	for	each	group.
(c)	. When clean up	is	required	behind	mechanical harvesting
operations, it will be done on a daywork basis.
2.	Transportation
Transportation separate from dayworkers will be supplied for pieceworkers.
3.	Layout
Boundaries of individual blocks will be marked in the field.
4.	Skidder operators will not be required to grease their machines.
Original Letter Signed July 24, 1985:
For the Union: F. Miron, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:	AS^f //%''L'/	_______________
W. Mclfttyte, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:

E. C. Mc/Ianus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
73
ADDENDUM TO PIECEWORK
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT - JULY 24, 1985
1.	The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed two employees at any time.
2.	Add to memorandum Article #8
When a mate is absent, the remaining employee will be treated as a day worker in accordance with 11.04 (a) and 11.04 (b) . However he may be assigned work in another two man crew to form a three man crew if mutually agreed by the crew.
3. Skidway Preparation; Skidways will be prepared by the Company when required. This will be determined by the Supervisor in consultation with the crew.
Original Signed:
Signed for the Union:	F. Miron, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
of Fibre Supply
Signed for the
Signed for the Company:
74
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. and
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
The Company will agree to condition of 11.03 (d) (posting of work schedule on previous Thursday).
However it is understood that should employee absenteeism increase as a result of the posting on Thursday affecting operations on Friday, the Company will meet and discuss the problem with local union representative and posting will revert to Friday.
Original Letter signed February 3, 1977:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company:	J. B.Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:	/O //A mnr	___________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 ~ IWA CANADA
Subject:	Owner Operator Equipment
Opportunities for employees to operate self-owned equipment on the operations will be phased in and accomplished in accordance with the following principles.
1. )	Privately owned equipment will be on a voluntary basis. no employee shall be required to own or lease any equipment as a condition of employment.
2. )	The Company will ensure that all terms and conditions of the collective Agreement are followed.
3. )	Repairs shall be carried out by Company tradesmen employed in the job classifications while this equipment is on limits and work sites of the Company.
It is understood that operators scheduled on such equipment may be required to do minor repairs during their
scheduled shift.
4. )	The Company agrees that any incentive bonus plans will be paid through the Company payroll.
5. )	The number of employees owning or leasing equipment will not exceed twenty (20%) percent of the number of employees on the seniority list as of the date of ratification of the 1993 Labour Agreement.
6. )	Senior employees will be given first opportunity to lease or purchase such equipment subject to Article xii Seniority 12.01, paragraph 1»
7. )	This Letter of Understanding will apply to all areas except Camp 602. After a period of one (1) year from the date of ratification this limitation shall be removed and as such, this Letter of Understanding shall be applicable to all areas covered by this Labour Agreement.
The limitation contained in section 7 does not apply to those individuals who were owner operators prior to the ratification of the 1993-1998 Collective Agreement.
76
Subject:	Owner Operator Equipment (Continued)
8. )	The Company will provide financial assistance to purchase equipment and to provide for business training to employees who are contracting to become owner-operators.
9. )	The Company will review and set the rates and conditions annually after which the owner operator may request a meeting to discuss the rates and conditions.
The Union President will attend this meeting.
Should the owner operator be in disagreement with the rates, the matter will be referred to a non binding mediator.
10. )	The Company is prepared to offer work to the owner operator's equipment ahead of Company owned or leased equipment.
11. )	Owners' contract will establish seniority as of the date it becomes operative on the limits and work sites of the Company.
Signed this 17th day of April 1994 at Sudbury, Ontario.
Signed for the Union
Signed for the Company:
—? C	At.
E.C,McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
During the term of the Collective Agreement effective September 1, 1982 to August 31, 1984 the Company does not expect any reduction in its present employees (i.e. all employees on the work sites April 14, 1983 and the revised seniority list April 14 , 1983) as a result of changes in wood fibre supply to the Espanola Mill. (Normal seasonal layoffs excepted) .
The increased production of sawlog material on E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd., timber licence substantiates this expectation.
In the event circumstances dictate a change in the sources of the wood fibre supply to the Espanola mill which affects employment security to such employees then the Company agrees:
(1) .	To give as much advance notice as is possible.
(2) .	To discuss with the Union, job opportunities for
displaced employees and other work in accordance with Article XII so as to minimize the adverse effect on employees displaced by such changes.
Original Letter Signed:
For the Union:	T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union: Signed for the Company:
/U
McIntyre, President, Local
E. C. MCManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
2693
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 - I.W.R. CANADA
RECOGNITION
JURISDICTION
This will confirm our understanding that during the term of the Collective Agreement from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1990, it is not the Company's intent to reduce its production of wood fibre from Company operations to less that 230,000 cunits of the requirements to the Nairn Sawmill.
However, if circumstances arise which were beyond the control of the Company, resulting in the Company altering this volume and which could affect the employment opportunities of our employees, we will undertake to advise the union as early as possible and discuss ways and means of providing job opportunities for our employees in accordance with Article XII.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON	FRED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	President, Local 2693
Supply
Signed for the Union:	/^/ w
W. McIntyre, President
Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
79
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REACHED BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Covering the application and administration of Section 3.01(c) of Article III, of their Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period commencing September 1, 1966.
1.	Any third party operator who was not established on the Company's limits as of August 31, 1966 shall be bound by the provisions of Section 3.01 (c).
2.	The operation of each of the third party operators who was established on the Company's limits as of August 31, 1966 shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)	. They shall, as of April, 1968, be subject to the
provisions of Section 3.01 (c) .
(b)	. They shall, in season 1967-68 (April 1, 1967 March 31,
1968) , limit the production of forest products for the company's account, to volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 production levels.
(c)	. As of April 1, 1968, they may continue to deliver
to the Company, chips manufactured from sawmill residues in volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 chip production levels. The delivery to and the Company's purchase of such chips shall not be construed to be contrary to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c).
Original Letter signed:
For the Union - D. W. Labelle
For the Company - D. W, Gray
Signed for the Union
W. McIntyre, Presidejftp Local
2693
Signed for the Company:
1
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
80
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject:	Recognition/Jurisdiction
In conjunction with the resolution of the owner operator, the Company will endeavour to harvest all allocated fibre from its limits and work sites.
Prior to any third party agreements being issued, the parties will meet to determine whether or not the fibre can be economically harvested by equipment owned and operated by Company employees.
Signed this 17th day of April, 1994, at Sudbury, Ontario
Signed for the Union:	__
W.
Local
Signed for the Company:

C h-—

E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
81
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IVJA CANADA
RE:	TRAVELLING TIME
Where employees must be transported to a central point for the mid shift meal, it is agreed that those employees will not travel any longer than 15 minutes on their own time.
Original Letter signed December 18, 1974:
For the Union: T. Mior
For the Company: J. B. Atherton
Signed for the Union:	0. V/ - '/U ^	/_____________
W. Mclrfty're, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:	_______=___//A~7 C //~^	________
E. C. jflcManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
82
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE; LICENCES - TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or bus Driver.
Original Letter signed December 16, 1980
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
Si C. McManus] ~
E. C. M6Manus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
83
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
The Company will provide washing and drying facilities for the use of the Camp 12 cookery personnel.
Camp 500 cookery personnel have their laundry provided for by the central laundry located in that camp.
Original Letter signed February 3, 1977
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
-- ! , , ■ i-sr ,r v--t i_____
E. CY. McManusVice President
Forestry & Wood Products
84
AN AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE VI - VACATION PAY
The Company and the Union agree to amend Article VI of the Collective Agreement as follows:
1.	Vacation Pay accrual will be paid to employee upon
request.
2.	Request for vacation pay must be submitted at least
two weeks in advance of payment date.
Signed
For the Union
Wilfred 'McIntyre/ President
Local 2693
For the Company
______,__A--M	____
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
Signed:	January 28, 1993
85
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject: CAMP COSTS
Recognizing the excessive costs involved in providing the present contractual obligation covering camp operating and living conditions, it is understood that should operations be carried out in the future in areas which are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis or where the costs of transporting personnel Prom existing camps is excessive, other suitable arrangement for living accommodations, etc., will be arranged with the Union
The parties agree to work together during the term of the Collective Agreement to identify and recommend to their principles measures that will help reduce camp costs thereby justifying the continuation of camp life.
A committee of 2 Union representatives and 2 Management representatives will be established within one (1) month following the ratification of the Agreement. More people may be assigned to this Committee if required.
The parties further agree that the scope of this Committee's work will not be limited in any way by what already exists in the collective Agreement.
Signed this 17th day of April, 1994 at Sudbury, Ontario
/	- a- < A ,
Signed for the Union:	__________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:	C,_______A--"? (______^
E. C. MfcManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
86
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
subject:
Inter Camp Transfers
This is to confirm the discussions that were held during the 1993 round of bargaining.
As a result of these discussions, it has been agreed to between the parties that limit wide postings can be made for both a mobile harvesting camp and a portion of the truck haul.
Signed this 17th day of April, 1994 at Sudbury, Ontario
Signed for the Union:
Signed for the Company:
/E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
87
April 17, 1994
Mr. W. McIntyre President, IWA Canada
Dear Wilf
As discussed during the 1993 negotiations, the Company supports the concept of setting up a process to monitor training.
To this end, we are prepared to set up a procedure whereby an hourly rated employee at the camp level will be kept up to date as to how an employee is progressing in qualifying for a specific job.
It is further understood that a decision will be made within two (2) months from the commencement of training as to whether or not an individual qualifies for the job for which he is being trained.
Yours very truly,
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
R. G. niu-iou^.u,
Manager Logging Operations.
: tc
88
April 17, 1994
Mr. W. McIntyre President, Local 2693
Dear Wilf
1,	All cookery personnel v/ill be given the
Health Unit Course in Food handing.
2.	All cookery personnel will be required to
annual medical consistent with their job.
3.	All cooks hired from date of ratification
qualified and be in possession a Provincial certificate.
Yours very truly,
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.,
R. G. ARMSTRONG,
Manager Logging Operations.
tc
Sudbury
have an
must be
89
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY RFNFFTT PLAN
1.	Definitions
In this plan, unless otherwise specifically provided,
(a)	. "Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external
violent means;
(b) .	" Disability" is a disability preventing an employee
from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c)	. "Employee" means an employee in the active employment
of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between;
E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd. and Local 2693 - I. W. A. Canada;
(d)	. "Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier
appointed by the company;
(e)	. "Plan” means the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability
Benefit Plan;
(f)	. "Company" means E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd.;
(g)	. "Weekly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift
worker, 40 hours x his regular rate:
w. "Medical Practitioner" means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2.	Participation
(a)	. All employees of the company shall be eligible to
participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	. Participation in this Plan is limited to employees
who have accumulated 4 5 days of seniority with the Company.
90
3.	Amount of Disability Benefits
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 (g) immediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $480.00 effective first of month following date of ratification.
The Weekly Indemnity maximum will be increased by $15.00 per week or each subsequent September 1, for those employees actively at work as outlined below:
September 1,
September 1,
September 1,
September 1,
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount payable for such week under the Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 and its regulation as amended.
4.	Eligibility for Payment
Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(b)	. An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(a).	(i).
1994	-	$495.00	per	week
1995	-	$510.00	per	week
1996	-	$525.00	per	week
1997	-	$540.00	per	week
91
4. Eliqibili-_______or Payment - Continued...
(c)	♦ An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d>. An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his layoff or termination, shall be eligible for an amount-of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
(e)	. An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit
a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of layoff and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date he is required to return to work.
(f)	• Successive periods of disability separated by less
than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
(g)	. An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall
not be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
(i) , Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii) . Disability or loss (1) while the protected person is on or could be placed on pregnancy/maternity leave, or (2) if a protected person fails to qualify for pregnancy/maternity leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of pregnancy/maternity leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statues, or,------------
92
4. Eligibility for Payment - Continued....
(g) • (iii). Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iv). self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(v)	. any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
(vi) .	disability for which the employee is not under
the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
(vii) .	for a period of disability in excess of four
weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractor, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
(viii)	. alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the
employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addition, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
(h)	. An amount of disability benefit will not be payable
for those for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(i)	. An amount of disability benefit will not be payable
following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the company pension plan.
(j>- An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k>. The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent, disability provision for the company pension plan.
93
Disputed W.C.B. Claim
If an employee covered by the W.I. plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B., W.I. payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the W.I.Plan. If the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the W.I. payment (s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
5.	Payment.of Benefits
(a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(c)	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
(a)	. An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence
on the date he was to become eligible under this Plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	. If an employee who has been covered under the terms
of this plan is granted an authorised leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
94
6.	Miscellaneous Provi si ons - Continued...
(c)	. The 5/12 of the U.I.C* premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
7.	Government Disability Plans
(a)	» The amount of disability benefit under this plan will
be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workmen's Compensation disability pensions.
(b)	. The Company and/or Insurer may require certification
or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
(c)	. The amount of disability benefit in excess of the
amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9 . Admini______tion
(a). It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the company of his absence due to disability, following which the company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
95
9. Administration - Continued.. .
(b)	, Completed claim forms will be checked by the company
to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
(c)	The Company will meet with representatives of the Union from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the Plan and any problems which may arise.
(d)	Should any employee or the Union have any complaint concerning entitlements to benefits under the Plan, the matter may be taken up as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
96
E-t. B.« fndy fdrfst PRODUCTS LTD, FOR WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike,
97
4.	Definition of Disability
"Disability" shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	Amount nf Benefit
(a)	. The disability benefit shall be 55% of monthly earnings
effective first of month following date of ratification for those employees actively at work
(b)	. "Monthly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift
worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate; in the case of a pieceworker, 173 x the Feller Limber hourly rate.
(c)	. "Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee
effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
(d)	. The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by
any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, W. C. Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
(e)	. While receiving benefits under this Plan, the employee
will continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working at no cost to the employee based on earnings equal to the rate of pay for the job on which he was employed immediately prior to disability, in the case of a pieceworker, the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a)	. Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed
month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	. S ervice for purposes of the plan will be based on the
present calculation of pension service since January 1, 1951.
(c)	. Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
98
7.	Terminati f Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	. On the date the employee ceases to be disabled.
If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b) . On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c) . Up to normal retirement age, or
(d)	. On death.
8.	Exclusion
(a)	. An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits
will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	. Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not
be payable for claims resulting from:
(i)	. Any injury arising out of or
sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii) .	any injury or illness entitling the
employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iii)	. self-destruction or any self-
inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv) .	disability for which the employee is
not under the treatment of a physician, or
99
(V) . alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the case and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi) .	Disability of loss (1) while the
employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.