AGREE
SOURCE				
	P		- •* °t oi	Of
.TJRMw				V
iNin i/ffitMT5		cfoo		
rmili? O’EMPiovis				
Between
'.MBERLV-CLARK forest PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL2693, IWA - CANADA
September 1,1993 - Augu* 31.1998
frVw
■ * v
KIMBERLY-CLARK CANADA INC. Woodlands Labour Agreement INDEX
TOPIC	PAGE	NQ
AbMnOM, Rules...............................46, 46
Apprentice Program........................54,56,66
Bereavement Pey.................................39
Bulletin Boards.............................37, 38
Cell-Out....................................31. 32
Commuters.......................................61
Contractors.................................2, 3, A
Dental Plan.................................40. 41
Drug Plan.......................................36
Employee-Owned Equipment.................3, 21,	63
Field Pay.......................................24
First Aid.......................................16
Orlevance - Adjustment..........................12
-	Committee...........................12
-	Procedure.......................13, 14
-	Arbitration.........................15
Holidays - Floaters.........................    10
• Statuatory...........................9
Hospital Care Plan..............................38
Hours of Work............................  25	-	32
insurance - Personal Belongings.................is
-	Tbols...............................18
-	Power saws..........................i S
Job Descriptions - Trades..................56 -	60
Job Foatlnge....................................34
Juridiction.................................2, 3. 4
Jury Duty - Subpoenaed Witness Allowance........40
Layoff - Procedure..............................33
- Notice..................................33
Leave of Absence - Union Business...............32
Life Insurance..................................38
Long Term Disability....................42, 85.	89
Memorandum of Settlement....................97, 98
Mileage Allowance...............................23
No Strike - No Lockout......................... 16
Overtime...................................25 -	32
Pay Perlod/Day..................................20
Period of Agreement............................1,2
PowerSaw Rental.................................53
Premium Pay.............................12, 26,	29
Probationary Period.........................32, 33
Purpose of Agreement.............................1
(0
INDEX (oomintMd)
TOPIC	MQE
Rates and Classifications (New)...................4,
Recall.........................................36,
Recognition.............
Reporting Pay...........
Safety Apparel - Subsidise
Safety Commit*#..........
Saaling.................
Seniority* Principis....
• Accumuiatlon/Retention.............32. c
- Application............................
*	List.......................................y
- LOM Of...........................36. 43, ;
Severance Pay.....................................j
Shift Differentials...........................   ...sV
Shift Scheduling...............................25 -	.
Silviculture - Addendum...........................'
-	Wage Rates.........................04,
Statuatory Holidays (Qualifications)...........0 - I
Technological Change...............................
Tools and Equipment..............................—1
Tradesmen - Annual Review.........................T :
* Job Descriptions.................56- .
-	Tools...............................
Ttainer.........................,.................V"
T-avai Time..........................................54
Union Membership...............................    6,	6
Vacation With Pay..............................    0.	9
Vision Care Pian............."....................42
Wage Schedule* Hourly Classifications....... 47 * 50
Walking and Riding Time........................31, 54
Weekly Indemnity..........................3a. 75 - 52
Working and Living Conditions..................16 - 25
Letters ofUnderstanding
-	Recognition - Jurisdiction....................62
-	Supplementary Agreement.................63, 64
-	Climatic Controls........................  ...55
-	Watchman Schedule.............................66
-	Maintenance Shop Schedule.....................67
-	Tree Plantlng/Sila Preparation Start Time.....«6
-	Haul Starting Time............................69
-	CPP Application for Benefit...................70
-	Metric Scaling................................71
•	Reimbursement for Driver’s Licence............72
-	Commuter ■ Road Construction..................73
-	Equipment Rate Meetings.......................74
-	Hours of Work .......................... 90, lOO
-	Hours of Work - Shop....................... 67
*	Third Party Contractors................. 83, 00
- Piecework Rates (Excluding TVeaplant)..... 102 - 104
AGREEMENT
Between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC. Hereinafter referred to as “The Company”
And
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA Hereinafter referred to as “The Union”
2LE I - PURPOSE
1 The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the .ny and the Union the full benefits of orderly and .1 collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, 7;ing conditions, and living conditions as specified in rticle X of this Agreement, and to ensure to the utmost ' nt possible the safety and physical welfare of the ,	economy of operation, quality and quantity
output and protection of property. This Agreement,
_ ii : r, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful ‘‘ - I of all disputes that may arise between the It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto of ail employees to cooperate fully, individually and :tively, for the advancement of the conditions set >rth herein.
.7 2LE II - PERIOD
.01 The Company and the Union agree one with the 7 :r that they will abide by the Articles of this ::	nt from September 1, 1993 to August 31, 1996
iclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either
1
party desires to change or terminate the . w which case the party desiring the change or *: shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty days priorto September 1 of the particular year that is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement In manner provided above shall notify the other p * writing as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as sole collective bargaining agency for all of its ‘' ~ who are engaged in woods operations on the limits,* on the work sites, of the Company. For purposes of» Article, Company employees shall be all those
in the job classifications set out in the Wage Sch ‘ attached to and forming a part of this :: including those who are employed on job classifies " which may be established and become pari of attached wage Schedule during the term of * Agreement.
3.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by Company on the limits and work sites of the Co shall be considered employees within the terms of t Agreement, save and except the employees, contractors and/or the contractors who are ~ ~ ‘ perform occasional special services not c :~ performed by employees covered by the terms of t Agreement, employees of contractors where contractors are engaged for the purpose of erect' structures and where such a contractor is bound by Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated v.! central labour body covering such work.
3.01	(c) The Company and the Union agree that , operatorwho enters into a third party aareementwith v Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, produces forest products for the Company or any of t negotiating companies, shall have an agreement *
2
Union covering such operations. See attach-ed letter i Appendix A
.01 (d) Employees shall not be permitted to own chanical equipment in the cut and skid phase (stump 3 roadside) or the logging operations.
tmployees shall be permittedto own other equipment in other phases of the Company's operations subject to ' following conditions:
. It will not interfere with the application of seniority.
,	* ’ will be assigned to equipment in accordance
ith the provisions of the Collective Agreement;
. Employee-owned equipment will be on a voluntary ' . No employee shall be required to own <r lease any , \ nt as a condition of employment;
. Senior employees will be given first opportunity to . or purchase such equipment subject to Article XII Seniority 12.01, paragraph 1.
'he number of employees owning or leasing equipment /ill not exceed 20 percent of the number or employees 30 the seniority list submitted in accordance with Article :.06 and to be calculated each year at that time/
Repairs shall be carried out by Company tradesmen ,': d i n the job classificationsof the wage schedule 3f the 'Collective Agreement.
*	is understood that operators scheduled on such
nt may be required to perform maintenance or ninor repairs during their scheduled work shift.
t shall be a continuing Company obligation to ensure
*	tall terms and conditionsof the Collective Agreement
adhered to.
employee on the active payroll, on authorized leave of
3
absence, or on a disability leave on the date ratification (excluding those who are replacing employees) will be laid <£ due to the use or repair employee-owned equipment.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which : ‘ ' contractors whose employees are considered to fc employees underthis Agreement, shall not perform which would normally be a function of an employee i the jdb classifications covered by this Agreement, exc when instructing employees and in cases Of “ which involve physical danger to employees or danger property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not fc interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute " may arise between the Union and any other Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the r: z *' covering such matters in accordance with the f - ’ ’ of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV- RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto, and form! a part of this Agreement.
4j02 If during the life of this Agreement, a chan e in jot content occurs in any job classification Iiste8 in th< attached Wage Schedule the rate thereto shall tx adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upor failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred t< Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operatinc methods including major alterations in established worl patterns requiring the establishment of new jot classifications, the Company will give the Union at leas thirty (30) days’ advance notice in writing.
During the thirty (30) day period prior to Wt«
4
. ‘.7tion of such changes, upon request by the * • .1, the Company will meet with the Union and ' suss such changes.
the new job classifications, the Company shall st r v rates. Any such rates will be based on . v ’ • i with prevailing rates for similar and/or 4 occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
” .-ip^ the implementation of such changes, •	. for rates covering the new job classifications
uiting from such changes shall commence without
‘ y-
' r agreement is reached such rates shall become part the attached Wage Schedule.
i the event that the parties do not reach agreement on . rates for the newclassifcations within thirty (30) days . the effective date of the change or alteration the matter . y be referred to Stage 3 of tne Grievance Procedure, thirty (30) day period may be extended by mutual ‘ of the parties.
rates when established shall be retroactive to the of establishment of the new classification.
The Company agrees that when a rate for a job ification is or becomes part of the attached Wage chedule, the Company will not change the method of nt for such job classification from daywork to ’ Rework or vice versa if such a change adversely cts the average earnings of the employees :erned.
:LE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
V The Company agrees that it is in favour of its , * ,.. - covered By this Agreement becoming 1 of the Union and will facilitate Union
5
membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
$.02 (a) Any employee who is now a member in 8 standing cr who becomesor is reinstated as a member the Union shall, as a conditionof continued,. r maintain such membership in good standing the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Ur' intending td suspend a member, the Company shall t notified by the Union in writing £ least seven (7) ' before such suspension.
5.02	(b) When hiring employees the Company *
after complying with Article XII of this Agreement, -preference to Union members who apply and * capable of doing the. work required of them, if U r' members are not available the Company shall have ** right to hire non-Union help until such time as U ' members are available. The Company further agrees advise the Union officeof all its labour requirements' time to time thereafter. The Company shall furnish t' Union Steward with a list <f new employees arriving camp each week.
5X12 (c) New employees shall make application to ti the Union when first approached to do so by a dUl authorized Union Steward, Official or Rep rase ntatrv* The Company shall upon hiring advise all ne employees by fetter, with a copy to the Union Steward, l report to the Steward within ten (io)days of commencin work. Failure of an employee to comply with th conditions herein shall be cause for Immedial termination of employment.
5.02	(d) The Company shall put employees on che< off at the time of hire or return to work and deduct th Union's membership dues from monies due them.
5.03	If an individual employee, who is a member of tf Union or becomes a member, so desires, the Compai agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his writt*
6
.. . % deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly : ‘ • hip dues from monies due him. The deduction “ tion shall be transferred from camp to camp ’ ig the course of his employment.
.:	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the
cal Union, said remittances to be accompanied by * d lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of .	, with Christian names, social insurance numbers
n authorized by Union members, and amounts by . The Company will endeavour to deliver these 4s as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the ing month. The Company shall include in each ,'	:*s income tax slip (T-4) the amount of union
deducted in the calendar year.
05 Representatives carrying proper credentials shall „ the right to visit all operations in connection with *3n business as it pertains to the Company's Credentials carried by the Union shall consist of a Certificate of Authority ; :d by the President and Secretary of the local Union nid shall be presented to a Company official upon arrival i a camp or other site of operations if requested. Said ‘ **	' will be provided board and lodging, if
’■ ’ * , on the Company premises at the prevailing ‘ ”ct rate.
00	The local Union shall furnish the Company with a
1	of local Officers and Representatives, and shall nd these lists as changes occur.
The Company will furnish a list of supervisory I to the Union office at the start of the contract land amend it, if required, at the end of each month.
• amended list will show the effective date c£ the
. Failure to advise the Union of such changes •ill net in any way affect the authority of Company
7
ARTICLE VI • VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a) Vacation Pay shall be paid to each ... r.., by cheque to be issued at the time of termination employment or at the employee's option, at the time layoff, or when vacation is taken.
Income taxon Vacation Pay credits shall be J * along with regular earnings each pay period.
6.01	(b) Each 2 percent increment of Vacation T entitles an employee to one (1) week of time off.
An employee who has worked continuously for one year must take his full entitlements time off, at a tir._ times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
An employee has the right to take his full entitlement time ctt, whether or not he has worked continuously . one (I) year, £ a time or times satisfactory to himself his Supervisor.
6.02	Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid on th following basis.
(a)	4 percent of gross earnings for employees wh have worked less than 800 days.
(b)	6 percent of gross earnings for employees wh have worked 800 days or more but less than 2,0C days.
(e) 8 percent <f grow earnings for employees wh have worked 2,000 days or more but less tha 4,000 days.
(d) 10 percent of gross earnings for employees wh have worked*4/)00 days or more but less the 5,400 days.
8
(e) 12 per cent of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than 5,400 days.
(9 Supplementary Vacation with Pay: Employees •ho have worked more than 5000 days for the Company . II receive the following additional vacation in the J‘. year in which they attain:
Age 60 -1 week (2 percent of gross earnings]
Age 61 * 2 weeks (4 percent of gross earnings)
Age 62 • 3 weeks (6 percent of gross earnings)
Age 63 * 4 weeks (8 percent of gross earnings)
Age 64 - 5 weeks (10 percent of gross earnings)
03 Days worked for purposes of this Article shall n all days worked, plus working days which normally ould have been worked but were lost as a result of ,*2kenss or injury certified by a licensed physician, “ i, or chiropractor, and all total days on Union *	, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with
y, jury duty and bereavement leave in any calendar r. An employee who has established seniority in ccordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain accumulation of service for his rate of vacation pay r as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
"^ICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
‘.01 Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall i paid without the performance of work for the following ■*J-New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
'■ :n any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall
Y.
9
Employees who have accumulated one hundred twenty (120) days seniority will be grantedtwo (2) f. *' holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a ♦’ satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented' taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu c such holidays.
7.02	(a) An employee, who qualifies under Secti
12.02,	who works any <f the available work days v ‘ the thirty (30) day period immediatelypriorto the he**; and does not leavework sooner than two (2) days fc ' the holiday and is ready for work on the morning of f second (2nd) day after the holiday, unless his return I work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond t contrai, shall receive pay for the holiday unless he . ‘ during the thirty (30) day period immediately priorto holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the T " ' and is ready for work for the second day following the holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Company prior to leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and Unlor either at camp level or at management level.
7.02(b) If an employee, who qualifies under Sectior
12.02	and who works any of the available work day within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to th< holiday, is on authorized leave of absence other than as provided in 7J03 when the holiday occurs, he shal receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, provided he returns to work on time, unles? his return to work on time is prevented by circumstance? beyond his control.
7.02	(c) An employee, who qualifies under Sectior
12.02,	who is obliged to cease work due to a layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately priorto tne holiday
10
H receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such ‘ ‘ 'y day period.
*2 <d) An employee, who qualifies under Section '102, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or ccident certified "by a licensed practitioner during the y-one (21) day period immediately prior to the ’ y shall receive holiday pay for the holidays) within uch twenty-one (21) day period.
'.02 (e) If an employee who qualifies under Section
12.02	is recalled and works any time during the fourteen 14) calendar day period immediately following the ' J y he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding
\02	(9 An employee who qualifies under Section
..02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay nd additional time off for any holidays occurring within uch vacation period.
'*.03 A special leave of absence shall be granted to a
, ’	d employee who must travel a long distance to be
4 for Christmas, in which event such an employee •:'i!l receive pay for the holidays provided he returns on . Any request for such leave of absence must be ■* to the Camp Foreman no later than December 1 st . '* an employee is prevented by circumstances yond his control from returning to work on time, he * all be paid for the holidays.
7.04	(a) Ifqualified, a day worker will be paid a day's . y at his or her regular rate for the holiday.
7.04	(b) A dayworker who is requested to work on any
.. "'' y Shall be paid for all time^worked.at the/ate of ana one-halfnis regular rate and. if qualified; in
J shall receive one (1) day's pay at such regular
11
rate in lieu of the holiday.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work o a holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, i*
complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly possible and it is generally understood that an :	'
has no grievance until he has given to his Foreman' opportunity to adjust his complaint.
8.02	(a) The Union shall arrange for the election * its working membership ± each camp, by the m—L therein, of a Union Grievance Committee <f three (3’ headed by a Union Steward who shall act as r '
for that Committee. In the absence of the Steward, “ Company will recognize a delegated member of ~ Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately an election, the Union Grievance Committeein the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
« 02 . (b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or U nion Grievance Committee.
8.03A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any differences between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
12
.04 Grievances as defined above may be taken by the by the Union Steward or the Union having jurisdiction directly to the :	immediate supervisory adjustment outside
. ‘ * >g hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless “ *:■ procedure is followed. The grievance shall be .d without undue delay. Any grievance submitted ' > the Foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in riting, will be disposed of by the foreman, in writing.
“____a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will
": dealt with in writing at aJi stages thereafter. Failv^g a “ ' story adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, “ n,
_ 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Srievance Committee and/or Union Representative with . Operations Superintendent within ninety-six (96) in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The Operations Superintendent shall make a reply in "1 ig within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a “ ' ctory adjustment, then,
•
3 * The matter shall be taken up by the Officers <f "Local Union and/or their representatives with the V i e President - Woodlands of the Company or his ‘ *’ Failing a settlement within seven (7) J , , then,
I age 4 - The matter shall be referred to the Vice . resident - Woodlands of the Company or his : and a Union Committee accompanied by ‘‘ ...Unions President or his representative. Failing a it within fifteen (15) days, then,
_	5 - Either party may, within the following fifteen
viO) days, refer the matter to arbitration.
.05 A grievance arising from a claim by an employee .* his discharge or suspension by the Company was ’ * or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must
#	13
be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge a: suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee's grievance Is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting ± the third stage d the grievance procedure. In case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing <f the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In ?r.z event that an employee,is found by an arbitration board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on hisjob underterms and conditions decided" by the arbitration board.
8 06 Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03 it shalf commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the V i e President -Woodlands or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven f7Jlays, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the Vice President * Woodlands of the Company or his representative. Failing a Settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one man and these two men shall select a third party who shall act as chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee no later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The arbitration board's decision snail be final and
14
binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister or Labour to appoint a third party. Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
$.09 It is understood that the function of the arbitration board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the arbitration board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates therefore. The arbitration board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the members of the arbitration board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, statutory and legal holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
15
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE • NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X • WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	it is agreed that the Company and the Unionshall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company ana the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position d Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairmanand a Union Co-chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall makea report in triplicate- copies going to the Company office, the Union office and the Camp Bulletin Board.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
The Company agrees that it will maintain good work trails, and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid Man in each camp, such FirstAid Man to have proper visible identification.
It is the intention of the Company to maintain its camp access roads in good condition when in use.
10.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency First Aid kits at or nearwork sites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation cf men.
10.03	(a) All camps shall have one tier single beds at
16
least 36 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattresses shall be either airfoam, plastifoam or spring filled mattresses. Where these conditions require changes in present camps such changes shall be effected within the term of this Agreement. In construction of new camps, the Company agrees io construct all living quarters into suitable rooms nousing not more than two (2) employees per room.
In the case of cookery personnel, the Company agrees io provide in the construction of new camps, suitable living quarters housing not more than one (1) employee per room. Where such cookery staff accommodations are currently available, they shall be so arranged and provided.
The Company agrees to supply two clean sheets and one clean pillowcase perweek and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived in camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in serviceable condition at all times.
10.03	(b) It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees’ living and service quarters will be washed ana disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a TV sa! where TV programs are receivable, and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets and showers. A lock-up storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs. Air conditioning will be installed in one cookery on a trial basis, and if this proves beneficial, installations will be carried out in all other cookeries during the term of this Agreement.
17
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities tc assist in starting employees' cars parked in the c , lots. Car plug-ins and electricity snail be provided ft employees in all camps.
10.03	(c) All bunkhouses will be supplied with. * coolers and paper drinking cups, except where d 4 * fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10.03 (d) The Company agrees that fly cc ' ' measures will be carried out on camp sites periodic " as conditions warrant and pest control as required. "
10.04 (a) Refrigeration will be provided for “ perishable food, as required, in all operating camps, i perishable foods shall be handled in a sanitary r~ ~ during transportation at all times.
10.04	(b) There shall be no substitute for butter suppliedto employees. Margarinewill be made 1,1 upon request.
10.04	(c) Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, servecf in containers allowing self service, for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.04	(d) Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety d cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.04	(e) There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon and evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
18
10.04	(9 The charge for board and lodging shall be $1.75 per calendar day.
10.04	(g) The Company will provide each cut and :kid crew with a suitable lunch shack for year round use.
10.05	(a) It is agreed that present standards of izrvice will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, recreation and motion pictures. The Company agrees Id provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless “■jVjz'V agreed to. The Company agrees to provide radio communication from all operating camp sites during the term of this Agreement.
10.05	(b) The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons and smocks, on loan, and other suitable uniform apparel, at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing and drying machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
10.05	(c) The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee-owned power saws to a maximum of Two Thousand, Five Hundred ($2,500) Dollars and will provideadditional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on Company property or work sites. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employee-owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company their full replacement value.
An employee who causes a fire wilfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss.
19
Si at>e s e igei enis 3 j rtfec 3 against theft employee-owned power saws will be made a 0	!
between the Conpany ind the Union.
10.06	(a) Employees shall t paid every ::	.
ay; •	b be 41 on that day.
10.06	(b) ! lei advances win be ac a or ly !: < of evident emergency. Sir* a Paid *' \J
occur on Thursday pay day cr riday, payment will " i on Wednesday of that Bek.
10.06	(0)	In Inste	b c I	rizs	extend w e
at e 1	ash f	c r	will I	ta	d to the extent
the 1I1 i's payroll credit.
10.06 (d) A Time r mil 11 i<h to each employee for 1	ie will carry jmph	ft
1	r	I, gs, 5	tfe
deductions covering the p i codes f I c d in a 1
nr t «
Jh pay period, if b s of pay, ; Pay r ait, b f;
10.06 (e) Where twenty-four (24) hours' notice 1 of * ym t I y the \ ny c “* employee it renderedth C np iy agrees that .... reasonable er will be made to make a full::	*
within rtty (24) h 5 ft a such	ti~"‘
Saturdays, Su and legal holidays excepted.
20
Ml
. Ail hand tools and equipment required on the job be made available to employeess on loan. When an , :jot of equipment is required by the Company to do mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools are required on ban. All tools and equipment not i j will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken will be replaced with serviceable tools free of provided that the worn out or broken tools are _d. No person shall be required to own or rent any 'I or equipment as a condition of employment, unless “ specified in this Agreement.
employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment :. or leased by nimself or by another employee in ‘ : cut and skid operations of the Company.
‘ ~~ Employees using power saws will be provided “!i free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools ' equipment required on the job, and will be issued, .1 ban, the following:
\ Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
.. One (1) safety type gasoline container.
. One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
Company agrees to stock two types of power saw ‘ lins and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links d rivets, in the camps, and sell them to the employees .* invoiced cost to the Company.
mplyees using power saws will be provided with free ,r saw gas and oils.
‘ ?? At each operating camp a separate, suitable, i building shall be provided for the repair and ■ - of powersaws. Said buildingsare also to contain "■ ‘ ml lockup type lockers for storage, work bench
21
and vise: Compressed air will be provided in the r _ saw repair building. No powersaws shall be repairedc stored in living and/or service quarters.
10.10	Onlyfactory built buses shall be usedfor the rc transportation of men; same to have adequate ;; accommodations, emergency exit doors and to “■ equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided fc employeesat designated waiting places, such shelters • have heating facilities. The Company will, for the # ' of its employees, have either communication transportation available at designated waiting plac (See attached Letter of Understanding)
10.11	Night watchmen shall be employed in ‘
operating camps during the heating season.	?
10.12	The Company agrees to discuss with the Un‘ in each particular operation ways and means c improving conditions for all employees covered by th‘ Agreement, and also the interpretation of t* * Agreement.
10.13	Food served to the employees in the camps *... at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient q and shall include in season fresh fruits, vegetables greens.
10.14	The Company, consistent with its policy t promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will require an employee to work alone in an isolated
unless such, operation is deemed safe,, and fr communication with such employee will be m • ‘ *
by his supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.10 The Company agrees that it will furnish, on ! all safety equipment and personal safety apparel * and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety glc and mitts.
22
The Company subsidy for approved safety clothing for I use will be as follows:
Safety boots- $30 per pair Safety pants- $12 per pair Safety mitts and gloves- $ 7 per pair
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not come a condition of employment unless it has been „ ::d to by the Company and the Union, or is J" tory under Government legislation.
10.16	The Company agrees that there will be no shacking or batching by employees covered by this Agreement who are engaged in producing and delivering operationson its Limits and/or work sites unless mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
10.17	(a) The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company’s request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII -Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intentionto do so and effective date of ratification shall be paid twenty (20) cents per kilometer.
10.17	(b) Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkersand normal travel time, outside an employee’s scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers.
10.18	Lunch boxes and thermos bottles shall be
23
issued, on loan, to all employees and shall have sterilized before issue.
10.19	All night shift workers shall have sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, practical.
The Company shall provide the Union Steward in operatingcampwith a room in the bunkhouse in which t conduct Union business.
10.20	On regular hauling operations where trucks loaded by cranes, Drott loaders or similar equipment, toploaderor helper will be employed.
10.21	The Company agrees that for the purpose c safety not less than bo (2) men shall be on each boat when such work boat is used in towing, rafting rr driving or rearing.
10.22	The Company shall supply mechanics, i '4 and electricians suitable coveralls and provide for “ laundering of same free of charge.
Coveralls will be placed at the slashers for use of crew while doing maintenance.
10.23	Tradesmen and helpers, carpenters _ *
servicemen assigned to a bush garage shall receive (50) cents per hour in addition to the applicable y rate. Tradesmen and helpers, carpenters and s ervic	.
assigned to a main camp or central garage required *' perform work of their trade away from a main camp or central garage will be paid fifty (50) cents per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for ail such ho;-: worked away from the main camp or central garage.
Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard c. the main camp <r central garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paid fifty (50) cents per hour in addition to
24
the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The week for operations shall be six (6)days per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive. (See Letter of Understanding attached in Schedule R)
It is agreed that daywork or shift work employees may be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 (a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be withheld.
11.01	(b) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a Paid Holiday and the /sixth day/ (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following. See Letter of Understanding attached in Appendix B,
11.02	(a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., mealtime excepted.
11.02	(b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours cf 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted. However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement, be scheduled to commence prior to 7:00 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.03 (b).
11.03	(a) A night shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work.
25
11.03	(b) On other two-shift operations the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shaflcommence at 7:00 am or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7;00 p.m, and shall carry a shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per hour. (Letter of Understanding - Site Preparation)
11.03	(c) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3)shifts and the shift differentials to be paid shall be as follows:
Stating Time Stopping Time	Shift
(between hours of) (between hours of) Differential
1st Shift	7 AM - 8 AM	3 PM - 4 PM
2nd Shift	3PM. 4 PM	11 PM. 12 PM
3rd Shift	11 PM • 12 PM	7 AM-8 AM
NIL
Forty-five oenle/hour Fifty-five centa/hour
Effective September 1, 1991, increase second shift premium from forty-five (45) cents to fifty-five (55) cents per hour, and third shift from fifty-five (55) cents to sixty-five (65) cents per hour.
11.03	(d) The hours of work and the “sixth day” for da workers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
1.	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at nis regular straight time rate provided that there is a
36
break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a one (1) hour period. (SeeLetter of Understanding on Truck Hauling)
3.	On all operations which are carried out on a two (2) or three (3)shift basis, all such employees will be scheduled on a rotating weekly schedule basis.
.03 (6 }) If an employee, who has completed his cheduled work week is required for work on his “sixth ' y” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the leading Thursday. If he is available lor the posted _	" work at the regular starting time and is unable
) commence work for reasons beyond his Control, he ‘ Jl receive four (4) hours’ pay ± the applicable i "r:: rate as specified in Section 11.05 (a) provided : remains available for the four (4) hour period if so ■ : :‘:d by the Company.
.04 (a) A day or shift worker, who is unable to work ‘ i full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall : paid for one-half a day if he works less than four (4) :urs, and for a full day if he works more than four (4)
27
In the case cf time lost in excess of one (1) hour reason of lack of assignment of area to cut, and/or ♦' required in excess of one (1) hour to travel to assigned, payment shall be made for ail hours lost.
11J04 (b) A day or shift worker who reports for work his scheduled starting time and is unable to co~ .
work due to reasons beyond his control, shall c .! four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he , available for is/© (2) hours from his scheduled ** time, accepts alternate work if so assigned ~ commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternatework commences in the first half the shift on the first or subsequent days, the - > payment shall not be made and the provisions of C
11.04	(a) will apply. Should the employee work any oft' hours in the second half of the shift he shall receive?
(4) hours pay for such hours. The Company “ commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates s change in shift, the time and one-half provisions a Section 11.03 (d) shall not apply providing there is e break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts.
Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not bi made for the second and subsequent consecutive day; in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of th< scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he ma exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If sucf employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace
28
another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his semonty within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid df and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutiveday following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave cf absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise nis seniority on his return to work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established locally.
11.05	(a) Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on his designated “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or outside his regular shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on his designated “sixth day” (Saturday <r Monday) and on a Sunday.
Overtimework required in a camp unitwill be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classification requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be consideredas part of an employee’s applicable hourly rate.
11.05	(b) Employees in the classifications specified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
29
(1)	Cook	(4)	Cookee
(2)	Baker	(5)	Choreboy
(3)	Second Cook (6) Watchman
(7) Boat Crews -Guy M No. 1, Robert W. and 'TUgalong
For employees in the job classifications listed above the
hours cf work per day or shift and per week will be
scheduled as follows:
1.	The regular work day or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shift of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than bo parts provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2.	Time worked in excess or outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day a: shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his "sixth day" (Saturday<r Monday)and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
& An employee in the above classifications who is unable 1d work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available at the start cf his scheduled shift, and for one full day if he remains available for the start of the second half of the scheduled shift.
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted an Thursday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day or shift for the "sixth day" or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The
30
starting and stopping times shall remainfixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
an employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift scheduled is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at this regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of ± least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5.	If an employee who has completed his scheduled workweek is called back for work on his “sixth day” or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of eight (8) hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
& When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per hour for each second shift worked in accordance with Article 11.03(c).
7. The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
3 Headquarters watchmen see Letter of Understanding (appended).
11.06	Walking distance and/or riding time shall not be considered as time worked. Walking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distanceand Riding Time Section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.
114)7 An employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (I) hour
31
before the start of his day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call*out for work is within the one (1) hour period priorto the start of his day or shift he will be paid time and one-half from the startingtime of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of his day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the the time worked prior to his starting time.
An employee, who is called out for work OR his ’’sixth" day (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (a), from the starting time of the call-out, but in no case shall he receive lessthan four (4) hours pay at the rate of time and one-half.
ARTICLE XII • SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after layoffs.
Time off due to sickness or accident must be certified by a licensed physician, licensed dentist or licensed chiropractor.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall retain seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has established seniority and is then employee! by the Union shall retain such seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty
32
(30) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article
12.01	snail apply, and the employee shall be placed on the Seniority List in order cf hire.
12.03	(a) Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or part thereof, the employee will bepermittedtotransferto a job to which his seniority and qualifications entitle him. If no jobs are available he will be permitted to replace an employee with less seniority on a job for which he is qualified provided:
(i) The jobs will continue in other districts for fourteen (14) days or more, and (li) The employee navlnq received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04 advises the Company prior to the effective day of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company of his desire to transfer or to be laid cS.
When layoffs are for less than fourteen (14) days seniority will be applied on a district basis.
Prior to an intended layoff which is to last more than fourteen (14) days, the Company will provide the Camp Foreman with a copy to the Union Grievance Committee, with a list of the employees in other districts having the lowest seniority on jobs which will continue for fourteen (14) days or more and which are similar to those being terminated. The number of employees listed in each job classification shall be the same as the number being laid off in the same classification.
12.03	(b) In transfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. In case of
33
a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification.
1243 (c) The Conqpany,when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII.
Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
It is agreed, however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jdbs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees snail not be considered for such jobs, unless they apply in writing within the five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12,01 of this Agreement. Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify, (or further time as may be mutually agreed, if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to retumto hisformer job without loss of seniority or benefits.
Successful applicants will be required to fulfill the vacancy for which they have applied.
Employees accepting a job posting shall remain in that job for a minimum 2 three months from the date the employee filled the job vacancy unless being displaced
34
from that job because of layoff or the bumping procedure.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successfulapplicants for all posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
124)3 (d) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp.
In the event that a vacancy is not filled from the Camp unit, it shall be tilled on a Company wide seniority basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days, the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union .Grievance Committee. The Company agrees that all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of lay-off as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of layoff, employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in all cases, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his
35
given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is requiredto report for work. Employeeswill be requiredto acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by April 30 of each year an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority, and Company seniority rank as specified in Section 12.01 as at March 31 of the same year. This list will show in addition each employee’s occupation and address.
12.07	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly in each camp showing tne Company seniority rank of each employee.
12.06 An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of this Article shall retain such seniority for twenty-four (24) months during layoff. An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this Article, shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months from the date or promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all provisions of this Article upon proof of Union membership in good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generally employed on seasonal operations and who have not acquired seniority, in
36
accordance with this Article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit, during the off season, provided that this does not interfere with the application of seniority of any employee. Such personnel shall apply for Union membership prior to being placed on the job and maintain their Union membership in good standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction or new methods and equipment or curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment, in accordance with Section 12.01 d Article XII, to meet the Company's labour requirements and if such employees require train ing to perform alternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company. It is understood this does not apply to seasonal layoffs.
12.11	An employee with three or more years of service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one week’s pay for each year d completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of forty hours at the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment.
It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee’s name will be removed from the seniority list.
The above provision is not in addition to the requirements of the Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the
37
Company, such notices to havethe approval <£ the Camp Foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - DRUG AND HOSPRAL CARE PLAN
14.01	Effectivethe first of the month following the date of ratification for each employee on the payroll who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will provide appropriate single or family coverage in accordance with a Blue Cross Drug Plan or Its equivalent, and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plan.
The Company will maintain coverage to employeeswho are df work due to a Workers' Compensation claim or a
Short-Term Disability claim for up to a period of twelve (12) months.	-
Effectivethe first <£ the month following the date of fal-;' ification, the Company agrees to provide coverage for a laid-off employee to the end of the month following the month of lay off. Coverage will resume on the date the employee returns to work from layoff.
Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, all costs of medical reports requested by the Company or the Insurance Carrier will be covered by the Company to a maximum of $15 upon receipt.
ARTICLE XV - LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	Effective February 1, 1901, the Company will maintain a Group Life Insurance Plan to provide Fifty Thousand ($50,000) Dollars of Life Insurance for each employee while actively employed. The premium cost to the employee will be 3o cents per $1,000 per month.
ARTICLE XVI -WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium costof a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings (forty (40) hours times an employee’s regular rate, forty (40) hours times the Feller-Limber hourly ratejto commence on the first day i n case of a non-com pensable accident or
38
in the case of an illness on the date of confinement to hospital or the fourth day of illness, whichever is the earlier date. Benefits will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (62) week.
Effective the first month following the date of ratification, for all new claims, increase maximum to Four Hundred and Eighty (480) dollars per week.
Effective September 1, 1984, for all new claims, increase maximum to Four Hundred and Ninety-Five (495) Dollars per week.
Effective September 1, 1995, for all new claims, increase maximum to Five Hundred and Ten (510) Dollars per week.
Plan detail • Appendix “A”
ARTICLE XVII • BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to an employee's spouse or children the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straighttime rate for time lost up to a maximumof five (5) days. When death occurs to other members of employee's immediate family, that is, an employee's father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the maximum time lost paid for will be three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. The day of the funeral must be one of the five (5) or three
(3)days. Pay will be granted for the scheduled work days lost during this period.
It is understoodfor purposes of this Article step relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof
39
of bereavement in the employee's immediate family. ARTICLE XVIII • JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed (no arbitration • no defender*/, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XIX - DENTAL CARE PLAN
19.01	The Company will maintain a Dental Care Pian, with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this Plan is limitedto employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days cf seniority with the Company.
2.	Pian Design
a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1 or equivalent.
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50 percent) or equivalent.
Effective date of ratification,, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 1992 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1994, amend the Plan to
40
provide for the application of the 1993 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1995, amend the Plan to provide for the application <f the 1994 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Maximum of One Thousand (1,000) Dollars per calendar year per person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
3.	Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
41
ARTICLE XX • LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide and pay the premium cost of a Long Term Disability Plan. The Plan forms part of this Agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix "O'.
ARTICLE XXI • VISION CARE PLAN
21.01	The Company will provide a Vision Care plan which will provide for expenses incurred by an empuyee and/or the employee's covered dependents when recommended by a physician or optometrist as follows: frames, lenses, ana the fitting <£ prescription gl including contact lenses, up to a total paymc, Seventy-Five (75) Dollars per family member, in any two (2) consecutive calendar years. Effective September 1, 1995 change Seventy-five (75) Dollars to read One Hundred (100) Dollars.
ARTICLE XXII • RETIREMENT PLAN
22.01	11 is understoodthat the existing provisionsof the Organized Employees' Retirement Plan shall remain in effect until agreement is reached an any change thereto.
224)2 Ali employees covered by the Organized Employees' Retirement Plan will retire on attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years.
22.03	An employee may retire with no actuarial reduction in his pension provided:
a)	the employee is at least fifty-eight (58) years old. and,
b)	the employee has ± least thirty (30) years of service.
22.04	Effective April 1, 1994, an employee who retires at age 56 with 30 years of service will receive a supple mentary payment of four hundred and fifty ($450,00) per month until the Old Age Security (OAS) Becomes payable.
42
22.05	It i s understood that pension changes i n accordance with the Ontario Pension Benefit Act as they apply to private industry will be included in the Pension Plan.
22.06	The Company will establish a local pension advisory committeewnich will include representativesof both bargaining units, the chairman of which shall be the Kimberly-Clarklocal pension administrator.
22.07	An employee who has completed a least one year <f continuous service prior to termination and whose most recent period of employment is at least one (1) year in duration will receive full credit for those penods and intervening periods of service, provided the employee has received no retirement plan benefit distribution.
22.08	An employee with at least fifteen (15) years of continouos service may take normal retirement between the ages of sixty-two (62) and sixty-five (65) years with no actuarial reduction in his pension benefit.
22.09	An employee with at least fifteen (15) years of continuous service may take early retirement between the ages of fifty-seven (57) and si)dy-two (62) years with his pension benefit actuarially reduced, at the rate of five percent (5%) for each year of early retirement.
22.10	Amount of standard basic benefit is seven-eights of one percent times number of years of continuous service (prior to September 1, 1980) times average monthly earnings plus one percent (1 %) times number of years continuous service times average monthly earnings. Average monthly earnings shall be determined from the ten (TO) highest consecutive calendar years earnings out of the last fifteen (15) years.
22.11	Effective January 1, 1987, an employee who leaves the Company and has two (2) years of continuous
43
Censionable service is entitled to a full pension benefit ased on all years of service after January 1, 1987 upon reaching age sixty-five (66).
22.12	During the term tf this agreement the Company agrees to continue its level d financing of the Organized Employees' Retirement Plan in addition to the employees. contribution under the Canada Pension Act A financial report will be provided once each year.
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO as of the 21 st day of July, 1994.
Witness	WMB€Riy-CLARK FOREST PROOUCTS INC
______________________ R.E. Mannlsto
V i President - Woodlands
LOCAL2693* MA CANADA
Wilf McIntyre President
44
RULES GOVERNING ABSENCES
1.	The permission of the foreman must be secured for all absences from work.
2,	Permission for absences will be covered as follows:
(I) Absences involving not more than one (1) working day:
•	by verbal permission of the foreman.
(ii) Absences involving more than one (1) working day but not more than one (1) month:
•	by “Permission for Absence from Work" form signed by the foreman.
(iii)	Absences involving more than one (1) month:
•	by “Leave of Absence” form initiated by the foreman and approved by the Vice President • Woodlands.
Employees must bring both copies of the Leave of Absence” form to the Woodlands Office for final approval.
If an employee leaves the job without securing permission it will be treated as an “Absence without Permission (N.R)*' provided the absence does not exceed one (1) week. An absence in excess of one (1) week will constitute a break in service unless justified by proven circumstances beyond the employee’s control.
All authorized absences will be either at the request of the employee, and covered as described above, or will be a temporary layoff due to lack of work and covered by a Leave of Absence.
Each “Permission for Absence” cr “Leave of Absence” will designate either:
45
(1)	The return to work date, or
(2)	The date by which the employee must contact the Company to find out when he isto return.
Failure of the employee to comply with the above provisions will be treated as an “Absence without Permission (N.R)" providedthat he complies within one (1) week of the specified date. Failure to comply within one (1) week will constitute a break in service.
Any absence without permission in excess of one (1) week will result in a break in service unlessjustified by proven circumstances beyond the employee’s control.
If an employee has three (3) absences without permission (none of which exceed one (1)week) within a twelve (12) month period a break in service will occur.
Absences without Permission may result from:
(1)	Leaving camp without permission.
(2)	Failure to report on date specified.
(3)	Failure to contact Company for return to work date on specified date.
(4)	Failure to report on time when transferred.
(5)	Failure to report to doctor promptly when leaving camp due to sickness or injury.
(6)	Failure to return by date specified by doctor in oases of sickness cr Injury.
46
WAGE SCHEDULE
KIMBERLY-CLARK WOODLAN DS
September 1, 1993 to August 31, 1996
Sept. 1/93 Id Slot 1/94 to sept 1/96 to A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS Aug.31<94 Aug. 31/96 Aug. 31/96
Blacksmith
Bodyman Mechanic Class 'IA" Bodyman Mechanic Class "B” Bucker(Tree Length Skidding) Bulfcook or Choreboy Bus Driver
Camp, Dam A Bridge Const.
Worker (Experienced)
Captain (Masters-Inland V&ters) Captain
Carpenter (Lead)
Carpenter (Qualified)
Chokerman (Tree Length Yarding)
Cook, 1 to 20 Men
Cook, Over 20 Men
Cook, Second
Coofcee
Crew Leader (Slashers)
Dumpmen
Dump, Crossings, Men Slushing Electrician, Lead Electricianand Radio Electrician Electrician Class “B"
Electrician Helper Class "A” Engineer 4th Class Diesel Marine Engineer 3rd Class Diesel Marine Engineer
Ernst"M” Operator Feller (Tree Length Skidding)
Fire Patrol Man Fireman, Boiler Depot Handyman Helper, Blacksmith Helper, Bulldozer^ Tractor Helper, Crane Operator Helper, Winchboat Jackhammer Driller
20.00	20.20	20.50
23.36	2359	23.94
21.61	2153	22.16
20.08	20.28	2038
19.54	19.74	20.04
19.62	1932	20.12
19.54	19.74	20.04
21.67	2159	22.22
21.08	21.29	21.61
23.81	24.05	24.41
23.36	23.59	2394
19.62	1932	20.12
20.92	21.13	21.45
21.27	21.48	21.80
20.60	20.81	21.12
19.23	19.42	19.71
21.76	21.98	22.31
19.24	19.43	19.72
19.26	19.45	19.74
23.81	24.05	24.41
23.55	23.79	24.15
23.36	2359	2394
21.61	2153	22.16
19.72	19.92	20.22
20.99	21.20	2152
21.61	21.83	22.16
20.65	2056	21.17
20.08	20.28	2058
20.08	20.28	2058
1910	19.29	19.58
19.34	1953	1952
19.65	1955	20.15
19.24	19.43	19.72
19.24	19.43	19.72
19.41	19.60	19.89
19.37	1956	19.85
19.29	19.48	1977
47
WAGE SCHEDULE
KIMBERLY-CLARK WOODLANDS
September 1, 1993 to August 31, 1996
A. HOURLY WAGE CUSSiRCATtONS
Kay "C" Operator Labourer, General Labourer, Warehouse Laundry Worker Limber (Tree Length Skidding) Logman
Machinist “A” Class Machinist “B" Class Mechanic Lead Mechanic Class “A'* 1 Mechanic Class "A"
Mechanic I Mechanic II
Mechanic Helper Class “A” Mechanic Helper Operator, Automotive Yarder Operator, Air-Trac Operator, Bulldozer “A”
Operator, Bulldozer"‘B”
Operator, Bunk Grapple Skidder Operator, Cary Lift Operator, Cat 977, 966, 980 Operator, Compressor Operator, Crane (Certificate) Operator, Crane (Without Certificate) Operator, Drott Operator, FellerBuncher Operator, Felling head & Delimber Operator, Gator Operator, Hough 90-70 Operator, Hydraulic Backhoe Operator, Hy-Hoe
Operator, Hydraulic Loader Mounted on Slasher (Fixed or Mobile) Operator, Koehring Feller Forwarder Operator, Log Boom Operator, Mechanical Skidder (Wheel Type)
sept 1/93 to sept. 1/94 to Sept. 1/96 to Aug. 31/94 Aug. 31/95 Aug 31/96
20.08	20.28	2058
19.10	19.29	1958
19.10	19.29	1958
19.10	19.29	1958
20.08	20.28	2058
19.65	19.85	20.15
2356	2359	23.94
21.61	21.83	22.16
23.81	24.05	24.41
23.68	2092	24.28
2356	2359	23.94
21.61	2153	22.16
20.61	2052	21 13
19.72	19.92	20.22
19.26	19.45	19.74
2052	20.52	2053
19.96	20.16	2046
21.26	21-47	21.79
20.56	20.77	21.08
2052	2052	2053
20.32	2052	2083
20.32	2052	2053
19-72	19.92	20.22
21.47	21.68	22.01
20.96	21.17	21.49
2052	2052	20.83
20.79	21.00	21.32
20.96	21.17	21.49
1951	2051	20.31
2052	20.52	20.83
2096	21.17	21.49
19.98	20.18	20.48
20.32	2052	20.83
20.79	21.00	2152
20.96	21.17	21.49
20.08	2028	2058
48
WAGE SCHEDULE
KIMBERLY-CLARK WOODLANDS
September 1, 1993 to August 3l, 1996
Sen 1193 to 8mL 1/94 to StoL liSS to A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS Aug. 31/94 Aug. 31/95 Aug. 91193
Operator. Grapple Skidder (wheel Type)
Operator, Mechanical Slasher (Fixed)
Operator, Mechanical Slasher (Mobile)
Operator. Nesco Processor Operator, Outboard Motor Operator. Outfeed Processor (Manual)
Operator, Outfeed Processor (Mechanical)
Operator, Passengers Supply Launch
Operator, Petti bane Super 30 or Equivalent
Operator, Power Grader Operator, Paver Saw (Non-Productive)
Operator, Pump Operator, Pusher Operator, Roadside Dellmber Operator, Shortwood Knuckleboom Loader (seif-Propelled)
Operator, TrackmobiJe Operator, Tractor, General Operator, Tractor & Scraper Operator, Tree Harvester (Beloit, Timbeijack, Larson, Koehring) Operator, Wheeled Tractor Operator, Winch, All Other Types Operator, Yarder Painter
Plumbers Pipefitter Gass "A” Powderman
Radio, Maintenance Man Raftsman, Inland Waters Logman River Driver, Boatman, Bow & Stem
20.23	20.43	20.74
2983	21.04	2166
20.32	2052	2063
20.47	20.67	2008
19.49	1958	19.98
20.08	20.28	2058
20.31	2051	2062
19l62	1962	20.12
2032	2052	2063
2032	2052	2063
1954	19.74	20.04
19.26	19.45	19.74
19.96	20.18	20.48
20.79	21.00	2162
21.26	21.47	21.79
19198	20.19	20.48
19.62	1962	20.12
20.41	20.61	20.92
20.96	21.17	21.49
2032	2052	2063
19.96	20.18	20.48
20.25	20.45	2076
20.07	20.27	2057
2336	2359	23.94
19.49	19.68	1968
21.04	21.25	2157
1954	19.74	2064
19.49	19.68	19.98
49
WAGE SCHEDULE
KIMBERLY-CLARK WOODLANDS
September 1, 1993 to August 31, 1996
.	^	sept. 1/93lo sept 1/84 to Sept. 1/95 to
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS Hg. 31/94 lug! 31/95 Aug. 31/96
River Driver, Watering Wood an Drive
River Driver, Storage Ground Logman Saw Filer
Saw Trailer (Mobile Slasher)
Serviceman
Serviceman, Lead
Snowmobile Driver
Sorter & Sluicer
Tire Repairman
Tire Repairman Helper
Tcp Loader
Tree Planter
Truck Driver, Single Axle,
Hauling on Body
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle, Hauling Trailer (Over 1QZ’ in Width) Truck Driver, Hauling Trains, Trailers, Floats, F.W.D.
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Truck Driver, Snow Plowing Utility Man (Fixed Slasher) Watchman
Watchman, Night Firing Stoves Watchman, Gateman Welder, Lead Welder, Class “A”
Welder, Class I Welder, Class II Welder Helper, Class “A*
Welder Helper Wheelsman
19.37	19.56	1955
19.37	19.56	1955
21.61	2153	22.16
19.98	20.18	2048
21.37	2158	2150
22.40	2252	2256
19.62	1952	20.12
19.37	1956	1955
20.08	20.28	2058
19.72	1952	2022
19.62	19.82	20.12
19.10	1929	1958
19.62	1952	20.12
20.28	20.48	20.79
20.21	20.41	2072
19.97	20.17	2047
19.98	20.18	20.48
19.62	1952	20.12
1944	1953	1952
1954	19.74	2004
1934	1953	1952
2381	2405	24.41
2346	2358	2354
21.61	2153	22.16
2061	2052	21.13
19.72	1952	2022
19.26	1945	19.74
1957	1977	2007
50
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS (Cont’d.)
When an employee is transferred or recalled from a job classification to Tree Planter, he shall receive the rate d the classification from which he was transferred or laid
Off.
A supplement d five (5) cents per hour will apply to the Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Hauling Trailer rate when hauling tree length, butt and tap
a MISCELLANEOUS
1.	Commuters
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions.
I	Commuters are employees who:
a)	are resident within reasonable Riding and/or Walking Distance of the area d operations,
b)	for whom board and lodging are not made available by the Company.
II	The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated marshalling point or points for each commuting area to the operating areas and return.
a) Longlac, Geraldton and Nakina will be considered as commuter centers for the Road Construction Crews.
III	Time spent by dayworkers travelling on the vehicle provided from a marshalling point or points to debarkation point or points plus time spent walking from debarkation point or points to place of work in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
a) Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
51
2.	Cookery Schedule
The Company agrees that the following catering staff shall be provided in the camp cookeries:
Numb* of Nimm eating (a) 14 men or less	Cook 1	tnoond •	
(b) 15 to 25 men	1	-	1
fcj 25 to 45 men	1	-	2
(d) 45 to 65 men	1	•	3
or	1	1	2
(e) 65 to 85 men	1	1	3
(f) 85 to 105 men	1	1	4
(g) 105 to 125 men	1	1	5
(h) 125 to 145 men	1	2	6
or	1	1	6
(I) Over 145 men	1	2	7
or	1	1	7
Night
1
1
It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term or this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing work are introduced. The above crew numbers in categories (a) to (i) inclusive may be varied ten percent plus or minus for short penods. Should the manpower in Section (i) increase by more than 20 men, extra help will be provided in the cookery.
Three Shift Operations
Where more than 10 men and less than 20 men are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned.
Where 20 or more are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be
52
added to the Cookery Schedule, and assigned with the cookee ± night.
3.	Handicapped Workers
A special rate may be established by agreement between the Company and the Union for aged and handicapped workers.
4.	Laundry
It is agreed that the charge for laundry shall be fifty (50) cents per week.
5.	Power Saw Rental
Effective first of month following date of ratificationa dayworker using his power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw rental of
$11.00 per &hour day or shift when felling and limbing.
$12.00 per &hour day or shift when bucking at a landing on a skidding operation.
If he is unableto work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he will be paid one-half dayfs rental when he works less than four hours and a full day’s rental when he works more than four hours.
6.	Scaling
Forthe purposed this Agreement, a stackedcordof 4-foot rough pulpwood shall be 50” by 50” x 8’; a stacked cord of 8-foot rough pulpwood shall be 50” x 100” x 4’; a stacked cord of peeled pulpwood shall be50M X 48” x 8’ or 100” x 48” x 4’; where rough wood is cube scaled, 68 cubic feet of solid wood shall constitute a cord without allowance for
53
overlengths. Such cube scale measurements shall be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
7.	Trainer
An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty (30) cents per hour during the training assignment.
8.	Walking Distance and Riding Time
(a)	Where a davworker1* travelling timefrom campto working place is composed of riding and/or walking time he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way ab his regular rate <f pay.
(b)	Where a dayworker's travelling time from camp to working place is composed of riding and walking time, he shall be paid the rate of pay as per this Agreement for all combined riding and walking time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way. The walking time, based on tne rate done quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes, shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be tilled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) (jobpostings). Employees who meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationaryperiod of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship
54
agreement, during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the Ontario Apprentice Program may be retained in his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The apprentice may receive a weekly training allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Course. The Company will supplement this allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40) times his regular hourly rate of pay. Calculation of tne Company’s portion will be based on the government allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at home while attending the Trade School.
If the apprentice is required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the governmentto an apprentice living away from home while attending Sichool.
An apprentice’s entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
55
6.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following his course d studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
7.	if an apprentice is entitled to a reduction i n the term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
MECHANICS
Helper
He shall be required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as ^signed. He shall be upgraded priorto or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class "A". A Helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude fir further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class “A”
He shall, under the direction of mechanics of a higher classification, work on all types of equipment used on woods operations. He shall be capable of performing the following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded priorto or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic It.
56
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Mechanic II
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
Mechanic I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has had special training and/or is assigned on only one type of equipment, he will automatically oe rated as a Mechanic I.
Mechanic Clast “A”
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
Ife will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
57
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
Mechanic Class “A” • I
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications cf a Mechanic Class "A" and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have had advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment subsystems or be in possession cf both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry cf Labour of Ontario.
Mechanic Lead
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under MechanicCLass A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presentiy employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
WELDERS
Helper
He is required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class "A". In the event that he fern to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment
58
Helper C(«*a “A'*
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1.	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity of working in other positions.
2.	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He shall be upgraded priorto or at the end of a one year periodto Welder II. In the event that he fails to displaythe necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Welder II
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
Welder I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Welder Class "A'
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jdbs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understandingof types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types <f welding in all
59
positionswith all metals used on woods operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He must assume responsibility for all work performedby himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession c£ the necessary trade certificate.
Welders presently employed in this classificationwill not be required to have a Trade Certificate.
Welder Lead
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Welder Class *(A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other welders.
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a Trade Certificate.
TRADESMEN'S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1 1MM opening, sockets up to and including 1/2** drive and» 1 114* opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18' in length, hammers, chisels, punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen &. cout. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and guages, pullers, sockets over 1/2” drive, spanners over 1W opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen are required to be in metric measurements such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
60
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
Once each year and during the month of November, a group whicn is comprised of the Superintendent -Maintenance, Foreman - Automotive shop and two qualified representatives of the Union will determine by review whether helpers and tradesmen quality tor upgrading. If, in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Superintendent- Maintenanceand Foreman • Automotive Shop.
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
AND
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
RECOGNITION- JURISDICTION
it will be the Company's policy notto change the present source of supply cf wood fibre for Its mills, if by doing so it would deprive employees with seniority from gainful employment with the Company.
If, however, during the term of this Agreement dated September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1993, circumstances beyond the control of the Company were to arise and force the Company to alter its supply and offset the employment opportunities for its employees, that volume of supply produced on operations not covered by a Collective Agreement with the Union will be reduced on a proportional basis.
In moving back to former levels of operation, the volumes cf supply producedon the Company's woods operations will be increased at least proportionatelyto the volume of increase of supply from other sources.
Employees with seniority as of May 8, 1986 will not be laid dE during the term of the Agreement as the result of the purchase of conifer fibre for its mill operation.
Further, the Company agrees that the full amount of allowable poplar cut will be harvested off the Company's limits south of the Ogoki River.
[WED AT 10NGLAQ ONlMti) THIS 21st M? OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre	R.E. Mannisto
President, Local 2693 Vice-President, Woodlands IWA Canada	Kimberly dirk RxesL Products Inc.
62
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
between
KIMBERLY CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
1.	RE ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
Subject to the exception mentioned in the second sentence of this paragraph, it is understood and agreed that clause 10.07 of the main Agreement does not in anyway restrict the Company’s right to continue the established practice of employing owner-operators together with their equipment when such equipment is required or the right cf the owneroperator to be so employed provided that all applicable provisions of the Agreement shall apply to such employees. However, the Company agrees and undertakes that no employee shall operate a tractor awned by himself or by another employee in the skidding operations <f the Company.
2.	RE WAGE SCHEDULE
(i)	Cook
It is agreed that a cook who has been employed on the higher rate shall maintain such rate when cooking for 20 men or less.
(ii)	Operator - Bulldozer
It is agreed that an operator who has been employed on the higher rate shall maintain such rate when operating a bulldozer smaller than a D6 or equivalent.
(iii)	Cookery Schedule
Changes upward or downward in cookery staff strengths will be made at approximately the m id-
63
point between the low and high figure, designating each classification of camp strength with the exception of fourteen men or less requiring one cook and the requirement for the addition of one cookee when the camp strength reaches fifteen men.
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO AS OF THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre President, Local 2693 IWA Canada
R.E. Mannisto Vice-President, Woodlands KimbtftyGark Forest Products Inc.
$4
June 28, 1988
Mr. Wilf McIntyre,
President, Local 2693 IWA Canada RO. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario R7B5E9
Dear Sir:
Consistent with the Company's policy to ensure to the utmost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees the Company will, on purchase of new mobile equipment, provide for suitable cabs with climate controls. This will include the installation of air conditioning in new buses.
The Company further agrees to continue to study ways and means to generally improve operator comfort on current equipment.
Yours Truly,
R.E. Mannisto Vice-President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc.
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
In order to combat ever increasing oosts the Company proposes continuous operation or scheduling i n the following area:
Headquarters Watchman: Tb increase the present complement of watchmen from 3 to 4 and put these men on a three shift, seven day week.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre President, Local2693 IWA Canada
R.E. Mannisto Vice-President Kimberly -Clark Forest Products Inc
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693. IWA CANADA
HOURS OF WORK
The Company and the Union agree that the work week for the Longlac Maintenance Shop may be scheduled from Sunday midnight to Friday midnight.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre	R.E. Mannisto
President, Local 2693	Vice-President
IWA Canada	Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc.
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
ARTICLE 11.03 (b)
During the months of May, June, July, August and September, tree planting and two-shiftsight preparation may commence at 6:00 a.m., if agreed to by the crews involved.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre	R.E. Mannisto
President, Local 2693	Vice-president
IWA Canada	Kimberly-Clark Forest Products be.
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, l WA CANADA
The Company and the Union agree to extending the starting time interval from the present one hour to a maximum of three hours. The extended Interval will only be used where it is beneficial to the operations and the Company will endeavour to keep the starting time interval to one hour or less.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre	R.E. Mannisto
President, Local 2693	Vice-President
IWA Canada	Kimbarly*Clark Forest Products Inc.
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
RE WOODSWORKERS’ DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Pian when eligible to do so> and when the employee’s disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee’s physician. If the application is approved, benefits under tnis Plan will then be offset by the amount of C. P.R/Q. P.P. primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 19S4.
Wilf McIntyre President, Local 2693 IWA Canada
R.E. Mannisto Vice President -Woodlands KinbedyCark Forest Products he
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
June 28, 1988
Mr. Wilt McIntyre President, Local 2693 IWA Canada P. Q Box2384 Thunder Bay, Ont P7B 5E9
Dear Sir:
METRIC SCALING* RATES PER CORD OF 85 CUBIC FEET
Under Wage Schedule B-l, new rates are based on Imperial Units in the Contract.
Products paid for on a “Stacked” Cord basis will have these new rates divided by a factor of 3.933 to arrive at the rate per cubic metre (stacked). Metric rates fir poor bush bonus, presently paid on a per cord basis, will be calculated in the same manner.
Products paid for on a Cubic Measurement will have rates per cubic metre established once the appropriate factors) for conversion of these rates are available, and followingjoint discussion and agreement with the Union.
Yours truly,
R.E. Mannisto
Vice President * Woodlands
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
RE LICENCES. TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required n order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO
THIS 21st DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre President, Local 2693 IWA Canada
R.E, Mannisto V i President- Woodlands Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA X* COMMUTERS
Employees presently on Road Construction will not be affected by establishing Nakina as a Road Construction commuter centre.
It is also understood that the present practice of having both Longiac and Geraldton as commuter centres for the Road Construction crews working in these two districts will continue.
DATE) AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO MS21$t DAY OF JULY, 1994
Wilt McIntyre	R.E. Mannisto
President, Local 2693	Vice President- Woodlands
IWA Canada	Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc.
73
May 5, 1988
Mr. Wilf McIntyre President, Local 2693 IWA Canada P.Ol Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario F7B5E9
Dear Sir:
To accommodate your request, the President of the Union or his delegated representative will be invited to attend any meeting held between the Company and the employee association of slashers, limbers and loaders, at which equipment rates and other economic conditions are to be discussed, to enable the Union to be familiar with the process and results realized in fixing the equipment rates agreed to between individual associations and the Company.
Yours truly,
R.E. Mannlsto
Vice President- Woodlands
74
APPENDIX “A”
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
Pulp and Foraat Product* Operations Longlac Woodlands Operations
WOODSWORKERS’ DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1. Definitions
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	“Accident” is a bodily injury caused by external violent means;
(b)	“Disability” is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c)	"Employee” means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc. and Local 2693, IWA Canada;
(d)	“Insurer” means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the companies;
(e)	“Plan” means the Kimberly-Clark Woodworkers’ Disability Benefit Plan;
(9 “Company” means Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc.;
(g)	“Weekly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 nours times his regular rate;
(h)	“Medical Practitioner” means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
75
2.	Participation
(a)	All employees shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3.	Amount of Disability Benefits
The amount ci disability benefit shall be 70 percent of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 (g) immediately preceding the date <£ disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit prescribed in the Labour Agreement.
4.	EI!glbiiity for Payment
(a)	(I) Except in the case of a disabilityarising out (f an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordancewith Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after three continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
(ii)	In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligibleTo receive an amount of disability benefit in accordancewith Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing fiom the date of the accident.
(iii)	If an employee overed by the Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the Workers' Compensation Board, Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one month due to disability without the Workers'
76
Compensation Board having accepted the claim and providingthe employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the Workers’ Compensation Board claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his beinglaid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance d disability.
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his layoff or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
(e)	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefits if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after layoff, and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from date he is requested to return to work.
(9 Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered
77
one period c£ disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelatedto the previousdisability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
(g)	An amount of disabilitybenefit underthis plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of;
(i)	Any injury arising out <£ or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment or profit, or
(ii)	Disability or loss
(1)	while the protected person is on or could be on Pregnancy/Maternlty Leave, or
(2)	if a protected person fails to qualify for Pregnahcy/Matemity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy Maternity Leave that the protected person couW be dn if ; • she qualifiedfor such leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1984; Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes, or
(iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers’ Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iv)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(v)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not or from participation in a riot or civil commotion, or
(vi)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
(v)i) Fora period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor, in the case of chiropractors, certification of disabilitywill only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
78
(viii) Alcoholism or Drug Addiction unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitativetreatment approved oy the insurer and a physician.
(h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement underthe total and
Permanent disability provision of the Company ension Plan.
0) An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of any employee, ifearly retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k) The amount of disability benefit underthis plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for whichthe employee is eligible under the tdaL and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Plan.
5.	Payment of Benefits
(a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of
79
absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(c)	The amount <£ disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods cf disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
€.MIseellaneous Provisions
(a)	An employee who is absent due to disability or on an authorized leave of absence, prior to the introduction of this plan, and is unable to return to active employment on the effective date of this plan because of a disability, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefits as provided in the provisions of the Sick Benefit Allowance in effect, prior to the introduction of this plan, which otherwise be discontinued. Such an employee shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to become eligible under this plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(c)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of tnis plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
7. Government Disability Pians
(a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit
80
provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plans, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receivinaan amount of disability benefit under this Plan. The amount of disability benefit under this plan will not be reduced by the amount for which the employee and/or the employee’s dependent is eligible for war disability pensions, Workers’ Compensation disability pensions and benefits paid by Unemployment InsuranceCommission for a period of disability.
(b)	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
(c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will * be paid by the insurer.
9.	Administration
(a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue
81
the necessary initial claim forms to him.
(b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the plan, and the Company will forward the claim forms to the insurer for adjudication and processing.
(c)	The company will meet with representativesof the participating Unions from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the plan and any problems which may arise.
82
January 22,1994
Mr. Wilfred McIntyre Local 2693 - IWA Canada Lakehead Labour Centre P.O. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 5E9
Dear Will:
It is apparent from your comments over the last several months that the job security of your members is of paramount importance to you. Ws, too, are concerned about the livelihood of our employees.
There are, of course, many factors which affect jobs. The seasonal nature of forest products operations, technological change, the needs of our mill operations, and the cost effectiveness (competitiveness) in harvesting and transporting wood from our limit are all factors we must consider.
It is this last factor which we collectively have influence over. What we require to help secure our future is cost competitive wood sfrom our limit for the years 1994f 1995 and 1996 (term of this contract) and beyond.
Against this backdrop, I do not foresee a need nor do I intend to employ a third-party contractor on our wood limit to supply the Terrace Bay mill.
I trust that these comments will provide you with the assurance you sought.
Yours Truly,
R.C. Taylor
President & General Manager RCT:cb
83
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO as of the 21th day of July, 1994
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS NG
R.E. Mannisto v i President-Woodlands
LOCAL 2693, tWA CANADA
Wilf McIntyre
President
84
APPENDIX “B“
KIMBERLY-CLARK CANADA INC.
Pulp and Forest Products Operations Longlac Woodlands Operations
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
The Company shall pay the monthly premiumcost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 46 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effsctiv# Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long. Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an
65
amount of Long Term Disability after fifty-two weeks c benefit entitlement for the same disability under “ Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall n ' commence during a strike until the termination of tr strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
“Disability” shall mean an insured employee who: received fifty-two weeks of benefits for the disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and i* thereafter unable because of disease or injury to at any occupation in the Company for which he ! reasonably fitted by education, training or expsrienc'
» A
In no event, however, shall “total disability” during any period In which the employes
(I) is engaged in his or any other gainful employment, or
(ii) is confined in a penal institution or other house correction as a result of conviction for a criminal other public offense.
5.	Amount of Benefit
a • 4
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 55 percent of» earnings as defined in (5b).
(b)	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day shiftworker, 173 x his regular hourly rate.
(c)	“Hourly Rate” means the regular rate of employee effective immediately prior to the date c which the disability occurred, excluding overtime shift bonus.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduc by any primary disability payments made under th Canada Pension Plan, or any Company gr. disability income plan. Benefits are not affected;9 War Pensions, Workrs’ Compensation Di
86
Pensions, <r byany insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
(e)	While receiving benefits under this Plan, the employee will continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working at no cost to the employee based on earnings equal to the rate of pay for the job on which he was employed immediately prior to disability.
$. Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes <f the plan will be based on the present calculation of pension service since January 1,1965. Service for the purpose cf this plan prior to January 1, 1965 will be reviewed and established by mutual agreement during the term of this Agreement.
(c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7. Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of
the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	It normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death.
a7

8. Exclusion
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term £'
Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or holiday pay.	.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i) Any injury arising out of or sustained while c1 ’ any act or thing pertaining to any occupation employment for remuneration or profit, or
(II) Any injury or illness entitling the employee i compensation under any Workers' C tion or similar legislation, M
(lil) Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, \ * “ sane cr insane, or
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not und the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless t*-employee is undergoing a recognized course treatment by a specialist in the care treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or ♦“ employee is undergoing regular » ’ ’ "" treatment approved by the insurer and a M physician.
(vi)	Disability or loss
(1)	while the employee is on, or could be placed Pregnancy/Maternlty Leave, <r
(2)	if employee fails to qualify for Pr _	„
Maternity Leave because of failure to meet th length of service requirements, during th period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that tf employee could be on if she qualified for leave, in accordance with the Em, * , Standards Act 1984, Ontario or any relevant provincial statutes.
Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician ar physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693,1WA - CANADA
RE: ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
Notwithstandingthespecificterms of Article XI - Hour: Work, it is understood that the work-week and hours c work may be amended to provide alternative	J
Such alternative scheduling shall not include p:: * ’ for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a c . by-camp basis, and all terms will be subject to :" ment between the Union, the Company and the ees involved.
SIGNED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 22nd DAY of JANUARY, 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION
R.E. Mannlsto	Wllf Mclntyr*
C.V Speziale	Kenneth Paquetu
90
?"ED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO of the 21st day of July, 1994
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
R.E. Mannisto
V / President-Woodlands
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA
Wilf McIntyre President
91
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT Bttwttn
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC. htfitaafttr referred to as "The Company"
And
LOCAL 2693, IWA CANADA hereinafter referred io as aTho Union"
The Company and the Union agree that where it ' necessary for the Company to increase its work force employees listed on the seniority list for the sole p of carrying out seasonal silviculture work (r-*— the Company may hire additional employees to p ' ' seasonal silviculture work under the provisions of :* Collective Agreement and as amended by “ ' Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	ARTICLE V • UNION MEMBERSHIP
(a)	The employees hired to perform ‘ silviculture work daU not be required to make, applicationto become a memberof the Union “ they remain employed at such work.
(b)	The Company shall putthese employees on checkoff and deduct the Union's monthly-----u
dues from monies due them and remit same to tt Union offi e monthly, accompanied with the list said employees.
2.	ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH FAY
For such aforesaid employees, Vacation with P .
credits shall be paid at the rate of 4 percent of his -
earnings ana me total accrued amount or credits * ■■
be paid by cheque to each employee at the time c
termination <r layoff from such seasonal employment.
92
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
(a)	Rr such aforsaid employees who qualify under Section 12.02 Holidays With Pay shall be paid without the performance of work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start cf such absence.
(b)	The provisions set out in Sections7.02(b), 7.02(c), 7.02(d), 7.02(e), 7.02(f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
Where silviculturalwork is to be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said employees while so engaged.
ARTICLE XII • SENIORITY
(a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b)	Employment d any new employee shall be considered probationary until he nas worked thirty (30) days within a six-month period.
(c)	A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulatedwork days plus paid holidays cf each employee while so employed. This shall be
93
referred to as the Silvicultural Seniority List.
(d)	An employe*, on the Silvicultural Seniority List, hired on other production operations, will k required to complete a further thirty (30) d probationary period in accordance with Sac?' ' 12.02.
Upon completion, his silviculturalseniority from ft last date of hire shall be transferred to the	* “
list as established and maintained under Aride J of the Collective Agreement.
6.	The provisions s± out under the following “ " are not applicable for the aforesaid employees:
Article XIV • Medii, Surgical, Drug* Hospital Care PI
Article XV • Life Insurance
Article XVI -Weekly Indemnity
AHide XVII • Bereavement Pay
Article XVIII • Jury Duty Allowance
Article XIX • Dental Care Plan
Article XX • Kimberly-Clark LongTerm DisabilityPI
7.	COMMUTERS
Where marshalling points are not established in Collective Agreement which are suitable to a pc	’
silviculture commuter operation, they shall ■" established by negotiations between the C r . and the Union prior to commencement of sue* operations.
8.	SILVICULTURAL WAGE SCHEDULE (a) Hourly Rates
Classifications Sept 1/93 Sept. 1/94 Sept 1/85
Tree Planter	$17.82	$18.00	$18.27
Labourer	17.82	18.00	18.27
94
Crew Leader 35 cents in addition to regular hourly rate Nursery Worker
(after Feb. 1785)	$1379 $1393 $14.14
Nursery Worker (on seniority list
Feb. 1785)	1732	1300	1327
(b) Piecework Rates - Manual Planting
Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock Tubed Seedlings (paper pots)
Site Unprepared
Bare Root Stock Tubed Seedlings (paper pots)
sept 1/93 to Aug. 31/96 10 cents per tree
8 cents per tree
11	cents per tree 9 cents per tree
(Employees on the regular seniority listing will not be assigned to Manual Planting on piecework rates).
95
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO
as of the 21st day of July, 1994
FOR:	FOR:
KIMBERLY-CLARK	LOCAL"
FOREST PRODUCTS INC.	IWA C‘W ~
R.E. Mannlsto C.V. Spezlale A.M. Harkness M. Fischer L.H. McLean
Wilt r' :* % Kenneth P" “ Louis A. C Jos ^
Lynn F. ■---
Kari r-LavaiC “ * Bemie Such
J.P..V ' Edmond P ’ Frank? . *
96
«
Typed Copy Of	~
HMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT OF ALL MATTERS
IN DISPUTE between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS BC.
and
LOCAL 269a I'WA CANADA
The undersigned representatives of the parties hereto ~... ously agree to the following terms of settlement of rll matters in dispute and agree to unanimously recommend acceptance and ratification to their respective principals.
ARTICLE II - TERM OF AGREEMENT Agreement to be effective date of ratification with only those matters retroactive that are specified. Agreement to expire August 31, 1996.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION- JURISDICTION The Union and the Company agree to the letter sub mitted by the Company dated January 22, 1994. This letter to be attached in Appendix A
ARTICLE 1V - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS 4.02 Delete: “Significant,,.
ARTICLE X -WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.15	Safety Boots • Effective Date of Ratification, change $20 per pair to read $30 per pair, maximum two pair per year.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The Union and the Company agree to the letter submitted by the Union dated January 22,1994. This letter to be as attached in Appendix B.
ARTICLE XIV - DRUG AND HOSPITAL PLAN
14.01	Effective the first of the month following Date of Ratification, the Company agrees to provide for coverage to the end of the month following layoff.
Add: Effective the first of the month following Date of Ratification, all costs of medical reports re-
97
quested by the Company a: the Insurance G will be covered by whomever requested same to maximum of $15 upon receipt.
ARTICLE XVI • WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Effective the month following Date of Ratification, for all new claims, increase maximum to $4d0fweek.
Effective September 1, 1994, for all new claims, increase maximum to $495/week.
Effective September 1, 1995, for all new claims, increase maximum to $5i07week.
ARTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
18,01	* Effective Date of Ratification, delete "by the Crown" (no arbitration • no defendant).
ARTICLE XIX • DENTAL CARE PLAN
Effective Date of Ratification, amend the Plan to provide for the application of 1992 ODA schedule ©• Fees.
Effective September 1, 1994, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 1993 ODA Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1995, amend the Pianto provide for the application of the 1994 ODA Schedule of Fees.
ARTICLE XXI • VISION CARE PLAN
Effective September 1,1995, change $75 to read $100.
WAGE SCHEDULE
General wage increases Increase all hourly rates:
Effective September 1, 1993 • 0 percent Effective September 1, 1994 - 1.0 percent Effective September 1, 1995 • 15 percent
PENSIONS
Effective April i, 1994, members who retire ± age 58 with 30 years of service will receive a bridging supplement of $450/m onth.	^
APPENDIX A
January 22, 1994
ir. Wilfred McIntyre Local 2693 - IWA Canada Lake head Labour Centre ..a Box2384 1 J:r Bay, Ontario . * B 5E9
Dear Wilf:
It is apparent from your comments over the last several that the job security of your members is of
, mount importance to you. We, too. are concerned bout the livelihood of our employees.
There are, of course, many factors which affect jobs. The
-----“I nature of forest products operations, technolo-
;::al change, the needs of our mill operations, and the zost effectiveness (competitiveness) in harvesting and ..-..sporting wood from our limit are all factors we must consider.
It is this last factor which we collectively have influence over. What we require to help secure our future is coOt competitive wood from our limit for the years 1994, 1995 and 1996 (term of this contract) and beyond.
Against this backdrop, I do not foresee a need nor do I intend to employ a third-party contractor on our wood limit to supply the Terrace Bay mill.
I trust that these comments will provide you with the assurance you sought.
Yours Truly,
R.C. Taylor
President & General Manager RCT:cb
99
APPENDIX B
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA
R E ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
Notwithstanding the specific terms of Article XI • H of Work, it is understoodthat the work-week and hours work may be amended to provide alternate scheduling.
Such alternative scheduling shall not include pr for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a camp by-camp basis, and all terms will be subject to agreement between the Union, the Company and the ees involved.
Signed at Thunder Bay, Ontario, this 22nd day of January, 1994.
FOR THE COMPANY:
R.E. Mannisto G.V. Speziale
R,M, Harkness M. Fischer LH. McLean
FOR THE UNION:
Wilf McIntyre Kenneth Paquette Louis A Garon Jos Garon Lynn F. Merkley Kari Karhunen Laval Dallaire Bemie Buchannon J.P. Aiarie
Edmond Parish Frank Semple
100
WED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO HIS 22nd DAY OF JANUARY, 1094
3 NED FOR: 'JMBERLY-CLARK -OREST PRODUCTS INC
SIGNED FOR: LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
3.E. Mannisto 3V. Speziale ^.M. Harkness Fischer ..H. McLean
Wilf McIntyre Kenneth Paquette Louis A earon Joe Oaron Lynn F. Merkley Kari Karhunen Laval Dallaire Bemie Buchannon J.P. Alarie Edmond Paris* Frank Semple
101
APPENDIX C
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA • CANADA RE PIECEWORKERS
Kimberly-Clark Forest Products Inc, and IWA C agree to remove the piecework rates and all references t piecework operationsfrom the contract (asper L with the expiry of the September, 1990 to August 31, . ~ Agreement
Should the Company decide that future " require the reintroduction of these piecework rates, it ■ agreed that the applicable piecework rates at that t would be the piecework rates applicable on August C-1993 as adjusted by any percentage changes to h wages negotiated after August 31, 1993 except i L otherwise agreed upon by the parties. It is further that if the hourly wage change is not negotiated as percentage, then the piecework tree-length rates will b converted to a percentage-based negotiated rate. It! mutually agreed that the hourly rate of “Feller (T-Length Skidding)” will be used as the basis for r. „ ting percentage conversion.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 21 St DAY OF JULY, 1994.
Wilf McIntyre, President LOCAL 2693, IWA • CANADA
R.E. Mannisto, ViceHDresident KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
102
DELETION TO THE AGREEMENT between
KIMBERLY-CLARK FOREST PRODUCTS INC.
and
LOCAL 2693, IWA - CANADA SEPTEMBER 1, 1993 TO AUGUST 31, 1996
NOTE: ALL DELETIONS ARE REFERENCES TO
PIECEWORKERS (EXCLUDING TREEPLANT PIECEWORK).
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.04	(a) “a pieceworkerwill be paid at the rate of feller
(Tree Length Skidding) for the holiday"
704 (c) AH
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.06	(9 All
10.07	Changed “pieceworkers and others” to “employees”.
10.08	Changed “pieceworkers and others” to "employees".
10.17 (b) "and the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate per day for pieceworkers... “and the above rates for pieceworkers”.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	“The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive.” Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in daywork jobs on the day shift, Monday to Friday inclusive.”
11.04	(a) “A pieceworkerwho will lose more than one
(1) hour of work for reason of failure the Comany to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of the one (1) hour at the rate for Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains
103
available and accepts alternate daywork if so requested by the Company.”
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.03 (b) “For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work, the rate specified for Feller-Limber (Tree Length Skidding) shall apply, a: the rate <£ the job classification, whichever is higher.”
ARTICLE XVI • WHEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	“and pieceworkers’!
ARTICLE XVII • BEREAVEMENT
17j01 “(pieceworkers, eight (8) hours times
the Feller-Limber(Tree Length Skidding) hourly rate)”
ARTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE 1&01 “(pieceworkers, eight (8) hours based on the Feller-Limber (Tree-Length Skidding) hourly rate)”
WAGE SCHEDULE
B.	PIECEWORK RATES All
C.	CUTTING RATES All
D.	MISCELLANEOUS
1. Commuters • III "pieceworkers or”	•
III	(b) “Pieceworkers on mechanical cut and operations shall be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).”
8.	Walking Distance and Riding Time a) All b) All d) “a pieceworker’s or”
WOODSWORKER’S DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1. Definitions (g) “for a pieceworker “Weekly Earnings means 40 X the Feller-Limber hourly rate”
LONG-TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
6.	Amount of Benefit (b) “in the case of a pieceworker, 173 X the Feller-Limber hourly rate”
(e)	“in the case of a pieceworker, the Feller-timber hourly rate
104
ATTENTION
PLEASE NOTE THE FOLLOWING REVISIONS:
ARTICLE X • Working and Living Conditions
Item 10.1S, Page 23 “Safety Boots • $30. per pair, maximum two pairs per year,”
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING:
Recognition • Jurisdiction, Page 32,
2nd Paragraph should read:
“If, hcvtiver, during the term of this Agreement dated September 1,1993 to August 31,1996, circumstances beyond the control of the Company were to arise and force the Company to alter its supply and offset the employment opportunitiesfor its employees, that volume of supply produced on operations not covered by a Collective Agreement with tho Unionwill be reduced on a proportional basis.”
105