KIMBERLY-CU
LIM
WOODS LABOUR AGREEMENT
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION
LOCAL 2693
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED WOODS LABOUR AGREEMENT INDEX
Page
ARTICLE I	—Purpose..................................... 2
ARTICLE II	— Period..................................... 2
ARTICLE III	—Recognition - Jurisdiction.................. 2
ARTICLE IV	— Rates and Classifications.................. 3
ARTICLE V	— UnionMembership............................ 4
ARTICLE VI	—Vacationwith Pay............................ 6
ARTICLE VII	— Holidayswith Pay........................... 7
ARTICLE VIII	—Adjustmentof Grievance...................... 9
ARTICLE IX	—No Strike-No Lockout....................... 12
ARTICLE X	—Working and Living Conditions.............. 12
ARTICLE XI	—Hours of Work ............................. 19
ARTICLE XII	— Seniority................................. 25
ARTICLE XIII	— BulletinBoards............................ 29
ARTICLE XIV	— Medical, Surgical,
Drug and Hospital Care Plans........... 29
ARTICLE XV	—Life Insurance............................. 30
ARTICLE XVI	—Weekly Indemnity........................... 30
ARTICLE XVII	— BereavementPay........................... 30
ARTICLE XVIII — Jury Duty Allowance ........................ 31
ARTICLE XIX	— Dental Care Plan.......................... 31
ARTICLE XX	— Long Term Disability Plan................. 32
Rules Governing Absences................................... 34
Wage Schedule (Hourly Rates) .............................. 36
Supplement to Pieceworkers ................................ 40
Metric Conversion.......................................... 40
Cutting Rates.............................................. 41
Miscellaneous.............................................. 47
Trade Apprentice Program .................................. 50
Supplementary Agreement.................................... 56
Letters ofUnderstanding.................................... 58
Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan	- Appendix	“A” ....... 66
Long Term Disability Benefit Plan - Appendix	“B” .......... 73
Addendum to the Agreement.................................. 78
Memorandum of Agreement.................................... 82
I
AGREEMENT
Between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED Hereinafter referred to as “The Company” and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693, of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America. Hereinafter referred to as “The Union”
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
l.	I	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and
:h Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in
respect to hours, wages, working conditions, and living conditions as specified in Article X of this Agreement, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputesthat may arise between theparties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the otherthat they will abide bv the Articles of this Agreement from September L 1984 to August 31, 1987 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desires to change or terminate the agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September 1 of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, cf the Company. For
2
purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the Wage Schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on job classifications which may be established and become part of the attached Wage Schedule during the term of this Agreement.
3.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
3.01	(c) The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a third party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall ^ not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instruc- ^ ting employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto, and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the
3
parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least thirty (30) days’ advance notice in writing.
During the thirty (30) day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications, the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
Following the implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the change or alteration the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The thirty (30) day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
New rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a j ob classification is or becomes part of the attached Wage Schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from daywork to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLEV — UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agreesthat it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
4
5.02	(a) Any employee who is now a member in good standing or \ who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02	(b) When hiring employees the Company will, after complying with Article XII of this Agreement, give preference to Union members who apply and are capable of doing the work required of them. If Union members are not available the Company shall have the right to hire nonUnion help until such time as Union members are available. The Company further agrees to advise the Union office of all its labour re- w quirements from time to time thereafter. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week. s
5.02	(c) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Of- I ficial or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring advise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, to report to the Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5,02	(d) The Company shall put employees on check off at the time
of hire or return to work and deduct the Union’s membership dues from monies due them.	Q / /
5.03	If an individual employee, who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, so desires, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request, deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5,04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the local Union, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names, with Christian names, social insurance numbers when authorized by Union members, and amounts by camps.
The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month.
5
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Company’s operations. Credentials carried by the Union representatives shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and the Secretary of the local Union and shall be presented to a Company official upon arrival at a camp or other site of operations if requested. Said representatives will be provided board and lodging, if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.06	The local Union shall furnish the Company with a fist of local Officers and Representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.07	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a) Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to
be issued at the time of termination of employment or at the employee’s option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken.
Income tax on Vacation Pay credits shall be determined along with regular earnings each pay period.
6.01	(b) Each 2 percent increment of Vacation Pay entitles an
employee to one (1) week of time off.
An employee who has worked continuously for one (1) year must take his full entitlement to time off, at atime or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
An employee has the right to take his full entitlement to time off, whether or not he has worked continuously for one (1) year, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
«■ ^
6.02	Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
Ol A ^ percent of gross earnings for employees who have / C' ***- worked less than 800 days.
OHCB b)
6 percent cf gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days.
6
iOOLi(c)
$ percent of gross earnings for employees who have worked
2,000	days or more but less than 4,000 days.
10 percent of gross earnings for employees who have worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5,400 days.
.(e)
12 percent of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than 5,400 days.
(0 Supplementary Vacation with Pay:
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 — 1 week Age 61—2 weeks Age 62 — 3 weeks Age 63 — 4 weeks Age 64 — 5 weeks
( 2 percent of gross earnings) ( 4 percent of gross earnings) ( 6 percent of gross earnings) ( 8 percent of gross earnings) (10 percent of gross earnings)
6.03	Days worked for purposes of this Article shall mean all days worked, plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor, and all total days on Union business, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty and bereavement leave in any calendar year. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of service for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid -without the performance of work for the following holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
Si
m
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
7
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
7.02	(a) An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday and does not leave work sooner than two (2) days before the holiday and is ready for work on the morning of the second (2nd) day after the holiday, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holiday unless he quits during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the holiday and is ready for work for the second day following the holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the Company prior to leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and Union either at camp level or at management level.
7.02	(ty If an employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02 and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence other than is provided in 7.03 when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, provided he returns to work on time, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
7.02	(c) An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obligedto cease work due to a layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty day period.
7.02	(<j) An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such twenty-one (21) day period.
7.02	(e) If an employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 is recalled and works any time during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
8
7.02	(f) An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
7.03	A special leave of absence shall be granted to a qualified employee who must travel a long distance to be home for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive pay for the holidays provided he returns on time. Any request for such leave of absence must be made to the Camp Foreman no later than December 3 St. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7- 04	(a) If qualified, a pieceworker will be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding) for the holiday, and a dayworker shall be paid a day’s pay at his or her regular rate for the holiday.
7.04	(b) A dayworker who is requested to work on any holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate and, if qualified, in addition, shall receive one (1) day’,6 pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) fours of work on a
holiday.
7.04	(c) A pieceworker who is requested to work on a holiday shall receive his earnings plus one-half day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one (I) day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a
holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaints
of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his Foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
8- 02	(a) The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act as
9
spokesman for that Committee. In the absence cf the Steward, the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02	(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any differences between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
$.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee,
by the Union Steward or the Union Representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor for adjustment outside working hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the Foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the Foreman, in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
Stage 2 — The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or Union Representative with the Manager-Logging Operations within ninety-six (96) hours in writing on ferns to be supplied by the Union. The Manager-Logging Operations shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
Stage3 — The matter shall be taken up by the Officers of the Local Union and/or their representatives with the Vice President, Woodlands of the Company or his representatives. Failing a settlement within seven (7) days, then,
10
Stage 4 — The matter shall be referred to the Vice President, Woodlands of the Company or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union’s President or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then,
Stage 5 — Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to arbitration.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee’s grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievanceprocedure. In case of discharge or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an arbitration board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the arbitration board.
8.06	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03 it shall commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the Vice President, Woodlands or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the Vice President, Woodlands of the Company or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one man and these two men shall select a third party who shall act as
11
chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party’s nomination. The arbitration board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall’ ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party. Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.09	It is understood that the function of the arbitration board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the arbitration board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates therefor. The arbitration board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the arbitration board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, statutory and legal holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
ARTICLEIX - NO STRIKE- NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-Chairman and a Union Co-Chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate — copies goingto the Company office, the Union office and the Camp Bulletin Board.
12
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
The Company agrees that it will maintain good work trails, and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid Man in each camp, such First Aid Man to have proper visible identification.
It is the intention of the Company to maintain its camp access roads in good condition when in use.
10.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency First Aid kits at or near work sites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation of men.
10.03	(a) All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattresses shall be either air-foam, plastifoam or spring filled mattresses. Where these conditions require changes in present camps such changes shall be effected within the term of this Agreement. In construction of new camps, the Company agrees to construct all living quarters into suitable rooms housing not more than two (2) employees per room.
In the case of cookery personnel, the Company agrees to provide in the construction of new camps, suitable living quarters housing not more than one (1) employee per room. Where such cookery staff accommodations are currently available, they shall be so arranged and provided.
The Company agrees to supply two clean sheets and one clean pillowcase per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived in camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in serviceable condition at all times.
10.03	(b) It is agreed that the Company will maintain good condi-
tions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees’ living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each
13
week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a TV set where TV programs are receivable, and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets and showers. A lock-up storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs. Air conditioning will be installed in one cookery on a trial basis, and if this proves beneficial, installations will be carried out in all other cookeries during the term of this Agreement. ZO0/I
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employees’ cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps.
10.03	(c) All bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and
paper drinking cups, except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10.03	(d) The Company agrees that fly control measures will be carried out on camp sites periodically as conditions warrant and pest control as required.
10.04	(a) Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable foods shall be handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all times.
10.04	(b) There shall be no substitute for butter supplied to employees. Margarine will be made available upon request.
10.04	(c) Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers allowing self service, for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.04	(d) Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.04	(e) There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon and evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
14
10.04	(f) The charge for board and lodging shall be $1.75 per calendar day.
10.04	(g) The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch shack for year round use.
10.05	(a) It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, recreation and motion pictures. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to. The Company agrees to provide radio communication from all operating camp sites during the term of this Agreement.
10.05	(b) The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons and smocks, on loan, and other suitable uniform apparel, at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing and drying machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
10.05	(c) The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees’ personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee-owned power saws to a maximum of Two Thousand ($2,000) Dollars and will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft cf tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on Company property or work sites. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employee-owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire wilfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee-owned power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
10.06	(a) Employees shall be paid every second Thursday; cheques to be negotiable on that day.
10.06	(b) Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a Paid Holiday occur on Thursday pay day or Friday, payment will be made on Wednesday of that week.
I5
10.06	(c) In instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employee’s payroll credit.
10.06	(d) A Time and Earnings Statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued Vacation Pay credit, and deductions covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp.
10.06	(e) Where twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.06	(f) The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (i) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips shall be given to each pieceworker at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the wood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information, where applicable: Number of Cords or Number of Pieces (Tree Length), Riding and/or Walking Bonus, Footage or Strip or Main Road Cut; and Poor Bush Bonus.
10.07	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.08	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued on loan, the following:
16
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
The Company agrees to stock two types of power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps, and sell them to the employees at invoiced cost to the Company.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
10.09	At each operating camp a separate, suitable, heated building shall be provided for the repair and storage of power saws. Said buildings are also to contain sufficient lockup type lockers for storage, work bench and vise. Compressed air will be provided in the power saw repair building. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and /or service quarters.
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used forthe road transportation of men; same to have adequate seating accommodations, emergency exit doors and to be equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places. (See attached Letter of Understanding.)
10.11	Night watchmen shall be employed in all operating camps during the heating season.
10.12	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement, and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.13	Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include in season fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
17
10.14	The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will be maintained by his supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.15	The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and mitts.
The Company subsidy for approved safety clothing for personal use will be as follows:
Safety boots	_____ $12perpair
Safety pants	—	$ 9 per pair
Safety mitts and gloves	—	$ 6 per pair
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
10.16	The Company agrees that there will be no shacking or batching by employees covered by this Agreement who are engaged in producing and delivering operations on its Limits and/or work sites unless mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
10.17	(a) The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company’s request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII — Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intention to do so and effective date of ratification shall be paid twenty (20) cents per kilometer.
10.17	(b) Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers
shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate per day for pieceworkers, and normal travel time, outside an employee’s scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the above rates for pieceworkers.
18
10.18	Lunch boxes and thermos bottles shall be issued, on loan, to all employees and shall have been sterilized before issue.
10.19	All night shift workers shall have separate sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical.
The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.20	On regular hauling operations where trucks are loaded by cranes, Drott loaders or similar equipment, a toploader or helper will be employed.
10.21	The Company agrees that for the purpose of safety not less than two (2) men shall be on each work boat when such work boat is used in towing, rafting, river driving or rearing.
10.22	The Company shall supply mechanics, welders and electricians suitable coveralls and provide for the laundering of same free of charge.
Coveralls will be placed at the slashers for use of the crew while doing maintenance.
10.23	Tradesmen and helpers, carpenters and servicemen assign-
ed to a bush garage shall receive forty (40) cents per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate. Tradesmen and helpers, carpenters and servicemen assigned to a main camp or central garage required to perform work of their trade away from a main camp or central garage will be paid forty (40) cents per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main camp or central garage.
Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp or central garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paid forty (40) cents per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
ARTICLE XI — HOURS OF WORK
H.01	(a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week,
Monday to Saturday inclusive.
19
3 9/¥000
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive. (Letter of Understanding)
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers maybe scheduledto work in daywork jobs on the day shift, Monday to Friday inclusive.	S ofr/t
It is agreed that daywork or shift work employees may be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 (a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excus^ ffdffi/wPr^^nS overtime, permission will not be withheld.	t/A / I
11.01	(b) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a Paid Holi-
day and the “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.02	(a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive
hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., mealtime excepted.
11.02	(b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted. However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement, be scheduled to commence prior to 7:00 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.03 (b).
11.03	(a) A night shift differential of forty (40) cents per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work.
11.03	(b) On other two-shift operations the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of forty (40) cents per hour. (Letter of Understanding — Site Preparation)
11.03	(c) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) con-secutivehours. The starting and stopping times forthethree(3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid shall be as follows:
20
-njiQOO^iO UL'/OOOSO
Starting Time Stopping Time	Shift
(between hours of) (between hours of) Differential 1st Shift 7 a.m.- 8 a.m. 3 p.m.- 4 p.m.	NIL
2nd Shift 3 p.m.- 4 p.m.	11 p.m.-12 p.m.	Forty cents/hour
3rd Shift	11 p.m.-12 p.m.	7 a.m.- 8 a.m.	Fifty cents/hour
11.03	(d) The hours of work and the “sixth day” for dayworkers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
1.	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a one (I) hour period. (See Letter of Understanding on Truck Hauling)
3.	On all operations which are carried out on a two (2) or three (3) shift basis, all such employees will be scheduled on a rotating weekly schedule basis.
11.03	(e) If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week is required for work on his “sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive four (4) hours’ pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section 11.05 (a) provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11.04	(a) A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half a day if he works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.
21
A pieceworker who will lose more than one (1) hour of work for reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of the one (1) hour at the rate for Feller, Limber, Has Length Skidding, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate daywork if so requested by the Company.
In the case cf time lost in excess of one (1) hour for reason of lack of assignment of area to cut. and/or time reauired in excess of one (l)hour to travel to area assigned, payment shall be made for all hours
lost ¥6/0 ¥
11.04	(b) A day or shift worker who reports for work at his schedul-
ed starting time and is unable to commence work due to reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section 11.04 (a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shift, the time and one-half provisions of Section 11.03 (d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts.
Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum cf eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
22
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence in lieu of exercisingseniority under this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established
locally.
11,05	(a) Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift
and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on his designated ’’sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or outside his regular shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on his designated." day) and on a Sunday.	^
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classification requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
If.05	(b) Employees in the classifications specified below may be re-
quired to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
(a)	Cook	(d) Cookee	(g) Boat Crews-GuyM No. 1,
(b)	Baker	(e) Choreboy	Robert W. andTugalong
(c)	Second Cook (f) Watchman
For employees in the job classifications listed above the hours of work per-day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1. The regular work day or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shift of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than two parts provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
23
2.	Time worked in excess or outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his “sixth” day (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.	An employee in the above classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available at the start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day if he remains available for the start of the second half cf the scheduled shift.
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day or shift for the “sixth” day or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
— an employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift scheduled is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at this regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5.	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his “sixth” day or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of eight (8) hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6.	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of forty (40) cents per hour for each second shift worked.
7.	The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
8.	Headquarters watchmen — see Letter of Understanding (appended).
24
11.06	Walking distance and /or riding time shall not be considered
as time worked. Walking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distance and Riding Time Section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.	^ ^ j j
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (1) hour before the start of his day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (1) hour period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid time and one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of his day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 1 k 05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
An employee, who is called out for work on his “sixth” day (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (a), from the starting time of the call-out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4)hours pay at thevrate of time and one-half.	^	/ j
o y S 3 C- O/f
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY ^ '	*	f
12.01	The Company recognizesthe principle of seniority. Semori-
tv,-wiIIgovern. subject to reasonable consideration of skill, effiaentyanS ability in promotions, transfers, jayoffs and recalls after layoffs.
Time off due to sickness or accident must be certified by a licensed physician, licensed dentist or licensed chiropractor.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall retain seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has established seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such seniority for a. period not exceeding eleven (I I) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employee shaff be considered as
probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12.01 shall apply, and the employee shall be placed on the Seniority List in order of hire.
25
12.03	(a) Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis in
recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or part thereof, the employee will be permitted to transfer to ajob to which his seniority and qualifications entitle him-. If no j obs are available he will be permitted to replace an employee with la seniority on a job for which he is qualified provided:
ployee with less
2.7 e//
(i) The jobs will continue in other districts for fourteen (14) days or more, and
(ii) The employee having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04 advises the Company prior to the effective day of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
When layoffs are for less than fourteen (14) days seniority will be applied on a district basis.
Prior to an intended layoff which is to last more than fourteen (14) days, the Company will provide the Camp Foreman with a copy to the Union Grievance Committee, with a list of the employees in other districts having the lowest seniority on jobs which will continue for fourteen (14) days or more and which are similar to those being terminated. The number of employees listed in each job classification shall be the same as the number being laid off in the same classification.
12.03	(b) In transfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work, the rate specified for Feller-Limber (Tree Length Skidding) shall apply, or the rate of the job classification, whichever is higher.
12.03	(c) The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII.
Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the ca^np bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.	f
26
It is agreed, however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacanci weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be the Company fora period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs, unless they apply in writing within the five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this Agreement. Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify, (or further time as may be mutually agreed, if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
12.03	(d) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) and thejob posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp.
In the event that a vacancy is not filled from the Camp unit, it shall be filled on a Company wide seniority basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy thejob that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however. that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority pn this particular job.
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days, the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at
27
es of less than, two (2) calendar
27/77
posted on the bulled:
bulletin boards by
least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company agrees that all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of layoff as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of layoff, employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in all cases, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by April 30 of each year an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority, and Company seniority rank as specified in Section
12.01	asatMarch31 ofthe same year. This list will show in addition each employee’s occupation and address.
12.07	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly in each camp showing the Company seniority rank of each employee.
12,08	An employee who has established seniority in accordance
with Section 12.02 of this Article shall retain such seniority for twelve (12) months during layoff. However, for any employee not recalled the twelve (12) month period shall be extended fir another twelve (12) month period if requested in writing by the employee affected or by the Union on his behalf. An employeewho quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of this Article, shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall fcsshis seniority unless his return to wprj^oiyfim_etis prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferred to a position with
the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all provisions of this Article upon proof of Union membership in good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generally employed on
28
seasonal operations and who have not acquired seniority, in accordance with this Article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit, during the off season, provided that this does not interfere with the application of seniority of any employee. Such personnel shall apply for Union membership prior to being placed on the job and maintain their Union membership in good standing.
lZ,W	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new
methods and equipment or curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment, in accordance with Section 12.01 of Article XII, to meet the Company's labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform alternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company. It is understood this does not apply to seasonal layoffs.
ARTICLE XIII — BULLETIN BOARDS
13-01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with
Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of the Camp Foreman before such posting., / , .
ARTICLE XIV — MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG v) r /V ? f AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS	AV A 4t
14.01	For each employee who has established sehi6rity ih accor-
dance with Article XII, the Company will contribute $37.44 per month for single employees and $77.85 per month for married employees towards the cost of O.H.I.P., Blue Cross Drug Plan (or its equivalent), and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plans paid for by monthly payroll deduction. The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Workers' Compensation claim or a Short Term Disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
The Company will absorb any increases in the Drug Plan premiums up to April 1, 1985.
Effective September 1, 1986, the Company will pay the then current premiums for the balance of the term of this Agreement.
On layoff, the Company contribution will be paid to eligible employees for premiums deducted on return to work covering any month during which the employee is actively at work.	■
29
If there should be a net reduction in the premiums charged for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care plans, the Company’s contribution to employees will not be reduced from the amounts set out in this Article.
72,/oZO
If the Company’s contribution exceeds the premiums required for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care plans, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending arrangement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required, such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.	70€,fqqq
ARTICLE XV - LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	The Company will maintain a Group Life Insurance Plan to
provide Thirty Thousand ($30,000) Dollars of Life Insurance for each employee while actively employed. The premium cost to the employee will be 36 cents per $1,000 per month.	. /
ARTICLE XVI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY	•' ® ^
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a
Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings (forty (40) hours times an employee’s regular rate and pieceworkers, forty (40) times the Feller-Limber hourly rate) up to a maximum of Three Hundred and Twenty-Five ($325.00) Dollars weekly, to commence on the first day in case of a non-compensable accident or in the case of an illness on the date of confinement to hospital or the fourth day of illness, whichever is the earlier date. Benefits will continue for th$ period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. JtjfT% yo f —	070 32J?
* Effective September 1, 1985, increase maximum to Three Hundred and Thirty-Five ($335.00) Dollars per week. gsou o/as Effective September 1, 1986, increase maximum to Three Hundred and Forty-Five ($345.00) Dollars per week, g {qQ**} 0?O "‘M Plan detail — Appendix “A”.	'	^ *
ARTICLE XVII - BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to an employee’s spouse or children the
employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers, eight (8) times the Feller-Limber (Tree-Length Skidding) hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of five (5) days. When death occurs to other members
30
G i»/l
of employee’s immediate family, that is, an employee’s father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the maximum time lost paid for will be three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. The day of the funeral must be one of the five (5) or three (3) days. Pay will be granted for the scheduled work days lost during this period.
It is understood for purposes of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family.
ARTICLE X VIII - JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE ($ 3 i
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury_service^L
sub oenaed by the Crown, the Company shall pay, for each day of such &allowance	equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of
pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate (pieceworkers eight (8) hours pay based on the Feller-Limber (Tree Length Skidding) hourly rate) and the payment he received forjury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefor when making his claim for such allowance.	j
ARTICLE XIX - DENTAL CARE PLAN	7 / /,2.
19.01	The Company will maintain a Dental Care rlun, with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
2.	Plan Design
a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. I or equivalent.
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50 percent) or equivalent.
31
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 1983 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1985, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 1984 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1986, amend the Plan to provide for the application of the 1985 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Maximum of $1,000 per calendar year per person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
3.
4.
Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of
these alternatives.	/
Premiums	yoB/joc
The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide and pay the premium cost of a
Long Term Disability Plan. The Plan forms part of this Agreement and is attached hereto as Annendix “B	"
7O&/10O
32
SIGNED AT LONGLAC as of the 10th day of February, 1985
Witness	KIMBERLY-CLARK OF
CANADA LIMITED
A.N. Chisholm
M.A. Penttila
per
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
D.R. Wriaht
E. Hare!
D. Afonso
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION,
Local 2693, of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America
per
F. Miron
President
D. Pare
W. Jankowski
L, Beaupre
R. Moffatt
L, Taphorn
L. Dallaire
D. Puddester
L. A. Garon
33
RULES GOVERNING ABSENCES
1.	The permission of the foreman must be secured for all absences from work.
2.	Permission for absences will be covered as follows:
(i)	Absences involving not more than one working day:
—	by verbal permission of the foreman.
(ii)	Absences involving more than one working day but not more than one month:
—	by “Permission for Absence from Work” form signed by the foreman.
(iii)	Absences involving more than one month:
—	by “Leave of Absence” form initiated by the foreman and approved by the Vice President, Woodlands.
Employees must bring both copies of the “Leave of Absence” form to the Woodlands Office for final approval.
If an employee leaves the job without securing permission it will be treated as an “Absence without Permission (N.P.)” provided the absence does not exceed one week. An absence in excess of one week will constitute a break in service unless justified by proven circumstances beyond the employee’s control.
All authorized absences will be either at the request of the employee, and covered as described above, or will be a temporary layoff due to lack of work and covered by a Leave of Absence.
Each “Permission for Absence” or “Leave of Absence” will designate either:
(1)	The return to work date, or
(2)	The date by which the employee must contact the Company to find out when he is to return.
Failure of the employee to comply with the above provisions will be treated as an “Absence without Permission (N.P.)” provided that he complies within one week of the specified date. Failure to comply within one week will constitute a break in service.
34
Any absence without permission in excess of one week will result in a break in service unless justified by proven circumstances beyond the employee’s control.
If an employee has three absences without permission (none of which exceed one week) within a twelve-month period a break in service will occur.
Absences without Permission may result from:
(1)	Leaving camp without permission
(2)	Failure to report on date specified.
(3)	Failure to contact Company for return to work date on specified date.
(4)	Failure to report on time when transferred.
(5)	Failure to report to doctor promptly when leaving camp due to sickness or injury.
(6)	Failure to return by date specified by doctor in cases of sickness or injury.
35
WAGE SCHEDULE
KIMBERLY-CLARKWOODLANDS September 1,1984 to August 31,1987
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS Sept. 1/84 Sept. 1/85 Sept. 1/86
to	to	to
Aug. 31/85 Aug. 31/86 Aug. 31/87
Blacksmith
Bodyman Mechanic Class “A” Bodyman Mechanic Class “B” Bucker (TteeLength Skidding) Bullcook or Choreboy Bus Driver
Camp, Dam & Bridge Const. Worker (Experienced)
Captain (Masters-Inland Waters) Captain
Carpenter (Lead)
Carpenter (Qualified)
Chokerman (Tree Length Yarding)
Cook, 1 to 20 Men
Cook, Over 20 Men
Cook, Second
Cookee
Crew Leader (Slashers)
Dumpmen
Dump, Crossings, Men Slushing Electrician, Lead Electrician and Radio Electrician
Electrician Class “ B”
Electrician Helper Class “A“ Engineer 4th Class Diesel Marine Engineer 3rd Class Diesel Marine Engineer
Ernst “M” Operator Feller (Tree Length Skidding)
Fire Patrol Man Fireman, Boiler Depot
14.36
17.00
15.62
14.42
13.99
14.06
13.99 15.67 15.21
17.36
17.00
14.06 15.09
15.35
14.83
13.76 15.74
13.77 13.79
17.36 17.16
17.00
15.62
14.13
15.14
15.62 14.87
14.42
14.42 13.65
13.84
14.93
17.68
16.25
15.00
14.55
14.63
14.55
16.29
15.82
18.06
17.68 14.63
15.69 15.97 15.43
14.31 16.37
14.32 14.34 18.06 17.84 17.68
16.25
14.70 15.74
16.25 15.47
15.00
15.00 14.20 14.39
15.68
18.57 17.06 15.75
15.28
15.36
15.28
17.10 16.61
18.96
18.57
15.36 16.48 16.77 16.20
15.02 17.19
15.03
15.05
18.96
18.74
18.57
17.06 15.44 16.53
17.06 16.24
15.75
15.75 14.91
15.11
36
Sept. 1/84 Sept. 1/85 Sept. 1/86 to	to	to
Aug. 31/85 Aug. 31/86 Aug. 31/87
Handyman Helper, Blacksmith Helper, Bulldozer & Tractor Helper, Crane Operator Helper, Winchboat Jackhammer Driller Kay “C” Operator Labourer, General Labourer, Warehouse Laundry Worker Limber (Tree Length Skidding) Logman
Machinist “A” Class Machinist “B” Class Mechanic Lead Mechanic Class “A” 1 Mechanic Class “A”
Mechanic I Mechanic II
Mechanic Helper Class “A”
Mechanic Helper Operator, Automotive Yarder Operator, Air-Trac Operator, Bulldozer “A”
Operator, Bulldozer1^’5 Operator, Bunk Grapple Skidder Operator, Cary Lift Operator, Cat. 977, 966, 980 Operator, Compressor Operator, Crane (Certificate) Operator, Crane (Without Certificate) Operator, Drott
Operator, Drott with Felling Head Operator, Felling Head & Delimber Operator, Gator Operator, Hough 90-70 Operator, Hydraulic Backhoe
14.09	14.66
13.77	14.32
13.77	14.32
13.90	14.45
13.87	14.42
13.80	14.35
14.42	15.00
13.65	14.20
13.65	14.20
13.65	14.20
14.42	15.00
14.09	14.66
17.00	17.68
15.62	16.25
17,3d.	38.06
17.26	17.95
17.00	17.68
15.62	16.25
14.84	15.44
14.13	14.70
13.79	14.34
14.62	15.20
14.32	14.89
15.34	15.96
14.80	15.39
14.62	15.20
14.62	15.20
14.62	15.20
14.13	14.70
15.52	16.14
------Lua_
14.62	15.20
14.99	15.58
15.12	15.72
14.22	14.79
14.62	15.20
15.12	15.72
15.39
15.03
15.03 15.18 15.14 15.07 15.75
JAJU.

14.91
14.91 15.75 15.39 18.57
18.57
17.06
16.21
15.44 15.05
15.96 15.64 16.76 16.16
15.96
15.96
15.96
15.44
16.95 -16-54
15.96 16.36
16.51
15.52
15.96 16.51
fA'
v
37
Sept. 1/84 Sept. 1/85 Sept. 1/86 to	to	to
Aug. 31/85 Aug. 31/86 Aug. 31/87
Operator, Hy-Hoe
Operator, Hydraulic Loader Mounted on Slasher (Fixed or Mobile) Operator, Koehring Feller Forwarder Operator, Log Boom Operator, Mechanical Skidder (Wheel Type)
Operator, Grapple Skidder (Wheel Type)
Operator, Mechanical Slasher (Fixed) Operator, Mechanical Slasher (Mobile) Operator, Nesco Processor Operator, Outboard Motor Operator, Outfeed Processor (Manual) Operator, Outfeed Processor (Mechanical)
Operator, Passenger & Supply Launch Operator, Pettibone Super 30 or equivalent
Operator, Power Grader Operator, Power Saw (Non-Productive)
Operator, Pump Operator, Pusher Operator, Roadside Delimber Operator, Trackmobile Operator, Tractor, General Operator, Tractor & Scraper Operator, Tree Harvester (Beloit, Timberjack, Larson, Koehring) Operator, Wheeled Tractor Operator, Winch, All Other Types Operator, Yarder Operator, Yumbo 30-40 Operator, Yumbo Cruzaire Operator, Yumbo with Felling Head Painter
14.34
14.62
14.99
15.12
14.42
14.54
15.01
14.62
14.73 13.96
14.42
14.61
14.06
14.62
14.62
13.99 13.79
14.34
14.99
14.34
14.06 14.69
15.12
14.62
14.34 14.56
14.73
14.73
14.73 14.41
14.91	15.66
15.20	15.96
15.58	16.36
15.72	16.51
15.00	15.75
15.13	15.88
15.61	16.39
15.20	15.96
15.32	16.08
14.52	15.24
15.00	15.75
15.19	15.95
14.63	15.36
15.20	15.96
15.20	15.96
14.55	15,28
14.34	15.05
14.91	15.66
15.58	16.36
14.91	15.66
14.63	15.36
15.28	16.04
15.72	16.51
15.20	15.96
14.91	15.66
15.14	15.89
15.32	16.08
15.32	16.08
15.32	16.08
14.99	15.74
38
Sept. 1/84 Sept. 1/85 Sept. 1/86 to	to	to
Aug. 31/85 Aug. 31/86 Aug. 31/87
Plumber & Pipefitter Class “A” Powderman
Radio, Maintenance Man Raftsman, Inland Waters Logman River Driver, Boatman, Bow & Stem River Driver, Watering Wood on Drive River Driver, Storage Ground Logman Saw Filer
Saw Trailer (Mobile Slasher)
Serviceman
Serviceman, Lead
Snowmobile Driver
Sorter & Siuicer
Tire Repairman
Tire Repairman Helper
Top Loader
Tree Planter
Truck Driver, Single Axle,
Hauling on Body
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Hauling Trailer (Over 102” in Width)
Truck Driver, Hauling Trains,
Trailers, Floats, F.W.D.
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Truck Driver, Snow Plowing Utility Man (Fixed Slasher)
Watchman
Watchman, Night Firing Stoves Watchman, Gateman Welder, Lead Welder, Class “A”
Welder, Class I Welder, Class II Welder Helper, Class “A”
Welder Helper Wheelsman
17.00
13.96 15.17
13.99
13.96
13.87
13.87
15.62 14.34 15.44 16.25
14.06
13.87 14.42
14.13
14.06 13.65
14.06 14.58
14.52
14.33
14.34
14.06
13.84
13.99
13.84 17,36
17.00
15.62
14.84
14.13 13.79 14.02
17.68
14.52 15.78
14.55
14.52
14.42
14.42
16.25 14.91
16.05
16.90
14.63
14.42 15.00
14.70
14.63 14.20
14.63 15.16
15.11
14.90
14.91
14.63
14.39
14.55
14.39
18.06
17.68
16.25 15.44
14.70 14.34 14.58
18.57
15.24
16.57 15.28
15.24
15.14
15.14 17.06 15.66 16.86
17.74
15.36
15.14
15.75 15.44
15.36 14.91
15.36
15.92
15.86
15.65
15.66 15.36
15.11 15.28
15.11 18.96 18.57 17.06 16.21 15.44 15.05 15.31
39
When an employee is transferred or recalled from a j ob classification to Tree Planter, he shall receive the rate of the classification from which he was transferred or laid off.
A supplement of five (5) cents per hour will apply to the Ttuck Driver, Tandem Axle Hauling Trailer rate when hauling tree length, butt and top.
B, PIECEWORK RATES Supplement to fjeceworkers
A supplement of seventy-three (73) cents per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
Metric Conversion
Metric Rates will only apply upon the implementationof metric rates by the Ministry of Natural Resources, but not earlier than April 1, 1981.
1.	Products Paid For On A Butt Diameter Basis See rates attached.
2.	Products Paid For On A Stacked Cord Basis
After application of the General Wage Increase, the rates will be divided by a factor of 3.933 to arrive at the rate per cubic metre (stacked). Metric rates for poor bush bonus and walking and riding time presently paid on a per cord basis will be calculated in the same manner.
3.	Products Paid For On A Cubic Measurement
When the appropriate factor(s) for conversion of these rates are available, the Company agrees to meet with the Union for discussion and agreement on the factor(s).
40
C. CUTTING RATES
1.	Cutting & Skidding- 16’ Pulpwood & By-products
(Wheeled Skidders — Rubber Tired)
RATES PER CORD OF 85 CUBIC FEET
NO CUTTING BONUS IN ADDITION TO THESE RATES
Sept 1/84 Sept. 1/85 Sept. 1/86 to	to	io
Aug. 31/85 Aug. 31/86 Aug. 31/87
16’6”	Rough Spruce Sc Balsam	
	Pulpwood & Sawlogs	28.98
16’6”	Rough Jackpine	
	Pulpwood & Sawlogs	26.17
16’6”	Peeled Poplar	32.42
100"	Rough Spruce 8c Balsam	
	Tops	32.42
100"	Jackpine Tops	29.06
6’10” to 13’6”	Rough Spruce &‘Balsam	
	Mining Timbers	28.98
6’10” to 13’6”	Rough Jackpine Mining	
	Timber	26.17
8’10”	Rough Poplar Plywood	
	Bolts	26.06
‘35’	Pole — 34”-39” Girth	5.98
*40’	Pole — 39”-42" Girth	8.35
'*50"	Rough Spruce & Balsam	32.04
'*50”	Rough Jackpine	29.35
*Rates per individual piece **Rates paid on per stacked cord measurements.
30.14
27.22
33.72
33.72
30.22
30.14
27.22
27.10
6.22
8.68
33-32
30.52
31.65
28.58
35.41
35.41
31.73
31.65
28.58
28.46
6.53
9.11
34.99
32.05
Crew will clear skidway or piling site.
Where crews are not required to prepare skidways cr piling sites, the above rates will be reduced thirty-two (32) cents per cord.
Company will supply a wheeled skidder (rubber tired) with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
Bucking to be done either at stump cr at skidway at option of the crew.
41
Crew sizes and skidding distances may be established and varied by the Company in the interest of efficiency, provided that this right shall not be exercised in a manner which would have an unreasonably adverse effect upon the ability of the crews to produce.
Where sawlogs, mining timbers and tie blocks must be separated from pulpwood, they will be paid for at thirty-two (32) cents per cord more than the above cutting rates.
Poor Bush Bonus
1.	For cutting and skidding rough pulp, a bonus of $ 1,10 per cord will be paid on the pulpwood produced on each skidding chance or block averaging less than eleven (11) cords per acre. Effective September 1, 1983 change to $1.19 per cord.
2.	For cutting and skidding rough pulpwood, a bonus of $1.75 per cord will be paid on the pulpwood produced on each skidding chance or block averaging less than 6 cords per acre. Effective September 1, 1983 change to $1.89 per cord.
2.	Cutting & Skidding — Uss Length
(Wheeled Skidders — Rubber Tired)
Rates
Rates per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule.
Measurement
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter measurement shall be clearly marked on the butt of each tree length by the scaler.
Bonus
No Cutting Bonus in addition to Schedule Rates.
No Poor Bush Bonus to be paid on pulpwood or by-products.
Crew Size
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed three (3) at any time.
Skidding Distance
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in any strip or block. 42
Strip Cutting
Every attempt will be made to assign adjoining alternate strips. If these two strips yield less than 30 cords, each crewmember will be paid one hour at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
The Company will not normally exceed 600 feet when cutting strips. Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in each strip. Exceptions will be dealt with on a local basis.
Sawlog Production
Where 16’6” sawlogs are produced, these will be paid as per the sawlog rates under Section B-l. Cutting and Skidding — 16’ Pulpwood and By-products (Wheeled Skidders - Rubber Tired).
Sawlog Tops
Sawlog tops will be scaled and paid for on the same basis as for tree length.
Walking and Riding Time
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Subsection (g) c£ Article C-8 (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
43
Butt
Diam.
(Cm)
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC)
PRICE PER TREE - PULPWOOD Sept. 1/84	Sept. 1/85	Sept. 1/86
to	to	to
Aug. 31/85	Aug. 31/86	Aug. 31/81
Spruce	Spruce	Spruce
and	and	and
Balsam Jackpine Balsam Jackpine Balsam Jackpine
$ .403 .403 .611 .801 1.102 1.389 1.708 2.079 2,503 2.950
3.333 3.614 3.870 4.433 4,999 5.652 6.338 7.020 7.938 9.014 9.964 10.799 11.688 13.638 14.842 15.738 16.615 17.629 18.554 19.409 20.242 21.089 21.938 22.787 23.633 24.473 25.458
S .306 .306 .526 .762 1.069 1.357 1,662 2.001 2.377 2.821 3.154 3.361 3.525 3,929 4.370 4.770 5.197 5.709 6.182 6.666 7.158 7.654 8.149 8.640 9.132 9.625 10.121 10.613 11.129 11.628 12.119 12.618 13.131 13.630 14.126 14.624 15.161
$
.335
.335
.574
.832
1.167
1.482
1.814
2.185
2.596
3.080
3.444
3.670
3.849
4.290
4,772
5.209
5.675
6.235
6.750
7.279
7.816
8.358
8.898
9.435
9.972
10.510
11.052
11.589
12.153
12.697
13,233
13,779
14.339
14.884
15.425
15.969
16,556
44
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE - SAWLOGS
Sept. 1/84 to
Aug. 31/85
Sept. 1/85	Sept. 1/86
to	to
Aug. 31/86	Aug. 31/87
Butt Spruce &	Spruce &	Spruce &
Diam (Cm) Balsam Jaekpine Balsam Jaekpine Balsam Jaekpine
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
$ 1.491	$ 1,461	$ 1.551
1.837	1.786	1.910
2.236	2.149	2.325
2.691	2.556	2.798
3.172	3.031	3.299
3.582	3.390	3.726
3.887	3.612	4.042
4.159	3.788	4.326
4.766	4.223	4.957
5.374	4.696	5.589
6.075	5.129	6.318
6.812	5.586	7.085
7.546	6.136	7.848
8.533	6.646	8.874
9.690	7.165	10.078
10.711	7.696	11.140
11.609	8.228	12.074
12.563	8.759	13.066
14.663	9.290	15.249
15.956	9.816	16.594
16.920	10.345	17.596
17.862	10.878	18.576
18.953	11.408	19.711
19.944	11.964	20.742
20.865	12.499	21.699
21.763	13.030	22.633
22.670	13.564	23.577
23.584	14.117	24.528
24.495	14.652	25.475
25.405	15.184	26.421
26.307	15.718	27.359
27.368	16.299	28.462
$ 1.519	$ 1,629	$ 1.595
1.857	2.006	1.950
2.235	2.441	2.347
2.659	2,938	2.792
3.152	3.464	3.310
3.525	3.912	3.702
3.757	4.244	3.944
3.940	4.542	4.137
4.392	5.205	4.612
4.883	5.868	5.128
5.334	6.634	5.601
5.810	7.439	6.100
6.381	8.240	6.700
6.912	9.318	7.258
7.451	10.582	7.824
8.004	11,697	8.404
8.557	12.677	8.985
9.109	13.719	9.564
9.661	16.012	10.144
10.209	17.424	10.720
10.759	18.476	11.297
11.313	19.505	11.879
11.865	20.697	12.458
12.442	21.779	13.064
12.999	22.784	13.649
13.551	23.765	14.229
14.106	24.756	14.812
14.682	25.754	15,416
15.238	26.749	16.000
15.792	27.742	16.581
16.347	28.727	17.164
16.950	29.885	17.798
Skidway Preparation
Company will endeavour to clear skidway sites. Where this is done by the crew at the Company’s request, 7.62 percent of base earnings will be paid.
Species Sorting
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood by species, 2.86 percent of base earnings will be paid.
45
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE - ROUGH POPLAR PULPWOOD
Butt
Diam (Cm)
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
Sept. 1/84 to
Aug. 31/85
Poplar
$ ,393 ,598 ,873 1.093
1.335 1.608 1.878 2.253 2.659 2.937 3,088 3.442 3.836 4.218 4.606 5,023 5.421 5.855 6.281 6.695 7.115 7.554 7.979 8.406 8.844 9.283 9.725
Sept. 1/85 to
Aug. 31/86
Poplar
$ .403 .613 .895 1.120 1.368 1.648 1.925 2,310 2,726 3.011 3.165 3.528 3.932 4.324 4.721 5.149 5.557
6.001 6.438 6.862 7.293 7.742 8,178 8.616 9.065 9.515 9.968
Sept. 1/86 to
Aug. 31/87
Poplar
$ .417 .634 .926 1.160 1.416 1.706 1,992 2,390 2.821 3.116 3.276 3.651 4.069 4.475 4.886 5,329 5.751 6.211 6.663 7.102 7.548 8.013 8.465 8.918 9,382 9.848 10.317
Species Sorting
When, at Company request, the crew is required to art the poplar from the softwood, 2.86 percent of base earnings will be paid on both the poplar and softwood pulpwood.
Plywood Production
Where 8’ 10” rough poplar plywood bolts are produced, these shall be paid for as per the plywood rate under Section B-1, (Cutting and Skidding 16’ Pulpwood and By-products(Wheeled Skidders- Rubber Tired))
All other conditions set out under Section B-2 shall applyto rough poplar as they are applied to softwood.
46
D. MISCELLANEOUS
1.	Commuters
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions.
I	Commuters are employees who:
a)	are resident within reasonable Riding and/or Walking Distance of the area of operations,
b)	for whom board and lodging are not made available by the Company.
II	The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated marshalling point or points for each commuting area to the operating areas and return.
a) Longlac, Geraldlon and Naklna will be considered as commuter centers for the Road Construction Crews.
III	Time spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling on the vehicle provided from a marshalling point or points to debarkation point or points plus time spent walking from debarkation point or points to place of work in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
a)	Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
b)	Pieceworkers on mechanical cut and skid operations shall be paid at the rate of Feller (TT^?Length Skidding).
2.	Cookery Schedule
The Company agrees that the following catering staff shall be provided in the camp cookeries:
Number of Persons Ealing
(a)	14 men or less
(b)	15 to 25 men
(c)	25 to 45 men
(d)	45 to 65 men
or
(e)	65 to 85 men
(f)	85 to 105 men
(g)	105 to 125 men
(h)	125 to 145 men
or
(i)	Over 145 men
or
47
Second	Night
Cook Cook Cookees Baker
It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing work are introduced. The above crew numbers in categories (a) to (i) inclusive may be varied ten percent plus or minus for short periods. Should the manpower in Section (i) increase by more than 20 men, extra help will be provided in the cookery.
Three Shift Operations
Where more than 10 men and less than 20 men are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned.
Where 20 or more are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be added to the Cookery Schedule,! and assigned with the cookee at night.
3.	Handicapped Workers
A special-rate may be established by agreement between the Company and the Union for aged and handicapped workers.
4.	Laundry
It is agreed that the charge for laundry shall be fifty (50) cents per week.
5.	Power Saw Rental
Effective first of month following date of ratification a dayworker using his power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw rental of
$10.00 per 8-hour day or shift when felling and limbing.
$11.00 per 8-hour day or shift when bucking at a landing on a skidding operation.
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he will be paid one-half day’s rental when he works less than four hours and a full day’s rental when he works more than four hours.
6.	Scaling
Far the purpose of this Agreement, a stacked cord of 4-foot rough pulpwood shall be 50” by 50” x 8a stacked cord of 8-foot rough pulpwood shall be 50” x 100” x 4‘; a stacked cord of peeled
48
pulpwood shall be 50” x 48” x 8’ or 100” x 48” x 4’; where rough wood is cube scaled, 85 cubic feet of solid wood shall constitute a cord without allowance for overlengths. Such cube scale measurements shall be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
7.	Trainer
An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty (30) cents per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate plus thirty (30) cents per hour.
8.	Walking Distance and Riding Time
(a)	Pieceworkers who walk to work from camp a distance in excess of one and one-half (1-1/2) miles shall be paid on the basis of the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate for the time required to walk the excess distance. For the purpose of this Agreement it is agreed that the pieceworker will walk at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
(b)	Where pieceworkers are transported to work from camp, they shall be paid for Riding time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
(c)	Where adayworkers’ travelling time from campto^
is composed of riding and/or walkingtime he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at his regular rate of pay.
(d)	Where a pieceworker’s or a dayworker’s travelling time from camp to working place is composed of riding and walking time, he shall be paid the rate of pay as per this Agreement for all combined riding and walking time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way. The walking time, based on the rate of one-quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes, shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
49
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1
2.
3.
4.
5.
Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provi-'S of Section 12.03 (c) (job postings). Employees who meet the euucational level specified by the apprenticeshipact will qualify.
There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement, during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the Ontario Apprentice Program may be retained in his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic 1 without prejudice.
Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the cc necessary training periods in a vocational school.
The apprentice may receive a weekly training allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Course. The Company will supplement this allowance^to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal foTdrtyJ^ihn^hi^fe^Iar hourly meoTpay. Calculation of the CompanpTportimvwUT15e^Eased on tHe goVem-ment allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at home while attending the Trade School.
If the apprenticeis required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attendingSchool.
An apprentice’s entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected ty his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
6.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the “A” rate immediately following his course of studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
7.	If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
50
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
MECHANICS
Helper
He shall be required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class “A”. A Helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class “A”
He shall, under the direction of mechanics of a higher classification, work on all types of equipment used on woods operations. He shall be capable of performing the following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Mechanic II
He shall be capable under direction of performing alljobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
Mechanic I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
51
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has had special training and / or is assigned on only one type of equipment, he will automatically be rated as a Mechanic I.
Mechanic Class “A”
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and / or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
Mechanic Class “A” — I
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class “A” and being in possession c£ a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have had advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment sub-systems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanic Lead
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic Class “A” and in addition shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
52
WELDER
Helper
He is required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class “A”. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class “A”
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1.	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity of working in other positions.
2.	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Welder II
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
Welder I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
53
Welder Class “A”
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assignedto him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary trade certificate.
Welders presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Trade Certificate.
Welder Lead
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Welder Class “A” and in addition shall be capable cf leading other welders.
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a Trade Certificate.
TRADESMEN’S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1-1/4” opening, sockets up to and including 112” driveand 1-1 14” opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18” in length, hammers, chisels, punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 112” drive, spanners over 1-114” opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen are required to be in metric measurements such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN Once each year during the month of November, a group which is comprised of the Manager-Maintenance,Garage Foreman and two qualified representatives of the Union wIL determine by review whether helpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If in the interim, up-grading is necessary, it will be done by the Manager-Maintenanceand Garage Foreman.
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
It will be the Company’s policy not to change the present source of supply of wood fibre for its mills, if by so doing it would deprive employees with seniority from gainful employment with the Company.
If, however, during the term of this Agreement dated September 1, 1984 to August 31,1987, circumstancesbeyond the control of the Company wereto arise and force the Company to alter its supply and offset the employment opportunities for its employees, that volume of supply produced on operations not covered by a Collective Agreement with the Union will be reduced on a proportional basis.
In moving back to former levels of operation, the volumes of supply produced on the Company’s Woods Operations wT be increased at least proportionately to the volume of increase of supply from other sources.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1985.
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
(signed)
F, Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber & Sawmill Workers’ Lhicn
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
1.	RE ARTICLE X - WORKING AND UVTNG CONDITIONS
Subject to the exception mentioned in the second sentence of this paragraph, it is understood and agreed that clause 10.07 of the main Agreement does not in any way restrict the Company’s right to continue the established practice of employing owner-operators together with their equipment when such equipment is required or the right of the owner-operator to be so employed provided that all applicable provisions of the Agreement shall apply to such employees. However, the Company agrees and undertakes that no employee shall operate a tractor owned by himself or by another employee in the skiddingoperations of the Company.
2.	RE WAGE SCHEDULE
(l) Cook
It is agreed that a cook who has been employed on the higher rate shall maintain such rate when cooking for 20 men or less.
(ii)	Operator — Bulldozer
It is agreed that an operator who has been employed on the higher rate shall maintain such rate when operating a bulldozer smaller than a D6 or equivalent.
(iii)	Cookery Schedule
Changes upward or downward in cookery staff strengths will be made at approximately the mid-point between the low and high figure, designatingeach classification of camp strength with the exception of fourteen men or less requiring one cook and the requirement for the addition of one cookee when the camp strength reaches fifteen men.
SIGNED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO AS OF THE 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
LUMBER & SAWMILL	KIMBERLY-CLARK OF
WORKERS UNION LOCAL 2693 CANADA LIMITED
(signed)	(signed)
F. Miron	D.H. Linton
President, Local2693	Vice President, Woodlands
56
February 10, 1985
Lumber and Sawmill Workers’ Union Local 2693 P.O. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario
P7B 5E9
Dear Sirs:
Consistent with the Company’s policy to ensure to the utmost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees the Company will, on purchase of new mobile equipment, provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls. This wEL include the installation of air conditioning in new buses.
The Company further agrees to continue to study ways and means to generally improve operator comfort on current equipment.
Yours very truly
(signed)
D.H, Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
57
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 2693
In order to combat ever increasing costs the Company proposes continuous operation or scheduling in the following ansa:
Headquarters Watchman: To increase the present complement of watchmen from 3 to 4 and put these men on a three shift, seven day week.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
LUMBER & SAWMILL	KIMBERLY-CLARK OF
WORKERS' UNION LOCAL 2693 CANADA LIMITED
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local 2693
(signed)
D.H, Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
HOURS OF WORK
The Company and the Union agree that the work week for the Longlac Slasher operations may be scheduled from Sunday midnight to Friday midnight.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF
JANUARY, 1985.
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber & Sawmill Workers’ Union
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
ARTICLE 11.03(b)
During the months of May, June, July and August, two-shift site preparation may commence at 6:00 a.m.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1985,
(signed)
D.H, Linton
Vice President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
(signed)
F, Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber & Sawmill Workers' Union
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 2693
The Company and the Union agree to extending the starting time interval from the present one hour to a maximum of two hours. The extended interval will only be used where it is beneficial to the operations and the Company will endeavour to keep the starting time interval to one hour or less.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
LUMBER & SAWMILL	KIMBERLY-CL ARKOF
WORKERS' UNION LOCAL 2693 CANADA LIMITED
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local2693
(signed)
D.H. Linton
VicePresident, Woodlands
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2693
RE. WOODSWORKERS’ DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligibleto do so, and when the employee’s disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee’s physician. If the application is approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the amount of C.P.P./Q.P.P. primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibilityas approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
LUMBER & SAWMILL	KIMBERLY-CLARK OF
WORKERS UNION LOCAL 2693 CANADA LIMITED
(signed)
E. Miron
President, Local 2693
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
February 10, 1985
Mr. Fred Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber & Sawmill Workers’ Union
Box 2384
Thunder Bay, Ontario Dear Sir:
Re: Metric Scaling - Rates per Cord of 85 Cubic Feet
Under Wage Schedule B*I, new rates are based on Imperial Units in the Contract.
Products paid for on a “Stacked” Cord basis will have these new rates divided by a factor of 3.933 to arrive at the rate per cubic metre (stacked). Metric rates for poor bush bonus, presently paid on a per cord basis, will be calculated in the same manner.
Products paid for on a Cubic Measurement will have rates per cubic metre established once the appropriate factor(s) for conversion of these rates are available, and following joint discussion and agreement with the Union.
Yours very truly
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
RE: LICENCES - TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck cr Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
LUMBER & SAWMILL	KIMBERLY-CLARK OF
WORKERS ’ UNION LOCAL 2693 CANADA LIMITED
(signed)
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local 2693
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
RE: COMMUTERS
Employees presently on Road Construction will not be affected by establishing Nakina as a Road Construction commuter centre.
It is also understood that the present practice of having both Longlac and Geraidton as commuter centres for the Road Construction crews working in these two districts will continue.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
LUMBER & SAWMILL	KIMBERLY-CLARKOF
WORKERS ’ UNION LOCAL 2693 CANADA LIMITED
_____________(signed)_____________________________(signed)
F, Miron	D.H. Linton
President, Local 2693	Vice President, Woodlands
65
APPENDIX “A”
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED Pulp and Forest Products Operation WOODSWORKERS’ DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1.	Definitions
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	“Accident” is a bodily injury caused by external violent means;
(b)	“Disability” is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c)	“Employee” means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Kimberly-Clark of Canada and Lumber and Sawmill Workers’ Union, Local 2693;
(d)	“Insurer” means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the companies;
(e)	4 ‘Plan” means the Kimberly-Clark Woodsworkers’ Disability Benefit Plan;
(f)	“Company” means Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited;
(g)	“Weekly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hours x his regular rate; fora pieceworker “Weekly Earnings” means 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate;
(h)	“Medical Practitioner” means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2.	Participation
(a)	All employees shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
66
3.	Amount of Disability Benefits
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70 percent of an employee’s weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 (g) immediatelyprecedingthe date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit prescribed in the Labour Agreement.
4.	Eligibility for Payment
(a)	(i) Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not ex-ceeding52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
(ii)	In the case of.a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(iii)	If an employee covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the Workers’ Compensation Board, Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for mat least one (1) month due to disability without the Workers’ Compensation Board having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the Workers’ Compensation Board claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortagedevelops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and / or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
67
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his layoff or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
(e)	An employee shall be considered as eligibleto submit a claim for benefits if he is requested to return to work within 7 calendar days after layoff, and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from date he is requested to return to work.
(f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
(g)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act
or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment or
profit, or
(ii)	Disability or loss
(1)	while the protected person is on or could be on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or
(2)	if a protected person fails to qualify for Pregnancy /Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Matemity Leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1984, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes, or
68
(iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers’ Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iv)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, whilesane or insane, or
(v)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
(vi)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
(vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
(viii)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and / or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
(h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day’s regular pay, from the Company.
(i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Pian.
(j)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of any employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligibleunder the total and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Plan.
69
5.	Payment of Benefits
(a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof
(c)	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	Miscellaneous Provisions
(a)	An employee who is absent due to disability or on an authorized leave of absence, prior to the introduction of this plan, and is unable to return to active employment on the effective date of this plan because of a disability, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefits as provided in the provisions of the Sick Benefit Allowance in effect prior to the introduction of this plan, which will otherwise be discontinued. Such an employee shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	An employee absent on an authorized leave cf absence on the date he was to become eligible under this plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(c)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
70
7.	Government Disability Plans
(a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plans, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan. The amount of disability benefit under this plan will not be reduced by the amount for which the employee and/or the employee’s dependent is eligible for war disability pensions, Workers’ Compensation disability pensions and benefits paid by Unemployment Insurance Commission for a period of disability.
(b)	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
(c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9.	Administration
(a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
(b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the plan, and the Company will forward the claim forms to the insurer for adjudication and processing.
(c)	The company will meet with representatives of the participating Unions from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the plan and any problems which may arise.
71
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO AS OF THE 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
WITNESS A.N. Chisholm
M.A. Penttila
KIMBERLY-CLARKOF CANADA LIMITED
D.H, Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
D.R. Wright
E. Hard
D. Afonso
THE LUMBER* SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, Local 2693, of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America
per	F. Miron
President
D. Pare
W. Jankowski
L. Beaupre
R, Moffatt
L, Taphorn
L. Dallaire
D. Puddester
L.A. Garon
72
APPENDIX “B”
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED PULP DIVISION
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active fulltime employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
73
4.	Definition of Disability
“Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
In no event, however, shall “total disability” exist during any period in which the employee -
(i) is engaged in his or any other gainful employment, or
(ti) is confined in a penal institution or other house of correction as result of conviction for a criminal or other public offense.
5.	Amount of Benefit
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50 percent of monthly earnings as defined in (5b).
(b)	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker, I73.x his regular hourly rate; in the case of a pieceworker^73 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
(c)	“Hourly Rate” means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
(d)	The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, W.C. Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
(e)	While receiving benefits under this Plan, the employee will continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working at no cost to the employee based on earnings equal to the rate of pay for the job on which he was employed immediately prior to disability, in the case of a pieceworker, the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
74
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the present calculation of pension service since January 1, 1965. Service for the purpose of this plan prior to January 1, 1965 will be reviewed and established by mutual agreement during the term of this Agreement.
r
(c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	At normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death
8.	Exclusion
(a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i) Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for
remuneration or profit, or 75
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers’ Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iii) Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi)	Disability or loss
(1)	while the employee is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy /Maternity Leave, or
(2)	if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy /Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/ Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1984, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee’s doctor, at no cost tothe employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee’s absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company andlor insurer.
Cost cf physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-ofpocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
76
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO AS OF THE 10TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 1985.
WITNESS A.N. Chisholm
M.A. Penttila
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED per	D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands
D.R. Wright
E. Harel
D. Afonso
THE LUMBER & SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, Local 2693, of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America
Per
F. Miron President
D. Pare
W. Jankowski
L. Beaupre
R. Moffatt
L. Taphorn
L. Dallaire
D, Puddester
L.A. Garon
77
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT Between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED hereinafter referred to as “The Company” and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693,
of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, hereinafter referred to as “The Union”
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work (reforestation), the Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silviculture work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	Re: Article V — Union Membership
(a)	The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
(b)	The Company shall put these employees on check-off at the time of hire and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit same to the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2.	Re: Article VI — Vacation With Pay
For such aforesaid employees, Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate cf 4 percent of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount c£ credits shall be paid by cheque to each employee at the time of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
3.	Re: Article VII — Holidays With Pay
(a) For such aforesaid employees who qualify under Section 12.02 Holidays With Pay shall be paid without the performance of workforthe holidays listed in7.01 excluding floating holidays.
78
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence.
(b) The provisions set out in Sections 7.02(b), 7.02(c), 7.02(d), 7.02(e), 7.02(f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
4,	Re: Article X — Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said employees while so engaged.
5.	Re: Article XII — Seniority
(a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b)	Employment of any new employee shall be considered probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
(c)	A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the Silvicultural Seniority List.
(d)	An employee, on the Silvicultural Seniority List, hired on other production operations, will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
79
6.	The provisions set out under the following Articles are not applicable for the aforesaid employees:
Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital CarePlans Life Insurance Weekly Indemnity Bereavement Pay Jury Duty Allowance Dental Care Plan
Kimberly-Clark Long Term Disability Plan
Where marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
Article XIV Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XVIII Article XIX Article XX
7. Re: Commuters
8. SilviculturalWage Schedule (a) Hourly Rates
Classifications	Sept. 1/84	Sept. 1/85	Sept. 1/86
Tree Planter	$13.65	$14.20	$14.91
Labourer	13.65	14.20	14.91
Crew Leader	35 cents in addition to regular hourly rate		
Nursery Worker			
(after Feb. 1/85) Nursery Worker	10.34	10.75	11.29
(on seniority list Feb. 1/85)	13.65	14.20	14.91
(b) Piecework Rates — Manual Planting
Site Prepared	Sept. 1/84 to Aug. 31/87
Bare Root Stock	10 cents per tree
Tubed Seedlings
(paper pots)	8 cents per tree
Site Unprepared
Bare Root Stock	11 cents per tree
Tubed Seedlings
(paper pots)	9 cents per tree
(Employees on the regular seniority listing will not be assigned to Manual Planting on piecework rates).
80
SIGNED AT LONGLAC,' FEBRUARY, 1985.	ONTARIO THIS 10TH DAY OF
FOR: KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED	FOR: LUMBER & SAWMILL WORKERS' UNION, LOCAL 2693
D.H. Linton	F. Miron
A.N. Chisholm	E. Harel
M.A. Penttila	D. Afonso
D.R. Wright	D. Pare
W. Jankowski
L. Beaupre
R. Moffatt
L. Taphorn
L. Dallaire
D. Puddester
L.A. Garon
81
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America
The current Labour Agreement between the above mentioned parties having a term from September 1, 1982 to August 31, 1984, is hereby renewed for a further term from September 1, 1984 to August 31, 1987, subject to the following amendments and subject to ratification by the members of the Union and the principals of the Company. The negotiating committees of the Company and the Union agree to unanimously recommend ratification.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2.01	Changedatestoread:
September 1, 1984 to August 31, 1987.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION 3.01(d)	Revised Letter of Understandingdated January 29, 1985 for
the life of this Agreement (appended).
ARTICLE vm - ADJUSTMENT OL GRIEVANCES
Stage 2; Change “Manager — Woodlands Production” to “Manager, Logging Operations”
Stage 3 &
Stage4 Change “Vice President - Woodlands Manager” to “Vice President. Woodlands” in these and following sections of this article.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10,07	Delete fifth sentence of the first paragraph: "In the case ofa broken saw blade, the Company agrees to supply free of charge a maximum of one blade during each monthly period but the employee shall have the choice of a new or serviceable blade.”
82
10.15	The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, boots and safety gloves and mitts.
The Company subsidy for approved safety clothing for personal use will be as follows:
Safety boots	— $12 per pair
Safety pants	— $ 9 per pair
Safety mitts and gloves	— $ 6 per pair
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
10.17 Change 19 cents per km to 20 cents per km.
ARTICLE XI — HOURS OF WORK
11.01(a) Letter <± Understanding re Longlac slasher work wsdc (appended).
11.03(a)
(b)(c) Effective September 1, 1985, increase shift differentials to 0-40-50.
11.03(b) Letter of Understanding dated January 29, 1985 (Site Preparation).
11.05(b) Effective September 1, 1985, increase shift differential to 40 cents.
ARTICLE XII — SENIORITY
Delete paragraph I in seniority clause.
12.03(a) Change 7 to read: “14 calendar days.”
83
ARTICLE XIV — MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	Effective first of the month following date of ratification, the Company contributionswill be increased to pay the plan’s current premium cost of
Single $37,44 per month Married $77.85 per month
The Company will absorb any increases in the Drug Plan premiums up to April 1, 1985,
Effective September 1, 1986, the Company will pay the then current premiums for the balance of the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XVI — WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Effective the lstof the month followingdate of ratification, increase maximum to $325 per week.
Effective September 1, 1985, increase maximum to $335 per Week.
Effective September 1, 1986, increase maximum to $345 per week.
ARTICLE XIX -p DENTAL CARE PLAN
Effective 1 st of month following date of ratification change plan to provide for 1983 O.D.A. Fee Schedule.
Effective September 1, 1985, change plan to provide for 1984 O.D.A. Fee Schedule.
Effective September 1, 1986, change plan to provide for 1985 O.D.A. Fee Schedule.
ARTICLE XX — LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
Effective 1st of the month followingdate of ratification delete “up to a maximum monthly payment cf $1,400.”
Amend working to incorporate:
In no event, however, shall “total disability” exist during any period in which the employee —
(i) is engaged in his or any other gainful employment, or 84
(ii) is confined in a penal institution or other house of correction as a result of conviction for a criminal or other public offense.
WAGE SCHEDULE
Power Saw Rental:
Dayworker only: Felling and limbing — $10.00 Bucking at landing — $11.00
Cutting and Skidding Tree Length
Prior to application of the general wage increase, adjust the rates for 10, 12 and 14 cm. by 10%, Spruce and Balsam only.
GENERAL WAGE INCREASE
(a) Increase all hourly rates including silviculture: Effective September I, 1984 — 2-1/2 percent Effective September 1, 1985 — 4	percent
Effective September 1, 1986 — 5	percent
(b) Increase conifer piecework rates as follows excluding silviculture: Effective September I, 1984 — 2-1/2 percent Effective September 1, 1985 — 4	percent
Effective September 1, 1986 — 5	percent
(c)
Increase poplar rates as follows:
Effective September 1, 1984 — 1-1/2 percent Effective September I, 1985 — 2-1/2 percent Effective September 1. 1986 — 3-1/2 percept
77/
7i/
/
PENSION PLAN
Benefit Formula
Effective September 1, 1985 change the basic pension formula from 7 / 8 of I % to 1 % for all years of service from August 31, 1980. Service prior to September 1, 1980 will be calculated at 7/8 of 1%.	/n
r $ £ ^-7
Vesting
Eliminate the age 45 qualification for a deferred benefit.
85
SILVICULTURALADDENDUM
(a) Hourly Rates
Add new classification: Nursery Worker.. .$10.09 (Rate prior to General Increase)
Note: Those nursery workers presently on Silvicultural Seniority List and who accept recall will have their rate maintained for the life of this Agreement ($13.32). (These workers eligible for general increase.)
LOCAL ITEM:
Captain rate will apply to Certified Masters when performing Captain’s duties.
RETROACTIVE PAY:
The wage increase shall be retroactive to Septemberl, 1984 for all employees on the payroll at the date of ratification on the basis of time worked.
Retroactive pay will also be paid to anyone who was in the employ of the Company between September 1, 1984 and the date of ratification inclusive, providing the individual employee takes the initiative to claim retroactive pay prior to March 31, 1985.
86
SIGNED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1985.
FOR: KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED	FOR: LUMBER & SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL2693
D.H. Linton	F. Miron
A.N. Chisholm	E. Harel
M.A. Penttila	D. Afonso
D.R. Wright	D. Pare
W. Jankowski
L. Beaupre
R. Moffatt
L. Taphorn
L. Dallaire
D. Puddester
L.A. Garon
87
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
It will be the Company’s policy not tochange the present source of supply of wood fibre for its mills, if by so doing it would deprive employees with seniority from gainful employment with the Company.
If, however, during the term of this Agreement dated September 1, 1984 to August 31, 1987, circumstances beyond the control of the Company were to arise and force the Company to alter its supply and offset the employment opportunities for its employees, that volume of supply produced on operations not covered by a Collective Agreement with the Union will be reduced on a proportional basis.
In moving backto former levels of operation, the volumes of supplypro-duced on the Company’s Woods operations will be increased at least proportionately to the volume of increase of supply from other sources.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1985.
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clarkof Canada Limited
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber &Sawmill Workers’ Union
88
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
HOURS OF WORK
The Company and the Union agree that the work week for the Longlac Slasher operations may be scheduled from Sunday midnight to Friday midnight.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1985.
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber & Sawmill Workers’Union
89
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION, LOCAL 2693
ARTICLE11.03 (b)
During the months of May, June, July and August, two-shift site preparation may commence at 6:00 a.m.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 29TH DAY OF JANUARY, 1985.
(signed)
D.H. Linton
Vice President, Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
(signed)
F. Miron
President, Local 2693
Lumber & Sawmill Workers’ Union
90
109
1993 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.V.V. l-2<J-2,K-2,L-2
JAN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	. 28	29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	5	. 6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
ie	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	APR	2	3	4	5	6
?	8	9	10	It	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	IS	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AIIO	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31	SEP	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	29	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
' 3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	23	29	30	31																			
K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2
J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	(-2	1-2	1-2	J-2	J-2	J-2	K-2	K-2	K-2	L-2	L-2	L-2	1-2	1-2	1-2	J-2
1993 SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4,R-S.R-fi,R~7,R-8,R-9
8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER i NDICATE8 12 HOUR SHI FT
1994 SHIFT SCHEDULE 12 HOUR C.W.W. SCHEDULES
E-1 ,E- 2,E- 3 ,E- 4,M,N,0,P,I ,J,K,L ,1-1 .J-1 ,K-1 ,L-1 ,M- 4,11- 4,0- 4,P- 4
JAN	2	3	4	5	6		?	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	l£	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	FEB
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	&	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28		2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	If	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30		2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	r?	18	t9	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	JUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	to	11
12	13	14	15		16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15		1_6	f7	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31		2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	OCT	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
cma	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31		s	
DAYS DAYS DAYS NIGHTS DAYS NIGHTS DAYS NIGHTS I-DAYS NIGHTS
111
1994 SHIFT SCHEDULE C.V.V.
E-7^-SJE“9^-A<E-5,E-«4F-6/-T/-8^-l	,M-2
JAN	2	3	4	S	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	2G
29	30	31	FEB	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	MAR	2	3	4	9	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25;
26	27	4m.	29	30	31	APR	2	1	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	18	14	15	16	17	18	ft	20	21	22!
23	24	29	26	27	28	29	30	MAY	2	’ 3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	t8	19	20!
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	JUN	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17'
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	OUL	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11		13	14	is;
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	■ 25	26	27	28	29	30	31	AUG	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12!
13	14	19	16	17	ts	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	SEP'	2	8	4	8	6	7	8	9i
10	11	12	13	14	13	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	m	29	30	OCT	• "•a		*	4	' 5	6	7!
8	9	to	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	31	NOV	2	3	4j
5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29	30	DEC	21
3	4	S	6	7	8	9	to	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19	20	21	22	- 23	24	25	M	27	28	29	30;
31																											5
DAYS	E-8	E-8	E-7	e-7	E-7	E-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8	E-8'	E-7	1-7	E-7	1-7,	1-7	E-8	E-8	E-8	1-8	t-7	1-7	E-7	E-7	E-7	I"f„	1-8	E-8
DAYS	I-A	E-A	E-A	E-9	E-9	E-9	1-9	i-A	6-A	E-A	I-A	I-A	i-9	1-9	E-f	E-9'	E-9	I-A	i-A	i-A	i-A	1-9	i-9	E-f	E-9	1-9	E-A	I-A
DAYS				M-1	M-1	M-t	M-t				M-2	M-2	Mr2	M-2				M-1	M-1	M-1	M-t				M-2	M-2	M-2	M-2
MOOTS				M-2	M-2	M-2					M-1	M-1	M-1					M-2	MS2	M-2					M-t	M-1	M-1	
DAYS					E-5	1-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	1-5						E-5	E-5	E-5			E-5	E-5	E-5	1-5	
DAYS			E-6	E-6	1-6						E-6	E-6	E-6	1-6			E-6	1-6	1-6						1-6	E-6	E-6	i-6
DAYS 10'S				R-1	R-l	R-1	i-1			R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1					R-1	R-1	R-1	R-1			R-1	R-t	R-1	R-1	
DAYS 10*8			R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2					R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2			R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2					R-2	R-2	R-2	R-2
DAYS F-6*			12	12	i	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8				12	12	8	8	
DAYS f-T«				12	6	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12				12	8	8	12
DAYS f-8«			8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8				8	12	12	8	
DAYS R-A»			8	8	12	8				. 8	8	8	8	8			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8
DAYS IMS*			8	8	8	8	8			8	8	12	8	8			8	8	12	8				8	8	8	8	8
	8	S	M	T	V	T	F	8	8	M	T	Y	T	f	8	•	M	r	V	T	f	8	6	M	T	V	T	r
• NUMBERS INDICATE SCHEDULED WORK HOURS
e
1994 SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4,R-5,R-6,R-7,R-6,R-«
6/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES 12 HOUR SHIFT
7	8	9	10	11
21	22	23	24	25
M2	3	4	5	6
13	14	15	16	17
25	26	27	28	29
5	6	7	8	T
wmmmm				
28	29	30	_D_	2
				
R4	R4	R4	R4	R4
	W	R5 12	R5	R5 (2
R6	R6	R6	R6	R6
W	157	57	57	itt
R8 12	R8	R8 12	51	
R9	R9	R9	R9	5?
1994 SHIFT SCHEDULE R-4,R-5,R-6.R-1,R-B>9
8/12 HOUR COMPRESSED WORKWEEK
12 UNDER SHIFT LETTER INDICATES 12 H0UR8NIFT