AGREEMENT
Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. (hereinafter referred to as the "Companjr")
AND
LOCAL 2693, I W A Canada (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
SEPTEMBER 1,199 0 TO AUGUST 31,19 9 3
00035 (03)
INDEX
Adjustment of Grievance ............
Bereavement Pay ....................
Board and Lodging...................
Bulletin Boards.....................
Commuters...........................
Commuter Allowance..................
Cookery Schedule ...................
Cost of Living Allowance............
Dental Care Plan....................
Fuelwood Rates .....................
General wage Increases ..............
Holidays with Pay...................
Hours of Work.......................
Hourly Rates........................
Job Description
Mechanics.........................
Welders...........................
July Duty...........................
Long Term Disability................
Medical, Surgical, Drug and
Hospital Care Plans.................
No Strike-No Lockout.................
Pension Plan........................
Period...............................
Piecework...........................
Piecework Rates...................
Piecework Rates Laundry............
Purpose .............................
Rates and Classifications............
Recognition - Jurisdiction...........
Salvaging Pulpwood on Right-of-Way
Scaling..............................
Silvicultural Agreement..............
Seniority............................
Trade Apprentice Program.............
Travel Allowance....................
Union Membership....................
Vacation with Pay....................
Vision Care Plan....................
Walking Distance and Riding Time . .
Weekly Indemnity....................
Working-Living Conditions............
ARTICLE PAGE 8
17 13
21 (J)
21
29
30 28 40
21 00 43 41
20	W 34
21	(E)393430 21 (A)
7	6
11
21 (A) 18 32
18
16
45
47
30
29,87-91
14
9
1
21
3
21 (H)
28 11 49
1
35 37 39
1
32 1 39 35, 39 52-55 24
12
21 (L)
5
6
XXI
21 (F)
16	29,80-86
10 12
44
43
3
4 31 39
INDEX
Addendum:	To The Agreement
Silvicultural Work
52,53,54,55
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Air Transportation.....................
Camp Cookeries Weekends................
Christmas Shutdown.....................
Climatic Controls......................
Disability Plan........................
Disability Plan C.P.P..................
Early Start - Fire Season..............
Holidays With Pay......................
Hours of Work..........................
Labour Shortage . Camp 12..............
Layoffs and Recalls....................
Major Medical..........................
Piecework..............................
Piecework - Crew Size..................
Posting Work Schedule..................
Privately Owned Equipment..............
Recognition . Jurisdiction.............
Recognition - Jurisdiction (Volume).
Seniority on Layoff....................
Silviculture . Hours of Work...........
Third Party Operator...................
Travel Time............................
Truck and Bus Drivers' Licence.........
Washing Facilities Cookery Personnel
56
57
58
59
60 61 62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
ARTICLE T - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours^, w.arjes, working conditions. and living conditions as specified in Article X of the Agreement and to ensure TO the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September- _1 . J99_Q__ to=JAu&ust _A-L--^199 3 _ inclusive, and from
^ear to year thereafter unless either party desire to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change o r termination shall notify the other party,, in writing, at least sixty (60) days ‘prior to September 1st, of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a). The Company recognizes the Union as the sole col-
lective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in Woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company.	For purposes of this Article, Company
employees shall be	all those employed in the job
classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on Job classifications which mav.be established and become part of the attached wage schedule during the tern of this Agreement.
3.01	(b). The employees of Contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of Contractors and/or the Contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement, with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body, covering such work.
2
3.01	(c). The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a Third Party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the six negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.01	(d). This section is subject to the provision of Letter of Understanding Recognition - Jurisdiction.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when -instructing employees and in cases o f emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union. Ques tions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IY - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to stage III of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least 30 days advance notice in writing.
During the 30 day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union, and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the wage schedule.
Following the implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached wage schedule. In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within 30 days of the effective date of the change or alterations the matter may be referred to stage III of the Grievance procedure. The 30-day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
4.03	New rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a P3t© for- a job classification is or becomes part of the attached wage schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from day work to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V- UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is	in favour	of its
employees covered by this Agreement becoming members o f the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitations as hereinafter provided.
5.02	(a). Subject to the provision of the Labour Relations
Act and the regulations made thereunder, any employee who is now a	member in	good standing or who	becomes or	is reinstated as	a member	of the Union,	shall,	as a condition of
continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing	throughout	the term of	this Agreement.	In the
event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02	(b). The Company shall, after complying with Article XII Seniority, advise the Union from time to time of the Eempany's labour requirements. When hiring additional employees the Company will give preference to Union members who apply and who are capable of doing work required of them. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week.
5.02	(c). New employees shall make application to join the Union when firsts approached to do so by a duly authorized Onion Steward Official or Representative. The Compan) shall, upon hiring, advise all new employees by letter to report to the Union Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
4
5.03	An individual employee, who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, the Company agrees that it will deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5.04	Remittance of all deductions shall be sent to the Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names as payrolled, stated date of birth, and amount by camps. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the following month.
Each employee’s tax slip T-4 shall show the amount of union dues deducted in the calendar year.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business and shall report to camp supervisor or clerk on arrival at Camp. Credentials carried by the Union Representatives shall consist of a certificate of authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Union; and said representatives to be provided board and lodging if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.06	The Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Union Officers and Representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur. The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the Start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a). Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of termination of employment, or at the employee’s option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken. Administration - Company agrees by April 1, 1981 at time vacation with pay credits are paid, amounts and income tax deductions will be set out separately on pay stub.
- 5
6.01	(b). Each 2 % increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee to one Cl) week of time off.
An employee who has worked continuously for one (l)year, must take his full entitlement to time off, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his supervisor.
An employee has the right to take his full entitlement to time off, whether or not he has worked continuously for one (l) year at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his supervisor.
6.02	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on the
following basis:
Ca.) 41 of gross earnings for employees who have worked less than 800 days.
C b. ) 6% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days.
Cc.) 8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 2,000 days or more but less than
4,000	days.
(d.) 10% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5 , 400 days.
(e.)	121 of gross earnings for employees who
have worked more than 5,4 00 days.
6
(f). Supplementary Vacation with Pay.
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
1	Week (2 % of gross earnings)
2	Weeks (4 % of gross earnings)
3	Weeks (6 % of gross earnings)
4	Weeks {8 % of gross earnings)
5	Weeks (10 % of gross earnings)
It is agreed that employees with vacation entitlement will be encouraged to utilize a scheduled vacation period shutdown as part of their vacation time entitlement.
6.03	Days worked for purposes of this Article shall
mean all days worked, plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor, plus the total number of days on Union business, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay# jury duty and bereavement leave in any calendar year. A" employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section
12,02	of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of service for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITS PAY
7.01	Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall
be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:	New Years Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion
Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
When any of the above holidays falls on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Age 60 -Age 61 -Age 62 -Age 63 -Age 64 -
Employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
7
The holidays, Dominion Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on any such other day as may be mutually agreed to by the parties to this agreement.
7.02	In the case of Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day holidays, qualified employees to be eligible for holiday pay, must work their last work day or shift preceding the holiday and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shift following the holiday.
7.03	In the case of Labour Day, Christmas, Boxing Day and New Years Day, there will be a scheduled shutdown excluding essential services.
It is agreed that dates will be arranged by the parties. Either party may initiate discussions at least two (2) weeks prior to the holiday. See Letter o f Understanding - Christmas Shutdown.
Qualified employees to be eligible for holiday pay must work their last day or shift preceding the holiday shutdown and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shift following the holiday shutdown.
7.04	Notwithstanding the preceding it is further agreed that qualified employees shall receive pay for the holidays.
(a). Where they have been laid off for lack of work in the thirty (30) days immediately preceding the holiday.
<b) Where an employee who qualifies under Section
12.02	is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner durinq the thirty (30) dav period immediately- prior to the holiday; he shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such 30 day period.
(c)	Where a holiday or holidays occur during their absence from work on an authorized vacation provided they return t o work on time.
The employee shall be entitled to additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
(d)	Where for reasons beyond an employee's control he has not been able to report to work on time he shall receive pay for the holidays.
8
(e)	. See Letter of Understanding re; early depart-
ure .
(f)	. Where an employee qualifies under Section
12.02	and is recalled and works any time during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall ' receive' holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.05	In the special case of Christmas, Boxing Day or New Years holiday, a qualified employee who has requested and who has been granted a leave of absence not more than ten (10) days before the holiday and who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready to work on time, will be paid for the holidays. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
where in accordance with 7.03 the scheduled Christmas, Boxing Day, New Year's shutdown includes the three (3) holidays, the employee who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready for work on time will be eligible for pay for the three (3) holidays.
Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.06	(a). If qualified, a day worker shall be paid a day's pay at his or her regular rate, and a pieceworker a day's pay at the Feller Limber rate, for each holiday.
7.06	(b). If qualified, a day worker who is requested to
work on any holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate:	double time for all hours worked
after having worked eight (8) hours on the holiday. In addition he shall receive one day's pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday.
7.06	(c). Pieceworkers shall not work on holidays.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto
that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
- 9 -
8.02	(a). The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed bv a Union Steward who shall act as spokesman for that committee. In the absence of the Steward the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02	(b). It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner toward the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men or other Union members.
8.02	(c). To be eligible for election as Union Steward an employee must have established seniority under Section 12.02 of Article XII.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, o r alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman in accordance with this procedure, in writing will be disposed of by the foreman, in writing. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
ST AGE 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or the Union Representative with the District Logging Superintendent within ninety-six (96) hours in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The District Logging Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 - Within ten (10) days the matter shall be taken up	"	~	'	” '	' '	'
atives with
or his representative. The one exception to this procedure shall be in the special case provided under Section 8.08 of this Article. In this case the matter may be taken up by the employee himself, or with the knowledge and consent Of the employee, by Union representatives by presenting the case to the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative in writing.
bv officers of the Union and/or their represent-the Manager - Logging Operations of the Company
- 10 -
In either of the above cases the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative shall make a reply in writing within seven (7) days. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 4 - The matter shall be referred within fifteen (15) calendar days to the General Manager - Forestry Division or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union President or his representative. Either party may request the presence of the President of the Northern Ontario District Council of P W. A. Canada, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days then,
STAGE 5 - Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.05	In Arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one ma"; these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Ministry of Labour to appoint a third party.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.06	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates thereof. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.07	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and legal holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
- 11
8.08	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharqe or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the' Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.09	Each part of this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8.10	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure.
8.11	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager - Forestry Division, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.12	Notwithstanding the above, the time limits established in this Article may be extended if mutually agreed upon by both parties.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strike caused, called, or sup-
ported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
- 12 -
ARTICLE X - WORKING - LIVING CONDITIONS 1. GENERAL CONDITIONS
10.01	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation/ ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.02	It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, recreation and motion pictures. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.03	It is agreed that the Company and -the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetinqs of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of chairman shall alternate between a Company chairman and a. Union chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate with copies going to the Company^ o f f i c e , the Union office and the Camp bulletin board.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at the regular or premium rate as may be proper.
10.04	The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will be maintained by his supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.05	It is aqreed that there shall be properly equipped first aid kits sufficient for normal requirements, located at or near all worksites and in all vehicles or boats regularly used for the transportation of men.
2. TRANSPORTATION
10.06	Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places.
* 13 -
The Company will provide radio communications on the bus used to transport the employees from the marshalling point to the worksite on the West Branch commuter operation.
The Company will provide two-way radios in Drott Feller Buncher and on the Cartier commuter operation when operating within range of the present radio system.
I" respect to the Ramsey operation, a Company Supervisor will escort the buses travelling to and from the camp and worksites. In circumstances where this may not be practical, any irregularity from normal bus arrival will be immediately investigated.
The Company will install C.B. Radios in all West Branch haul trucks.
HELICOPTERS - AIR TRANSPORTATION
Refer to Letter of Understanding
3.	CAMP CONDITIONS
10.07	It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a T.V. set where T.V. programmes are receivable and will provide separate drying rooms, wash rooms, inside toilets and showers. A lock up storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
10.08	All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36" in width spaced 38" apart. All mattresses shall be either air foam, plastifoam or spring filled. I" construction of new camps, the Company agrees to construct all living quarters into suitable rooms having no more than two (2) employees per room.
The Company agrees t o supply two clean sheets
and one clean pillow case per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean beddinq_will be supplied to employees newly arrived in camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month, and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in a serviceable condition at all times.
10.09	The Company agrees that pest control measures will be carried out in the camps and in the camp areas as and when required.
The Company will look into possible remedial measures to alleviate the sandfly problem at all camps. All lunch shack screening will be maintained in good repair and pest control equipment made available.
- 14 -
10.10	All night shiftworkers shall have separate sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical.
The company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.11	All main bunkhouses will be provided with drinking
fountains	and paper drinking	cups. Washroom facilities
will be made available to the laundry workers at Ramsey.
The Company will install ice machines in the camp at Ramsey and Camp 12.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employee's cars parked in the camp lots. car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps. Air conditioning units will be installed in cookeries.
10.12	Night watchmen shall be employed In all major operating camps.
10.13	At each ^operating camp, a separate suitable and heated building shall be provided-for the repair and storage of power saws. Said building, also to contain sufficient lock-up type lockers for storage, work bench, vise and chain breaker. Compressed air will be provided in the power saw and repair building. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters.
4.	KITCHENS
10.14	Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
10.15	Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable food stuffs shall be handled in a sanitary manner durinq transportation at all times.
10.16	The Company affirms as a policy that it will not supply butter substitutes to employees.
10.17	Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers, allowing self service for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.18	Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.19	At the request of the camp Grievance Committee, suitable lunch shacks will be provided where there are concentrations of men. Such shacks to be heated during the period October 1st to April 30th and during the summer months shall have protective screens. The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch shack for year round use.
15
Hot lunches '.•.'ill be terminated as each crew is assigned a lunch shack.
10.20	There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon, and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided b> the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
10.21	The Compan) agrees t o suppl) kitchen personnel with white aprons, on loan and other suitable uniform apparel at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. hashing machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
5.	INSURANCE
10.22	The	Company will provide free insurance coverage
against loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss b y firco r theft of employee owned power saws at full replacement value 10 a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools while o n Company property _ oi work sites. It is understood that coverage for theft of power sows and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safet) wi thin the control of the Company. Damage t o employee owned power saws due to Company negl igence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire willfully oi through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee owned power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
6.	PAY CONDITIONS
10.23	Company will agree to implement a weekl) pay commencing first week in January, 1989. Discussions will b^ held with the local union grievance committee to review th© procedure we will follow. Pay will be distributed after 4:00 p.m. Thursday.
10.24	Interim advances will be made only in instances or evident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on a Friday payday, payment will be made on Thursday of that week.
10.25	In instances of authorized extended leave o f absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employee’s payroll credit.
16 -
10.26	A Time and Earnings statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued vacation pay credit and deductions covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp.
10.27	Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.28	The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (1) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale Slips will be given to each pieceworker at least 48 hours prior to the wood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information where applicable - Number of Cords, or Number of Pieces (tree length), Riding and/or Walking Bonus, Footage of Strip or Main Road Cut, and Poor Bush Bonus.
7.	COMPANY SUPPLIED EQUIPMENT
10.29	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When a" operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broke" tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment, as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
NO employees shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.30	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
17
The Company agrees to stock safety type power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at the invoiced cost to Company.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
8. SAFETY EQUIPMENT
10.31	The Company agrees that it will furnish, on /loan,
all safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and mitts.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety pants at ‘twelve dollars- ($12.00) below cost’ price to the Company,, safefy boots at twenty,d o 11 a r s C$20.00 ) below cost price to the Company and safety gloves and mitt; to power saw operators and to persons handling cable, at seven dollars ($7.00) below cost price to the Company.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
9. TRANSFERS CAMP TO CAMP
10.32	The Company agrees to provide free transportation
to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company’s request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intentions to do so and shall be paid 20 cents per km, for using own vehicle.
Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding rate per day for pieceworkers and normal travel time, outside an employees scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of 8 hours at the regular straight time rate for dayworkers and the above rate for pieceworkers.
Refer to Letter of Understanding - Re- Hours of Work
18 •
10.
10.33	(a). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bush
garage	shall receive 50$ per hour in addition to the
applicable hourly rate.
(b). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a main camp garage required to perform work of their trade away from a main camp garage will be paid 50^ per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main camp garage.
The Company agrees that the tradesmen assigned to the "Slasher" (Ramsey) will be paid in accordance with 10 19 (b).
(c). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paid 504 per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
11.	COVERALLS
10.34	The Company will supply mechanics, welders, and machinists suitable coveralls and provide for laundering the same, two per week, free of charge.
12.	CLIMATIC CONTROL
10.35	See Letter of Intent attached (re:	Climatic
Controls).
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a). The week for operations shall be six (6) days
per week Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for. day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Mond.ay to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in day work jobs on the day shift Monday to Friday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 (a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
- 19 -
11.01	(b). For the purpose of this agreement Sunday, a paid holiday and the “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.02	(a). The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., mealtime excepted.
11*02 (b). The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted.
However , it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement be scheduled TO commence prior t o 7:00 p.m. in accordance with the provisions of 11.03 lb).
11.02	(c). During the period of May 1 to September 30, two shift scarification operations may commence at 6:00 a.m..
11.03	(a). Effective September 1,	1991 a night shift
differential of fifty-five cents (.554) De.r hour shall he paid in addition to ‘the regular rates for all night shift work.
11.03	(b). On other two-shift operations the first shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after, the second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m., and shall carry a shift differential of fifty-five cents (.554) per hour.
11.03	(c). On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (.3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows:
Starting Time	Stopping Time
(between the hours of) (between the hours of)
1st Shift	1	a.m.	-	8	a.m.	3	p.m.	4	p.m.
2nd Shift	3	p.m.	-	4	p.m.	11	p.m.	-	12	a.m.
3rd Shift	11	p.m.	-	12	a.m.	7	a.m.	8	a.m.
Shift Differential
1st shift, Nil :	2nd Shift, 454 per hour:	3rd Shift, 554
per hour.
Effective September 1, 1991
1st shift, Nil:	2nd Shift, 554 per hour:	3rd Shift, 654
per hour.
- 20 -
11.03 (d). The hours of work and the “sixth day" for day-workers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:	(see Letter of Understanding).
1.	A" employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be "aid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2.	The Company and the Union agree to extend the starting time interval from the present one hour to a maximum of two hours. The extended interval will only be used where it is beneficial to the operations and the Company will endeavour to keep the starting time interval to one hour or less.
11.03	(e). If a" employee, who has completed his scheduled work week is required for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive 4 hours' pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section 11.05 (a) provided he remains available for the four hour period if so requested by the Company.
11.04	(a). A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be "aid for one-half day if he works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.
A tree length pieceworker who will lose more than one hour work for reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of one (1) hour at the feller, limber, tree length skidding rate, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate work if so requested by the Company.
RAINY DAYS - The company agrees that a decision will be made at the work site upon arrival for work on rainy days.
In the case of time lost in excess of one (1) hour for reason of lack of assignment to a cutting area and/or time required in excess of one (1) hour to travel from one assigned cutting area to another, payment shall be made for all hours lost.
- 21
11.04	(b). A day or shift worker who reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work due to reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours' pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section 11.04 (a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shift, the time and one-half provisions of Section
11.03	(d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts. Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Notification and reporting procedures shall be established locally.
11.05	(a). Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on his designated "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduled shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
22 -
Double time will be paid after 8 hours of work on an employees designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and Sunday.
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee’s applicable hourly rate.
11.05	(b). Employees in the classifications specified below may	be	required to	work in	excess of	8	hours	per day	or
shift and 40 hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
(a)	.	Cook	(d).	Cookee
(b)	.	Baker	(e).	Chore boy
(c)	.	Second	Cook	(f).	Watchman
For employees in the job classifications listed above thB hours of work per day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1.	The	regular work day	or	shift	shall be	8
consecutive	hours,.	meal tine	excepted. However, the work
day or shift of 8 hours may be -scheduled in any 12 hour period divided into not more than 2 parts provided there is a break of at least 8 hours between shifts worked.
The	scheduled	work week	shall	consist	of
5 consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2.	Time worked in excess of outside of the scheduled 8 hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.	An employee in the above listed classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available at the start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day if he remains available for the start of the second half of his scheduled shift.
- 23 -
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the previous week. Scheduled overtime day or shift for the “sixth day” or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
■ an employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5 . If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his “sixth day" or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of 8 hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6.	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of fifty-five cents (550 per hour for each second shift worked.
7.	The present standard of service by chore boys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
11.06	Walking Distance and/or Riding Time shall not be considered as time worked. Walking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in the Walking Distance and Riding Time section of the wage schedule of this agreement.
11.07	A” employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (l) hour before the start of the day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay 31 straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (lj hour period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid tine and one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of the day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
24
An employee who is called out for work on his “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (b) from the starting time of the call out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half.
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority.
Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after layoffs.
The present seniority list is frozen as of July 1 , 1988 and in future date of hire shall be the basis of calculating seniority.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (ll) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12.01 shall apply, and the employee shall be credited with thirty (30) days of accrued seniority.
12.03	(a). Subject to the memorandum of understanding seniority will be applied on a company-wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a D$rt thereof, .each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer to a job for which he is Qualified, provided that having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Company, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
- 25
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are occasioned by the completion of seasonal activities, company-wide seniority will be applied only when operations continue in other camps for more than (1) week, otherwise the camp will be the unit of application of seniority on seasonal layoffs.
12.03	(b). In transfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the iob to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work, the rate specified the Feller-Limber, Tree Length Skidding shall apply, or the rate of the job classification whichever is higher.
Employees accepting a job posting shall remain in that iob for a minimum of three (3) months from the date he filled the job vacancy unless being displaced from that job because of lay-off or bumping procedure.
12.03	(c). The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
It is agreed, however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five ( 5 ) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this agreement. Employees accepting the posted jobs shall be allowed five (5) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and the newly created jobs.
- 26 -
12,03	(d). A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that a vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit it shall be filled on a company-wide basis.
The employee who had occupied the iob upon his return to work shall-once again occupy the job-that-he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set .forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of notice of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2)
working days the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee.	The Company agrees that all reasonable
effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of layoff as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union office by April 30th of each year, an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority and the Company seniority in days as specified in Section 12.01, as at March 31st, of the same year. The list will show, in addition, each employee's occupation and address.
12.07	A list shall be prepared for and be posted in each camp and its contents shall be available to all employees in camps, showing their seniority standing. The list shall be brought up to date at the end of each month.
27
12.08	An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of this article shall retain such seniority for twenty-four (24) months during layoff. An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to' work following recall as provided in Section 12,05 of this article shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days in any calendar year and will retain the total accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of this article upon proof of Union membership in good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generally employed on seasonal operations and who have not acquired seniority, in accordance with this article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit during the off season, provided that this does not interfere with the application of seniority of any employee. Such personnel shall apply for Union membership prior to being placed on the job and maintain their Union membership in good standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment i n accordance 'with Section
12.01	of Article XII to meet the Company's labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company.
When jobs are discontinued, due to curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII. If an employee requires training to perform the alternate job effectively, he will be trained by the Company, provided the job he has applied to be trained for, is expected to last for a period of three (3) months or more.
It is understood that this does not apply to seasonal layoff.
- 28 -
12.11	Severance Pay - Effective date of ratification
an employee with three (3) o r more yearsof service for whom .no’ job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one week’s pay for each year of completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours at the employee’s regular straight time hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment.
It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee’s name will be removed from the seniority list.
ARTICLE XTTT - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices
dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of the camp foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL. SURGICAL. DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	(a). Effective first of month following date of ratification, for each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII the Company agrees to pay the premium for Blue Cross or its equivalent and semi-private hospital care plans. The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Workmen’s Compensation claim or a Short term disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
If the Company’s contribution exceeds the premiums required for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care plans, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending arrangement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums rewired, such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
On layoff, the Company contribution will be paid to eligible employees for premiums deducted on return to work covering any month during which the employee is actively at work.
ARTICLE XV - LIFE INSURANCE
29
15.01	The Company will provide $50,000 of Life Insurance
for each employee while actively employed. The cost to the employee will not exceed ,30tf per $1 , 000 per month. For employees not actively at work on that date the increase in insurance will become effective on the date he returns to active employment.
ARTICLE XYI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium
cost o f Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy percent (701) of Weekly earnings forty (40) hours	times a” employee’s regular rate and pieceworkers
forty (40) hours times the feller, limber and tree length skidding hourly rate) up to a maximum of four hundred and twenty-five ($425 , 00) per week, for an employee who commences weekly indemnity on or after the first of the month following date of ratification. Weekly Indemnity will commence on the first day in case of a noncompensable accident and after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness or on the date when admitted to a hospital within the first three (3) days of illness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
Effective September 1, 1991 - $445.00 per week
Effective September 1 , 199 2 - $465.00 per week
16.02	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan. The Plan forms part of the agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix “A”. The premium cost of the Plan will be borne by the Company. Remove maximum benefit.
ARTICLE XVII - BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to a member of an employee’s
immediate	family, that is a” employee's father, mother,
wife , husband,	brother,	sister, . children,	grandparents,
mother-in-law,, father-in-law., brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law, the employee, will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers eight (8) times the feller, limber, tree length skidding hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings.	The day
of the funeral must be one of the three (3) days.	Pay will
be granted foi the scheduled work days lost during this period. In the case of death of spouse or children the employee will be granted five (5) days leave with pay.
30 -
Any claims for bereavement pay will be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It is understood that for purposes of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
ARTICLE XVTTT - JURY DUTY OR WITNESS
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for
jury service, or subpoena by the Crown the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate (Pieceworkers eight (8) hours pay based on the feller, limber, tree length skidding hourly rate) and the payment he received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore when making his claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XIX - ROAR.P AND LODGING
19.01	The charge for board and lodging shall be $1.75
per calendar day.
ARTICLE XX - DENTAL CARE PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with
participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1 . Eligibility
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (6S) days of seniority with the Company.
2. Plan Design
(a) .	Service and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
(b) .	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (SOI).
Maximum $1,000 per calendar year per
person.
Effective first of month following date of ratification amend plan to provide for 1989 0,D.A. Schedule fees.
- 31 ■
Effective September I, 1991 provide for 1990
O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1 ,	1992 provide for 1991
O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Company will pay increase premium for this coverage.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3	. mini______tion
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers insurance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation.
If during the life of this agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XXI - VISION CARE PLAN
Effective January 1, 1991, the Company will provide a vision care plan which will provide for expenses incurred by an amount and/or his covered dependents when presecribed by a physician or optometrist as follows:
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses including contact lenses up to a total payment of seventy- five dollars ($75.00) per family member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years.
32
WAOESCHEDULH
A. HOURLY RATES
JOB CLASSIFICATION
Baker
Bodyman Mechanic Class,'B,'
Bodyman Mechanic Class "AM Bullcook or Chore boy Bus Driver
Buck Tree Lengths on Landing Bucker, Piler, Tree Length Skidding car Man
Carpenter (Qualified)
Chokerman, free Length Skidding Cook (1-20 Men)
Over)
Tree Length Skidding
Cook (20 Men or Cook, Second Cookee Electrician Feller, Limber,
Fire Patrol Man Handyman
Helper, Bulldozer, or Tractor
Helper, Power Grader
Helper, Mechanic
Helper, Class “A” Mechanic
Jackhammer Driller
Labourer
Class "B''
Class “A”
II I
Mechanic. Class “A”
Mechanic; Class “A” 1 Mechanic, Lead operator, Bulldozer "B" operator, Bulldozer “A”
’	Compressor
Crane
operator, Drott Feller Buncher
operator, Front End § Overhead Loader
Operator, Machine Night Warm-up
Operator, Mechanical Skidder Wheel Type
operator, Power Grader
Operator, Power Saw Non-Productive
Operator, Prentice
Operator, Ramsey Central Slasher
operator, Slasher
operator, Slasher Deck
Operator, Tree Harvester
Machinist
Machinist
Mechanic,
Mechanic,
o'iiMr;
SEPT.
1/90
18.50
19.40
20.98 17. SS
17.60
18.04
18.04
17.60
20.98
18.04 18.77 19.11 18.48
17.29
20.98
18.04
17.16 17.70
17.30 17 . 30
17.31 17.72
17	. 3S
17.16
19.40
20.98
18.51
19.41
20.98 21 . 28 21.38 18.46 19.09
17.42
18.60
18.40
18.25 17.65
18.04
18.25
18.04
18	.18
18.41
17.93
17.94 18.83
SEPT.
1/91
19.52
20.47
22.13
18.52
18.57
19.03
19.03
18.57
22.13
19.03 19.80 20 . 16 19.50
18.24
22.13
19.03 18.10 18.67 18 . 25
18	. 25 18 . 26 18.69 18.30 18.10 20 .47 22 .13
19.53
20.48 22 .13 22.45 22.56
19.48
20.14 18.38
19.62
19.41
19	. 25
18.62
19.03
19.25
19.03 19 . 18
19.42
18.92
18.93 19.87
SEPT.
X13X
20.59
21.60
23.35
19.54
19.59 20.08 20.08
19.59
23.35 2 0 T 0 8 20.89 21 . 27 20.57
19.24
23.35 20.08
19.10
19.70 19.26 19 . 26 19 . 27 19.73
19.31
19.10 21 .-59
23.35
20.60 21.61
23.35 23.68 23.80
20.55
21.25 19.39
20.70
20.48
20.31 19.64 20.08
20.31 20.08 20.24
20.49
19.96
19.97 20.96
HOURLY RATES - Continued
33
JOB CLASSIFICATION
SEPT.
1/90
owder Man ■ lasher Serviceman 'imberman, Experienced 'ruck Driver, Single Axle,
Haul on Body
'ruck Driver? Tandem Axle,
Hauling Trailer 'ruck Driver, Hauling Trailer (over 102" in width]
'ruck Driver, Tandem Axle,
Body Haul, Other 'ruck Driver, Float 'ruck Driver, Self Loading 'ruck Driver, Supply Truck 'ruck Driver. Hauling Multiple Trailer Tree Planter, New Hire Tree Planter, Transfer Vatchman , Camp Watchman, Nightman Ve 1 de r , Help er Velder, Helper Class “A”
Velder I I Velder I
Velder Class "A"
Velder, Lead
Vheel Skidder Crew, Felling and Skidding
17 . 27 17.62 17 .63
17.60
18.22
17.94 18.16 18 . 18
17 . 49
17 , 17 .
18.04
17.35
17.35 17.32 17.72 18.51 19.41 20.98 21. 38
18.04
Drew Leader - .35 per hour plus regular daily rate
SEPT.
1/91
18.22
18.59
18.60
18.57
19.16 19.22
18.93
19.16 19.18 18.45 18.97 18.10 19.03
18.30
18.30 18.27 18.69 19,53 20.48 22.13 22.56
19.03
dourly Rates - Adjustments - Reflected in wage schedule.
An employee who is assigned to train another employee shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty cents (304') per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the fe 11 er-limber rate plus thirty cents (304) per hour.
It	is agreed that incentives may be applied
in conjunction with the above daily rates which pertain to mechanical operations.
A day worker using power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw rental of -
Effective date of ratification,	$11.00 per 8
hour day or shift when felling and limbing.
Effective date of ratification,	$12.00 Per 8
hour day or shift when bucking at a landing on a skidding operation.
SEPT.
1/92
19.22
19.61
19.62
19.59
20.21
20 . 28
19.97 20 . 21 20. 23 19.47 20.01 19 .10 20.08
19.31
19.31 19 . 28 19.72 20.61 21.61 23.35 23.80
20.08
34
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control he will be Paid one-half day’s rental when he works less than four (4) hours and a full day’s rental when he works more than four (4) hours.
General Wage Increase (Reflected in wage schedule)
Increase all hourly rates:
Effective September 1 ,	1990 increase all hourly daily wage
rates by ,85tf per hour.
Effective September 1,	1991 increase all hourly daily wage
rates by 5.5! per hour.
Effective September 1 , 1992 increase all hourly daily wage rates by 5.5!.
Increase all piecework rates excluding bonuses, supplementary payments, silviculture schedule by:
5.05	effective	September	1,	1990
5.55	effective	September	1,	1991
5.51	effective	September	1,	1992
.SILVICULTURE
Effective September 1 ,	1990, increase all piecework rates
by one-half cent (*2^).
B. COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
Effective September 1 ,	1978 a supplement of seventy-three
cents ( 7 3 4 ) per hour will be paid to pieceworkers.
35	-
C. PIECEWORK RATES Cutting and Piling
100" Rough Spruce § Balsam 100" Peeled Spruce 4 Balsam 10 0" Rough Poplai 100" Peeled Poplai 100" Rough Jack Pine
RATES PER SINGLE CORD
SEPT.	SEPT.	SEPT.
1/90	1/91	1/92
36.11	38.10	40.20
55.59	58.65	61.87
27.75	29.28	30.89
40,45	42.67	45.02
34.48	36.21	38.20
If the cutter is required to pile two species separately, an additional twelve cents (12 4) per cord will be paid on al 1 wood separated.	For Strip cutters, a bonus of $1.64
per cord will be paid on each consecutive 660 feet of strip running under 12 cords per acre, and on such portions of strip less than 660 feet in length.
For strip cutters, a bonus of $2.73 per cord will be paid on each consecutive 660 feet of strip running under 7 cords per acre, and on such portion of strips less than 660 feet in length.
PIECEWORK____CUT AND SKID TREE LENGTH
1.	Cut and Skid ‘Tree Length
Rates:	per tree length piece, butt diameter measure
as per attached schedule.
The Company will supply each crew with a skidder wi th winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
No poor bush bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates .
Supplement of seven ty - three cents (. 734) per hour will be paid in accordance with Article XII-B,
2.	Measurement
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be clearly marked on each butt by the scaler.
Crew Size
3
36 -
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed 2 employees at any time.
A. Skidding Distance
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 Et. for a three (3) man crew skidding tree length.
Skidding distance shall not exceed 900 ft. for a two (2) man crew skidding tree length or full tree when skidway placement not adjacent to a road.
Skidding distance shall not exceed 1,200 feet for a two (2) man crew skidding tree length or whole tree to a road.
5.	Sorting Bonus
When at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood 2.86 % of base earnings will be paid.
6.	Walking and Riding Time
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Section F of the Wage Schedule (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
7.	Skidway Preparation
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 5 % Of
base earnings will be paid.
37 -
CUT AND SKID TREE LENGTH RATES PER TM-F. (metric I
SPRUCE 6 BALSAM
DIAMETER SEPT.
[CM]	l /9Q
BUTT
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
0.494 0. 751 0.983 1.352
1	. 706
2	. 098 2 .554 3.073 3.624
4 . 094 4.439 4.749 5.444 6.141
SEPT.
1 /91
0.519
0.789
1.032
1.420
1.791
2.203
2.682
3.227
3.805
4.299 4.661 4.986 5.716 6.448
SEPT.
1/92
0 .545 0 .828 1. 084 1.491 1.881
2.313 2.816 3.388 3.995
4.514 4.894 5 . 235 6.002 6.770
JO 6.944 7.291 42 7.786 8.175 44 8.624 9.055 46 9,751 10.239 48 11.070 11.624
7.656 8.584 9.508 10.751 12.205
50 12.240 12.852 52 13.266 13.929 54 14.357 15.075 56 16.752 17.590 58 18.231 19.143
13.495
14	.625
15	.829 18.470 10 . 100
60 19.332 62 20.409 64 21.655 66 22.790 68 23.841
20.299 21.314 2 1.4 29 22.SCO 22.738 23.875 23.930 25.127 25.033 26.285
70 7 2 74 76 78
24.864
25.904
26.947
27.990
29.030
26.107 27. 199 28.294 29.390 30.482
27 .412 28.559 29.709 30.860 32.006
SO	30.060	31.563	33.141
82	31.270	32.834	34.476
JACKPINE
SEPT.	SEPT.
1/90	1/91
0.376	0.395
0.647	0.679
0.936	0.983
1.311	1.377
1.664	1.74 7
2.041	2.143
2.460	2.583
2.921	3.067
3.467	3.640
3.873	4.067
4.129	4.335
4.329	4.545
4.826	5.067
5.366	5.634
5.915	6.211
6.461	6.784
7.012	7.363
7.595	7.975
8.190	8.600
8.792	9.232
9.402	9.872
10.009	10.509
10.611	11.142
11.217	11.778
11.822	12.413
12.432	13.054
13.037	13.689
13.671	14.355
14.282	14.996
14.884	15.628
15.499	16.274
16.128	16.934
16.742	17.579
17.35J	18.219
17.963	18.862
18.623	19.554
SEPT.
1/92
0.415 0.713 1.032 1.446 1.834
2 .250 2 .712 3.220 3.822
4.270
4.552
4.772
5.320
5.916
6.522 7.123 7.731 8.374 9.030
9.694
10.366
11.034 11.699
12.367
13.034 13.707 14.373 15.073 15 . 746
16.409 17.088 17.781 18.458 19 . 13 0
19.805
20.532
CUT AND SKID FULL TREE RATES PER TREE (METRIC)
38
BUTT
DIAMETER
rcMi
SPRUCE 6 BALSAM SEPT.	SEPT.
1/9Q	1/91
SEPT.
1/9 2
JACKPINE
SEPT. SEPT.
1/90	1/91
12
M
16
18
20
0.371 0.563 0 . 738 1.015 1.278
0.390 0.591 0 . 775 1.066 1.342
0.410 0.621
0.	814 1.119
1.	409
0.284 0.485 0 . 701
0.	983
1.	250
0.298
0.	509 0 . 736
1.	032 1.313
22
24
26
28
1.572 1.915 2 .307 2.717
1.651 2.011 2.422 2 .853
1. 734 2 . 112 2.543 2.996
1.533 1 .845 2.189 2.601
1.610 1.937 2 . 298 2. 731
30
32
34
36
38
3.070 3.331 3.562 4 .083 4 .605
3.224 3.498 3.740 4 . 287 4.835
3 .385 3.673 3.927 4.501 5.077
2.905 3.098 3.248 3.619 4.025
3.050 3.253 3.410 3 . 800 4.226
40
42
44
46
48
5 . 207 5 . 839 6.466 7.314 8.303
5.467 6.131 6 . 789 7.680 8 . 718
5.740 6.438 7.128
8	. 064
9	. 154
4.435 4.789 5 . 259 5.697 6.144
4.657
5.028
5.522
5.982
6.451
50 52 54 56 5 8
9.179 9.949 10.768 12.563 13.673
9.638 10.446 11 .306 13.191 14 .357
10.120
10.968
11.871
13.851
15.075
6.594
7.051
7.508
7.959
8.413
6.924 7.404 7.883 8.357 8.834
60
62
64
66
68
14.498 15.307 16.240 17.092 17 .880
15.223
16.072
17.052
17.947
18.774
15 .94 16.876 17.905 18.844 19.713
8.867
9.324
9.778
10.252
10.711
9.310 9.790 10.267 10.765 11.247
70
72
74
76
78
18.648 19.429 20.210 20.993 21. 767
19.580 10.400 21.221 22.043 22.855
20.559 21.420 22.282 23.145 23.998
11.164
11.624
12.097
12.557
13.014
11.722 12.205 12.702 13.185 13.665
80
82
22.546
23.454
23.673 24 .627
24.857 25 .858
13.473
13.967
14 .147 14.665
SEPT.
1/92
0.313 0.534 0.773 1.084 1.379
1.691 2.034 2.413 2.868
3 . 203 3 . 416 3.581 3.990 4.437
4.890 5 . 279 5.798 6.281
6.774
7.270
7.774
8	. 277
8.775
9	. 276
9.776 10 . 280
10	.780
11	.303 11.809
12.308
12.815
13.337
13.844
14.348
14.854 15.398
39
E. FUEI.WOOD RATES
Cutting fuelwood per face cord split 4 1 x 8' x 22" - 30"
22" - 30" Poplar Jack Pine 5 Tamarack
22" - 30" Birch
2 2" - 30" Cutting in Camp Yard
F.	WALKING DISTANCE AND RIDING TIME
(l.) Vi’here a day workers travelling time from camp to working place is comprised of riding and/oi walking time, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at his regular rate of pay.
(2.) V/here a pieceworker’s travelling time from cam]) t o working place is comprised of riding and/or walking time, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way 31 the feller, limber rate.
(3.) For the purpose of this agreement, it is agreed that pieceworkers and day workers will walk at the rate of 3 miles per hour.
G.	SCALING
SEPT.
1/90
SEPT.
1/91
SEPT.
20.5 4 25 . 25
21.67 26.64
22.86 28 .11
16.00
For the purpose of this agreement a stacked cord of eight foot (8') rough pulpwood shall be 50" x 100" x 4'; a stacked cord of peeled pulpwood shall be 100" x 48" x 4' .
H. SALVAGING PULPWOOD ON ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY
SEPT.	SEPT.	SEPT.
1/90	1/91	1 /9 2
Rate per cord
41.35
I. PIECEWORK RATES FOR LAUNDRY
Blankets Sheets Aprons Pillow Cases Towels
Laundry Bags Bed Spreads Vi’hi te Trousers
77. 7 119.1
43.62	46.02
SEPT.	SEPT.
1/93	1/92
150.8	159.2
49.4	52.1
37.1	39.1
3 8 .1,	40.2
33.4	35.2
38.2	40.3
81.9	86.4
125.6	132.5
40
The Company agrees to remit to laundry workers all payrolled laundry deductions from the area serviced by such laundry.
J. COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions:
(1.) Commuters are employees who:
(a. )	Are resident wi thin	reasonable	riding	and/oi
	walking distance of and	the area	of operations,	
(b.)	Who are not provided Company.	board and	lodging	by the
(2.) (a.)	An employee who is	not a	resident	within
reasonable riding and/or walking distance on a commuter operation, who exercises his seniority in accordance with Article XII on this operation, shall receive:
Effective date of ratification $9.47 per day
Effective September 1, 1991 $9.94 per day
Effective September 1 , 1992 $10.47 per day
I” lieu of being provided board and lodging in a camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days). He shall continue to receive the commuter allowance for the term of the agreement or until such time til3tI
(i.) He returns in accordance with the provision of Article XII, Seniority, to employment in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
If an employee,	who is not a resident
within reasonable riding and/oi walking distance of a commuter operation, elects not to fill a job vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation, or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident, and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commutei allowance as ner Article	2	(a)	above..	for the
remaining period he continues to be employed
on this commuter operation.
- 41 -
(ii.)	He	has	established	himself as	a resident
of the particular commuter operation.
(iii.) He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
(b. ) A new employee who is not a resident and who is hired	to	work	in a commuting operation,	shall
receive	$9.47	pei da>	effective	date	of
ratification, $9.94 per day effective Septembei 1, 1991, $10.47 per day effective September 1, 1992 in lieu of providing board and lodging in camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled v.ork week (including overtime days) up to 100 days or until such time that:
ii. )	lie	is	employed in	accordance	v.ith	the
provision o f Article XII, Seniority, in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
If an employee, who is not a resident within reasonable riding and/or walking distance of a commute i operation, elects not to fill a job vacancy o f equal oi greater status in a camp operation, or on a commutei operation of which he is a resident and which he is qualified in accordance with Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commutei allowance a s pet Article 2 (a.) above, for the remaining period he continues to be employed on this commutei operation.
(ii.) lie has established himself as a resident of that particular commuting area of operations.
(iii.) He i s laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
(c ) An employee from a camp operation, oi from a commuter operation	which he is a	resident,
exercising his seniority to a job of equal status in accordance with Article XII on a job posting and by so doing becomes a nonresident of a commuter operation, will not be eligible for the commutci allowance as of September I, 19S4 as p e r Article 2 (a.) above.
(a.) The Compan> will	arrange t o provide free
transportation from a designated marshalling point or points, to and from the parking site or sites in the operating areas.
42
(b.) Time spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling on the Company transportation vehicle from a marshalling point to a parking site plus time spent walking from the parking-site to place of work, in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
(a.) Dayworkers at their regular rate of pay.
(b.) Pieceworkers at the feller-limber rate.
(c.) Pieceworkers shall be paid in accordance with subsections 1, 2 and 3 of III Walking Distance and Riding Time.
Walking time based on the rate of one-quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
4	. Marshalling Points
(i.) west Branch commuter - Marshalling point as presently established.
(2.) Sultan commuter - Marshalling point will be at present location - Company gate south of Sultan. The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from Sultan. A central departure point in the town of Sultan will be established locally.
(3.) Gogama commuter - Marshalling point to be the junction o f Highways 144 and 560. The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from Gogama. A central departure point in the tow" of Gogama will be established locally.
( 4 . ) Cartier Commuter
(a.) For operations North of Benny the Marshalling point will be Benny. The Company will arrange to provide transportation from Cartier. A central departure point in the town of Cartier will be established locally.
(b.) For operations South of Benny, the Marshalling point will be the central departure point established in (a.).	The Company will arrange
to provide transportation from Benny to the marshalling point.
K. COOKERY
■ 43 -
Number of P.e_r_S-OD-S Eating
.Ccmk -Se_cond_Cook Cookee
1 - IS 16 - 30 31 - 55 56 - 80 81 - 110 111 - 140
1
2
2
3
4
For every 25-man increase in camp, one extra person will be provided. It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced.
1.	The Company agrees that shift workers shall be served at least two (2) hot meals per day in addition to any hot lunches.
2.	Three-shift operation:	where more than 10 men
and less than 20 me” are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned. Where 20 men or more are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be added to the cookery schedule, and assigned with the cookee at night.
L. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
A travel allowance will be paid for each week of active employment for all employees who have established seniority.
Effective the week following ratification increase weekly rates by 6%	-($13.42) and effective September 1,1991
increase weekly rates by 6% - ($14.23) and effective September 1 , 1992 increase weekly rates by 6i - ($15.08).
Allowances will not be paid to any employee where transportation is provided from a designated marshalling point to a recognized commuter operation.
The allowance will not be paid for any full week that the employee is not at work. Where any employee is at work for only part of the week, he will receive the full allowance.
Allowances for new camps shall be relative to the foregoing when such camps become operational.
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME
44
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) (Job Postings). Employees who meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to thirty
(30)	working days	prior to entering into	an
apprenticeship agreement, during which time-the employee may return, or	failing to display the	necessary
mechanical aptitude be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the Ontario Apprentice Programme may be retained in his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
4.	once an employee enters a n apprenticeship	contract,
it	is expected he will continue to fulfill	the
obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The apprentice may receive a weekly training allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Course. The Company will supplement this Allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40) times his regular hourly rate of pay. Calculation of the Company's .portion will be based o n the government allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at home while attendins the Trade School.
If the apprentice is required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attending school.
6.	An apprentice's entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
7.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following his course of studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
■ 4S -
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME - Continued
8.	If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
MECHANICS:
Helper
Required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. Shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class "A". A helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class "A"
He shall under the direction of mechanics of a higher classification work on all types of equipment used on woods operations:	shall be capable of performing the following jobs
independently:	tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling
service,
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
MECHANIC II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
MECHANIC I:
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
MECHANIC I: - Continued
46
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has special training and/or is assigned on only one type of equipment he will automatically be rated as a Mechanic I.
MECHANIC CLASS "A":
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
MECHANIC CLASS "A"- 1:
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class "A" and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have an advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment subsystems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
MECHANIC LEAD:
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Mechanic Class "A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
WELDER:
47
Helper :
Required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class "A".	In the event that he fails
to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class "A":
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1. oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity of working in other positions.
2.	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment ,
WELDER II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
WELDER I:
Shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
WELDER CLASS "A":
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding i n any position. He shall have an understanding (types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
- 48 ■
WELDER CLASS “A" - Continued
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary trade certificate.
Welders presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a trade certificate.
WELDER LEAD:
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualification set out under Welder Class “A” and in addition shall be capable of leading other welders.
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a trade certificate.
TRADESMEN'S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to IV' opening, sockets up to and including V drive and IV opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18" in length, hammers, chisels, punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost.	The Company will provide on loan any special
tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over V' drive, spanners over IV opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen are required to be in metric measurements such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
Once each year during the month of November, a group which is comprised of the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent, Mechanical Supervisors and two qualified representatives of the Union will determine by review whether helpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent and Mechanical Supervisor.
49
PENSION FLAM
The Company will provide and administer a non contributory pension plan for all hourly-rated Forestry employees with 1 year continuous service (165 days).
Normal retirement will be the first day of month following attainment of age 65, An employee with 10 years of Company service can elect to retire at age 55 however the monthly payments will be actuarially reduced. The cost of the plan will be paid by the Company.
BENEFIT
Past Service
All years of continuous service prior to December 31, 1985 will be topped up for past service to $10. per month for service from January 1, 1951 to December 31, 1985.
Future Service
After completing qualifying period, employee will earn $12.00 per month for each year of continuous service to age 65 commencing January 2 , 1986 .
Effective January 2 , 1989 change “Future Service” from $12,00 per month to $14,00 per month.
Effective January 2,	1991	- change future service from
$14.00/month t o $ 17.00/month.
Guaranteed Payments
If a retired employee’s death occurs before he has received 60 monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income payments will continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the 60 monthly payments has been paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension
If a married employee with 10 years of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee’s surviving spouse will receive 60? of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, commencing on the first day of the month following date of death. If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger than the deceased employee, the monthly pension would be actuarially reduced.
Disability Benefit
50 -
An employee with, at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits under the CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension without actuarial reduction.
Supplemental Plan
- Effective	first of month following ratification,	for
each employee who contributes $55.00 per month, the Company will contribute an equal amount of $55.00 per month.
-	Vesting rights - after 1 year.
Minimum 1 year continuous service.
-	cost and	administering of the plan will be	the
responsibility of the Company.
Effective first of month following date of ratification (February 26, 1991)
Employees who are off	work due to a	Workers’
Compensation or a Weekly Indemnity claim for a period of up to twelve (12) months can continue to contribute $55 .00/month towards the Supplementary Pension Plan.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontarb
- 51 -
o this 22nd day of February, 1991
FOR THE COMPANY
F . A . Cashman
(H
- 52 -
ADDENDUM: TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
___E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD._______
ereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
IWA - CANADA
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
Signed on the 18th day of January, 1979.
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation) the Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silviculture work under the provisions of the collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	RE’. Article V Union Membership
(a)	The employees	hired to perform seasonal
silviculture work shall not be required to make a” application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
(b)	The Company shall put these employees
on check-off at the time of hire and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit same to the Union office	monthly,	accompanied with
the list of said employees.
2.	RE: Article VI - Vacations with Pay
For each aforesaid employees, Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 41 of his gTOSS earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque ta each employee at the time of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
3 . RE:	Aide VII - Holidays with Pav
(a). For such aforesaid employees who qualify under section 12.02 shall be paid without the performance of work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
53 *
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid. Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence.
(b). The provisions set out in Sections 7.04(b), 7.04
(c),	7,04	(d),	7.04	(e),	7,04	(f) and 7.0 5 are
not applicable.
4,	RE; Article X - Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from carnps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said Employees while so engaged.
5,	RE; Article XII - Seniority
(a)	, The Company recognizes the principle of seniority
for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b) . Employment of any new employee shall be considered
probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
(c)	. A separate seniority list shall be established
and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
(d)	. A" employee, on the silvicultural seniority list,
hired on other production operations will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
■ S4 -
6.	The provisions set out under:
Article XIV - Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plans,
Article XV - Life Insurance,
Article XVI - Weekly Indemnity,
Article XVII - Bereavement Pay,
Article XVIII- Jury Duty Allowance,
Article XIX - Dental Care Plan and
Appendix "A" - E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd. Long Term Disability Plan are not applicable for the aforesaid employees.
7.	RE:	Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
8 . RE:	Wage Schedule
SILVICULTURAL WAGE SCHEDULE
HOURLY RATES:
Classifications	Sept .1/90 Sept.l/91 Sept. 1/892
Tree Planter	17.16	18.10	19.10
Labourer	17.16	18.10	19.10
Crew Leader 354 in addition to regular hourly rate.
PIECEWORK RATES MANUAL PLANTING
Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock	10^4 per tree
Tube Seedlings (Paper Pots)	8^4 per tree
S	j + p Unprepared
55
Bare Root Stock	per tree
Tube Seedlings (Paper Pots)	9*5$ per tree
(Employees on the regular seniority listing will not be assigned to manual planting on piecework rates).
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON,
General Manager - Forestry Division
F. MIRON,
President.
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry 5 Wood Products
S6
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 I. W. A. CANADA
BE: AIR TRANSPORTATION
Whereas the Company intends to use air transportation when it is practical and economical to do so.
Employees presently on the work force who are not able to fly will be given an opportunity to transfer to a position that they can occupy in accordance with the provision of the collective agreement.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 14th day of June, 1988. Orginal signed by:
FOR THE COMPANY^	FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON	FRED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	President, Local 2693
Supply
Signed for the Union:	/Cc^ /]' 1 ^ L S 0______________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Compaiiv:	^
E. C. McManus, Vice President,
Forestry § Wood Products
- 57 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 I. W. A. CANADA
Camp cookeries will close on non operational weekends.
Original Letter Signed April 14, 19S3
For the lnion-' IN Miron, President, Local 2693
Fore the Company:	J. B. Atherton General Manager
Forestry Division.
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre , President,
Local 2693
Signed for the
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry § Wood Products
- 58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - I.W. A. CANADA
RE: CHRISTMAS SHUTDOWN
In accordance with Article 7.03 the Company and the Union agree that the shutdown at Christmas will be as follows:
1990	- Operations will cease at the end of night shift Friday,
December 21 ,	1990 and commence on day shift Monday,
January 7 , 1991.
1991	- Operations will cease at the end of night shift Friday,
December 20,	1991 and commence an day shift Monday,
January 6, 1992.
1992	- Operations will cease a t the end of night shift
Wednesday, December 23 ,	1992 and commence on day-
shift Monday, January 4 , 1993.
Signed for the Union:
W, McIntyre, President
Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry $ Wood Products
- 59 .
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 I. W. A. CANADA
RE :	EQUIPMENT CABS AND CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company will provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls or air conditioning (where practical) on the purchase or lease (excess of 12 months) on new bulldozers, graders, buses and harvesters.
Signed for the Union:
/y______________________________
W. McIntyre” President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 I.W.A.CANADA
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
This will confirm the Company's interpretation of disability as defined in Section 1 (b) of the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan.
It is our understanding and interpretation that an employee is entitled to benefits, for which he may be eligible under the provisions of the Plan as a result of non-occupational injury or illness when unable to perform his regular duties and the Company is unable to offer him alternative suitable employment. It is understood the employee will be expected to accept the alternative employment, if it is available. If an employee voluntarily accepts employment with another employer, the employee will not be eligible for benefits under this Plan.
Original Letter signed January 18, 1973
For the Company: E. F. Boswell, Vice-President
For the Union:	T. Mior, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President, Local
2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry $ Wood Products
- 61 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
H. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 I. w. A, CANADA
RE:	ONTARIO WOODWORKERS DTSABTLTTY BENEFIT PLAN
SECTION 7 Cal
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make a” application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when the employee’s disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee’s physician. If the application is approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the amount of CPP/QPP primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
Original Signed December 16, 1980:
For the Union: T. Mioir, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
// /UNA < r_____________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 6 Wood Products
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - I. W. A. CANADA
RE- EARLY START TIME DUE TO FTR.E HAZARD SHUT DOWN
It is understood that operations may commence up to 2 hours early when the Ministry of Natural Resources directs operations to be shut down. Arrangements will be discussed with local union steward and the employees involved at the start of each fire season.
Original Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June, 1988
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON
General Manager of Fibre Supply
Signed for the Union:
FRED MIRON President, Local

W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry 5 Wood Products
63
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
Reached Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
Covering employees departing before completion of last shift prior to a holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the end of his last shift before a	holiday, shall make reasonable
arrangements with the Company sufficiently i n advance of his leaving to provide	for rescheduling or replacement,
unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and the Union, either at camp level or management level. Under these circumstances the employee will not be penalized for Holiday Pay where early departure is necessary due to transportation problems either by rail or other means.
Permission far these requests will not be unreasonably refused.
Original Memorandum signed:
For the Union: D. W. Labelle For the Company: L. F. bounder
Signed for the Union:
IV. McIntyre;	Local 2693
/V/VW. ■'C1
Signed for the
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Food Products
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - I. W, A. CANADA
ICLE x i - HOURS O F WORK
Notwithstanding the specific terms of Article XI - Hours of work, it is understood that the work-week and hours of work may be amended to provide alternative scheduling.
Such alternative scheduling shall not include provision for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a operating unit basis, and all terms will be subject to agreement between the Union, the Company and the employees involved.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June 1988. FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
FRED MIRON
President, Local 2693
J. B. ATHERTON
General Manager of Fibre Supply
Signed
for the Union:	f
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McMafius, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
- 65 ■
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
FORESTRY DIVISION AND
LOCAL 2693 - I.W.A. CANADA
Subject: Camp 12 - Skilled Labour Shortage
This letter outlines the procedure that will be followed if and when the Company experiences a temporary shortage of skilled labour at it Camp 12 operation.
When it becomes known that a temporary skilled labour shortage is present at Camp 12, the Company and Union representatives will convene a meeting and explore all avenues to overcome the shortage of skilled labour.
Signed this 2 2nd day of February_______________1991, in Sudbury
Ontario.
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President
Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E.C. McManus, Vice President Forestry 5 Wood Products
66
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD., FORESTRY DIVISION ESPANOLA ONTARIO
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 12.03 (a)
It is agreed that in the administration of 12.03 (a) (layoffs and recalls), at time of layoff employees will indicate whether they wish to be recalled (1) on Company-wide basis, or (2) to their regular camp when it opens. It is understood that where an employee elects option (l) and is recalled to a camp other than his regular camp, he will return to his regular job when it becomes available. If in the event that his regular job is abolished he will be transferred to the job in his regular classification to which he is entitled by seniority.
Original Memorandum signed:
For the Union: D. W. Labelle For the Company: L. F. Lounder
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:	c
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry 6 Wood Products
67 •
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693
I. W. A. CANADA
ARTICLEDNcTV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL. DRUG AND HOSPITAL
CARE PTANS
If due to legislative action, any type of corporate assessment is levied to fund any of the above plans, the agreed to amounts will be used first to offset direct costs to the Company and in no case will the Company's contributions exceed the agreed to amounts.
Original Letter signed January 18 , 1979:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton , General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
/.ry/nrLMo______________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
v	r_____-
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry 5 Wood Products
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 - I. W. A CANADA
PIFCFWORK - TREE LENGTH
1.	Implementation
(a) .	Piecework will be implemented in the cut and skid operations by September 1, 1985 .
(b) . When piecework and mechanical harvesting equipment are operating out of the same camp, the Company will designate separate operating areas for each group.
(c) .	When clean up is required behind mechanical harvesting operations, it will be done on a daywork basis.
Transportation separate from dayworkers will be supplied for pieceworkers.
3.	Layout
Boundaries of individual blocks will be marked in the field.
4.	Skidder operators will not be required to grease their machines.
Original Letter Signed July 24 , 198S I
For the Union: F. Miron, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President
Local 2693
Signed for the
Comp any:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
- 69 -
ADDENDUM TO PIECEWORK MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT - JULY 24 . 1985
1.	The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed two employees at any time.
2.	Add to memorandum Article i 8
When a mate is absent, the remaining employee will be treated as a day worker in accordance with 11.04 (a) and 11.04 (b). However he may be assigned work in another two man crew to form a three clan crew if mutually agreed by the crew.
3.	Skid way Preparation:	Skidways will be prepared by the
Company when required. This will be determined by the Supervisor in consultation with the crew.
Original Signed:
Signed for the Union: F. Miron, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
of Fibre Supply
Signed for the Union:
/O -/] > * Au£y ____________
W. McIntyre; President, Local 2693
Signed for the
Company":
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry § Wood Products
- 70
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD and
LOCAL 2693
I.	W. A. CANADA
The Company will agree to condition of 11.03 (d) (posting of work schedule on previous Thursday).
However it is understood that should employee absenteeism increase as a result of the posting on Thursday affecting operations on Friday, the Company will meet and discuss the problem with local union representative and posting will revert to Friday.
Original Letter signed February 3 , 1977:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. A the r ton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
40 -Y^-y. AN__________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
- 71 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.,
FORESTRY DIVISION AND
LOCAL 2693-1.W.A. CANADA
SUBJECT: PRIVATELY OWNED EQUIPMENT
As provided for in Section 10.29 of the Labour Agreement, n o employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
Employees shall however, be permitted to own other equipment in other phases of the operation subject to the following conditions:
1.	The Company will ensure that all terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement are followed.
2.	Privately owned	equipment	will	be on a voluntary
basis. No employee shall be required to own or lease any equipment as a condition of employment.
13.	Repairs shall be carried out by Company tradesman
employed i n the job classifications, . while this equipment is on the limits and work sites of the Company.
It is understood that operators scheduled on such equipment may be required to do minor repairs during their scheduled work shift.
4.	It is understood and agreed	that	the conditions
regarding maintenance of privately owned equipment as outlined in	#3 above	does	not	apply to that
privately owned	equipment	in	place	prior to the
ratification of the 1990 Labour Agreement.
The maintenance on this equipment will be carried out as per the current practice.
5.	The Company agrees that any incentive bonus plan
will be paid through the Company Payroll.
Signed this 2 2nd day of ________February , 1991 i n Sudbury
Ontario.
Signed for the Union:	y	J	____________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E,
F
. C. McManus Vice President
orestry 5 Wood Products
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693
I. w„ A. CANADA
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
During the term of the Collective Agreement effective September 1 ,	198 2 to August 31, 1984 the Company does not
expect any reduction in its present employees (i.e. all employees on the work sites April 14 , 1983 and the revised seniority list April 14 ,	1983) as a result of changes in
wood fibre supply to the Espanola Mill. (Normal seasonal layoffs excepted.)
The increased production of sawlog material on E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd.	timber licence	substantiates	this
expectation.
In the event circumstances dictate a change in the sources of the wood fibre supply to the Espanola mill which affects employment security to such employees then the Company agrees:
(1) .	To give as much advance notice as is possible.
(2) . To discuss with the Union, job opportunities for
displaced employees and other work in accordance with Article XII so as to minimize the adverse effect on employees displaced by such changes.
Original Letter Signed:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
W.	Local 2693
Signed for the
E. C. McManus Vice President Forestry 8 Wood Products
- 73 ■
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 - I. W. A. CANADA
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
This will confirm our understanding that during the term of the Collective Agreement from September 1 , 1987 to August 31 ,	1990, i t is not the Company's intent to reduce its
production of wood fibre from Company operations to less that 230,000 cunits of the requirements to the Nairn Sawmill.
However, if circumstances arise which were beyond the control of the Company, resulting in the Company altering this volume and which could affect the employment opportunities of our employees, we will undertake to advise the union as early as possible and discuss ways and means of providing job opportunities for our employees in accordance with Article XII.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON	FRED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	President, Local 2693
Supply
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
- 74 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
HN'T Y RTflHT OF AN EMPLOYEE IN THE FXFRC1SF OF HIS SENIORITY _ND.ER_L2,03 fa) UPON NOTICE OF LAYOFF
An employee, who has been notified that he is to be laid off, may accept layoff or exercise his seniority right, and occupy a job that is continuing and which he has the qualifications on the basis of 12,01 to occupy, and which is either vacant or filled by a” employee with less seniority.
The jobs, that he is permitted to exercise his seniority to occupy, shall be in the following preferential order:
(a)	. Camp Unit
(1) . on a job with a comparable rate to the job he
was laid off,
(2)	. on a job with a higher rate,
(3) . o n a job with a lower rate in comparison to
the rate of the job he was laid off.
I” the event that the employee does not have sufficient seniority to occupy a job as set out under (a) - (l) and (2), and he does “at prefer to exercise his seniority on a job as set out in (3J , he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority at a camp where board and lodging are provided, or a commuter operation, either at his election:
(b)	. Company Wide
fl). o n	a	job	similar,	or a	job with	a comparable
rate to the job he was laid off,
(2) .	on a job with a higher rate,
(3)	. on	a	job	with a	lower	rate in	comparison to
the rate of the job he was laid off.
Original Signed February 3 , 19 77:
For the Union: T. Mior, Pres i den t, Local 2693 For the Company: J. B . Athe rton , General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the
Union:
Zb
.‘McIntyre, President, Local
2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McMAnus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
- 75 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company’? AND
(Herei nafter referred t n as t h e" Uni onlr) R£J__SILVICULTURE OPERATIONS (TREE PLANTING!
It is understood and agreed that in the application of the Addendum to the Collective Agreement, the following will apply.
ARTICLE XT - Hours of Work
11.01 (a.) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
It is agreed that pieceworkers may be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or work week, and will be paid in accordance with the overtime provision following.
The regular work day shall be eight (8) consecutive hours mealtime excepted. However, at the request of the employees or the Company and by mutual agreement. the work * day o f ei^ht (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period; divided into not more than two (2) parts, provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between days worked.
Overtime* Employees who are requested to work in excess of their scheduled eieht (8) hours per day will., in aacdition to their piecework rates, receive premium pay for all such overtime hours worked based on one-half (*?) of the rate calculated by dividing the total trees planted in the scheduled five (5) days by the total hours worked.
All trees planted by employees on their designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and/or on Sunday, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1.5) times the rate.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 2 2nd day of F ebru arv. 1991 Signed for the Union:
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
- 76 -
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REACHED BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 269 3 I. W. A. CANADA
Covering the application and administration of Section 3.01(c) of Article III, of their Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period commencing September 1, 1966.
1.	Any	third party operator	who was not	established on
the	Company’s limits as	of August 31 ,	1966 shall be
bound by the provisions of Section 3.01 (c).
2.	The	operation of each of	the third party	operators who
was	established on the Company’s limits	as of August
31,	1966 shall be subject to the following terms and
conditions:
(a)	. They shall, as of April, 1968 , be subject to the
provisions of Section 3.01 (c).
(b)	. They shall, in season 1967 -68 (April 1 , 196 7	-
March 31,	1968 ), limit the production of forest
products for the company’s account, to volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 production levels.
(c)	. As of April 1, 1968 , they may continue to deliver
to the Company, chips manufactured from sawmill residues in volumes which do not exceed their 1966 -67 chip production levels. The delivery to and the Company’s purchase of such chips shall not be construed to be contrary to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c).
Original Letter signed:
For the Union - D. W. Labelle For the Company - D. V. Gray
Signed for the Union: _______________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company;
E. C. McManus. Vice President Forestry 6 Wood Products
- 77
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 269J I. W. A. CANADA
RE: TRAVELLING TTMF.
Where employees must be transported to a central point f‘or the mid shift meal, it is agreed that those employees will not travel any longer than 15 minutes on their own time.
Original Letter signed December 18 , 1974:
For the Union: T. Mior
For the Company: J. B, Atherton
Signed for the Union:
Vi'. McIntyre, Pr'e"sident, Local
2693
Signed for the Company: ^ 4_^_
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry 4 Wood Products
- 78 -
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693
I. W. A. CANADA
RF.: LICENCES - TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
Original Letter Signed December 16, 1980
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Uni on/N' )	i'	_______________
W. McIntyre; President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry 5 Wood Products
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
and
LOCAL 2693 I. W. A. CANADA
The Company will provide washing and drying facilities for the use of the Camp 12 cookery personnel.
Camp 500 cookery personnel have their laundry provided for by the central laundry located in that camp.
Original Letter signed February 3, 1977
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B.Atherton, General Manager
Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:
W	_	Local 2693
Signed for the Company: ^i'rT~s\
E. C, McManus, Vice President Forestry 6 Wood Products
- 80 -
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1. Definitions
In this plan, unless otherwise specifically provided,
(a) .	"Accident" is a bodily injury caused by external
violent means;
(b) ,	"Disability" is a disability preventing an employee
from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c) .	"Employee" means an employee in the active employ-
ment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between;
E. B, Eddy Forest Products Ltd. and Local 2693 - I. W. A. Canada;
(d) .	"Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier
appointed by the company;
(e) .	"Plan" means the Ontario Woodsworkers Disabil-
ity Benefit Plan;
(f) .	"Company" means E. B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd.;
(g) .	"Weekly Earnings" means, in the case of a day
or shift worker, 40 hours x his regular rate:
(h) .	"Medical Practitioner" means registered physician
or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2» Participation
(al. All employees of the company shall be eligible to particip.ate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b). Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
81 -
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of a” employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 (gJ immediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $425.00 effective first of month following date of ratification. Effective S pe tember 1, 1991 increase maximum weekly benefit to $455.00 per week and effective September 1,	1992 increase maximum weekly benefit to $465.00
per week.
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount payable for such week under the Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 and its regulation as amended.
4 . Eligibility for Payment
Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive a” amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for	period not
exceeding 52 weeks for a”,” one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive a” amount of disability b e n e f i in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for a” amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the company at the date that he becomes eligible o r until he subsequently returns to active-employment.
(a).	(i).
(ii).
- 82 -
4. Eligibility for Payment - Continued...
(d)	. A" employee making a claim for a" amount of disa-
bility benefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his layoff or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
(e)	A" employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of layoff and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date he is required to return to work.
(f)	Successive periods o f disability separated by. less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
(g)	A" amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
(i) .	Any injury arising out of or sustained
while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii) .	Disability or loss	(1)	while the pro-
tected person is on or could be placed on pregnancy/maternity	leave,	or 'C2;
if a protected person fails to .aualifv for pregnancy/maternity leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of pregnancy/maternity leave that the protected person could be on	if she
qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974 , Ontario or any-other relevant provincial statues, or, ... .
- 83 -
4. Eligibility for PayTrent - Continued....
(g). (iii).	Any	injury or	illness entitling	the
employee	to	compensation	under any
Workmen's	Compensation	or similar
legislation, or
(iv) .	self-destruction or any self-inflicted
injury, while sane or insane, or
(v)	.	any	injury or	illness resulting	from
insurrection or war,	whether war be
declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
(vi)	.	disability	for	which the	employee is
not under	the	treatment	of a medical
practitioner, or
(vii)	for	a period	of disability in excess
Of	four weeks	where treatment is	ren-
dered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractor,	certification of
disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
(viii)	. alcoholism or drug addiction, unless
the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addition, or unless the employee	is	undergoing	regular
rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
(hi. An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(il. An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the company pension plan.
(j)	. An amount of disability benefit will not be payable
following the early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k)	. The amount of disability benefit under this plan
will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eliqible under the total and permanent; disability provision for the company pension plan.
84
Disputed W.C>B. Claim
If an employee covered by the W.I. plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B,, W.I. payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one month due to the disability without W.C.B. havinq accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject- to the rules and r^aulations coverincr the W.I.Plan. If the W.C.B. e/s/w / s subsequently established, the employee will then repay the W.I. payment (s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
5 . Payment of Benefits
(a) . In computing the amount of disability benefits,
disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	. A daily rate of payment for each calendar day
of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(cl. The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	Miscellaneous Provisions
(a) . A" employee absent on a" authorized leave of
absence on the date he was to become eligible under this Plan, as set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	. If an employee who has been covered under the
terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence,	such employee shall be considered
as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the hate he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
Miscellaneous Provisions
Continued...
6
7
85
(c). The 5/12 of the U.I.C. premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
Government Disability Plans
(a). The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible	and receives under the
disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving a" amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workmen's Compensation disability pensions.
(b). The Company and/or Insurer may require certification or -verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Ouebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.‘
(c). The amount Of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout-the duration of the employe_e's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a	medical
practitioner, designated by the company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9.	Administration
(a). It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately	the company of his absence
due to disability, following which the company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
Administration
9
Continued...
(b)	. Completed claim forms will be checked by the
company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for further processing.
(c)	. The Company will meet with representatives of
the Union from time to time, for purposes O f discussing the administration of the Plan and any problems which may arise.
(d)	. Should any employee or the Union have any complaint
concernina entitlements to benefits under the Plan, the matter may be taken up as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
- 87 -
APPENDIX "A"
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
An eligible employee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such layoff to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall he eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same disability
under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
88
4. Definition of Disability
“Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5 .	ount o f Benefit
(a) . The disability benefit shall be 55% of monthly
earnings effective first of month following date of ratification for	those employees	actively
at work
(b) .	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day
or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate; in the case of a pieceworker, 173 x the Feller Limber hourly rate.
(c)	. “Hourly Rate” means the regular rate of the em-
ployee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability	occurred, excluding
overtime or shift bonus.
(d)	. The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced
by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions,	W. C . Di sab i 1 i ty Pensions, or
by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
(e)	. While receiving benefits under this Plan, the
employee will -continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working at no cost to the employee based on earnings equal tO the rate of pay for the iob on which he was employed immediately prior to disability, in the’ case of a pieceworker, the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
Duration of Benefit
• 89
6.
(a)	. Benefits will be paid for one month, for each
completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
(b)	. service for purposes of the plan will be based
on the present calculation of pension service since January 1, 1951.
(c)	. Disability benefits will be paid one month in
arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one
of the following:
(a)	. On the date the employee ceases to be disabled.
If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b) . On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c) . Up to normal retirement age, or
(d) . On death.
8.	Exclusion
(a)	. An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits
will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	. Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan
will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(i) .	Any injury arising out Of or
sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
(ii) .	any injury or illness entitling
the employee to compensation under any Workmen's Compensation or similar legislation, or
Exclusion - Continued..
90 -
(b). (iii). self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv). disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
(v) .	alcoholism or	drug	addiction, unless
the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the case and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the Insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi) .	Disability of loss (1) while the employee
is on, or could be placed on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify _ for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because o f failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodical physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
- 91
10. Physical Examinations - Continued....
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
J.B.ATHERTON,
General Manager - Forestry Division
T.MIOR,
President
Signed for the Union:
W. Me I ntyr e, PrejFdent, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry S Wood Products