NOM'uftt
AGREEMENT
Between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED Hereinafter referred to as “The Company”
and
LOCAL2693, IWA CANADA Hereinafter referred to as “The Union”
AGREEMENT
Between
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED Hereinafter referred to as “The Company”
and
LOCAL 2693,1W A CANADA Hereinafter referred to as “The Union”
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED
Woods Labour Agreement INDEX
ARTICLE I ARTICLE II ARTICLE III ARTICLE IV ARTICLE V ARTICLE VI ARTICLE VII ARTICLE VIII ARTICLE IX ARTICLE X ARTICLE XI ARTICLE XII ARTICLE XIII ARTICLE XIV
ARTICLE XV ARTICLE XVI ARTICLE XVII ARTICLE XVIII ARTICLE XIX ARTICLE XX
Purpose.......................
Period .......................
Recognition - Jurisdiction ___
Rates and Classifications.....
Union Membership .............
Vacation with Pay ............
Holidays with Pay ............
Adjustment cf Grievance ......
No Strike - No Lockout........
Working and Living Conditions
Hours of Work ................
Seniority ....................
Bulletin Boards...............
Medical. Surgical. Drug and Hospital Care Plans...........
Life Insurance................
Weekly Indemnity..............
Bereavement Pay ..............
Jury Duty Allowance...........
Dental Care Plan..............
Long Term Disability Plan .	.
Rules Governing Absences ,., Wage Schedule (Hourly Rates)
1
1
1
3
4 6 7
10
13
13
20
26
30
31
31
32
32
33
33
34 36 38 43
KIMBERLY-CLARKOF CANADA LIMITED
Woods Labour Agreement INDEX (Continued)
Metric Conversion ......................
Cutting Rates ..........................
Miscellaneous...........................
Trade Apprentice Program................
Letter of Understanding.................
Supplementary Agreement.................
Letters of Understanding................
Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan — Appendix “A” ...........................
Long Term Disability Benefit Plan —
Appendix "B” ...........................
Addendum to the Agreement...............
Memorandum of Agreement.................
43
44 50 53
59
60 62
72
80
85
90
IV
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, workin conditions, and living conditions as specified in Article% of this Agreement, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover,seeks to provideforfairand peacefuladiustmentsofall disputes that may arise betweentne parties.lt isrecognized as a duty cf the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II - PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September 1,1357 to August 31 1990 inclusive, and from ye$fro year thereafter unless either party desires to change orterminate the agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at feast sixty (60) days prior to September 1 of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION- JURISDICTION
3.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union asthe sole collective bargaining agency for ail of its employees who are engaged in woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company. Forthe purposesof this Article, Company employeesshall beallthose employed inthejob classifications set out inthe VWge Schedule attachedto and forming a part of this Agreement, indudingthose who are employed on Jobclassiffcations which may be established and become part of the attached Wage Schedule duringthe term of this Agreement
3.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement,save and excepttheemployeesofcontractorsand/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structuresand where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
3.01	(c) The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a third party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
3.01	(d) Employees shall not be permitted to own mechanical equipment in the cut and skid phase (stump to roadside) of the logging operations.
Employeesshall be permittedto own other equipment in the other phases of the Company's operations subject to the following conditions
1	ft will not interfere with the application of seniority Operators will be assigned to equipment in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement;
2	Employee-owned equipment will be on a voluntary basis. No employee shall be required to own or lease any equipment as a condition of employment;
3	Senioremployeeswill begivenfirstopportunityto lease or purchase such equipment subject to Article XII -Seniority 12 01, paragraph 1
The number of employees owning or leasing equipment will not exceed 20 percent of the number of employees on the seniority list submitted in accordance with Article 12 06 and to be calculated each year at that time
Repairs shall be carried out by Company tradesmen employed in the job classifications of the wage schedule of the Collective Agreement
2
It is understood that operators scheduled on such equipment may be required to perform maintenance or minor repairs during their scheduled work shift.
Itshall beacontinuing Company obligationto ensure that all terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement are adhered to.
No employee on the active payroll, on authorized leave of absence, or on a disability leave on the date of ratification (excluding those who are replacing such employees)will be laid off due to the use or repair of employee-owned equipment.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes con- n tractors whose employees are considered to be employees ' under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would S normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing ' employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It isagreedthat Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV — RATESAND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto, and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant \ (jx change in job content occurs in any job classification listed
in the attached Wage Schedule the rate thereto shall be /*/ adjusted by negotiationsbetweenthe parties. Uponfailure to 'ts reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications the Company will give the Union at least thirty (30) days advance notice in writing.
3
During the thirty (30)day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications, the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedule.
Followingthe implementation of such changes,,negotiations for rates covering the newjob classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached such rates shall become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30)days of the effective date of the change or alterationthe matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The thirty (30)day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties.
New rates when established shall be retroactiveto the date of establishmentof the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job
classification is or becomes part of the attached Wage Schedule, the Company will not change the method of paymentfor such job classificationfrom daywork to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V- UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming members ofthe Union and will facilitate Union membershipsolicitation as hereinafter provided.
»	5.02 (a) Any employee who is now a member in good
standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of / the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, '/L maintain such membership in good standingthroughoutthe ff term ofthis Agreement. In the event of the Union intendingto
4
suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02	(b) When hiring employeesthe Company will, after complying with Article XII of this Agreement, give preference to Union members who apply and are capable of doing the work required cf them. If Union members are not available the Company shall havethe right to hire non-Union help until such time as Union members are available. The Company further agrees to advise the Union office of all its labour requirements from time to time thereafter. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week.
5.02	(c) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative.The Company shall upon hiring advise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, to report to the Steward within ten (10)days of commencing work. Failureof an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5.02	(d) The Company shall put employees on check off at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's membership dues from monies due them.
5.03	If an individual employee,who is a member ofthe Union or becomes a member, so desires, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request, deduct Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5.04	Remittancesof all deductions shall besenttothe local Union, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names, with Christian names, social insurance numbers when authorized by Union members, and amounts by camps. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with
5
Union business as it pertainsto the Company's operations. Credentials carried by the Union representatives shall consist of a Certificateof Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the local Union and shall be presentedto a Company official upon arrival at a camp or other site of operations if requested. Said representatives will be provided board and lodging, if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
5.06	The local Union shall furnishthe Company with a list of local Officers and Representatives, and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
5.07	The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union off ice at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a) Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by chequeto be issuedat the time of terminationof employment or at the employee's option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken.
Income tax on Vacation Pay credits shall be determined along with regular earnings each pay period.
6.01	(b) Each 2 percent increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time off.
An employee who has worked continuouslyfor one (1) year must take his full entitlement to time off, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
An employee has the right to take his full entitlement to time off, whether or not he was worked continuously for one (1) year, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
6.02	Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
(a) 4 percent of gross earningsfor employeeswho have worked less than 800 days.
6
(b)
(e)
(f)
6 percent of gross earningsfor employeeswho have worked 800 days or more but less than
2.000	days.
8 percent of gross earningsfor employeeswho have worked 2,000 days or more butlessthan
4.000	days.
10 percent of gross earningsfor employees who have worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5,400 days.
12 percent0^grossearnipgsfpr.employeeswho have worked Tnore than 5,400 days. ’
Supplementary Vacation with Pay:
Employeeswho have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
1	week j 2 percent of gross earnings)
2	weeks ( 4 percent of gross earnings)
3	weeks 6 percent of gross earnings)
4	weeks) 8 percent of gross earnings) Age 64 - 5 weeks (10 percent of gross earnings)
6.03	Days worked for purposes of this Article shall mean all days worked, plus working days which normally woutd have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor, and all total dayson Union business, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty and bereavement leave in any calendar year. An employeewho has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of service for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employeeswho qualify under Section 12.02 shallbe paidwithoutthe performanceofworkforthefollowing holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day,Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
7
When any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday, and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employeeswho have accumulatedone hundredand twenty days (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented from taking his floating holidays shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
7.02	(a) An employee, who qualifies under Sectionl 2.02, who works any of the availableworkdayswithinthethirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday and does not leave work sooner than two (2) days beforethe holiday and is ready for work on the morning of the second (2nd) day after the holiday, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holiday unless he quits during the thirty (30)day period immediately prior to the holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave priorto the holiday and is readyfor work forthe second day followingthe holiday, shall make reasonable arrangementswith the Company prior to leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and Union either at camp level or at management level.
7.02	(b) If an employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02 and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence otnerthan as provided in 7.03 when the holidayoccurs, heshall receive holiday payforthe first holiday that occurs during his absence, provided he returns to work on time, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
7.02	(c) Anemployee,whoqualifiesunderSection12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to a layoff during the thirty (30)day period immediately priorto the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty day period.
8
7.02	(d) An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediatelypriorto the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such twenty-one (21) day period.
7.02	(e) If an employee who qualifies under Section
12.02	is recalled and works anytime duringthefourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.02	(f) An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
7.03	A special leave of absence shall be grantedto a qualified employee who must travel a long distance to be home for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive payforthe holidaysprovidedhereturnsontime.Any request for such leave of absence must be made to the Camp Foreman no later than December 1st. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyondhis control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.04	(a) If qualified, a pieceworker will be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding) for the holiday, and a dayworker shall be paid a day’s pay at his or her regular rate for the holiday.
7.04	(b) A dayworker who is requested to work on any
holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate and, if qualified, in addition, shall receive one (1) day’s pay at such regular rate in lieuof^ ■'7 the holiday.	}
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a'^'" holiday.
7.04	(c) A piecworker who is requested to work on a holiday shall receive his earnings plus one-halfday at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding] rate and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one (1) day at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
9
Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUST1VIENTOF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaintsof employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has-no grievance until he has given to his Foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
8.02	(a) The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act asspokesmanfor that Committee.Inthe absence ofthe Steward,the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman inwriting asto the namesofthe Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice.The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Stewardor the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02	(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any differences betweenthe parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application,admini-stration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by theemployee.bythe UnionStewardorthe Union Representative having jurisdiction directly to the emplpyee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside working hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue
10
delay. Any grievance submittedto the Foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the Foreman, in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, i t will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
Stage 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committeeand/or UnionRepresentativewiththe General Logging Superintendentwithin ninety-six(96) hours in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The General Logging Superintendentshall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96)hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
Stage3 - The mattershall betaken up bythe Officersofthe Local Union and/or their representatives with the Vice President - Woodlands of the Company or his representatives. Failing a settlement within seven (7) days, then,
Stage4 - The mattershall be referredfothe Vice President - Woodlands of the Company or his representative and a Union Committeeaccompanied by the Union's Presidentor his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then,
Stage 5 - Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to arbitration.
8.05	Agrievancearisingfromaciaim byanemployee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presentedto the Company not later than ten (10)days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge or suspension by the Company,the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submittedto the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an arbitration board to have been unfairly discharged or suspended by the Company,the Company agrees that the
11
employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the arbitration board.
8.06	Grievances which. involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 3 cf this grievance procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03 it shall commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the Vice President- Woodlands or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referredto the Presidentof the Union or his representative by the Vice President -Woodlands of the Company or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one man and these two men shall select a third party who shall act as chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The arbitration board's decision shall befinal and bindingon both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure ofthe two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party. Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.09	It is understoodthat the functionof the arbitration boardshall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have not power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function ofthe arbitration board shall includethe powerto consideradjustmentsto individual jobclassificationsunderSection4.02 and rates for jobclas-sifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates therefor. The arbitration board shall have no powerto decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
12
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the arbitrationboard selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, statutory and legal holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
ARTICLE IX- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreedthat the Company and the Unionshall
cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices.The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices.There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of Chairman shall alternate between a Company Co-chairman and a Union Co-chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall makea report in triplicate-copies going to the Company office, the Unionoffice and the Camp Bulletin Board. V/
A member of the Committee is entitledto such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
The Company agrees that it will maintain good work trails, and will also maintaingood and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid Man in each camp, such FirstAid Man to have propervisible identification.
1 is the intention cf the Company to maintain its camp access roads in good condition when in use.
10.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency First Aid kits at or near work sites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation of men.
10.03	(a) All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattressesshall be either airfoam, plastifoam or spring filled mattresses. Where these conditions require changes in present camps such changes shall be effected within the term of this Agreement. In construction of new camps, the Company agreestoconstruct all living quarters intosuitable rooms housing not more than two (2)employees per room.
In the case of cookery personnel, the Company agrees to provide in the construction of new camps, suitable living quarters housing not morethan one (1)employee per room. Where such cookery staff accommodations are currently available, they shall be so arranged and provided.
The Company agrees to supply two clean sheets and one clean pillowcase per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived in camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in serviceable condition at all times.
10.03	(b) It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees' living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including 'recreational rooms with a TV set where TV programs are receivable, and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets and showers. A lock-up storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs. Air conditioning will be installed in one cookery on a trial basis, and if this proves beneficial, installations will be carried out in all other cookeries during the term of this Agreement.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilitiesto assist in starting employees' cars parked in the camp lets. Car plug-insand electricityshall be providedfor employeesin all camps.
10.03	(c) All bunkhouseswill besuppliedwithwatercoolers and paper drinking cups, except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
14
10.03	(d) The Company agrees that fly control measures will be carried out on camp sites periodically as conditions warrant and pest control as required
10.04	(a) Refrigerationwill be provided for all perishable food, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable foods shall be handled in a sanitary manner during transportation at all times.
■ 10.04(b) There shall be no substitute for buttersupplied to employees. Margarinewill be made available upon request.
> 10.04(c) Fruitjuices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers allowing self service, for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.04	(d) Each man shall packhis own lunch, unlessother mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised.Waxed paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.04	(e) There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon and evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided bythe Company and served inthe cookery. During work hours coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
10.04	(f) The charge for board and lodging shall be $1.75 per calendar day.
10.04	(g) The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch shack for year round use.
10.05	(a) It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, recreationand motion pictures. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportationof injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to. The Company agrees to provide radio communication from all operating camp sites during the term of this Agreement.
10.05	fb) The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons and smocks, on loan, and other
15
suitable uniform apparel, at cost, and provide for the launderingof such exterior clothingwithout charge. Washing and drying machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
10.05	(c) The Companywill providefree insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee-owned power saws to a maximum of Two Thousand ($2,000) Dollars and will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmento the full value of such tools, while on Company propertyor work sites. It is understoodthat coveragefor theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the controlof the Company. Damageto employee-owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire wilfully or through gross negligencewill not be reimbursedfor any resultantloss. Suitablearrangementsfor protection againsttheft of employee-ownedpower saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
10.06	(a) Employeesshall be paidevery secondThursday; cheques to be negotiable on that day.
10.06	(b) Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a Paid Holiday occur on Thursday pay day or Friday, payment will be made on Wednesday of that week.
10.06(c) In instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employee's payroll credit.
10.06	(d) ATimeand EarningsStatementwill be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry completedetailof rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, accrued Vacation Pay credit, and deductions covering the period. Explanationsof payroll codeswill be posted in each camp.
10.06	(e) Where twenty-four (24) hours' notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is
16
rendered the Company agreesthat every reasonable effort will be made to makeatull settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.06	(f) The Company will provideeach pieceworkerwith a minimum of one(1)scale per week, and will provideeach pieceworkerwith a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips shall be given to each pieceworker at least forty-eight (48) hours priorto the wood being moved. Scale slips will provide the following information, where applicable: Number of Cords or Number of Pieces [Tree Length), Riding and/or Walking Bonus, Footage or Strip or Main Road Cut; and Poor Bush Bonus.
10.07	All handtools and equipment requiredon thejob will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operatorof equipments required by the Company to do a mechanical repairjob, he will befurnished suchtools as are requiredon loan. All tools and equipment not returned will bechargedfor infull. Worn out or brokentools will bere-placedwith serviceable toolsfree of charge, provided that the worn out or brokentools are returned. No personshall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a conditionof employment, unless otherwise specified inthis Agreement.
No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.08	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1 Jsafety type gasoline container.
3.	One (1 )fire extinguisher [chemical type).
The Company agrees to stock two types of power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps, and sell them to the employees at invoiced cost to the Company.
17
Pieceworkersand others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
10.09	At each operating camp a separate, suitable, heated building shall be provided for the repair and storage of power saws. Said buildings are also to contain sufficient lockup type lockers for storage, work bench and vise. Compressed air will be provided in the power saw repair building. No powersaws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters.
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of men; same to have adequate seating accommodations,emergencyexit doors and to beequipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places. (See attached Letter of Understanding)
10.11	Night watchmen shall be employed in all operating camps during the heating season.
10.12	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement?, and also the interpretationof this Agreement.
10.13	Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include in season fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
10.14	The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees,will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and frequent communicationwith such employee will be maintained by his supervisor on a scheduled basis.
10.15	The Company agreesthat it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safety boots, and safety gloves and mitts.
18
The Company subsidy for approved safety clothing for personal use will be as follows:
Safety boots	- $15 per pair
Safey pants	- $12 per pair
Safety mitts and gloves- $ 7 per pair
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
10.16	The Company agrees that there will be no shacking or batching by employees covered bythis Agreement who are engaged in producing and delivering operations on its Limits and/or work sites unless mutually agreed to by the Union and the Company.
10.17	(a) The Company agreesto providefree transportation to all employeeswho are transferredfrom campto camp at the Company's request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII — Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intention to do so and effective date of ratification shall be paid twenty (20) cents per kilometer.
10.17	(b) Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paidforatthe regularstraight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller (Tree Length Skidding] rate per day for pieceworkers, and normal travel time, outside an employee's schedule working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the above rates for pieceworkers.
10.18	Lunch boxes andthermos bottles shall be issued, on loan to all employees and shall have been sterilized before issue.
10.19	All nightshiftworkersshall have separate sleeping quarters apartfrom other shiftworkers, where practical.
The Company shall provde the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouseinwhichto conduct Union business.
19
10.20	On regular hauling operations where trucks are loaded by cranes, Drott loaders or similar equipment, a toploader or helper will be employed.
10.21	The Company agrees that for the purpose of safety not less than two (2)men shall be on each work boat when such work boat is used in towing, rafting, river driving or rearing.
10.22	The Company shall supply mechanics, welders and electricians suitable coveralls and provide for the laundering of same free of charge.
Coveralls will be placed at the slashers for use of the crew while doing maintenance.
10.23	Tradesmen and helpers, carpentersand servicemen assignedto a bush garage shall receiveforty (4kfi))cerrts per hourinadditionto the applicable hourly rate. Tradesmen and helpers, carpenters and servicemen assigned to a main camp or central garage required to perform work of theirtrade away from a main camp or central garage will be paid forty (40)cents per hour in addition to tne applicable hourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main camp or central garage.
Tradesmen and helpersassignedto work in the yard of the main camp or central garage for one (1) full shift or more will be paidforty (40)cents per hour in additionto the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.	'
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8)hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive. (Letter of Understanding)
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Piece— workers may be scheduledto work in dayworkjobs on the A day shift, Mondayto Friday inclusive.	np
It is agreed that daywork or shift work employees may be7 i , requestedtoworkinexcessoftheir regularworkday or shift Y
20
or workweek and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 (a)forsuchtimeworked. Ifanemployee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be withheld.
11.01	(b) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a Paid Holidayandthe "sixthday" (Saturdayor Monday)snall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.02	(a) The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., mealtime excepted.
11.02	(b) The night shift shall consistof eight (8)consecu-tive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtimeexcepted. However,itisagreedthaton Fridaysthe night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company , and by mutual agreement, be scheduled to commence prior to 7:00 p.m. in accordance with provisions of Section 11.03 (b).
11.03	(a) A night shift differentialofforty-five (45)cents per hour shall be paid inadditiontothe regular ratesfor all night shiftwork.
11.03	(b) On other two-shift operations the first shift shall consist of eight (8)consecutive hours, mealtimeexcepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per hour. (Letter of Understanding - Site Preparation)
11.03	(c) On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8)consecutive hours. The starting and stoppingtimes for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid shall be as follows:
1 st Shift 2nd Shift 3rd Shift
Starting Time (between hours of)
7 am- 8 am 3 pm- 4 pm 11 pm-12 pm
Stopping Time	Shift
(betweennours or)	Differential
3 pm- 4 pm	NIL
11 pm-12 pm Forty-fivecents/hour 7 am- 8 am Fifty-five cents/hour
11.03	(d) The hours of work and the “sixth day” for dayworkers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
1.	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a one (1) hour period. (See Letter of Understanding on Truck Hauling)
3.	On all operations which are carried out on a two (2) or three (3) shift basis, all such employees will be scheduled on a rotating weekly schedule basis.
11.03	(e) If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week is required for work on his “sixth day” or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the regularstartingtime and is unableto commencework for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive four (4) hours' pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section 11.05 (a) provided he remains availablefor the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company.
11.04	(a) A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half a day if he works less than four (4)hours,and for a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.
A pieceworkerwho will lose more than one (1) hour of work for reasonoffailure ofthe Company to supply a skidder shall be paid for all hours lost in excess ofthe one (1) hour at the rate for Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate daywork if so requested by the Company.
22
Inthe case of time lost in excess of one (1) hourfor reason of lack of assignment of area to cut, and/or time required in excess of one (1)hour to travel to area assigned, payment shall be made for all hours lost.
11.04	(b) A day or shift worker who reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work due to reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half ofthe shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section 11.04 (a)will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift he shall receive four (4)hours pay for such hours. The company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
Whenthe providingof alternate work necessitatesa change in shift,the time ana one-half provisions of Section 11.03 (d) shall notapply providing there isa breakof at least eight (8) hours between shifts.
Notwithstandingthe provisions above governing paymentof four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
23
Shouldanemployee elect to take leave of absence in lieuof exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Notification and reportinq procedures shall be established
iocaiiy.	3~7- Cr. A.
11.05	(a) Timeworkedirrexcessofeight(8)hoursperday orshiftandall hoursworked byanemployeeonSunday.on his designated “sixth day” (Saturdayor Monday)or outside his regular shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half, Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on his designated “sixth day” (Saturday or Monday) and on a Sunday.
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributedon as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classification requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
11.05	(b) Employeesin the classificationsspecified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8)hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI.
(1)	Cook	(4) Cookee (7) Boat Crews-Guy M
(2) Baker	(5) Choreboy	No. I, Robert W.
(3) Second Cook (6) Watchman	andTugalong
For employees in the job classifications listed above the hours of work per day or shift and per week will bescheduled as follows:
1.	The regularwork day or shift shall be eight (8)consecu-tive hours, mealtimeexcepted. However,theworkday or shift of eight (8)hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period .divided into not more than two parts provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts, Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
24
2.	Time worked in excess or outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on his “sixth” day (Saturdayor Monday)and on Sunday, shall be paidfor atthe rate of time and one-half. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.	An employee in the above classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyondhis control, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available atthe start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day if he remains available for the start of the second half of the scheduled shift.
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Thursday ofthe previousweek. Scheduled overtimeday or shift for the “sixth” day or Sunday shall be posted on the precedingThursday.The startingand stoppingtimes shall remainfixed duringthe weekly periodsubjectto the following:
— an employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift scheduled is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-halftimes his regular rateforthefirstshiftworked aftenthe change. When an employee revertsto his original shift he will be paid at this regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
5.	If an employee who has completed his'scheduled work week is called back for work on his “sixth” day or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of eight (8) hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6.	When a second shift is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of forty-five (45) cents per hour for each second shift worked.
7.	The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchmen shall be maintained.
8.	Headquarterswatchmen - see Letter of Understanding (appended).
25
11.06	Walking distance and/or riding time shall not be considered as time worked. Walking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated inthe Walking Distance and Riding Time Section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (1)hour before the start of his day or shift shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4)hours pay at straighttime. Whenthe call-out for work iswithinthe one (1) hour period priorto the start of hisdayor shift he will bepaidtimeandone-halffromthestarfingtimeof the call-out to the scheduled starting time of his day or shift. Where the employee continuesto work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the time worked priorto his starting time.
An employee, who is called out for work on his “sixth” day (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (a),from the starting time of the call-out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at the rate of time and one-half.
ARTICLEXII — SENIORITY^a -^C."D
12.01	The Company recognizesthe princip'leof seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after layoffs.
Time off due to sickness or accident must be certified by a licensed physician, licenseddentist or licensedchiropractor.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall retain seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has established seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain such seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11)months.
J/ 12.02	Employment ofany new employee shall be con-
j/ ^ sidered as probationaryuntil he hasworked thirty (30)days ' <n) within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12.01 shall KJ apply, and the employee shall be placed on the Seniority r' List in order of hire.
26
12.03	(a) Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffsare required dueto the completionof seasonal y, operations,orpartthereof.theemployeewillbepermittedto jy transfer to a job to which his seniority and qualifications entitle him. If no jobs are available he will be permitted to replace an employee with less seniorityonajob for which he isqualifed provided:
(i)	The jobs will continue in other districts for fourteen (14) days or more, and
(ii)	The employee having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04 advises the Company priorto the effective day of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be suppliedby the Company of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
When layoffs are for less than fourteen (14) days seniority will be applied on a district basis.
Prior to an intended layoff which is to last more than fourteen (14)days,the Company will providethe Camp Foreman with a copy to the Union Grievance Committee, with a list of the employees in other districts having the lowest seniority on jobs which will continue for fourteen (14) days or more and which are similarto those beingterminated. The number of employees listed in each job classification shall be the same as the number being laid off inthe same classification.
12.03	(b) I ntransfers from onejob classificationto another, senior employees shall receive first consideration, li such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred.In case of a temporary change to a lowerjob classification,the employee shall retain the rate of his previousj ob classification. For determining the rateof pay for pieceworkers transferredto day work, the rate specified for Feller-Limber (Tree Length Skidding) shall apply, or the rate of the job classification, whichever is higher.
12.03	(c) The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII.
27
Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5)working days.
It is agreed, however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies	two (2)
Newly created jobs will be posted on the	jrds by
the Company for a period of five (5) working days priorto any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements. Employees shall not be considered for such jobs, unless they apply in writing within the five (5) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicantson the basis of Section 12.01 of this Agreement. Employees acceptingthe postedjobs shall be allowedfive (5)workdays in which to qualify, (or further time as may be mutually agreed, if additional training is required). Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
Successful applicants will be required to fulfill the vacancy for which they have applied.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the namesof successful applicantsfor all postedvacancies and newly created jobs.
12.03	(d) A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavementleave,jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03(c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp.
In the event that a vacancy is not filled from the Camp unit, it shall be filled on a Company wide seniority basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of layoff from his former job has exercised his seniority on this particularjob.
calendar weeks duration.
28
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days, the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days, in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company agreesthat all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of lay-off as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of layoff, employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in all cases, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employeeswill be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and reportfor work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by April 30 of each year an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement, show-ingtheir hiring date followingtheir last break in seniority, and Company seniority rankas specified in Section 12.01 as at March 31 of the same year. This list will show in addition each employee's occupation and address.
12.07	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly in each camp showing the Company seniority rank of each employee.
12.08	An employee who has established seniority in ‘'j accordance with Section 12.02 of this Article shall retain such seniority for twenty-four (24) months during layoff. An / M employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and
not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as ' provided in Section 12.05 of this Article, shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promotedor transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months from the date of promotionortransferand shall have
29
the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all provisionsof this Article upon proof of Union membership in good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generally employed on seasonal operations and who have not acquired seniority, in accordance with this Article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit, during the off season, providedthat this does not interferewith the application of seniority of any employee. Such personnel shall applyfor Union membershippriorto being placed on thejob and maintaintheir Union membership in good standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinueddue to the introduction cf new methods and equipmentor curtailmentof operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment,inaccordance with Section12.01 of ArticleXIl, to meet the Company’s labour requirements and if such employeesrequiretrainingto performalternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company. It is understoodthis does not apply to seasonal layoffs..
12.11	Effective date of ratification, an employee with three or more years of service for whom no job is available because cf mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance cf one week's pay for each year of completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computedonthe basisofforty hours at the employee’s regular straighttime hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment, to a maximum of thirty years.
It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee's name will be removed from the seniority list.
The above provision is not in additionto the requirementsof the Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLEXIII- BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bufletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of the Camp Foreman before such posting.
30
ARTICLE XIV — MEDICAL,SURGICAL,
DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	Foreach employee who hasestablished seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will contribute $42.64 per month for single employees and $90.22 per month for married employees towards the cost of O.H.I.P., Blue-Cross Drug Plan (or its equivalent),and SerokEriyate Hospital Cara-PlpnR paid for by monthly payroll deduction. The Company contribution to employees who are off work due to a Workers' Compensation claim or a Short Term Disability claim will be continued for a period of up to twelve (12) months.
Employees who are off due to a Workers' Compensation claim or Short Term Disability claim and are laid off due to seniority will be provided benefit coverage for a period of twelve (12) months.
Effective September 1,1989, the Company will pay the then current premiums for the balance of the term of this Agreement.
On layoff, the Company contribution will be paid to eligible employees for premiums deducted on return to work covering any month during which the employee is actively at work.
If there should be a net reduction in the premiums charged for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care plans, the Company's contribution to employees will not be reduced from the amounts set out in this Article.
If the Company's contribution exceeds the premiums required for medical, surgical, drug and hospital care plans, the balance will be applied to such other employee benefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Union. Pending arrangement between the Company and the Union as to the application of contributions over and above the premiums required, such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.	^
ARTICLEXV - LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	The Company will maintain a Group Life Insurance Plan to provide Forty Thousand ($40,000) Dollars of
73^
31	_ , tu-tO
Life Insurance for each employee while actively employed. The premium cost to the employee will be 36 cents per $1,000 per month
^^^ARTICLEXVI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY
O / 16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium
cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan The Plan will provide seventy (70) percent of weekly earnings [forty (40) hours times an employee's regular rate and pieceworkers, forty (40) times the Feller-Limber hourly rate] up to a maximum of Three Hundred and Seventy ($370.00) Dollars weekly, to commence on the first day in case of a noncompensable accident or in the case of an illness on the date of confinement to hospital or the fourth day of illness, whichever is the earlier date. Benefits will continue for the period of disability up to a majdm^TTOfJf^-^Sg^sfiks.
Effective September 1.1988. increase maximum to Three Hundred ana tighty-Hve ($385.00) Dollars per week.
Effective September 1, 1989, increase maximum to Four , Hundred(WTOTTBOTSfe^week. 7	U
Plan detail — Appendix "A'
ARTICLE XVII- BEREAVEMENT PAY
01 When death occurs to an employee's spouse or children the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straighttime rate [pieceworkers, eight (8)timesthe Feller-Limber (Tree-LengthSkidding)hourlyratelfortime lostupto a maximum of five (5) days When death occurs to other members of employee's immediate family, that is, an employee's father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, the maximumtime lost paidfor will be three (3)days The intent of this clause is to allow the employeeto attendthe funeral without loss of earnings The dayofthefuneral must be one ofthefive (5)orthree(3)days Pay will begrantedforthe scheduled work days lost during this period
It is understood for purposesof this Article step-relativeswill be considered the same as blood relatives
32
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family
ARTICLE XVIII - JURY DUTY ALLOWANCE
18.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury*" service or subpoenaed by the Crown, the Company shafts pay, for each"day a sucrrfeervice, anallowance equaltothe difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate [pieceworkers eight (8) hours pay basedonthe Feller-Limber (Tree length Skidding) hourly rate] and the payment he received for jury service The employee will present proof of service and of pay receivedthereforwhen making his claim for such allowancyj
ARTICLE XIX - DENTAL CARE PLAN JS
19.01	The Company will maintain a Dental Care Plan, with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65)days of seniority with the Company.
2.	Plan Design
a)	Servicesandbenefitsasprovidedin BlueCrossNo.7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1 or equivalent.
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross
Rider No. 2 (50 percent) or equivalent. ---------
Effectivethe first of the monthfollowing date of ratification amend the Planto provide for the application ofthe1986
O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective Septemberl, 1988, amend the Planto provide for the application of the 1987 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1,1989, amend the Planto provide for the application of the 1988 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Maximum of $1,000 per calendar year per person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
33
3.	Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contractor set of proceduresreflectingthe plandesign outlined in Item 2 above. The decisionasto the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurancecompaniesor self-administrationwill be made by the Company on the ba ‘
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this Plan shall b§ paid by the Company.
5.	Integration
The Planwill not provide like benefitswhere such are currently being providedby federal or provincial l egislation.
If during the life of this Agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLEXX - LONGTERM DISABILITY PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide and pay the premium cost of a Long Term Disability Plan. The P an forms part of this Agreement and is attachei
study of these alternatives.
34
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO as of the 16th day of August, 1988.
WITNESS	KIMBERLY-CLARK OF
CANADA LIMITED
Per
L. McLean	M.A. Penttila,
Vice-president Woodlands
TTTrWrigfir
WITNESS
E. Harel

L. Dallaire
L. Garon
LOCAL 2693,
IW A CANADA
per
-C '_____
Fred Miron President
P. Michel
D. Pare
/U--J
Wm Ledger
35
RULES GOVERNING ABSENCES
1.	The permission of the foreman must be secured for all absences from work.
2.	Permissionfor absences will be covered as follows:
(i)	Absences involving not more than one working day: — by verbal permissionof the foreman.
(ii)	Absences involving more than one working day but not more than one month: — by “Permission for Absence from Work” form signed by the foreman.
(iii)	Absences involving more than one month: — by
Leave of Absence” form initiated by the foreman and approved by the Vice President— Woodlands.
Employees must bring both copies of the “Leave of Absence” form to the Woodlands Office for final approval.
If an employee leavesthejob without securing permission it will be treated as an “Absence without PermissionjN.P.)” provided the absence does not exceed one week. An absence in excess of one week will constitute a break in service unless justified by proven circumstances beyond the employee's control.
All authorized absences will be either at the request of the employee, and covered as described above, or will be a temporary layoff due to lack of work and covered by a Leave of Absence.
Each “Permission for Absence” or “Leave of Absence” will designate either:
(1)	The return to work date, or
(2)	The date by which the employee must contact the Company to find out when he is to return.
Failureofthe employeeto comply with the above provisions will be treated as an “Absence without Permission (N.P.)” provided that he complies within one week of the specified date. Failure to comply within one week will constitute a break in service.
36
Any absence without permission in excess of one week will result in a break in service unless justified by proven circumstances beyond the employee's control.
If an employee has three absences without permission (none of which exceed one week) within a twelve-month period a break in service will occur.
Absences without Permission may result from:
(1)	Leaving camp without permission.
(2)	Failure to report on date specified.
(3)	Failure to contact Company for return to work date on specified date.
(4)	Failure to report on time when transferred.
(5)	Failure to report to doctor promptly when leaving camp due to sickness or injury.
(6)	Failure to return by date specified by doctor in cases cf sickness or injury.
37
WAGE SCHEDULE KIMBERLY-CLARKWOODLANDS September 1,1987 to August 31, 1990
A.	HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS
Blacksmith Bodyman Mechanic Class “A”
Bodyman Mechanic Class “B”
Bucker (Tree Length Skidding)
Bullcook or Choreboy Bus Driver
Camp, Dam & Bridge Const Worker (Exp.) Captain (Masters-Inland Waters)
Captain
Carpenter (Lead) Carpenter (Qualified) Chokerman (Tree Length Yarding) Cook, 1 to 20 Men Cook, Over 20 Men Cook, Second Cookee
Crew Leader (Slashers)
Dumpmen
Dump, Crossings,
Men Slushing Electrician, Lead Electrician and Radio Electrician Electrician Class “B” Electrician Helper Class “A”
Engineer 4th Class Diesel Marine
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
15.93
18.82
17.31
16.00
15.53
15.61
15.53
17.37
16.86
19.21
18.82
15.61 16.73
17.02
16.45
15.27
17.44
15.28
15.30
19.21 18.99
18.82
17.31
15.69
16.78
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug. 31/89
16.38
19.27 17.76
16.45
15.98 16.06
15.98
17.82
17.31
19.66
19.27
16.06
17.18
17.47
16.90
15.72 17.89
15.73
15.75
19.66
19.44
19.27
17.76
16.14
17.23
Sept. 1/89 to
Aug. 31/90 17.12
20.14 18.56
17.19
16.70
16.78
16.70
18.62
18.09
20.55
20.14
16.78 17.95 18.25
17.66
16.43
18.70
16.44
16.46
20.55
20.31
20.14
18.56
16.86
18.01
38
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS (Continued)
b
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug. 31/89
Sept. 1/89 Aug. 31/90
i'
Engineer 3rd Class Diesel Marine Engineer
Ernst “M” Operator Feller
(Tree Length Skidding) Fire Patrol Man Fireman, Boiler Depot Handyman Helper, Blacksmith Helper, Bulldozer& Tractor
Helper, Crane Operator Helper, Winchboat Jackhammer Driller Kay “C” Operator Labourer, General Labourer Warehouse Laundry Worker Limber
(Tree Length Skidding) Logman
Machinist “A” Class Machinist“B” Class Mechanic Lead Mechanic Class “A” 1 Mechanic Class ''A' Mechanic I Mechanic II Mechanic Helper Class "A'
Mechanic Helper Operator, Automotive Yarder
Operator, Air-Trac Operator, Bulldozer “A” Operator, Bulldozer “B”
17.31 16.49 16.00
16.00
15.16 15.36
15.64
15.28
15.28 15.43 15.39
15.32 16.00
15.16
15.16
15.16
16.00
15.64 18.82
17.31
19.10
18.82
17.31 16.46
15.69
15.30
16.21
15.89
17.01
16.41
39
17.76	18.56
16.94	17.70
16.45	17.19
16.45	17.19
15.61	16.31
15.81	16.52
16.09	16.81
15.73	16.44
15.73
15.88
15.84
15.77
16.45
15.61
15.61
15.61
16.44
16.59
16.56
16.48
17.19
16.31
16.31
16.45
16.09
19.27
17.76
19.66
19.55
19.27
17.76
16.91
17.19
16.81
20.14
18.56
20.55
20.43
20.14
18.56
17.67
H-
16.14	16.86
15.75	16.46
16.66	17.41
16.34	17.07
17.46	18.24
16.86	17.62
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS(Continued)
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
Operator, Bunk Grapple Skidder Operator, Cary Lift Operator,
Cat. 977, 966, 980 Operator, Compressor Operator, Crane (Certificate) Onwateii. Crane
Operator, Feller Buncher Operator, Felling Flead & Delimber Operator, Gator Operator, Flough90-70 Operator,
Hydraulic Backhoe Operator, Fly-Hoe Operator, Hydraulic Loader Mounted on Slasher (Fixed or Mobile) Operator, Koehring Feller Forwarder Operator, Log Boom Operator, Mechanical Skidder (Wheel Type] Operator, Grapple Skidder [Wheel Type)
Operator, Mechanical Slasher (Fixed)
Operator, Mechanical Slasher (Mobile) Operator, Nesco Processor Operator, Outboard Motor Operator, Outfeed Processor (Manual)
16.21
16.21
16.21
15.69
17.20
1&Z&
16.21 16.61
16.76
15.77 16.21
16.76
15.91
16.21
16.61
16.76
16.00
16.13
16.64
16.21
16.33
15.49
16.00
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug. 31/89
16.66
16.66
16.66
16.14
17.65
17.21
16.66
17.06
17.21
16.22 16.66
17.21
16.36
16.66
17.06
17.21
16.45
16.58
17.09
16.66
16.78
15.94
16.45
Sept. 1/89 to
Aug. 31/90
17.41
17.41
17.41 16.86
18.44
17.98 171T 17.83
17.98 16.95
17.41
17.98
17.10
17.41
17.83
17.98
17.19
17.33
17.86
17.41
17.54
16.66
17.19
40
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS(Continued)
Operator, Outfeed Processor (Mechanical) Operator, Passenger & Supply Launch Operator, Pettibone Super 30 or Equivalent Operator, Power Grader Operator, Power Saw (Non-Productive) Operator, Pump Operator, Pusher Operator, Roadside Delimber
Operator, Shortwood Knuckleboom Loader (Self-Propelled) Operator, Trackmobile Operator, Tractor, General Operator,
Tractor & Scraper Operator, Tree Harvester (Beloit, Timberjack, Larson, Koehring) Operator,
Wheeled Tractor Operator,
Winch, All Other Types Operator, Yarder Painter
Plumber & Pipefitter Class''A'
Powderman
Radio, Maintenance Man Raftsman, Inland Waters Logman River Driver,
Boatman, Bow & Stern
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug. 31/89
16.20	16.65
15.61	16.06
16.21	16.66
16.21	16.66
15.53	15.98
15.30	15.75
15.91	16.36
16.61	17.06
16.76	17.21
15.91	16.36
15.61	16.06
16.29	16.74
16.76	17.21
16.21	16.66
15.91	16.36
16.14	16.59
15.99	16.44
18.82	19.27
15.49	15.94
16.82	17.27
15.53	15.98
15.49	15.94
41
Sept. 1/89 to
Aug. 31/90
17.40 16.78
17.41
17.41
16.70
16.46
17.10
17.83
17.98
17.10
16.78
17.49
17.98
17.41
17.10
17.34
17.18
20.14
16.66
18.04
16.70
16.66
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS(Continued)
River Driver,
Watering Wood on Drive River Driver,
Storage Ground Logman Saw Filer Saw Trailer (Mobile Slasher) Serviceman Serviceman, Lead Snowmobile Driver Sorter & Sluicer Tire Repairman Tire Repairman Helper Top Loader Tree Planter
Truck Driver, Single Axle, Hauling on Body Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Hauling Trailer (Over 102" in Width) Truck Driver, Hauling Trains, Trailers,
Floats, F.W.D
Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Truck Driver,
Snow Plowing Utility Man (Fixed Slasher) Watchman Watchman,
Night Firing Stoves Watchman, Gateman Welder, Lead Welder, Class "A"
Welder, Class I Welder, Class II Welder Helper, Class ”A” Welder Helper Wheelsman
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
15.39
15.39 17.31
15.91
17.11
17.99
15.61
15.39 16.00 15.69
15.61 15.16
15.61
16.17
16.11
15.90
15.91 15.61
15.36
15.53
15.36 19.21 18.82 17.31 16.46 15.69 15.30 15.56
Sept. 1/88 Sept. 1/89 to	to
Aug. 31/89 Aug. 31/90
15.84	16.56
15.84	16.56
17.76	18.56
16.36	17.10
17.56	18.35
18.44	19.27
16.06	16.78
15.84	16.56
16.45	17.19
16.14	1687
16.06	16.78
15.61	16.31
16.06	16.78
16.62	17.36
16.56	17.31
16.35	17.08
16.36	17.10
16.06	16.78
15.81	16.52
15.98	16.70
15.81	16.52
19.66	20.55
19.27	20.14
17.76	18.56
16.91	17.67
16.14	16.86
15.75	16.46
16.01	16.73
42
A. HOURLY WAGE CLASSIFICATIONS (Continued)
When an employee is transferred or recalled from a job classificationto Tree Planter, he shall receive the rate of the classification from which he was transferred or laid
Off
A supplement of five (5) cents per hour will apply to the Truck Driver, Tandem Axle Hauling Trailer rate when hauling tree length, butt and top
B.	PIECEWORK RATES
Supplement to Pieceworkers
Asupplement of seventy-three (731 centsjoer hour will be
psHcnErpTeceworkers "	~	~~ ~~
Metric Conversion '
Metric Rates will only apply upon the implementationof metric rates by the Ministryof Natural Resources,but not earlierthan April 1,1981
1	Products Paid For On A Butt Diameter Basis See rates attached
2	Products PaidFor On A Stacked Cord Basis After application of the General Wage Increase, the rates will be divided by a factor of 3 933 to arrive at the rate per cubic metre (stacked) Metric rates for poor bush bonus and walking and ridingtime presently paid on a per cord basis will be calculated in the same manner
3	Products Paid For On A Cubic Measurement When the appropriate factor(s) for conversion of these rates are available, the Company agrees to meet with the Unionfordiscussionandagreementon the factor(s)
43
C. CUTTING RATES
1. Cutting & Skidding — 16' Pulp wood & By-products (Wheeled Skidders — Rubber Tired)
RATES PER CORD OF 85 CUBIC FEET NO CUTTING BONUS IN ADDITION TO THESE RATES
Sept. 1/87 Sept. 1/88 Sept. 1/89 Aug. 31/88 Aug. 31/89 Aug. 31/90
166"
Rough Spruce & Balsam Pulpwood& Sawlogs
166"
Rough Jackpine Pulpwood& Sawlogs
166"
Peeled Poplar 100"
Rough Spruce &
Balsam Tops
100"
Jackpine Tops 6'10" to 136”
Rough Spruce & Balsam Mining Timbers 61 0" to 136"
Rough Jackpine Mining Timber 8'10"
Rough Poplar Bolts
Plywood I
*35'
Pole — 34"-39" Girth
y
Pole — 39"-42" Girth
31.97
28.87
35.76
35.76 32.05
31.97
28.87
28.74
6.60
9.20
*50"
Rough Spruce & Balsam 35.34 **50"
Rough Jackpine	32.37
"Rates per individualDiece ’ ’Rates paid on per stacked cord measurements 44
32.45
29.30
36.30
36.30
32.53
32.45
29.30
29.17
6.70
9.34
35.87
32.86
33.91
30.61
37.93
37.93 33.99
33.91
30.62
30.48 7.00 9.76
37.48 34.34
C. CUTTING RATES (Continued)
Crew will clear skidway or piling site.
Where crews are not required to prepare skidways or piling sites, the above rateswill bereducedthirty-two(32) cents per cord.
Company will supply a wheeled skidder (rubbertired) with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
Bucking to be done either at stump or at skidway at option of the crew.
Crew sizes and skidding distances may be established and varied by the Company in the interest (f efficiency, providedthat this rightshall not beexercised in a manner which would have an unreasonablyadverse effect upon the ability of the crews to produce.
Where sawlogs, mining timbers and tie blocks must be separated from pulpwood, they will be paid for at thirty-two (32) cents per cord more than the above cutting rates.
1.	Cutting & Skidding— W Pulpwood<S By-Products (Wheeled Skidders — Rubber Tired)
Poor Bush Bonus
1.	For cutting and skidding rough pulp, a bonus of $1.10 per cord will be paid on the pulpwood produced on each skidding chance or blockaverag-i ng I ess t ha n e le ve n (11) co rd s pe r acre. Effective September 1,1983 change to $1.19 per cord.
2.	For cutting and skidding rough pulpwood, a bonus of $1.75 per cord will be paid on the pulpwood producedoneachskiddingchanceor block averaging less than 6 cords per acre. Effective September 1,1983 change to $1.89 per cord.
2.	Cutting & Skidding — Tree Length (Wheeled Skidders — Rubber Tired)
Rates
Rates per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule.
45
C. CUTTING RATES (Continued)
Measurement
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter measurement shall be clearly marked on the butt of each tree length by the scaler.
Bonus
No Cutting Bonus in addition to Schedule Rates.
No Poor Bush Bonus to be paid on pulpwood or by-products.
Crew Size
The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shall not exceed three (3)at any time.
Skidding Distance
Skidding distance shall not exceed 600 feet in any strip or block.
Strip Cutting
Every attempt will be made to assign adjoining alternate strips. If these two strips yield less than 30 cords, each crew memberwill bepaidone hour at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate.
The Company will not normally exceed 600 feet when cutting strips. Skidding distance shall not exceed600feet in each strip. Bcceptionswill be dealt with on a local basis.
Sawlog Production
Where 16'6" sawlogs are produced, these will be paid as per the sawlog rates under Section B-1. Cutting and Skidding — H6' Pulpwood and By-products (WheeledSkidders — Rubber Tired).
Sawlog Tops
Sawlogtops will be scaled and paid for on the same basis as for tree length.
Walking and Riding Time
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with Subsection (g) of Article C-8 (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
46
C. CUTTING RATES (Continued)
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE- PULPWOOD
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug. 31/89
Sept. 1/89 to
Aug. 31/90
Butt	Spruce	Spruce	Spruce
Diam.	and	and	and
(Cm) Balsam Jackpine Balsam Jackplne Balsam Jackplne
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
$ ,444 $ .338 .444	,338
,674	.580
.883	.840
1.215	1.179
1.532	1.497
1.884	1.832
2.293	2.207
2.760	2.622
3.253	3.111
3.676	3.478
3.986	3.707
4.268	3.887
4.889	4.333
5.514	4.820
6.234	5.261
6.990	5.732
7.743	6.297
8.755	6.818
9,941	7.352
10.990	7.894
11.911	8.442
12.891	8.987
15.041	9.529
16.369 10.072 17.358 10.615
18.325	11.163 19.444 11.705 20.463 12.275 21.407 12.824
22.325	13.365 23.260 13.917 24.196 14.482 25.132 15.033 26.066 15.579
26.991	16.129 28.078 16.722
$ .451 $ .343 .451	.343
.684	.589
.896	.853
1.233	1.197
1.555	1.519
1.912	1.859
2.327	2.240
2.801 2.661 3.302	3.158
3.731	3.530
4.046	3.763
4.332	3.945
4.962	4.398
5.597	4.892
6.328	5.340
7.095	5.818
7.859	6.391
8.886	6.920
10.090	7.462
11.155	8.012
12.090	8.569
13.084	9.122
15.267	9.672
16.615 10.223 17.618 10.774 18.600 11.330 19.736 11.881 20.770 12.459 21.728 13.016 22.660 13.565 23.609 14.126 24,559 14.699 25.509 15.258 26.457 15.813 27.396 16.371 28.499 16.973
$ .471 $ .358 .471	.358
.715	.616
.936	.891
1.288	1.251
1.625	1.587
1.998	1.943
2.432	2.341
2.927	2.781
3.451	3.300
3.899	3.689
4.228	3.932
4.527	4.123
5.185	4.596
5.849	5.112
6.613	5.580
7.414	6.080
8.213	6.679
9.286	7.231
10.544	7.798
11.657	8.373
12.634	8.955
13.673	9.532
15.954 10,107 17.363 10.683 18.411 11.259 19.437 11.840 20.624 12.416
21.705	13.020
22.706	13.602 23.680 14.175 24.671 14.762 25.664 15.360
26.657	15.945 27.648 16.525 28.629 17.108 29.781 17.737
47
C. CUTTING RATES (Continued)
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE - SAWLOGS
Butt
Diam.
(Cm)
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
Spruce
and
Balsam Jackpine $ 1.645$ 1.611 2.026	1.970
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug.31/89
Spruce
and
Balsam Jackpine $ 1.670$ 1.635 2.056	2.000
Sept. 1/89 to
Aug. 31/90
Spruce
and
Balsam Jackpine $ 1.745$ 1.709 2.149	2.090
2.465	2.370	2.502	2.406	2.615	2.514
2.967	2.820	3.012	2.862	3.148	2.991
3.499	3.343	3.551	3.393	3.711	3.546
3.951	3.739	4.010	3.795	4.190	3.966
4.286	3.983	4.350	4.043	4.546	4.225
4.587	4.178	4.656	4.241	4.866	4.432
5.257	4.658	5.336	4.728	5.576	4.941
5.927	5.179	6.016	5.257	6.287	5.494
6.700	5.657	6.800	5.742	7.106	6.000
7.513	6.161	7.626	6.253	7.969	6.534
8.322	6.767	8.447	6.869	8.827	7.178
9.411	7.331	9.552	7.441	9.982	7.776
10.688	7.902	10.848	8.021	11.336	8.382
11.814	8.488	11.991	8.615	12.531	9.003
12.804	9.075	12.996	9.211	13.581	9.625
13.856	9.660	14.064	9,805	14.697	10.246
16.172	10.245	16.415	10.399	17.154	10.867
17.598	10.827	17.862	10.989	18.666	11.484
18.661	11.410	18.941	11.581	19.793	12.102
19.700	11.998	1 9.996	1 2.178	20.895	1 2.726
20.904	12.583	21.218	12.772	22.173	13.347
21.997	13.195	22.327	13.393	23.332	13.996
23.012	13.785	23.357	13.992	24.408	14.622
24.003	14.371	24.363	14.587	25.459	15.243
25.004	14.960	25.379	15.184	26.521	15.867
26.012	15.570	26.402	15.804	27.590	16.515
27.016	16.160	27.421	16.402	28.655	17.140
28.019	16.747	28.439	16.998	29.719	17.763
29.014	17.336	29.449	17.596	30.774	18.388
30.184	17.976	30.637	18.246	32.016	19.067
Skidway Preparation — Company will endeavourto clear skidway sites. Where this is done by the crew at the Company's request, 7.62 percent of base earnings will be paid
Species Sorting — When, at Company	t, the crew is required
i 1	>' I b;'; i s 2.8( i percent i base earnings will be paid.
48
C.	CUTTING RATES (Continued)
PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES (METRIC) PRICE PER TREE- ROUGH POPLAR PULPWOOD
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/88
Butt
Dlam.
(Cm)
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
Poplar $ .421 .640 .935
1.172 1.430 1.723
2.012 2.414 2.849 3.147 3.309 3.688 4.110 4.520 4.935 5.382 5.809 6.273 6.730
7.173 7.623 8.093 8.550 9.007 9.476 9.946
10.420
Sept. 1/88 to
Aug. 31/89
Poplar $ .427 .650 .949 1.190 1.451 1.749 2.042 2.450 2.892 3.194 3.359 3.743 4.172 4.588 5.009 5.463 5.896 6.367 6.831 7.281 7.737 8.214 8.678 9.142 9.618 10.095 10.576
Sept. 1/89 to
Aug. 31/90
Poplar $ .446 .679 .992 1.244 1.516 1.828 2.134 2.560 3.022 3.338 3.510 3.911 4.360 4.794 5.234 5.709 6.161 6.654 7.138 7.609 8.085 8.584 9.069 9.553
10.051
10.549
11.052
Species Sorting — When, at Company request, the crew is required to sort the poplar from th a softwc od 2.86 p srcent if base earnings III .id it tf tt p I 1 ft o J If I
I ’/> wood I >i oduction — Where 8' produced these sh< I ie paid t a Section B 1. [Cutting and Skidding 1 (Wheeled Skidders — Rubber Tired) ]
i poplar plywood bolts are per the plywood rs te under ulpwood and By 3i lucts
A
ott iitii a t j.t ale Sec lar as they are applied to softwood
B-2 shall apply to rough
49
D.	MISCELLANEOUS
1.	commuters
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the following terms and conditions.
I	Commutersare employeeswho:
a)	are resident within reasonable Riding and/or Walking Distance cf the area cf operations,
b)	for whom board and lodging are not made available by the Company.
II	The Company will arrangeto providefree transportation from a designated marshalling point or points for each commuting area to the operating areas and return.
a)	Longlac, Geraldton and Nakina will be considered as commuter centers for the Road Construction Crews.
III	Time spent by pieceworkersor dayworkerstravel-ling on the vehicle provided from a marshalling point or points to debarkation point or points plus time spent walking from debarkation point or points to place of work in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis: at Dayworkersat their regular rate cf pay.
b)	Pieceworkers on mechanical cut and skid operations shall be paid at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
2.
Cookery Schedule
The Company agreesthat the following catering staff shall be provided in the camp cookeries:
Number of Per5ons.Eating .
(a)	14 mentor less
(b)	15 to 25 men c 25 to 45 men
(d)	45	to	65 men
(e)	65	to	85 men
(f)	85	to	105 men
(g)	105 to 125 men
(h)	125 to 145 men
(i)	Over 145 men
or
or
or
Second	Night
Cijok Cook Cookees Baker
50
0. MISCELLANEOUS (Continued)
2.	Cookery Schedule (Continued)
It is agreed that this schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when laboursaving devicesor other factors reducing work are introduced. The above crew numbers in categories (a) to (i) inclusive may be varied ten percent plus or minus for short periods. Should the manpower in Section (i) increase by more than 20 men, extra help will be provided in the cookery. Three Shift Operations
Where more than 10 men and less than 20 men are fed inthe cookery at night, acookee will be assigned. Where 20 or more are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be added to the Cookery Schedule, and assigned with the cookee at night.	■	■	•'
3.	Handicapped Workers
A special rate may be established by agreement between the .Company and the Union for aged and handicappedworkers.	__
4.	Laundry
It is agreed that the charge for laundry shall be fifty (50)cents per week.
5.	Power Saw Rental
Effectivefirst of month following date of ratification a dayworker using his power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw rental of
$11.00 per 8-hour day or shift when felling and limbing.
$12.00 per 8-hour day or shift when bucking at a landing on a skidding operation.
If he is unableto work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he will be paid one-halfday's rental when he works less than four hours and a full day's rental when he works more than four hours.
6.	Scaling
For the purpose of this Agreement, a stacked cord of 4-foot rough pulpwood shall be 50" by 50" x 8'; a
51
stacked cord of 8-foot rough pulpwood shall be 50" by 100"x 4) a stacked cord of peeled pulpwood shall be 50" by 48” x 8' or 100" by 48" x 4'; where rough wood is cube scaled, 85 cubic feet of solid wood shall constitute a cord without allowance for overlengths. Such cube scale measurementsshall be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
7.	Trainer
An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty (30) cents per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) rate plus thirty (30) cents per hour.
8.	Walking Distance and Riding Time
(a)	Pieceworkerswho walk to work from camp a distance in excess of one and one-half (1-1 /2) miles shall be paid on the basis of the Feller (Tree Length Skidding) ratefor the time requiredto walk the excess distance. For the purpose of this Agreement it is agreed that the pieceworker will walk at the rate of three (3)milesper hour.
(b)	Where pieceworkers are transported to work from camp, they shall be paid for Riding time in excess of one-half(1/2) hour each way at the rate of Feller (Tree Length Skidding).
(c)	Where a dayworker’s travelling time from camp to working place is composed of riding and/or walking time he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at his regular rate of pay.
(d)	Where a pieceworker'sor adayworker'stravelling time from camp to working place is composedof riding and walking time, he shall be paidthe rate of pay as per this Agreement for all combined riding and walking time in excess of one-half (1/2) hour each way. The walking time, based on the rate of one-quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes, shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once each month.
52
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeshipopeningswill befilled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) (job postings). Employeeswho meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement, during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the OntarioApprentice Program may be retained i n his classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic Iwithout prejudice.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it isexpected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessarytraining periodsinavoca-tional school.
5.	The apprentice may receive a weekly training allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Course.The Company will supplementthis allowanceto provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40)times his regular hourly rate of pay. Calculation of the Company's portion will be based on the government allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at home while attending the Trade School.
If the apprentice is required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attending School.
An apprentice's entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participations any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
53
6.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessaryto write for a ProvincialTrade Certificate, he may writefor such certificate and receive the “A” rate immediatelyfollowing his course pf studies and notification that a Trade Certificatewill be issued.
7.	If an apprentice is entitledto a reduction inthe term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievement he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
MECHANICS
Helper
He shall be required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. He shall be upgraded priorto or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class “A”. A Helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that hefails to display the necessary aptitudefor further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class “A"
He shall, under the direction cf mechanics of a higher classification, work on all types of equipment used on woods operations. He shall be capable of performingthe following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II.
In the event that hefails to display the necessary aptitudefor further training he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Mechanic//
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or
54
diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
Mechanic I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibilityfor all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has had special training and/or is assigned on only one type of equipment, he will automatically be rated as a Mechanic I.
Mechanic Class "A "
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assumefull responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
Mechanic Class "A"— I
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class "A" and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have had advanced theoretical and practicaltraining in equipment sub-systemsor be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
55
Mechanic Lead
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possessthe qualificationsset out under MechanicClass “A” and in additionshall be capable of leadingother mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
WELDERS
Helper
He is required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class “A”. Inthe event that he fails to displaythe necessary aptitudeforfurthertraining, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Helper Class “A”
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1.	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat position with opportunity of working in other positions.
2.	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
Welder//
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understandingof types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
Welder I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
56
He shall be capable of performingbothtypes of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Welder Class "A”
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understandingof types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in bothtypes of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary trade certificate.
Welders presently employed in this classificationwill not be required to have a Trade Certificate.
Welder Lead
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualifications set out under Welder Class "A" and in addition shall be capable of leading other welders.
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a Trade Certificate.
TRADESMEN'S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1-1/4" opening, sockets up to and including 1 /2" drive and 1 -1 /4" opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18"in length, hammers, chisels, punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over 112" drive, spanners over 1-1/4" opening.
57
Intheeventthatthecommontoolsoftradesmenare required to be in metric measurements such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
Once each year during the month of November, a group which is comprised of the Superintendent— Maintenance, Foreman— Automotive Shop and two qualified representatives of the Unionwill determine by reviewwhether helpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Superintendent— Maintenanceand Foreman—Automotive Shop.
58
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL 2693, IW A CANADA
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
It will be the Company's policy not to change the present source of supply of wood fibre for its mills, if by so doing it would depriveemployees with seniority from gainfulemploy-ment with the Company.
If, however, during the term of this Agreement dated September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1990, circumstances beyond the control of the Company were to arise and force the Company to alter its supply and offset the employment opportunities for its employees, that volume of supply produced on operations not covered by a Collective Agreement with the Union will be reduced on a proportional basis.
In moving back to former levels of operation,the volumes of supply produced on the Company's Woods Operations will be increased at least proportionately to the volume of increase of supply from other sources.
Employeeswith seniority asof May 8,1988 will not be laid off during the term of the Agreement as the result of the purchase of conifer fibre for its mill operation.
Further, the Company agrees that the full amount of allowable poplar cut will be harvested off the Company’s limits south of the Ogoki River.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
F. Miron
President, Local 2693 I W A Canada
M.A. Penttila Vice President — Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
59
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
1.	RE ARTICLE X-
WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
Subject to the exception mentioned in the second sentence of this paragraph, it is understood and agreed that clause 10.07 ofthe main Agreement does not in any way restrict the Company's right to continue the established practice of employing owner-operators together with their equipmentwhen such equipmentis requiredor the right ofthe owner-operator to be so employed provided that all applicable provisions of the Agreement shall applyto such employees. However,the Company agreesandundertakesthat no employee shall operates tractor owned by himself or by another employee in the skidding operations ofthe Company.
2.	RE WAGE SCHEDULE
(i)	Cook
It is agreed that a cook who has been employed on the higher rateshallmaintainsuch rate when cooking for 20 men or less.
(ii)	Operator — Bulldozer
It is agreed that an operatorwho has been employed on the higher rate shall maintain such rate when operating a bulldozersmallerthan a D6 or equivalent.
(iii)	Cookery Schedule
Changes upward or downward in cookery staff strengths will be made at approximately the mid-point between the low and high figure, designating each classification of camp strength with the exception of
60
fourteen men or less requiring one cook and the requirement forthe addition of one cookee when the camp strength reaches fifteen men.
SIGNEDAT LONGLAC THIS 16TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
c*Ur
F. Miron
President, Local 2693 IWA Canada
M.A. Penttila Vice President— Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
61
June 28,1988
Mr. Fred Miron President, Local 2693 IWA Canada P. O. BOX 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 5E9
Dear Sir:
Consistent with the Company's policy to ensure to the utmost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees the Company will, on purchase of new mobile equipment, provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls. This will include the installationof air conditioning in new buses.
The Company further agrees to continue to study ways and means to generally improve operator comfort on current equipment.
Yours very truly,
M. A. Penttila
Vice President — Woodlands
62
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
In order to combat ever increasing costs the Company proposes continuous operation or scheduling in the following area:
Headquarters Watchman:
To increase the present complement of watchmen from 3 to 4 and put these men on a three shift, seven day week.
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
President, Local 2693 I W A Canada
Vice President— Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of
Canada Limited
63
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IWA CANADA
HOURS OF WORK
The Company and the Union agree that the work week for the Longlac Maintenance Shop may be scheduled from Sunday midnightto Friday midnight.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO
THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
\
rJ-^X Z l—*—•—-v _ F. Miron
President, Local 2693 IW A Canada
Vice President— Woodlands Kimberly-Clarkof Canada Limited
64
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
ARTICLE 11.03(b)
During the months of May, June, July, August and September, tree plantingand two-shift site preparation may commence at 6:00 a.m., if agreed to by the crews involved.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988
\
,: A - C______________
F. Miron
President, Local 2693 l WA Canada
M.A. Penttila
Vice President — Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
The Company and the Union agreeto extendingthe starting time interval from the presentone hour to a maximumof two hours. The extended interval will only be used where it is beneficialto the operations and the Companywill endeavour to keep the starting time interval to one hour or less.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988
President, Local 2693 IW A Canada
Vice President— Woodlands Kimberly-Clarkof Canada Limited
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
RE: WOODSWORKERS’ DISA Bl LITY BEN EFIT PLA N
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits underthe Canada or Quebec Pension Planwhen eligibleto do so, and when the employee's disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the, employee’s physician. Ifthe application is approved, benefitsunderthis Plan will then be offset by the amount of C.P.P./Q.P.P. primary benefit received by the employee, retroactiveto the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
1
___i—._________
F Miron
President. Local 2693 IW A Canada
MA Penttila
Vice President — Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
67
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED
AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
June 28,1988
Mr. Fred Miron President, Local 2693 I WA Canada P. O. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 5E9
Dear Sir:
METRIC SCALING-
RATES PER CORD OF 85 CU BIC FEET
UnderWage Schedule B-l, new ratesare based on Imperial Units in the Contract.
Products paid for on a "Stacked" Cord basis will have these newratesdivided by a factor of3.933 to arrive at the rate per cubic metre (stacked). Metric rates for poor bush bonus, presently paid on a per cord basis, will be calculated in the same manner.
Products paid for on a Cubic Measurementwill have rates per cubic metre established once the appropriate factor(s) for conversion of these rates are available, and following joint discussion and agreement with the Union.
You"""'"'*-,lw
VlCC i	owuuianJS
68
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
RE: LICENCES - TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportationand Communicationsto renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
\
~ (T i—^~ , .
F. Miron
President, Local 2693 l W A Canada
M.A. Penttila Vice President — Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED
AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
R E COMMUTERS
Employees presently on Road Construction will not be affected by establishing Nakina as a Road Construction commuter centre.
it isalso understoodthatthe present practice of having both Longlac and Geraldton as commuter centres for the Road Construction crews working in these two districts will continue.
DATED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16th DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
President. Local 2693 IW A Canada
Vi	s
Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
70
May 5,1988
Mr. Fred Miron President, Local 2693 IWA Canada P. O. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B5E9
Dear Fred:
To accommodate your request,the Presidentof the Union or his delegated representative will be invited to attend any meeting held between the Company and the employee association of slashers, limbers and loaders, at which equipment rates and other economic conditions are to be discussedto enablethe Union to befamiliarwiththe process and results realized in fixing the equipment rates agreed to between individual associations and the Company.
Yours truly
M.A. Penttila
Vice President— Woodlands :jdv
71
APPENDIX “A”
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED Pulp and Forest Products Operations WOODSWORKERS’ DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
1. Definitions
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	“Accident” is a bodily injury caused by external violent means;
(b)	“Disability” is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c)	“Employee”meansanemployeeintheactiveemploy-mentoftheCompany,whocomesunderthejurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Kimberly-Clark of Canada and Local 2693, IW A Canada:
(d)	“Insurer” means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the companies;
(e)	“Plan” means the Kimberly-Clark Woodsworkers’ Disability Benefit Plan;
(f)	“Company” means Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited;
(g)	“Weekly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hoursx his regular rate; for a pieceworker “Weekly Earnings” means 40 xthe Feller-Limber hourly rate;
(h)	“Medical Practitioner” means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
72
2. Participation
(a)	All employees shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Planislimitedto employeeswho have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3.	Amount of Disability Benefits
Theamountofdisability benefitshall be 70 percent of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section 1 (g) immediately precedingthe date of disability,subiectto a maximum weekly disability benefit prescribed in the Labour Agreement.
4.	Eligibility for Payment
(a)	(i) Exceptinthecaseofadisabilityarisingoutofan accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
(ii)	In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for anyone accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(iii)	Ifan employeecovered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the Workers' Compensation Board, Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to disability without the Workers' Compensation Board having acceptedthe claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the Workers' Compensation
73
Board claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remainsdisabled and continuesto furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit underthis Plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of disability benefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred priorto hislayoffortermination,shall beeligiblefor an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuanceof absence that commenced prior to actual layoff or termination.
(e)	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claimfor benefits if he is requestedto return to work within 7 calendar days after layoff, and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from date he is requestedto return to work.
(f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disability and commences after return to active employment on full time.
74
(g)	An amount of disability benefit under this plan shall
not be paid in the event the absence is a result of:
(i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertainingto any occupation or employment or profit, or
(ii)	Disability or loss
(1)	while the protected person is on or could be on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or
(2)	if a protected person fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Maternity Leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/ Maternity Leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1984, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes, or
(iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers' Compensation or similar legislation, or
(iv)	Self-destructionor any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(v)	Any injury or illness resultingfrom insurrectionor war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
(vi)	Disabilityforwhichtheemployeeisnotunderthe treatment of a medical practitioner, or
(vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractors,certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
(viii)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
75
(h)	An amount of disability benefitwill not be payablefor those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from the Company.
(i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirementdate of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Plan.
(j)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirementdate of any employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k)	The amount of disability benefitunderthis plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Plan.
5.	Payment of Benefits
(a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered asstarting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as startingtwo complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-sevenththe weekly amount of disability benefitunder Section 3 hereof.
(c)	The amount (f disability paymentswill be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	Miscellaneous Provisions
(a)	An employee who is absent due to disability or on an authorized leave of absence, priortothe introduction
76
of this plan,and is unableto returnto active employ-menton the effective date of this plan because of a disability, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefits as provided in the provisions of the Sick BenefitAllowance in effect prior to the introductionof this plan, which will otherwise be discontinued. Such an employee shall, upon the date of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(b)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to becomeeligibleunder this plan,assetoutinSection4, shall, uponthedate of his return to active employment, be eligible to participate in this plan.
(c)	If an employee who has been covered under the terms of this plan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
7.	Government Disability Plans
(a)	The amount of disability benefitunder this planwill be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pensions Plans, or similar provisions in any other Government Plansfor disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan. The amount of disability benefitunderthis plan will not be reduced by the amount for which the employee and/or the employee's dependent is eligible for war disability pensions, Workers' Compensation disability pensions and benefits paid by Unemployment Insurance Commission for a period of disability.
(b)	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
77
(c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner,designatedby the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9.	Administration
(a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediatelythe Company of his absence dueto disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
(b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the plan, and the Company will forward the claim formsto the insurerforaajudiction and processing.
(c)	The company will meet with representatives of the participatingUnions from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the plan and any problems which may arise.
78
SIGNEDAT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
WITNESS
L. McLean
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED
per
M.A Penttila, Vice- President Woodlands
D R. Wright
WITNESS
P

LA. Garon
thiJL
E. Harel
. Dallaire
LOCAL 2693,
IWA CANADA
per ~
Fred Miron President
(\
P. Michel
D. Pare
tU*J P.'S
L. Merkley
79
APPENDIX “B”
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED Pulp Division
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan.
The LongTerm Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an insurance policy.
1.	Eligibility
The LongTerm Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitledto benefitsprovided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinationsto employees returningfrom such layoffto determine their eligibility under the plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefitentitlementforthe samedisability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
80
4.	Definition cf Disability
“Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injury to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
In no event, however, shall “total disability” exist during any period in which the employee —
(i)	is engaged in his or any other gainful employment,or
(ii)	is confined in a penal institution or other house of
correction as a result of conviction for a criminal or other public offense.	"
(a)	The disability benefit shall be 50 percent of monthly earnings as defined in (5b).
(b)	“Monthly Earnings” means, in the case of a day or shiftworker, 173x his regular hourly rate; inthecase of a pieceworker, 173 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
(c)	“Hourly Rate” meansthe regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus.
(d)	The benefits payable underthis Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan. Benefits are not affected by War Pensions, Workers' Compensation Disability Pensions, or by any insurance policies he may have purchased himself.
(e)	While receiving benefits under this Plan, the employee will continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working at no cost to the employee basedon earnings equal to the rateof payforthejob on which he was employed immediately priorto disability, inthecase of a pieceworker, the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
5 Amount of Benefit
81
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the LongTerm Disability Benefits,while the employee is disabled.
(b)	Service for purposes of the plan will be based on the present calculation of pension service since January 1,1965. Service for the purpose of this plan priorto January 1,1965 will be reviewed and established by mutual agreement during the term of this Agreement.
(c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears.
7.	Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of
the following:
(a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payments. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision underthe Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
(c)	At normal retirement age, or
(d)	On death.
8.	Exclusion
(a)	An employee receiving LongTerm Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b)	Benefits underthe LongTerm Disability Plan will not be payablefor claims resultingfrom:
(i)	Any injuryarisingoutoforsustainedwhiledoing any act or thing pertainingto any occupation or employmentfor remunerationor profit, or
(ii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers' Compensation or similar legislation, or
82
(iii)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
(iv)	Disability for which the employee is not underthe treatment of a physician, or
(v)	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
(vi)	Disabilityor loss
(1)	whilethe employee ison, or could beplaced on Pregnancy/Maternity Leave, or
(2)	if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/ Maternity Leave because of failure to met the length of service requirements, during the period of Pregnancy/Maternity Leave that the employeecould beon if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1984, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation^ may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
10.	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinationsshall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
83
SIGNEDAT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
WITNESS
L. McLean
52
D.R. Wright
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED
per
M.A. Penttila. Vice-president Woodlands
WITNESS

L. Merkley
LOCAL 2693,
IW A CANADA
per
a~c -
Fred Miron President
84
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED hereinafter referred to as “The Company”
AND
LOCAL2693, I W A CANADA hereinafter referred to as “The Union”
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work (reforestation),t he Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silviculture work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	Re: Article V — Union Membership
(a)	The employeeshiredto performseasonal silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
(b)	The Company shall put these employees on checkoff and deductthe Union's monthlymembershipdues from monies due them and remit same to the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2.	Re: Article VI — Vacation With Pay
For such aforesaid em ployees, Vacation with Pay cred its shall bepaidatthe rateof4 percent of hisgross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to each employee at the time of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
3.	Re: Article VII — Holidays With Pay
(a) For such aforesaid employees who qualify under Section 12.02, Holidays With Pay shall be paid with-
85
out the performance of workforthe holidays listed in
7.01	excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employeeis absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitledto one holidayafterthe start of such absence.
(b) The provisions set out in Sections 7.02(b), 7.02(c), 7.02(d), 7.02(e), 7.02(f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
4.	Re: Article X — Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said employees while so engaged.
5.	Re: Article XII — Seniority
(a)	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subjectto reasonableconsiderationof skill, efficiency and abilityinpromotions,transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b)	Employment of any new employee shall be considered probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
(c)	A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the Silvicultural Seniority List.
(d)	An employee, on the Silvicultural Seniority List, hired on other production,operations, will be required,to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
86
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the lastdate of hire shall be transferredto the seniority list as established and maintainedunder Article XII ofthe Collective Agreement
6 The provisions set out under the following Articles are not applicable for the aforesaid employees
Article XIV — Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Care Plans
Article XV — Life Insurance Article XVI — Weekly Indemnity Article XVII— Bereavement Pay Article XVIII— Jury Duty Allowance Article XIX — Dental Care Plan
Article XX — Kimberly-Clark Long Term Disability Plan
7. Re: Commuters
Where marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union priorto commencement of such operations.
8. Silvicultural Wage Schedule
(a) Hourly Rates
Classifications
Sept. 1 1987
Sept. 1 Sept. 1 1988	1989
Tree Planter Labourer
Crew Leader
Nursery Worker (after Feb. 1/85) Nursery Worker (on seniority list Feb. 1/85)
$15.16	$15.61	$16.31
15.16	15.61	16.31
35 cents in addition to regular hourly rate
11.54	11.99	12.53
15.16	15.61	16.31
87
(b) Piecework Rates— Manual Planting
Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock Tubed Seedlings (paper pots)
Site Unprepared
Bare Root Stock Tubed Seedlings (paper pots)
Sept. 1/87 to
Aug. 31/90
10	cents per tree
8	cents per tree
11	cents per tree
9	cents per tree
[Employeeson the regular seniority listing will not be assigned to Manual Planting on piecework rates).
88
SIGNED AT LONGLAC, ONTARIO THIS 16TH DAY OF AUGUST, 1988.
WITNESS
D.R. Wright
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED
per
M.A. Penttila, Vice-president Woodlands
WITNESS
P

0'
L.A. Garon
LOCAL 2693,
IWA CANADA
per
C
Fred Miron President
L. Merkley
89
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARKOF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL 2693, IW A CANADA
ARTICLE II - PERIOD 2.01
September 1,1987 to August 31,1990
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION— JURISDICTION
3.01	(d)
Extend present letter of understanding re: Fibre Supply to August 31,1990. (See letter dated May 4,1988.)
3.01	(e)
Employee Equipment Ownership Conditions
1.	Employees shall not be permitted to own mechanical equipment in the cut and skid phase (stumpto roadside) of the logging operations.
2.	Employees shall bepermittedtoownotherequipmentin the other phasesofthe Company’s operations subjectto the following conditions:
a)	It will not interfere with the application of seniority. Operators will be assigned to equipment in accordance with the provisionsof the CollectiveAgreement;
b)	Employee-owned equipment will be on a voluntary basis. Noemployee shall be requiredto own or lease any equipment as a condition of employment;
c)	Senior employees will be given first opportunity to lease or purchase such equipment subject to ArticleXII— Seniority 12.01, paragraphl.
3.	The number of employeesowning or leasing equipment will not exceed 20 percent of the number of employees on the seniority list submitted in accordance with Article 12.06 and to be calculated each year atthat time.
90
4.	Repairs shall be carried out by Company Tradesmen employed inthe job classifications of the wage schedule of the Collective Agreement.
It is understoodthat operators scheduled on such equipment may be required to perform maintenance or minor repairs during their scheduled work shift.
5.	It shall be a continuing Company obligation to ensure that all terms and conditions ofthe Collective Agreement are adhered to.
6.	No employee on the active payroll, on authorized leave of absence, or on a disability leave on the date of ratification (excluding those who are replacing such employees) will be laid off due to the use or repair of employee-owned equipment.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS 10.15
Effective following date of ratification, increase subsidy for
Safety bootsto	$15.00 per pair
Safety pantsto	$12.00 per pair
Safety mitts and gloves to	$ 7.00 per pair
ARTICLE XI- HOURS OF WORK
Effective September^ 1987, increase the shift differentialto 45c per hour on the second shift and 55c per hour on the third shift.
Scheduling 11.01(a) [para. 2]
Change Letter of Understanding to read “Longlac Maintenance Shop."
ARTICLE XII — SENIORITY 12.03
Successful applicants will be required to fulfill the vacancy for which they have applied.
91
12.08
An employee who hasestablished seniority shall retainsuch seniorityfor 24 monthsduring layoff.
12.11
Severance Allowance
Effectivedate of ratification,an employee with three or more years of service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upontermination, elect to receive a severance allowanceof one weeks payfor each year of completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computed on the basisof forty hours at the employee's regularstraighttime hourly rate, multiplied by the number of years of employment, to a maximum of thirty years.
It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandoned the right to be recalled and the employee's name will be removedfrom the seniority list.
The above provision is not in additionto the requirementsof the Employment Standards Act.
ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITALCARE PLAN
14.01
Effective the first of the month following ratification amend the present Agreement to provide for the Company to pay the then current premium for O.H.I.P., Blue Cross Drug Plan, and Semi-Private Hospital Care Plans.
EffectiveSeptemberl, 1989, the Companywill paythethen current premiums for the balance of the term of this Agreement.
Employeeswho are off due to a W.C.B. claim or short-term disability claim and are laid off due to seniority will be provided benefit coverage for a period of 12 months.
92
ARTICLEXV — LIFE INSURANCE
15.01
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification, increase Life Insuranceto $40,000.
ARTICLEXVI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification, provide a maximum of three hundred and seventy dollars ($370)per week for employees on Weekly Indemnity.
EffectiveSeptember 1,1988, the maximum will be increased to three hundred and eight-five dollars ($385)weekly, and effective September 1, 1989 four hundred dollars ($400) weekly.
ARTICLE XIX- DENTAL CARE PLAN
19.01
Effective first of the month following date of ratification,the Plan will be amended to provide for the application of the 1986 Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1988, the Plan will be amended to providefor the applicationofthe 1987 Schedule of Fees.
Effective September 1, 1989, the Plan will be amended to providefor the applicationofthe 1988 Schedule of Fees.
POWER SAW RENTAL
Effective September 1,1987, increase rental rates
Felling and Limbing — $11.00 per day Bucking at Landing — $12.00 per day
GENERAL WAGE INCREASE
Effective September 1, 1987, increase all hourly rates
by 25®.	--------- '
Effective September I, 1988, increase all hourly rates by 45®.
Effective September 1, 1989, increase all hourly rates by 4-1/2%.
93
Effective September 1,1987, increase all piecework rates by 1% excluding bonuses, supplementary payments and silvicultural
Effective September 1,1988, increase all piecework rates by 1-1/2% excluding bonuses, supplementary payments and silvicultural
Effective September 1,1989, increase all piecework rates by 4-1/2% excluding bonuses, supplementary payments and silvicultural.
VyAGE CLASSIFICATIQN CHANGES
Operator, Cat 225, 235 change to Operator, Self-propelled Shortwood Knuckleboom Loader Operator, Drottwith FellingHead.Yumbo with Felling Flead change to Operator, Feller_Bpncher^
Effective August 1, 1988, the actuarial reduction/Will be changed from 7% to 5% per year.
ride full <	n	n (no oti	ial	:tioi) or iploy
age 58 vitf 0	y	! of vit	iff( :i	A g i: it , 198£	As
of August 1,1988, an s rf ploy ee v X o eti = s at age 58 n 30 years of se'be will receive a total i iupplementary payment of thrc = lundred dollars ($30 J) per month unt age 65 or death, wl i> =	:	arlii
(^/PENSION PLAN
CREDIT FOR PREVIOUS SERVICE
dit p v ous pension s = vie a of one :: tir us year « eaf ' an employee has, on renewal of employmei completed one continuoi is year of servi =
RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
Employees who, July 31 I ai e ce62a d over, \a	15 years of ier	a, ia ith io acti r al reduction in
th r | risioi efit, ind who notify l Company oy September 30, I8 and elect to retire on Or I Ic ember 30, 1988, ill receive an additional payment of $600 per month lii itage 65 or the employee’s deatl iii:f occurs li
91
Employees who, by July 31, 1988, are age 61 or 60, with 30 years of service, with an actuarial reduction in their pension benefit, and who notify the Company by September 30, 1988 and elect to retire on or before November 30, 1988, will receive an additional payment of $700 per month ending at age 65 or the employee’s death, whichever occurs earlier
Employees who, by July 31, 1988, are age 59 or 58, with 30 years of service, with an actuarial reduction in their pension benefit, and who notify the Company by September 30, 1988 and elect to retire on or before November 30, 1988, will receive an additional payment of $800 per month ending at age 65 orthe employee’s death, whichever occurs earlier
Employees must give one month's notice prior to date of retirement
The Company will pay monthly premiums for OH IP., Extended Health Care, and Group Life Insurance plans to age 65
95
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
KIMBERLY-CLARK OF CANADA LIMITED AND
LOCAL2693, IW A CANADA
ARTICLE 11.03(b)
During the months of May, June, July, August and September, treeplanting and two-shift operations on site preparation may commence at 6:00 a.m. if agreed to by the crews involved.
DATED AT THUNDER BAY, ONTARIO THIS 4th DAY OF MAY, 1988.
\
_£ i-—. —v -
F. Miron
President, Local 2693 I WA Canada
M.A. Penttila
Vice President— Woodlands Kimberly-Clark of Canada Limited
96
May 5,1988
Mr. Fred Miron President, Local 2693 IWA Canada P. O. Box 2384 Thunder Bay, Ontario P7B 5E9
Dear Fred:
To accommodateyour request,the Presidentofthe Unionor his delegated representative will be invited to attend any meeting held between the Company and the employee association of slashers, limbers and loaders, at which equipment rates and other economic conditions are to be discussedto enablethe Unionto befamiliar with the process and results realized in fixing the equipment rates agreed to between individual associations and the Company.
Yours truly
M.A. Penttila
Vice President — Woodlands
:jdv
97
MEMORANDUM
OF
SETTLEMENT
BETWEEN:
KIMBERLY-CLARK CF CANADA LTD.
hereinafter referred to as “the Company” and
LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKER’S UNION, _______________LOCAL 2693_________________
hereinafter referredto as “the Union”
1	The parties herein agree to the terms of this memorandum as constituting full settlement of all matters in dispute
2	The undersigned representatives of the parties do hereby agree to recommendcomplete acceptance of all the terms of this memorandum to their respective principals
3	The parties herein agree that the term of the collective
agreementshall befrom__________sept i/«7_________to
_________AUG 31/90________
4	The parties herein agree that the said collective agreement shall include the terms of the previous collective
agreement which expiredon____________AUG- 31/87____
provided, however, that the following amendments are incorporated
1 All matters previously settled and agreed to by the parties prior to the date hereof, as attached hereto (8 pages)
98
MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT- Continued
2.	Add as para, 4 and 5 to Letter of Understandingon Page 59, “Employees with seniority as of May 8788 wilmol be laid off during the term of the agreementas the result of the purchase of coniferfibre for its mill operation.”
“Further the company agrees that the full amount of allowable poplar cut will be harvested off the company’s limits south of the Ogoki River.”
3.	Re Retro-Active Pay
inleuof retro-activepay, allemployeeswill receives one-time payment of $500.00 pro-rated on basis of months worked between September 1, 1987 and date of ratification.
It is understood that each month in which the employee was actively at work shall qualify the employee for 1 /8 of the payment.
SIGNEDTHIS17TH DAYCF JUNE, 1988, IN TORONTO, ONTARIO.
F. Miron
President, Local 2693 IW A Canada
Vice President — Woodlands
Kimberly-Clarkof Canada Limited
99