AGREEMENT
Between DOMTAR INC.
FOREST	ES
ESPANOLA
(hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) AND
LOCAL 2693, IWA Canada (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”)
SEPTEMBER 1,2001 TO AUGUST 31,2005
00035Con)
CONTENTS
Article I Article H Article III Article N Article V Article VI Article VII Article VIII Article EX Article X
Article XI Article Xn Article XIII Article XIV Article XV
Purpose
Period
Recognition and Jurisdiction Rates and Classifications Union Membership Vacation with Pay
Holidays with Pay
Adjustment of Grievances
No Strike - No Lockout
Working and Living Conditions
General Conditions
Transportation
Camp Conditions
Kitchens
Insurance
Pay Conditions
Company Supplied Equipment
Safety Equipment
Transfers Camp to Camp
Mechanic Field Pay
Coveralls
Climatic cmtod
Hours of Work
Seniority
Bulletin Boards
Medical, Surgical, Dug and Hospital Care Plans Life Insurance
Page
1
1
1
2
3
4 6
8
11
11
11
12
13
14
15
15
16 16 17
17
18 18
18
23
26
27
27
Article XVI
27
Weekly Indemnity
Article XVII	•	Bereavement Pay
Article XVUI	■	Jury Duty or Witness
Article XIX	•	Board and Lodging
Article XX	■	Dental Care Plan
Article XXI	•	Vision Care Plan
Article XXH • Paid Educational Leave Wage Schedule
Hourly Rates - Adjustments Reflected in Wage Schedule Cost of Living Allowance Piecework Rates
Piecework Cut and Skid Tree Length Metric Rates
WSlJdng Distance and Riding Time Scaling
SalvagingPulpwood on Road Right-of-way
Commuters
Cookery Schedule
Travel Allowance
Trade Apprentice Program
Mechanics
Welder
Tradesmen’s Tools
Annual Review of Helpers and Tradesmen Pension Plan Bridging Supplement Return to Wok Program
Addendum To The Agreement Silvicultural Work
LETTERS OF I UNDERSTANDING
Allowance for Lodging Remote Pillow Camp Pillow Camp
SilvicultureOperations - Tree Planting Camp Cookeries
Mario Wood Workers Disability Benefit Plan Ontario Wood Workers Disability Benefit Plan Seciton 7 (a)
Early Start Time due to Fire Hazard Shutdown Article VII - Holidayswith Pay Article XI - Hours of Work
Page
28
28
28
28
29
30
30
31
32
32
32
34
36
36
36
36
38
39
39
40
41
42
43
43
45
45
46
49
50
52
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
Article 12,03 (a) Memorandum of Understanding Seniority Rightof an Employ eeUnder 12:03(a) Upon LayoffNotice ArticleXTV -Medical, Surgical,Drag and Hospital Care Plans Piecework - Tree Length
Addendum to Piecework- Memorandum of Agreement July 24,1985 Posting of Work Schedules Owner OperatorEquipment Eecogniticn- Jurisdiction Sept. l/82to Aug, 13/84 Recognition- JurisdictionSept. 1/87to Aug. 31/90 Applicationof Administrationof Section 3.01 (c) Articlelll Recognition-Jurisdiction Licences - Truck andBus Drivers
VacationPay
Camp costs
Inter CampTransfers
Mobile Camp- Camp605 Operations
Restricted OperationsDue to Fire Hazards, Conditions
Page
61
62
63
64
65
66 67
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77 80 82
83
89
Ontario WOods Workers Disability BenefitPlan Appendix “A” Long Term Disability BenefitPlan
ARTICLE I-PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions, and living anditkns as specified in Article X ofthe Agreementand to ensure to the utmost extentpossible the safety and physical welfare of employees,economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks I o provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties, It is recognizedas a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancementof the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE!! - PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September I, 2001 to August 31, 2005 inclusive, and from year to year thereafter unless either party desire to change or terminate the Agreement in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September 1st, of the particular year that such is its desire, Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in Writing as to the changes desired.
All other provisions of this Collective Agreement taking effect on September 1, 2001, vill remain effectiveup to and including August 31,2005,
ARTICLE 111 • RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a). The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collectivebargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in Woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company. For purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in thejob classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement including those who are employed on job classifications which may be established and become part of the attachedwage schedule during the term of this [Agreement.
3.01	(b). The employees of Contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement; save and except the employees of Contractors and/or the Contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement employees of contractors where such contractors are eo^aged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreemenfkith a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body, covering such work
ARTICLE m - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION - Continued
3.01	(o). The Company and the Unbnagree that an operator who enters into a Third Party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resouraes, and produces forest products for the Company or any of the sii negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Uriai covering such operations.
3.01	(d), This section is subject to the provision of Letter of Understanding ■ Recognition ■ Jurisdiction.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are consideredto be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications coveredby this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical dangerto employees or danger to property,
3.03	It is ap e d that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute tilt may arise between the Union and any other Uiim. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering suchmatters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour RelationsAct of Ontario,
ARTICI ,F, IV - RATES AND Cl OSSIFICATIONS
4.01	The wage scheduleis attachedhereto, and forms part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a change in job content occurs in any job classificationlisted in the attached wage schedule the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage in of the grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in establishedwork patterns requiringthe establishment of rar job classifications, the Company will give the Uikn at least 30 days advancenotice in Writing.
During the 30 day period prior to the implementationof such changes, upon request by the Uiai, the Company will meet with the Union, and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the wage schedule.
Following the implementationof such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes shall commence without delay.
2
ARTTCTF, IV • R ATF.S AND CLASSIFICATIONS - Contmued
After agreement is reached suchrates shall become part ofthe attachedwage schedule, fa the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classificationsvithin 30 days of the effective date of the change or alterations the matter may be referred to Stage III of the grievanceprocedure. The 30-day period may be extended by mutual consentofthe parties,
New rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishmentof the new
classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for ajob classificationis or becomes part of the
attached wage schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from day work to piecework or viceversa if such a change adv ersely affects the average earnings ofthe employeesconcemed,
ARTTCTF, V- UNION MFMBFRSHTP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Uin and will facilitate Uin membership solicitations as hereinafter provided.
5.02	(a). Subject to the provision of the Labour Relations Act and the regulations made thereunder, any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Uiim,shall, as a conditionof continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughoutthe term of this Agreement, in the event of the Iftkn intendingto suspenda member, the Company shall be notified by the Uin in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02	(b). The Companyshall, after complying with Article XII SbiiadJty,advise the U±n from time to time of the Company’s labour requirements. When hiring additional employeesthe Company will give preference to Him members who apply and who are capable of doing work required of them, The Companyshall furnish theUrim Steward with a list of new employees arriving in camp each week.
5.02(c).	New employees shall make application to j oin the Iftkn when first approached to do
so by a duly authorized Uin Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall, upon hiring, advise all new employees by letter to report to the Iftkn Steward vitHn ten (10) days of commencing work. Failureofanemployee tocomplywiththeconditions hereinshallbecause for immediate termination of employment. Each ns/v employee shall be allowed one-half (1/2) hour an Company time to meet with the Iftkn Steward within the fat week of completion of the probationary agreement.
3
ARTICLE V- UNION MEMBERSHIP- Contmued
5.03	An individual employee, who is a member of the Him or becomes a member, the Company agrees that it will deduct Him initiationfees, assessment and/or monthlymembership dues from moniesduehim. The deduction authorizationshallbe transferred from camp to camp during the course ofhis employment.
5.04	Remittance of all deductions shall be sent to the Union; said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian rams as payrolled, stated date of birth, and amount by camps. The Companywill endeavourto deliverthese lists as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the following month
Each employee1 s tax slip T-4 shall show the amount of union dues deducted in the
calendaryear.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Horn business and shall report to camp supervisor or clerk on arrival at Camp. Credentials carried by the Horn Representatives shall consist of a certificate of authoritysigned by the President and Secretary of the Ulim;and said representatives to be provided board and lodging if available, on the Companypremises at the prevailing contractrate.
5.06	The Union shall furnish the Companywith a list of Horn (ffioas and Representatives and shall amendthese lists as changes occur. The Ccmpjany will ifumish a list of supservi so ry personnel to the Horn office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Horn of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
ARTICLE VI • VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a). Vacation Pay shall be paid to each employee by cheque to be issued at the time of termination of employment, or at the employee's option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken, At time vacation with pay credits are paid, amounts and income tax deductions will be set out separately on the pay stub.
See Letter of Understanding- VacationPay,
6.01	(b). Each2 % incrementofVacationPay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time off,
An employee who has worked continuously for one (1) year, must take his full entitlement to time off, at a time or times satisfactoryto himself and his supervisor.
4
ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH PAY - Continued
A) employee has the right to take his full entitlementto timeoff, whetheror net he has worked continuously forone(I) year ata time or frnessatisfktory to himself andhis supervisor,
Effective date of ratification,employees will receivean additional$65,00 per week for each week ofregularvacationfafen, excludingsuppleraental vacation.
Effectives eptemberl, 2004, increasethe $65,00 to $70.00 perweek
6.02	Vacation wtHnpay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
(a)	4% ofgraseammgsforemployeeswho have worked less than800 days.
(b.) 6% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 800 days or more but less ttan2,000 days.
(c.) 8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 2,000 daysor more but less than 4,000 days.
(d.) 10% of gross earnings for employeeswho have worked 4,000 days or more but less than5,400 days.
(e.) 12% of gross earnings foremployees who haveworkedmore tban5,400 days.
(f.) Supplementary Vacation wifliPay.
Employeeswho haveworkedmore than5,000 days for tie Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendaryear in which they attain:
Age60 • 1 Week (2 %ofgrosseamings)
Age 61 - 2 Weeks (4 % of gross earnings)
Age 62 • 3 Weeks (6 % of gross earnings)
Age 63 • 4 Weeks (8 %ofgross earnings)
Age 64 ■ 5 Weeks (10 % of gross earnings)
s
ARTICLE VI- VACATION WITH PAY- Continued
It is agmi that employe with vacation endU«oi«nt will be encouraged to utilize a sched ul edvaeadop. period shutdown as put of their vacationtime entitlement.
6.03	Days worked for purposes of this Article shall mean all days worked, plus working
days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensedphysidan, dentist, or chiropractor,plus the total number of days on Union business, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty and bereavement leave in any calendar year. An employee who has established seniorityin accordance with Section 12.02 of Article XII shal retain his accumuMonofservice for his rate ofvacationpay for as lcng as he retains seniorityrightswith the Company.
ARTICLE vn • HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees who quality under Section 12i02 shall be paid without the performance of
work for the following holidays: New Tfeas Day, Good Friday, VictoriaDay, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, RemembranceDay, Christmas Day and Basing Dry.
When any of the above holidays falls on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday and if the holiday fallson Sunday, it will be observed on the, following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted two (2) floating holidaysper year. Such holidays till be taken at a time satisfadoryto the employee ail his supervisor.
An employee who by reason of layoff is prevented bom taking his floating holidays shalreceive pay in lieu of such holidays.
The holidays, Dominion Day and Remembrance Day may be observed on any such other dayasmay be mutuallyagreed toby the parties to this agreement
On.pnl it' of each year, the company flag shall be flown at half-mast in recognition ofthoseworkers fatally rjjed.
When taking a holiday With pay, the employee will be reimbursed the same amount of hours as he was scheduledto work.
7.02	In the case of Good Friday, Victoria Day, Dominion Day, Civic Holiday, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day holidays, qualified employees to be eligible for holiday pay, must ra± their last work day or shift preceding the holiday and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shift following the holiday.
a
ARTICI.E vn • HOI .WAVS WITH PAY-continued
7.03 In the case of Labour Day, Christmas, BoxingEey and New Hats Day, there will be a scheduled shutdownexcludingesseny services.
It is agreed that dates wfll be arranged by the parties. Either party may initiate discussions at least two (2) weeks prior to the hohday. See Letter of Understanding - Christmas Shutdown.
Qualified employees to be eligible for hohday pay nust work their last day or shift preceding the hohday shutdown and be in camp ready for work at the start of their first work day or shift following the holiday shutdown.
7.04	Notwithstanding the preceding it is further agreed that qualified employees drill
receive pay for the holidays.
(a) .	Where they have been laid off for M of work in the thirty (30) days
immediately precedingthe holiday.
(b) ,	Where an employ eewho qualifies under Section 12.02 is obhgedto cease
work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitionerduringthe thirty (30) day period immediafely prior to the hohday, he shall receive hohdaypay forthe holidays) within such 30 day period,
(c) ,	Where a hohday or hohdays occur during their absence from work on an
authorized vacationprovided they return to work on time.
The employee shall be entitledto additional time off for any hohdays occurrmgKitbill such vacationperiod.
Where for reasons beyond an employee's control he has not been able to report to work on timehe shallreceivepay forthe hohdays.
See Letter of Understanding re: early departure.
(fy Where an employeequalifies under Section 12.02 and is recalled and woks any time during the 14 calendar day period immediately following the hohday, he shall receive hohday pay forthe preceding hohday.
7.05	In the special case of Christoas, Boxing Day or New Yean hohday, a qualified
employeewho has requesledand who has been granted a leave of absencenot more than ten (10) days
7
ARTICLE VP - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY - continued
before the holiday and who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready to work on time, vail be paid for the holiday. Wee an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on tine, he shall be paid for the holidays.
Wee in accordance with 7.03 the scheduled Christmas, Boxing Day, New Year's shutdownincludeslhe three (3) holiday, the employee who returns to work from leave of absence and is ready forwork on tine will be eligible forpay farthe three (3) holiday.
Where an employee is prevented by Circumstancesbeyond his oontral from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.06	(a). If qualified, a day worker shall be paid a day’s pay at his or her regular rate, and a pieceworkera dys pay at the Fellerliriberrate, freachholiday.
7.06 (b).	If qualified, a day worker who is requested to work on any holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate; double time for all hours worked after having worked eight (8) hours on the holiday. In additicnhe shall receive one day’s pay at such regular rate in lieu o f the holiday.
7.06 (c).	Pieceworkers shall not work on holidays.
ARTICLE VIII - AD JUSTMENTOF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the ratal, desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his foremanan opportunity to adjust his complaint
8.02	(a). The Urim shall arrange forthe electionfrom its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of aUnm GrievanceCommitteeof three(3), headed by alhimSteward who shall act as spokesmanforthat committee. In the absence of the Stewardthe Companywill recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in Writing as to the names of the Urim Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman til acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Urim Steward or the Unbn Grievance Committee until such time as (his procedure is carried out.
8.02	(b). It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised m any manner toward the Stewardsor Urion GrievanceCommitteemen or other Unonmembers
a
ARTICLE Vin -ADJUSTMENTOF GRIEVANCES- continued
8.02	(c). To be eligible for election as Union Steward an employee must have established seniorityunder Section 12.02 of Article XU,
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, by the Union Steward or the Union representative havingjurisdictiondirectly to the employee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foremanin accordancewith this procedure, in writingwill be disposed of by the foreman, in writing, Failing a satisfactory adjustmentwithin forty-eight (48) hours, then,
STAGE 2 - The matter shall be taken up by the Union GrievanceCommittee and/or the Union Representative with the District Logging Superintendent within ninety-six (96) hours in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The District Logging Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 3 - Within ten (10) days the matter shall be taken up by officers of the Union andor their representatives with the Manager • Logging Operations of the Company or his representative. The one exception to this procedure shall be in the special case provided under Section 8,08 of this Article. In this case the matter may be taken up by the employee himself, or with the knowledge and consent of the employee, by Union representatives by presenting (he case to the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative in Writing.
In either of the above cases the Manager - Logging Operations or his representative shall make a reply in writing within seven (7) days. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
STAGE 4 - The matter shall be referred within fifteen (IS) calendar days to the General Manager - Forestry Division or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union President or his representative. Either party may request the presence of the President of the Northern Ontario District Council of 1 W, A. Canada, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days then, prior to proceeding to Arbitration, either party may request the use of a mutually agreed to Mediator, the cost of whom will be shared equally between the parties. The Company and the Union will adopt a
9
ARTICLE Vm - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES -continued
mechanism to provide an agreed upon list of pre-selected arbitrators to be used on a rotational basis for all arbitration cases.
STAGE 5 • Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
Following ratification of the memorandum of agreement, the parties shall agree to a rotating list of arbitrators to be used in the settlement of grievances.
8.05	In Arbitration the Company and the Union shall each select one man; these two shall select a thhri party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5J days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Mristiy of Labour to appoint a third party.
Nothing herein shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a sole arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arisingout of disciplineor discharge.
8.06	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submined and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates thereof. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.07	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutay and legal holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement,
8.08	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Companynot later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the
10
ARTICLE VIII ■ ADJUSTMENTOF GRIEVANCES- continued
employee will be reinstated on his j ob under terms and conditions decidedby the Arbitration Board.
8.09	Each party to this Agreement shallpay all expenses of the member of the ArbitrationBoard selectedby it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the thirdmember ofthe Board.
8.10	Grievances Which involve Company policy in respect to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement may be processed commencingat Stage3 of this grievanceprocedure.
8.11	If the Companyhas a grievanceas defined in Section8.03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of this grievance procedure by the Manager ■ Logging Operations or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager - Forestry Division, or his representative. Failing a settlementwithin fifteen (15) days, then eitherparty may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.12	Notwithstandingthe above, the time ]iits established in this Article may be extended if mutually agreed upon by both parties.
Any notice of disciplinary action shallbe given in writing to the employee with a copy to the Union and all such notices shall be removed from the employee’s record after a period of twenty-fourconsecutivemonths from the date of issue.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strike caused, called, or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockoutsby the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X ■ WORKING- LIVING CONDITIONS
1.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
10.01	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretationof this Agreement.
10.02	It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintainedwith respect to transportation, medical service, laundry, and recreation. The Company agrees to provide
ii.
ARTICLEX - WORKING • LIVING CONDITIONS - continued
adequatefacilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shallnot be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.03	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of Chairman shall alternate between a Company Chairman and a Uikn Chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate with copies going to the Companyoffice, the Uiim office and the Camp bulletin board.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is neoessaryto attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shallbe deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at the regular or premium rate as may be proper,
The Company can agree to certify all members of the Joint Health and Safety Committee provided that a member after being certified must serve on the committee for a period of three consecutive years.
10.04	The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe, and Sequent communication with such employee will be maintained by his supervisoron a scheduled basis.
10.05	It is agreed that there shall be properly equipped first aid kits sufficient for normal requirements, located at or near all worksites and in all vehicles regularly used for the transpcrtationof men.
Two (2) employees from each district safety committee will be trained as required under Bill 208.
2.	TRANSPORTATION
10.06	Only factory built vehicles shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places.
12
The Company will provide radio communications on the bus used to transport the employees from the marshalling point to the worksite on the W est Branch commuter operation.
In respect to the Ramsey operation, a Company Supervisor will escort the buses travellingto and from the camp and worksites, In circumstances where this may not be practical, any irregularityfrom normal bus arrival will be immediately investigated.
RE: HELICOPTERS-AIRTRANSPORTATION
Whereas the Company intends to use air transportation when it is practical and economical to do so,
Employees presently on the work forcewho are not able to fly will be given an opportunityto transferto a position that they can occupy in accordance with the provision of the CollectiveAgreement.
3.	CAMP CONDITIONS
10.07	It is agreed that the Company will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees living andservicequarters will be washed and disinfectedat least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, includingrecreational rooms with a T.V, set where T, V, programmes are receivable andwill provide separate drying roans,wash rooms, inside toilets and showers. A lockup storage type lockerwill be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separatesanitation facilitieswill be provided for catering staffs,
10.08	All camps shallhave one tier singlebeds at least 36" in width spaced 38" apart. All mattressesshall be either air foam, plastifoam or spring filled. In constructionof new camps, the Company agrees to constructall living quarters into suitablerooms having no more than two (2) employees per room.
10.09	The Company agrees that pest control measures will be carried out in the camps and in the camp areas as and when required.
The Company will look into possible remedial measures to alleviate the sandfly problem at all camps. All lunch shack screening will be maintained in good repair and pest control equipment made available.
10.10	All night shift workers shall have separate sleeping quarters apart from other shift workers, where practical.
13
The Companyshall provide the Union Steward in each operatingcamp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.11 All nain bunkhouses will be provided with drinking fountains and paper drinking cups.
The Company will install icenadiines in the camp at Ramsey and Camp 12,
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employee's cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employeesin all camps. Air conditioningirits will be installed in cookeries.
10.12	At each operating camp, a separate suitable and heated building shall be provided for the repair and storageof power saws. Saidbuilding also to containsufficient lock-up type lockers for storage, work bench, vise and chain breaker. Compressed air will be provided in the power saw and repair building. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or servicequarters.
4.	KITCHENS
10.13	Food served to the employees in the camps shall; at all times, be of high quality and of sufficientquantity and shall include fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
10.14	Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable food, ss required, in all operating camps. All perishable food stuffs shall be handled in a sanilaiy manner during transportationat all times.
10.15	The Company will continue to supplybutter at meals to employees
10.16	Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers,allowing selfservice for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.17	Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruit.
10.18	There shall be coffee breaks m the morning, afternoon, and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
14
10.19	The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons, on loan and other suitable uniform apparel at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing machine facilities will be supplied for the use of the cookery personnel.
5.	INSURANCE
10.20	The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee owned power saws at full replacement value to a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by fire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools while on Company property or work sites. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employeeownedpowersawsduetoCompanynegligencewillbe compensatedfor by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire wilfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee owned power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
6.	PAY CONDITIONS
10.21	Company will agree to implement a weekly pay commencing first week in January ,1989, Discussions will be held with the local union grievance committeeto review the procedure we will follow. Pay will be distributed after 4:00 p.m. Thursday.
10.22	Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a paid holiday occur on a Friday payday, payment will be made on Thursday of that week.
10.23	In instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extentof the employee's payroll credit.
10.24	A Time and Earnings statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statementwill carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings accrued, vacation pay credit and deductionscoveringthe period. E xpianations ofpayroll codes will be posted in each camp
10.25	Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination,
15
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted
10.26	TheCompanywillprovideeachpieceworkerwithaminimumofoiifi(l) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips will be given to each pieceworker d least 48 hours prior to the wood being notrad. Scale slips will provide the following information where applicable ■ butt size and species as outlined on page 37/38, or number of pieces (tree length), riding and/or walking bonus, footageof strip or main road cut, and poor bush bonus.
7,	COMPANY SI JPP1 JED EQUIPMENT
10.27	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operatorof equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repairjob, he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipmentnot retumedwill be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment, as a conditionof employment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
10.28	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chain saw files in addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1,	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned i n a worn out or broken condition.
2,	One(l)safetytypegasolinecontainer.
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher(chemicaltype).
The Company agrees to stock safety type power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at the invoiced cost to Company.
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
8,	SAFETY EQUIPMENT
10,29	The Company agrees that it will furnish, on loan, all safety equipment and
personal safety apparel save and except safety pants, safetyboots, and safety gloves and mitts.
16
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety pants at twelve dollars ($12.00)below cost price to the Company and safetyboots at fifty ($50.00) below the cost price to the Company, effective September 1,2003 increase safety boots subsidy to fifty-five dollars ($55.00) per pair, effective September 1,2004 increase safety boots subsidy to sixty ($60.00), maximum two (2) pairs per year, below cost price to the Company and safety gloves and mitts to power saw operators and to persons handling cable, at seven dollars ($7.00) below cost price to the Company.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
9. TRANSFERS CAMP TO CAMP
10.30	The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred fern camp to camp at the Company’s request or in the exercise of seniorityunder the tarns of Article XU Seniority.
Effective date of ratificationthe employees shallhave the option of using their own vehicle for transportation. In such cases the employee shall first notify the Company of his intentions to do so and shall be paid 32 centsper Ian.forusing own vehicle.
Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding rate per day for pieceworkers and normal travel time, outside an employees scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of 8 hours at the regular straight time rate for dayworkers and the above rate for pieceworkers.
Refer to Letter of Understanding ■ Re: Hours of Work.
10.	MECHANIC FIELD PAY
10.31	(a). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a bush garage shall receive 50f! per
hour in addition to the applicablehourly rate.
(b). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to a main camp garage required to perform work of their trade away from a madn camp garage will be paid 5fld per hour in addition to the applicablehourly rate for all such hours worked away from the main camp garage,
17
(c). Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp garage for one (I) full shift or more will be paid SO$ per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
11.	COVERALLS
10.32	The Company will supply mechanics, welders, and machinists suitable coverallsand provide for laundering the same,two per week, free of charge.
Effective date of ratification the Company, on a one-time basis only, will provide one pair of reflective insulated coveralls for an employee who works ill the position of field mechanic, welder or electrician for a period of three consecutive months who is being paid field pay. The laundry serviceswill not be provided.
12.	CLIMATIC CONTROL
10.33	RE: EQUIPMENT CARS AMD CLIMATIC CONTROLS
The Company will provide for suitablecabs with climatic controls or air conditioningfwhere practical) on the purchase or lease (excess of 12 months) on new bulldozers, graders, buses and harvesters.
ARTICLE XT -HOURS OFWORK
11.01	The Company will advise the Thursday of the week preceding the week of a change, all employees affected by a change in the schedule from ten (10) hours to eight (8) hours or vice versa.
11.01	(a). The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive or for ten (10) hour shifts Monday to Thursday or Tuesday to Friday.
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in day work j obs on the day shift Monday lo Friday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 (a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonablywithheld.
is
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORKD -Continued
11.01 (b).	Fan the purpose of this agreement Sunday, a paid holiday and the "Sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m, the day following.
11.02 (a).	The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. ard5:00 p.m,, mealtime excepted.
11.02(b). Thenight shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of7:00 p.m. and 5:00 am. gnealtime excepted.
However, it is agreed that on Fridays the night shift may, at the request of the employees or the Company, and by mutual agreement be scheduled to commence prior to 7:00 p.m, in accordancewith the provisions of 11,03 (b).
11.02	(c). During theperiod of May 1 to September30, two shift scarification operations may commence at 6:00 a,m„
11.03 (a).	A night shift differential of fifty-five cents ($.55) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift wak effective date of ratification, increases to fifty-six (5.56) per hour,
11.03	(b). On other two-shift operations the first shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 am. or after, the second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m., and shall carry a shift differential of fifty-five cents ($.55) per hour. Effective date of ratification, increases to fifty-six cents ($.56) per hour.
11,03	(c). On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutivehours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and He shift differentials to be paid, shall be as followE:
Starting Time	Stopping Time
between the hours of)	(between the hours of)
1st shift 2nd shift 3rd shift
7 a.m. ■	8 a.m.
3 p.m, ■ 4,p,m, 11 p.m, ■ 12 a.m.
3 p.m. • 4 p.m. 11 p.m, • 12 am. 7 a.m. ■	8	a.m.
9ift Differential
1st Shift, Nil:
2ndShift$,55perhour:	3rdShifl, $.65 per hour.
19
Effective date of ratification
1st Shift, Nil:	2nd Shift,$.56 per hour:	3rdShift, $.68 perhour,
11.03	(d). The hours of work and the "sixth day" for dayworkers and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following: (see Ietta: of Understanding).
1,	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift scheduleis changed by the Company. When an employee's drift schedule is changed by the Companyhe will be paid at one and one-halftimes his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2,	The Company and the Union agree to extend the Starting time interval from the present one hour to a maximum of two hours. The extended interval will only be used where it is beneficial to the operations and the Company will endeavour to keep the startm} time intervalto one hour or less.
Employees on the wood haul operation may be scheduled to start within a three hour period starting between 6:00 a.m, and 9:00 a.m, or5:00 p,m, and8:00 p.m. It is understood that after the start of the wood haul Monday morning or Monday afternoon, employees who wish to participate will change on the fly for the balance of the week. It is understood that there will be at least eight hours between shifts. Under certain circumstances a supervisormay request that an employeenot shift change on the fly.
11.03 (e).	If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week is required for work on his "sixth day" or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasonsbeyond his control, he shall receive 4 hours' pay at the applicable overtime rate as specifiedin Section 11,05 (a) providedhe remains available for the four hour period if so requestedby the Company.
11.04	(a). A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half day if he works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day if he works more than four (4) hours.
20
A tree length pieceworkerwho will lose none than one hour work for reason of failure of the Companyto supplya skiddsr shall be paid for allhours lost in excess of one (1) hour at the feller, limber, tree length skidding rate, p rovsded he reports to t he supervisor, remains available and accepts alternate work if so requested by the Company.
RAINY DAYS ■ The Companyagrees that a decision will be made at the work site upon arrival forwork on rainy days.
In the case of time lost in excess of one (1) hour for reason of lack of assignmentto a cutting area and/or time required in excess o f one (1) hour to travel from one assigned cutting am to another, payment shall be made for all hours lost.
11.04 (b).	A day or shill workerwho reports forwork at his scheduledstarting time and is unableto commenceworkdueto reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting tie, accepts altematework if so assigned andcommeneesregularwarkwhenconditionspermit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and theprovisionsof Section
11.04	(a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Company will commence regular work as soon as conditionspermi t.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shill, the time and one-half provisions of Section 11,03 (d) shall not apply providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts. Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available a mimmi of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displacedemployee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employeebe permitted to exercise seniority outsidethe camp unit until the third consecutive day followingthe day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take a leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniorityunder this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Noli fieation and reporting proceduresshall be established locally.
11,05	(a). Eme worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and all hours worked by an employee on Sunday, on his designated11 sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or outside his scheduledshift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-hal f.
Double time will be paid after eight(8) hours ofwork on an employee's designatedsixth day (Saturday or Monday) and Sunday.
21
Overtimework required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normallyperform the work in the classificationsrequiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay shift differentials shall not be considered as pari of an employee's apphcablehourlyrate.
11.05	(b). Employees in the classifications specified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40)hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive,and are not subjectto lie other provisions of Article XI.
(a)	Cook	(d) Ccokee
(b)	Baker	(e) Chore boy
(c)	Second Cook	(f) Watchman
For employees in	the job classificationslisted above the hours of work per day or shift
andperweekwillbescheduledas follows:
1.	The regularwork day or shift shall be eight(8) consecutivehours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shift of eight (8) hours may be scheduledin any twelve (12) hour period divided into not nos than 2 parts providedthere is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shiftsworked.
The scheduledwork week shall consistof five (5) consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusiveor Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2.	Time worked in excess of outside of the scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduledwork week, and all hours worked on his11 sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-halt If an employe requests to be excused from workingovertime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.	An employee in the above listed classificationswho is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his artidL, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available at the start ofhis scheduled shift, and for one full day if he remains available for the start ofthesecond half of his scheduled shift.
4.	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be posted on Friday of the previous week. Scheduledovertime day or shiftforthe "sixthday" or Sundayshall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall rasdn fixed during the weekly periodsubject to the following:
- An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half tires his regular rate for the first shiftworked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shifthe will be paid at his regular straighttime rate provided that there is abreak of at least eight (8) hoursbetween shiftsworked.
22
5,	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for work on his "Sixth day" or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of e
(8) hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6.	When a second shiftis scheduledfor employees in the above listed classifications they shall be paid a shift differential of filly-five cents (55$ per hour for each second shift worked. Effective date ofrahfication, increased to fitly-Six o=nt8(56$.
7.	The present standard of service by choreboys and night watchmen shall be
maintained.
11.06	Walking Distance and/or Riding T i e shall not be considered as t i e worked. Walking distance and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated m the Walking Distance and Riding Time section of the wage schedule of this agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (I) hour before the slat of the day or shift shall receive time and one-halffor the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4)hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (I) hour period prior to the start of his day or shift he will be paid time and one-half from the starting t i e of the call-cut to the scheduled starting time of the day or shift. Wltre the employee contin-u a to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusiveof the time worked prior to his starting time.
An employee who is called out for work on his "sixth day" (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid atthe appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (b) from the starting time of the call out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours at therate of time and cne-half.
ARTICLF.XII-SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern subject to
reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, layoffs and recalls after layoffs,
The present seniority list is frozen as of July 1, 1988 and in future date of hire shall be the basis ofcalculatingseniority.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union shall retain suchaccrued seniority fora period not exceeding eleven (ll)months.
23
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12,01 shall apply, andthe employee shall be creditedwith thirty (30) days of accrued seniority,
12.03 (a).	Subject to the memorandum of understanding seniority will be applied on a companywide basisinmaIls,promotions, transfers from camp to camp and layoffs.
When layoffs arerequireddue to the completion of seasonaloperations, ora part thereof, each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniorityand transfer to aj ob forwhich he is qualified, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance withSection 12,04, headvises the Company, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in Writing on forms to be suppliedby the Company, of his desireto transferor to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intendedlayoff, viGwalistof jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
It is understood and agreed that when layoffs are occasioned by the completion of seasonal activities, company-wide seniority will be applied only when operationscontinue in other camps formore than(l) week, otherwise the camp will be the unit of applicationof seniorityon seasonal layoffs,
12.03	(b). In transfers from onejob classificationto another, senior employees shall receiye first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for thejob to which he is tram fared. In case of a temporarychangeto a lowerjob classification, the employee stall retain the rate of his previous job classification. For determining the rateof
pay for pieceworkers transferred to daywork, therate specifiedthe Feller-'Umber, Bbs Length Skidding shall apply, or the rate of thejob classificationwhich ever is higher.
Employees accepting ajob posting shall remain in that job for a minimum of three (3) months firm the date he is qualified unless displaced from thej ob because of layoff or bumping procedure, An employee may post from a camp to a commuter operation duringthe three (3) month period,
12.03	(c), The Company, when filling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordancewith Article XU, Notice of impendingvacancieswill be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (5) working days.
It is agreed, however, that temporaryappointmentsmay be mads without posting for fillingvacancies of less than two (2) calendarweeks duration.
For those employees trained by the Company, it is agreed that temporaiyappointments maybe made without posting for fillingvacancies due to an authorized leaveunderthe Collective Agreement of less than four (4) calendarweeks duration.
Newly created] obs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Companyfor a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointmentto suchj obs slating the normal] ob requirements, Employees shall not be consideredfor suchjobs unless they apply in Writing within this five (6) day period.
All jobs will be filled from among the qualified applicants on the basis of Section 12,01 of this agreement, Employees accepting the postedjobs shaH be allowed five(S) work days in which to qualify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed if additional training is required). Failure of any employeeto qualify shall entitle him to return to his fomerjob without loss of seniority or benefits.
The Company shall post notices in camps showing the names of successfulapplicants for all posted vacancies and the newly createdjobs.
Ajob durahonposting of up to three monthsmay be posted as a temporary vacancy. This posting may be extended upon the mutual agreement of the parties. Once the project is complete, the employee will return to his previous position.
12.03	(d), Ajob that becomes vacant because the incumbenthas had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavementleave,jury duty, and/or a leave of absencenot exceeding thirty (30) work days shall be classified as a temporaryvacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section
12.03	(c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of apphcationof seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit it shall be filled on a company-widebasis.
The employee who had occupied thej ob upon his return to work shall once again occupy the j ob that he filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth aboveprovided
However, that thejob is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employeewho forreasons of notice of layofffrom his formerjobhas exercisedhis seniorityonthis particularjob.
12.04	In case of layoff which is to exceed two (2) working days the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company agrees that all reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of layoff as possible.
12.05	When the approximatetime of the recall is known at the time of layoff employees leaving camp will be informedof such approximate date at that time. But in any case, notice in nriting will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledgereceipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangementshave been made, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union office by April 30* of each year, an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority and the Company seniority in days as specified in Section 12.01, as at Maidl3l“, of the same year. The list will show, in addition, each employee's occupation and address.
12.07	A list shall be prepared for and be posted in each camp and its contents shall be available to all employees in camps, showing their seniority standing. The list shall be brought up to date at the end of each month.
12.08	An employeewho has established seniority in accordance with Section 12,02 of this article shall retain such seniority for twenty-four (24) months during layoff, Employees with live (5) years or more of continuous service will retain recall rights for a period of thirty-six (36) months
25
following date of lay-off. An employes who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following reoall as provided in Section 12,05 of this article shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstancesbeyond his control.
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferredto a position with the Companyoutside the bargainingunit shall continue to accrue seniority for a period not exceedingthirty (30) days in any calendaryear and will retain the total accrued s eniority for a period not exceeding eleven(ll) months from the date ofpromotion or transfer and shall have the rightto exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of this article upon proof of Union membershipin good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generallyemployedon seasonaloperations and who have not acquired seniority,in accordance with this article, may be placed onjobs listed in the bargainingunit during the off season, provided that fciusdoes not interfere with the apphcationof seniorityof any employee, Such personnel shall apply for Unionmembershippriorto being placed on thej ab andmaintaintheirUmonmembership ingood standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment, affected employees shall be offered alternate employmentin accordance with Section 12.01 of Article XII to meet the Company's labourrequirementsandif such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively they shall be trained by the Company.
Whenjobs are discontinued,due to curtailment of operations,affected employees shall be offered altemateemployment on remaining j obs in accordance with ArticleXD, If an employee requites trainingto perform the altematejob effectively, he will be trained by the Company, provided thejob he has apphedto be trained for, is expected to last fora period of Ihree (3) months'or more.
It is understood that this does not apply to seasonal layoff
12.11	SeverancePay. Effective date of ratification an employee with One(l) ormore yean of service for whom nojob is availablebecause of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one week's pay for each year of completed service since the last date of hire.
Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours at the employee's regular straighttime hourlyrate, multiplied by the number of years of employment.
It is understood that an employeewho chooses to receive the severance allowance shall be deemed to have abandonedthe right to be recalled and the employee's name will be removed from the senioritylist.
ARTTCT.F, XIII -BUI ,1 ,F,TINBOARDS
13.01	The Union shallhave the right topostnofices dealingwith Union affairs upon the
bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have the approval of the camp foreman before such posting.
26
ARTICLE XIV • MEDICAl.SURGICAl.DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARR PLANS
14.01	(a). Effective firs! of month following date of ratification, for each employee who has established seniority in accordance vith Article XII the Company agrees to pay the premium for Blue Cross or its equivalent and semi-private hospital careplans. The Company contribution to employeeswho are off work due to a Workplace Safety& InsuranceBoard claim or a short term disability claim will be continued lor a period ofup to twelve (12) months.
If the Company'scontributionexceedsthe premiums required formedical, surgical, drug and hospital care places, the balancewill be apphedto such other employeebenefits as may be agreed upon between the Company and the Urim. Pending arrangement between the Company and the Ihkn as to the apphcation of contributions over and above the premiums required, such additional monies will be paid direct to the employee.
The Companywill continue coverage for the I aid-off employee to the end ofthemonth followingmonth of lay-off.
The Company will compensate an employee when a fee is charged by a physician for completion of medical certificate required to support a claim for benefits pursuant to the Weekly or Long Team Disability Plans. Such payment shall be to a maximum amountof$50.00 per certificate and will be initiatedupon presentationof areceiptfrom the attendingphysician.
14:01 (b) Effective the date of ratification the Company will cover 50% of the cost of a chiropractor and physiotherapy services to be a combined maximum of $20.00 per visit to a yearly maximum of$300.00 per familymember.
Effective date ofratification amend the existing definition for ehgible children under the Drug and Hospital Care Plan to include unmarried children until the age of 25 if attending an educational institution on a full limebasis.
ARTICLE XV-LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	The Companywill provide $55,000 of Life Insurance for each employeewhile actively employed. Effective firs! of the month following date of ratification $55,000 will increase to $60,000, Effective September l", 2004, $60,000 will increase to $75,000. The cost to the employee will not exceed ,30j! per $1,000 per month. For employeesnot actively at work on that date the increase in insurance will become effective on the date he returns to active employment.
ARTICLE XVI • WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	The Company will irabtain and pay the premium cost of Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of Weekly earnings forty (40) hours tines an employee'sregular rate and pieceworkers forty (40) hours times the feller, limber and tree length skidding hourly rate) up to a maximum of five hundred and forty ($540.00) per week, for an employee who commences weekly indemnity on or after the first of the month following date of ratification. Weekly Indemnity will commence on the first day in case of a non compensable accident and after Huba (3) continuous days from the commencementof a disability due to sickness or on the date when admittedto a
27
hospital vithh the first three (3) days of illness and will continue for the period of disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks,
Effective the first of the month following ratification, for all rev claims, employees actively at work, amend the Plan to provide maximum weeklybenefit to $580,00 per week.
Effects September!, 2004, for all new claimsincreasemaximumto $590.00 per week
16.02	The Company will provide a Long Term Disability Plan. The Plan forms pari of the
agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix "A". The premium cost of the Plan will be borne by the Company. Remove maximum benefit.
ARTICLE XVII -BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to a member of an employee's immediate family, that is an employee's father, mother, wife, husband, brother, sister, children, grandparents, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law,sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,and grandchild, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers eight (8) times the feller, limber, tree length skidding hourly rate) for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the fhneral without loss of earnings, Pay will be granted forthe scheduledwork days lost during thisperiod. In the case of death of spouse or children the employeewill be granted five (5) days leave with pay.
Any claims for bereavement pay will be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof ofbereavement in the employee's immediatefamily,
It is understood that for purposes of this Articlestep-relativeswill be considered the same as blood relatives.
The employee will be paid ten (10) hours if scheduled a ten (10) hour shift.
ARTICLE XVIII -JURY DUTY ORWITNESS
18.01	In file case of an employeewho is called forjury service, or subpoenaed in a courtof law the Company shallpay, for each day of such service, an allowanceegual to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straighttime hourly rate (Pieceworkers eight (8) hours pay based on the feller, limber, te lengthskiddinghourlyrate),and thepayment he received forjurysetvice, The employee will present proofof service andofpayreceivedtherefore when making his claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XIX - BOARD AND LODGING
See Letter of Understanding- Pillow Camp ARTICLE XX - DENTAL CARE PLAN
20,01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with participation compulsory for all employee on the following basis:
28
1.	Eligibility
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
2.	Plan Design
(a)	Sendee and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. Basic Plan and Rider No. 1. Maximum$l,500 per calendaryear per person.
(b)	ServiceandbenefitsasprovideinBlueCrossRiderNo. 2(50%),
Provideforal year lag O.D. A. scheduleoffees.
(d) Orthodontal services and benefits as provided in Blue Chops (Rider No. 3) to SON to a lifetime maximum of $ 1,000,
Companywill pay increase premium for this coverage.
It is understoodand agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to layoff or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month followingthe month in which such absence commenced.
3.	Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance wilh an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the EQai design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers insurance companies or selfadministration will be made by t he Company on the b asis o f a ppropriate s tudy o f t hese alternatives.
4.	Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shallbe paid by the Company.
5,	Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by federal or provincial legislation
If during the life of this agreement federal or provincial governments shall introduce legislation to providebenefits already coveredby this plan, the plan shall be amendedso as to eliminatesaid benefits.
ARTICLE XXI - VISION CARE PLAN
The Company will provide a vision care plan which will provide for e xpenses i ncurred b y a n amount and/or his covered dependents when prescribed by a physician or optometrist as follows:
29
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glass including contact lenses up to a total payment of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00)per family member in any two (2) consecutive calendar years, Effective September 1,2004, coverage will increase to one hundred and sixty dollars ($163.00) per family member.
ARTICI.F.XXII- PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
22.01	Effective September 1,2000, three cents $0.03 per regular hours worked for each employee shall be paid to theUrimoffice in order to pay for educational needs of the employees.
22.02
WAGE SCHEDULE A. HOURLY RATES
JOB CLASSIFICATION
PowerSaw
Feller LimberTIL Skidder Feller, Limber, T/L • Non Production Mech anical S kldder Wheeled Mechanical Skidder Grapple FellerBuncher Operalor MechanicalDelimber Operator Truck Driver - Rock Track Driver- TIL Truck Driver. Float Truck Driver -T/L Sett Loader Truck Driver. Gravel Front End Loader Operators TTS Disc TrencherOperator BulldozerOperalor 'A' BulldozerOperalcr'B'
Treelength Loader BackhoeOperalcr -Rd.Construction Car Man
Prentice Operator Grader Operalor Bull Cook Cook (20*)
Cook (1-20)
Cookee Handyman Labourer Watchman Camp MechanicLead MechanicClass T Mechanic Class "2"
Welder Class "A'
+ $.30	+$.50	+$.55
Sept, 1/3002 Seel, 112003 Sent. K2D04
11,300	11.500	12.350
24.0B6	24.556	25.136
24.086	24.586	25,136
24.086	24,686	25,136
24.086	24,586	25.136
24.529	25,029	25.579
24.529	25,029	25.579
24.021	24,521	25.071
24.313	24,813	25.363
24.237	24.737	25.287
24.529	25,029	25,579
23.966	24,466	25,016
24.345	24.845	25.395
24.086	24.586	25,136
25.364	25.884	26,434
24.616	25.116	25,666
25.070	25.570	26.120
25.070	25,570	26,120
23,555	24.055	24.605
24.269	24.769	25.319
24.345	24,845	25,395
23.501	24.001	24.551
25,406	25.906	26.456
24.995	25.495	26.045
23.155	23.655	24.205
23,674	24.174	24.724
23.003	23.503	24.053
23.231	23.731	24,281
28.219	28.719	29.269
25,795	26.295	26.845
24.670	25,170	25.720
27.711	28.211	26.761
30
JOB CLASSIFICATION
WdderClass '2'
Welder Class '1"
Welder Lead Pj Prod. Cuti Limb P) Prod. Fulllree Pw Prod Cut & Limb Pr Prod. Cut i Limb Fire Fighter Student Cop.
Slasher Operator Processor Operator ForwarderOperator
r $.30
S«Pt-1/2002
24.661 25.795 28.219 4.560
3.515
3.515
3.515 15.400 15.300 23.96
25.070 24.53
CrewLeader • $.35 per hour pis regular daily fate
4- $.50	4 $.55
S»ot. 1)2003 Seal. 1/2004 25.181	25.731
26.295	26.645
28.719	29.269
5.080	5.630
4.015	4.565
4.015	4.565
4.015	4.565
15.900	16.450
15.600	16.350
24.460	25.010
25.570	26.120
25030	25.560
'Active employeeswho have worked one thousand (1,000) hours or iras within the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the effective dats ofratificationmay elect to receive a aEtmelump sumpayment of fifteenhundred dollars ($ l ,500) to be paid through direct depositor as a one-tiire transfer to an RRSP as permitted by law.
Active employeeswho have worked less than one thousand (1,000) hours within the twelve
months immediatelyprecedingthe effective date of ratification till receive a pro-rated lump sum amount
equivalentto seventy-five cents ($.75) for each hour worked in this period. ■
HOURLY RATES -ADJUSTMENTS- REFLECTEDIN WAGE SCHEDULE
An employee who is assigned to train another employee shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty cents (300) per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the feller-limber rate plus thirty cents (300) per hour.
It is agreed that incentives may be applied in conjunctionwith the above daily rates which pertain to mechanical operations,
A day worker using power saw at Company request will be paid a power saw ratal of -
Effective date of ratification, $ 11.00 per 8 hour day or shift when felling and limbing,
Effective date of ratification, $ 12.00 per 8 hour day or shift bucking at a landing on a skidding operations.
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for when he works less than four (4) hours and a full day's rental when he works more than four (4) hours.
31
Wage Schedule
General Wage Increase
EffectiveSeptemberl, 2002 -	$0.30/hour
EffectiveSeptemberl, 2003	•	$0.50/hour
EffectiveSeptemberl, 2004	-	S0.55/hour
Reforestation Wage Schedule Increase all hourly rates
EffectiveSeptemberl, 1998	-	2,5%
Effective September 1,1999	-	2,5%
EffectiveSeptemberl, 2000	•	3.0%
B,	COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
Effective Septemberl, 1978 a supplementof seventy-three cents ($,73) per hour will be paid to pieceworkers,
C,	PIECEWORK RATES • Cutting and Piling
RATES PER SINGLE CORD
100" Rough Spruce & Balsam	40,20
100"PeeledSpruce&BaLsan	61.87
100" Rough Poplar	30.89
100" Peeled Poplar	45,02
100" Rough Jack He	38,20
If the cutter is required to pile two species separately,® additional twelve cents (12^) per cord will be paid on all wood separated. For Strip cutters, a bonus of $1.64 per cord will be paid on each consecutive660 feet of strip runningunder 12 cordsper acre, and on suchportions of strip less Hhi660 feet in length.
For strip cutters, a bonus of $2.73 per cord will be paid on each consecutive 660 feet of strip running under 7 cordsper acre, and on such portion of strips less than 660 feet in length.
PIECEWORK CUT AND SKID TREE LENGTH
1,	Cut and Skid Tree Lenzth
Rates: per tree length piece, butt diameter measure as per attached schedule.
The Companywill supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment,
No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to tfe scheduled rates.
No poor bush bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduledratss 32
Supplementof seventy-three cents(.730) per hour will be paid in accordance with ArticleXU-B.
2,	Measurement
Butt diametermeasureto be made in accordancevifli Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameterto be clearlyraarked on each butt by the scaler.
3.	Crew Size
The number of employ eesin each cut and skid crew shall not exceed 2 employees at any time.
4,	Skidding Dislance
Skidding distance shalnot exceed600 ft, fora three (3) man crewskidding tree laigth.
Skiddingdistance shaDnot exceed900 ft, foratwo (2)man crew skidding tree lengthor Ml tree when skidwayplacement not adjacentto a road.
Skidding distance shall not exceed 1,200 feet foratwo (2)man crew skiddingtree length or wholetreeto a road.
5,	Sorting Bonus
When at Companyrequest, the crew is required to sort wood 2,86% of base eamingswill be paid.
6,	Walking and Riding Time
Payment for Walking and Riding Time shall be computed in accordance with SatioiF of the Wage Schedule (Walking Distance and Riding Time).
7,	Skidwav Preparation
vdiae skidway sites arepreparedby the crew, 5% of base earnings will be paid.
33
LolTJ
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
CUT & SKID
FULL TREE RATES PER THEE METRIC
Spruce &	Spruce &	Spruce&
Balsam Balsam Balsam Septl/98	Sept 1/99 Sept 1/00
0.464	0.475	0.489
0.704	0.721	0.743
0.923	0.946	0.974
1.268	1.300	1.339
1.596	1.636	1.685
I.	963	2.012	2.072
2.392	2.452	2.525
2.882	2.954	3.043
3.394	3.479	3.583
3.835	3.931	4.049
4.161	4.265	4.393
4.450	4.561	4.698
5.101	5.229	5.386
5.752	5.896	6.073
6.504	6.667	6.867
7.294	7.477	7.701
8.078	8.280	8.528
9.136	9.364	9.645
10.373	10.632	10.951
II.	467	11.754	12.106
12.428	12.739	13.121
13.451	13.788	14.201
15.694	16.086	16.569
17.080	17.507	18.032
18.110	18.563	19.120
19.122	19.600	20.188
20.287	20.794	21.481
21.352	21.886	22.542
22.335	22.893	23.580
23.296	23.878	24.594
24.271	24.878	25.624
25.247	25.879	26.655
26.225	26.881	27.687
27.191	27.871	28.707
28.164	28.869	29.735
29.299	30.032	30.933
Jackpine	Jackpine	Jackpine
Sept 1/98 Sept 1/99	Sept. 1/00
0.356	0.365	0.376
0.606	0.621	0.640
0.877	0.898	0.925
1,228	1.259	1.296
1.562	1.601	1.649
I.	915	1.963	2.021
2.304	2.362	2.433
2.734	2.802	2.886
3.249	3.330	3.430
3.630	3.720	3.832
3.870	3.967	4.086
4.057	4.159	4.284
4.521	4.634	4.773
5.028	5.154	5.308
5.540	5.678	5.849
5.982	6.132	6.316
6.569	6.733	6.935
7.117	7.295	7.514
7.676	7.868	8.104
8.238	8.444	8.697
8.808	9.028	9.299
9.380	9.614	9.902
9.943	10.192	10.497
10.510	10.773	11.096
II.	078	11.355	11.695
11.648	11.939	12.297
12.215	12.520	12.896
12.807	13.127	13.521
13.381	13.715	14.127
13.946	14.295	14.724
13.914	14.262	14.690
15.111	15.489	15.954
15.687	16.079	16.562
16.257	16.664	17.164
16.831	17.252	17.769
17.447	17.883	18.420
34
v.m
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
CUT & SKID
___________TREFJ .F.NGTH RATES PERTREE METRIC________________
Spruce& Spruce& Spruce&
Balsam	Balsam Balsam	Jackpine Jackpine Jackpine
Sept 1/98 Sept. 1/99 Sept. 1/00 Sept 1/98 Sept. 1/99 Sept. 1/00
0.617
0.938
1.228
1.689
2.131
2.621
3.191
3.838
4.528
5.115
5,546
5.933
6.800
7.671
8.675
9.720
10.774 12.181 13.829
15.290
16.572
17,935
20.926
22.775
24.150
25,496
27.052
28.470
29.783
31.060
32.360
33.663
34.966
36.265
37.552
39.063
0,633
0.962
1.259
I.	731 2.185
2.686
3,271
3.934
4.641
5.242
5.684
6.081
6.970
7.863
8,892
9.963
II.	043 12.485 14.174
15.672
16.986
18.384
21.450
23.344
24,754
26,133
27.729
29.182
30.528
31.837
33.169
34.505
35.840
37.171
38.491
40,039
0.652
0.991
1.296
I.	783 2.250
2.767
3.369
4.052
4.780
5.400
5.855
6.264
7.179
8.099
9.158
10.262
II.	374 12.860 14.600
16,142
17.496
18.935 22.093 24.045
25.496 26.917 28.560 30,057 31.443
32.792
34.164
35.540
36.915
38.286
39.645
41.240
1.606
2.763
3.990
5.592
7.102
8.703
10.493
12.463
14.789
16.522
17.614
18.465
20.584
22.887
25.229
27.559
29.912
32.400
34.933
37.504
40.107
42.693
45.265
47.848
50.427
53.030
55.609
58.315
60.886
63,492
66.110
68.796
71.414
74.012
76.622
79.439
1.646
2.832
4.089
5.731
7.279
8,921
10.756
12.775
15.159
16.935
18,054
18.926
21,099
23.460
25.860
28.248
30.660
33.210
35.806
38.442
41.109
43.761
46.397
49.044
51.688
54,355
56.999
59.772
62,408
65.079
67.782
70.516
73.199
75.863
78.538
81.425
I.	695 2.917 4,212 5.903 7.497
9.189
II.	078 13,158 15.614
17.443
18.596
19.494
21.732
24.163
26.636
29.096
31.580
34.206
36.880
39.595
42.343
45.074
47.789
50.516
53.239
55.986
58.709
61.566
64,281
67.032
69.795
72,632
75.395
78.138
80.894
83,868
F. WALKING DISTANCEMD RIDING TIME
(1.) where a day workers travelling time from camp to workingplace is comprised of riding andor walking tine, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at his regular rate ofpay.
(2.) where a pieceworkef s travelling time from camp to working place is comprisedof riding and/or walking time, he shall be paid for all travelling time in excess of one-half hour each way at the feller, limber rate.
(3.)	For the purpose of this agreement,it is agreed that pieceworkers and day workers will walk at the
rate of 3 mi]® per hour.
G.	SCALING
Forthe purpose of this agreement a stacked cord of eight foot (S') roughpulpwoodshallbe 50" x 100" x 4'; astackedcordofpeeledpulpwood shallbe 100" x48" x 4'.
H.	SALVAGING PULPWOODON ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY
Rilleper cord	46,02
J, COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree that commuter operations shall be carried out by the Company on the Mowingterms and conditions:
(1.) Commuters are employeeswho:
(a) Are resident within reasonable riding andor walking distance of the area of operations, and
(5)	who are not provided board and lodging by the Company.
(2.) (a,)	employeewho is not a resident WJiTin rsasonable riding and/or walking distanceon a
commuter operation, who exercises his seniority in accordance vith Article XU on this operation,shall receive: $10,47 per day. Inheu of being provided bo ard and lodgingin a camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (includingovertime days). Ha shall continue to receive the commuter allowance forthe term of the agreementor until such time that:
(j,) He returns in accordance vih the provision of Article XL{ Seniority, lo employmentin a camp where board and lodging is made availableto him.
If an employee,who is not a resident wibinreasonable riding andor walking distance of a commuter operation, elects not to fill ajob vacancy of qual or
ss
greater status in a camp operation, or on a comuter operation of which he is a resident, and which he is qualifiedin accordance wfh Article XII to occupy, he will forfeit the commuter allowance as per Article 2 (a) above, for the remaining period he conhnuesto be employed on this commuter operation,
(jj,) Ife has establishedhimselfas a resident of theparticular commuter operation.
(iii.)	Heis laid off in accordancewiththe provisions of Article XII, Seniority.
(b.)	A na/v employee who is not a resident and who is hied to wrrk in a commuting
operation, shall receive $10.47 per day in lieu of providing board and lodgingin camp for each day that he is available for work as pa: his scheduled work week (including overtimedays)up to 100 days or until such time that:
(j.) He is employed in accordanceviththeprovision of Article XII, Seniority,in a camp where board and lodgingis made availableto him.
If an employee, who is not a resident within reasonable ridh^ and/or walking distance of a commuter operation, elects not to fill ajob vacancy of equal or greater status in a camp operation,or on a commuter operation of which he is a resident and which he is qualifiedin accordance vith Article XU to occupy, he will forfeit thecommuler allowance as per Article 2 (a) above, for t he remaining period he continues to be employed on this commuter operation.
(ji.) Ife has established himself as a resident of that particularoommuting areaof operations.
(iii.) Ifeis laid off in accordance vriiii the provisions of Article XU, Seniority.
(c.)	An employee from a camp operation, or from a commuter operation which he is a
resident, exercising his seniority to ajob of equal status in accordance vith Article XII on ajob posting and by so doing becomes a nonresident of a commuter operation, will not be eligible for the commuter allowance as per Article 2 (a.) above.
3. (a.)	The Company will arrange to provide free transportation from a designated marshalling
p int or points, to and frm the parking site or sites in the operating areas.
(b.) Eire spent by pieceworkers or dayworkers travelling on the Company transportation vehicle from a marshalhng pint to a parking site plus tine spent walking from the parking site to place of work, in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the followingbasis:
(a.) Dayworkersat their regular rate of pay.
(b.) Pieceworkersat the feller-liberrate.
37
(c.) Pi«cewort-ers shall be paid in accordance with subsections 1,2 and3 of El Walking Distance and Riding Time.
Walking time based on the rate of one-quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less hianonce eachmonth.
4. Marshalling Points
(1.)	West Branch Commuter-will be the26 mile (junctionof the Charcoal and West Branch
mads) on tie WestBranch RxL
(2.)	Sultan Commuter. Marshalling point will be at present location- Company gate south
of Sultai. The Company will arrange to provide free transportation fern Mian. A central departure point in the town of SuUanwill be establishedlocally,
(3.)	Gogama Commuter • Marshalling point to be the junction of Highways 144 and 560, The
Company will arrange to provide fetransporfation from Gogama. A central departure point in the town of Gogama will be established locally,
(4.) Cartier Commuter
(a.) For operations North of Benny the Marshalling point will be Benny. The Company will arrange to provide transportation fim Cartier, A central departurepoint in the town of Cartier will be establishedlocally,
For cpaaticre South of Benny, the Meddling point will be the central
departurepoint established in (a). The Company will arrange to provide transportation from Benny to themarshalhngpoint.
K. COOKERY SCHEDULE
Number of Persons 8atin«	Qook Second Ccok	Cookee
1-15	I	
16-30	I	1
31-55	1	2
56-80	1 1	2
81-110	1 1	3
111-140	1 1	4
For every 25-man increase in camp, one extra person will be provided. It is agreed that this schedulemay bechanged b y m utual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors rsdcirgthe work are introduced.
1.	The Companyagrees that shift workersshallbe served at least two (2) hot meals per day in additionto any hot lunches.
38
2.	Three-shift operation: where more ttm 10 men and less than 20 men are fed in the cookery at night, a cockee will be assigned. Where 20 men or more are fed in the cookery at night, a oookee will be assigned and a second wok will be added to the cookery schedule, and assigned with the cookee at night.
L. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
A travel allowance of $ 15,00 will be paid for each week of active employmentfor all employ eeswho have established seniority.
Allowances will not be paid to any employee where transportation is provided firm a designated marshalhngpoint to a recognized commuteroperadon.
The allowance will not be paid for any full week that the employeeis not at work. where any employee is at work for only pari of the week, he will receive the full allowance.
Allowancesfornew camps shallbe relafiveto the foregoing when suchcamps becomeoperational.
TRADE APPRENTICE PROGRAMME
1.	Apprenticeship openingswill be filled in accordance with theprovisionsof Section 12.03 (c) (lob Postings), Employees who meet the educational level specified by the apprenticeship act will qualify.
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working d^s prior to entering into an apprenticeshipagreement,during whichtime the employee may return, or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitudebe returned to his formerjob without loss of seniority.
3.	Any apprentice who fails to sahsfactorilycomplete the Mario Apprentice Programme may he retainedin his classification pud allowedto progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeshipcontract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obhgationsof the contract, including necessary training periodsin a vocational school.
5.	The apprenticemay receive a weekly training allowance from the govemmentwhile attending a Trade School Course. The Companywill supplement this Allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40) times his regular hourlyrate of pay. Calculation of the Company's portion will be based on the government allowance for an apprenticewho is able to live at home while attending the Trade School.
If t he apprenticei s required to live away from home i n ordert o attend a Trade School he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in additionto any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attendingschool.
39
6.	An apprentice's entitlementto Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday Pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
7.	PmridiDg a Tradesman has completed the time in the hade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the "A" rate immediately following his course of studies and notification that aTrade Cerhficatewill be issued.
8.	If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievementhe shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category asper the Job Description.
MECHANICS:
Helper
Required to work as an assistant to othermechanics as assigned. Shallbe upgradedprior to or at the end of a oneyearperiod to HelperOass "A". A helper will commence to accumulate commonmechanicaltools.
In the eventthathe fails to displaythe necessary aptitude for furthertrairrg, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitableemployment,
Helper Class "A"
He shall under the directionof mechanicsof a higher classification work on all types of equipment used on woods operahons;sball be capableofperformingthe followingjobs independently: tire repair, washjobs, greasingand oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commenceto accumulatecommonmechanicaltools.
He shall be upgraded priorto or at the end of a one year periodto Mechanic H.
In the event that he fails to display tie necessary aptitude for furthertraining he m ay at any tim e during this period be placed in other suitableemployment.
MECHANIC II:
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipmentgenerally used iiwoodscpea3ticns.il is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Hatfe Certificate.
MECHANIC I:
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient mm on gasolineand/or dieselpowered equipmentgenerally used in woods operations.
Ife will be required to direct assistants working under lin and must assure foil responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
40
Wee a present mechanic or a person subsequentlyhired has no certificate but has special training and/or is assignedon only one type of equipment he will automatically be rated as a Mechanic I.
MECHANIC CLASS "A":
He shall be capable without direction of performing alljobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct as sistants working under him and must assumefull responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He mist be hpossessionof a Provincial Usrife Certificate recommended by the Mum try of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classificationwill not be required to have a Certificate.
MECHANIC CLASS "A"-1;
In addition t o fulfilling all o fthe qualifications o f a Mechanic Class "A" and being in possessionof a Provincial Trade Certificate he shall have an advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment subsystems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechaniccerti Seat« and a heavy duty equipment mechaniccertificaterecognized by the Ministryof Labour of Ontario.
MECHANIC LEAD:
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as theneed arises, must possess the qualificationss et out underMechanic Class "A" and in addition shall be capableof leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this categoryaie notrequired to have a Provincial Trade Certificate,
WELDER
Helper:
Required to work as an assistantto welders as assigned. He shallbe upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Oass "A". In the event that he Ms to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any lime during this period be placed in other suitableemployment.
Helper Class "A":
He shallbe capableunder directionof performing the following:
1.	Oxyacetyleneand electrical welding in flat positionwith opportunity of workingin otherpositions.
2,	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
41
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder n, In the event that he Ms to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
WELDER II;
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flsres, oxidizingand carbonizing.
WELDERI:
Shall be caoable without direction of Derforming all jobs assigned to hnn in an efficientmara: in both oxyacetyleneand electricalweldingin any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
Hemust assume responsibility forallworkperformedby himself or his assistants.
WELDERCLASS^A11!
Ife shallbe capable without diie±kn of performing alljobs assigned to him in an efficientmannsr in both oxyacetylene and electricalwelding in any position. He shall have an understandingof types of flares, oxidizing and carbonizing. He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woads operations.
He mst be able to fabricatefkm a blueprint.
Henust assume responsibilityfor all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary tradecertificate.
Welders presently employed in this classificationwill not be required to have a trade certificate.
WELDERLEAD:
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises, rtust possess the qualificationset out under Welder Osss "A" and in addition shall be capableof leading otherwelders.
Welders presently employedin this category are not required to have a trade certificate.
TRADESMEN’STOOLS
Tradesnai including welders will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish Spannersup to M/2" opening, sockets sets up to and including ’/«” drive, V*" drive set to include sockets ftm y< ” t o 2 ”, ratchet, power bar, and extensions; adjustable wrenches up to 18"in length, hammers, chisels,punches, screw drivers and tool boxes. Metric tools to include spanners horn 6mra to 24mm and Yt' and Vi" drive socketsfim 6ram to 24ram and Allen wrenches from 6mm to 19mm, The Company will
42
provide on loan any special tools i deluding powerd rival tools, t esting a nd m easurirtg i nsWmtnis and gauges,puller, sockets over ’/<" drive,spannersover 1-In" opening.
As a one t i e offer, the Company will subsidize the purchase of the necessary metric tooling for the existing working mechanics on the seniority list. This fitly percent subsidy of the cost of purchase to be apphed against mutually agreed to tool purchases. The Company agrees that it will provide coverage against loss by fire, theft or breaking of tradesmen's tools, yidJe on authorized Company property or worksites, TheCompanyreserves the right to lirritordeny the replacement of tools where neghgenceby tradesmen are found. In order to receive this coverage tradesmen shal be required to supply to the Company an up-to-date inventory of such tools, so Mproper coveragecan be provided.
Upanprcof ofreplacement purchase, the Company shall pay up to amaximum of $300.00 per year as tool and tool box allowance to al I tradespasons,
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
OnceeachyearduringthemonthofNovembeqagroupwhichiscomprisedoftheDivisionalMechanical SuperintendenfMechanical Supervisorsand two qualified representatives of the Union will determine by review whetherhelpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If in the interim, upgrading is necessary,it will be done by the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent and MechanicalSupervisor.
PENSION PLAN
The Company will provide ad administer a non-contributory pension plan for all hourly-rated Forestry employees with I year contmuousservice (165 days),
Normal relirement will be the first day of month following attainmentof age 65, An employee with 10 years of Company service can elect to retire at age 55 however the monthly payments will be actuarially reduced. The costof the plan will be paid by the Company.
RENEFIT
Effective January i, 1994 amend current pension plan to provide for a monthly benefit equal toTwenty ($20,00) dollars tirresyears ofcontLnuous serviceforall past and future service.
NEW
The Company will provide the opportunity foremployeesonLTD and WSfB over one year, the option of maintaining medical and dental plan coverage provided the employeespay the required monthly premiums.
Early Relirement Reduction Factors
Effective January 1994, those employees with ten (10) years of Company service can retire between the age of 60 and 65 with a 5% reduction in their pension for each year they retire prior to age 65 as noted in the fablebelow:
43
Age	% or Pension Payable
65	100%
64	95%
63	90%
62	85%
61	80%
60	75%
Guaranteed Payments
If a retired employe's death occurs before he has received 60 monthly payments of retirement income under the plan, his retirement income payments will continue to be paid to his beneficiary until the remainder of the 60 monthlypayments hasbeen paid from the trust fund.
Surviving Spouse Pension
If a married errployee with 10 yeans of continuous service with the Company, who qualifies for early retirement after age 55 and before age 65, dies before his retirement date the employee's surviving spouse will receive 60% of the earned pension allowance for the life of the surviving spouse, coirmencing on the tint day of the month following date of death, If the surviving spouse is more than 10 years younger tat thedeceasedemployee,themonthlypensionwouldbeactuarially reduced.
Disability Benefit
An employee with at least 10 years of continuous service who has attained age 55, has qualified for disability benefits underthe CPP/QPP and is totally and permanently disabled will be eligible for a monthly disability pension withoutactuarial reduction.
Supplemental Plan
-	For each employee who contributes $70.00 per month, the Company will contribute an equal amountof$7Q,00 permonth.
Effective S eptember 1,2003 increaseto $75,00 Effective Septemberl, 2004 increaseto $80.00
-	V esting rights • after 1 year.
-	Minimum 1 year continuous service,
-	Cost of administeringof the plan will be the responsibility of the Company.
Employees who are offwork due to a Workplace Safety and Insurance Board or a Weekly Indemnity claim for a period of up to twelve (12) norths can centime to contribute towardsthe SupplementaryPension Plan.
Effective January 1, 1995, the current supplemental plan as outlined in the current Collective Agreement will become compulsory for all employees on the seniority list at that tic provided they have one(l) year of continuous service.
44
The obligation to join the Supplement Plan will remain voluntary for those employees whoare55yearsofageandoverasof July 18,1999.
Upon early retirement and up to Age 65, employees shall receive the benefits of the Dig Elan and Life Insurance, if the employee agrees to pay the annual premium, payable in one lump sum at the beginning of each year,
BRIDGING SUPPLEMENT
Active employeeswho have worked more than twenty-five(25) years of oontinuousservicefortheCompanyandwhoretireatageofdO or laterwill be eligible for abridging supplementequal to $10.00 permonthperyearofservice to a maximum of 30 years of service.
The abovebridging supplement™! be paid on a monthlybasis until the attainment of age 65 or the death of the retiree, whichever occurs first.
RETURN TO WORKPROGRAM
The Companyagreesto reviewif s presentretum to work program through a committeeof 4 people (2 Management, 2 lidat) with due regard to the Union's submission.
NF.W
The Company wiH print one bilingual Collective Agreement and will supply four hundred (400) copies to the Union, ftisunderstoodthattheoriginal signedEnglishagreementprevails.
In the Witness whereof the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed by their representativesthis 30th day of May, 2003, in Sudbury, Ontario
Carl Chariebois
1
fSbjuStt
yf
■Tiert Poulin
<K
Ionia Luhtasaari



ADDENDUM: TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD,
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
IWA-CANADA
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
Signed on the 18th day of January, 1979,
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation) the Company may hire additional employees to perform season silviculture work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	RE: Article V- Union Membership
(a). The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at suchwork.
The Company shall put these employees on check-off at the time of hire and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit sameto the Union office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2.	RE: Article VI ■ Vacations with Pay
For each aforesaid employees, Vacation with Pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to each employee at the time of termination or layoff from such seasonal employment.
3.	RE: Article VII - Holidays with P»v
(a.)	For such aforesaid employees who qualify under section 12,02 shall be paid
without the performance of work for the hohdays listed in 7,01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduledshift after the hohday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitledto one holiday after the start of such absence.
46
(I,) The provisions set out in Sections 7,04 (b), 7.04 (c), 7,04 (d), 7,04 (e), 7,04 (f) and 7,05 are not applicable.
4. RE: Article X • Working and Living Conditions
Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the
Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodatesuch said employeeswhile so engaged.
5.	RE: ArticleXU - Seniority
(a) ,	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority for the aforesaid employees.
Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiencyand ability in promotions, transfers, layoff and rehires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
(b) .	Employment of any ne*r employee shall be considered probationary until he has
worked thirty (30) days Viithin a 6-montbperiod.
(c) ,	A separate seniority list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid
employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid hohdays of each employee while so employed, This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
(d) .	An employee, an the silvicultural seniority list, hired on other production
operations will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with S ection 12,02,
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under ArticleXU of the Collective Agreement.
6.	The provisions set out under:
Article XIV Article XV Article XVI Article XVII Article XVIH Article XIX Appendix A
-Medical, Surgical, Drug and Hospital Cue Plans,
-Life Insurance,
■	Weekly Indemnity,
- Bereavement Pay,
•	Jury Duty Allowance,
•	Dental Care Plan and
■	Long Term Disability Plan - are not applicable for the aforesaid
Employees.
47
7,	RE; Commuters
Where marshalling poinis arenot establishedin the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
8.	RE; Wage Schedule
SILVICULTURftLWAGE SCHEDULE
PIECEWORK RATES MANUAL PLANTING
Site PreDared	
Ban Root Stock	11 'At per tree
Tube Seedlings (paper Pots)	9 kipper tree
SiiellnnreDared	
Bare Root Stock	12/idper tree
TubeSeedlings (Paper Pots)	WAi per tree
(employees on the regular seniority listing will not be assigned to manual planting on piecework	
rates).
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION
J, B, ATHERTON,	F. MIRON,
General Manager	President.
■ Forestry Division.
Signedforthe Union:	________________________________
W, McIntyre, President,Local 2593
Signed for the Company:
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
48
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN DOMTARINC.
FOREST PRODUCTS DIVISION (HEREINAFTERREFERRED TO AS THE "COMPANY") AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA- CANADA
(HEREINAFTERREFERRED TO AS THE "UNION")
EffectiveDateoffahificahini, employees who, as a result of temporary lay off and in orderto maintain their employment, nust exercise their seniority to bump or fill a vacancy at a corrmuter operation of which the employees not resident within reasonable distance, shall be paid an allowance of $1100 per day for each day they woik to a maximum of 100 days per year, in lieu of being provided lodging in a camp, or until such time that:
a)	The employeeretums in accordancewith the provisions of Article XII, to employmentin a camp where lodgjngis made available.
b)	The employeeretums in accordanceviiitheprovisionsin1 Article XU, to employmentin a commuter operation in which he is a resident.
u)	He has establishedhimself as a resident of the particular
commuter operation,
d)	Heis laidaEfin accordancewith theprovisionsof Article XU.
If an employee, who is not a resident withinreasonabledistanceof a commuter operation, electsnot to fill ajob vacancy in a camp operations, or on acommuter operation, does not haveto apply for a posting of which he is resident and which he is qualifiedin accordance with Article XU to occupy,he will forfeit this allowance for the remainingperiod he continues to be employedon this commuter operation.
An employee from a camp operation, or fema commuter operationwhichbe is a resident, exercising his seniority to aj ob in accordancewith ArticleXU on aj ob posting and by doing so becomes anon-resident of a commuter operation, will not be eligible for this allowance.
Signed for the mdrn:
43
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN DOMTARINC.
FOREST PRODUCTS DIVISION (HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AS THE "COMPANY") AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA-CANADA
(HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AS THE "UNION")
REMOTE PTTTfW CAMP
It is understood and agreed that the Camp conditionsat the Remote Pillow Camp are of a different standard than those as described in the Collective Agreement, This Utter of Understanding replaces thepreviousversiondated February27,1997.
a)	The Companymay install aRemotePillow Camp at the following locations:
■ Metagama
•	Mile43
•	Charcoal Valley
- and other locations as agreed between the Company and the Union and employees involved
5)	ThemarshallingpointforallcampemployeeswillbetheRemotePlllow Camp.
e)	IftherearelO ormoreemployeesresidingintheRemotePillowCamp, thepartiesmay
discuss ki tchen/cook serviceswhichwillbe at no cost to the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Remote Pillow Camppositions will be posted. It is further understood and agreed that when the Remote Pillow Camp is moved between locations as per a) above, the employees will move with the Camp.
Eligible employees:	Employees from the Operation.
Company's Responsibility;
-	Supply mobile bunkhouses at no charge
- Supply heating, hydro, propane and water at no cost to employees
-	Provide reasonable facilities for microwave-type cooking, or separaterooms
Employees’ Responsibility:
-	Reasonable standards of hygiene and housekeeping
- All housekeeping duties necessaryto maintain bedrooms, showers, washroom, and common areas
-	Supply their own bedding, personal and cleaning supplies
so
- One employee,designated by the residents, will be responsible to ensure that cleanliness and housekeeping standards and other general rules required forthe operation ofthe facilityare adhered to. This employee will also be the contact person if any issues nek to be resolved.
This Camp will meet the current Government requirementsfor an mistrial camp
It is a p e d that if certain conditionssunounding the operation ofthe Remote Pillow Camp are not
satisfactory to either the Union or the Company, both parties will meet to resolve the issue.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 30th day oftfey,2003,
SIGNED FOR THE UNION
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN DOMTAR INC.
FOREST PRODUCTSDIVISION (HEREINAFTERREFERREDTO AS THE "COMPANY")
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA- CANADA
(HEREINAFTERREFERREDTO AS THE “UNION”)
FILOW CAMP
The Companyis prepared to offer a Pillow Camp at various locations when it is economically viable.
The terms of this arrangement include the opportunity for eligible employees to stay at the Pillow Camp
at no charge, with heat, hydro and water supplied by the Company.
These conditions cover live-in camps that are within commutable areas.
a)	The Companyhas the rightto install apillowcamp at the following locations:
•	Ramsey
•	Old Camp 12
b)	In order to determine the economic viability of the pillow camp, prior to it’s installation, the employees will be surveyed to determine their level of commitment to the camp,
c)	For those employees who under paragraph (b) have elected to stay at the facility as “live-in“ residents, the marshalling point will be the pillow camp.
d)	For those employees who elect not to stay at the pillow camp, Ihe marshalling point will remain as Sultan.
Eligible Employees:	Employees from the operation
Compapy’s Responsibility;
•	Supplymobile bunkhouses at no charge
•	Supply heating, hydro, propane and water at no cost to employee
•	Provide reasonable facilities for microwave-typecooking or separaterooms
Employees* Responsibility;
-	Reasonable standardsof hygiene and housekeeping
•	All housekeeping dutiesnecessary tomaintainbedrooms, showers, washrooms aid common areas
•	Supplytheir own bedding, personalandcleaning supplies
-	One employee, designated by the residents, will be responsibleto ensure that cleanlinessand housekeeping standards and other general rules required for the operation of the facility are adhered to This employee will also be the contact personif any issues need to be resolved.
This Camp will meet the current Government requirements for an industrial camp.
It is agreed that if certainconditions surrounding the operation of the Pillow Camp are not satisfactory to eitherthe Union or the Company, both parties will meet to resolve the issue.
52
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario this 30th day of May, 2003
SIGNED FOR HEUNION	SIGNEQJOR THE COMPANY:
J. Hanlon, Presiflent^Local 2693
Eric Bukowiclri, Woodlands Manager
53
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.
FORESTRY DIVISION
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
AND
IWA-CANADA
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
RE: SILVICULTURE OPERATIONSfTREE PLANTING)
It is understood and agreed that in the applicationo f the Addendum to the Collective Agreement, the following will apply.
ARTICLE XT-Hours of Work 11.01 (a.)
The week for operationsshall be six (6Jdays per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for pieceworkersshall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive,or Tuesdayto Saturdayinclusive.
It is agreed that pieceworkersmay be requested to work in excess of their regular work day or work week, and will be paid in accordance with the overtime provision following.
The regularwork day shall be eight (8) consecutivehours mealtime excepted. However, at the request of the employees orthe Company and by mutual agreement, the work day of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period, divided into not more than two (2) parts, providedthereis a break of at least eight (8) hours between days worked.
Overtime:
Employees who are requested to work in excess of their scheduled eight (8) hours per day will, in addition to their piecework rates,receive premium pay for all such overtime hours worked based on one-half (’A) of the rate calculated by dividing the total trees planted in the scheduled five (5) days by the total hours worked,
All trees planted by employees on their designated sixth day (Saturday or Monday) and/or on Sunday, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1.5) times the rate.
Signed at Sudbury, Qtanq. this 22nd day of February, 1991
Signed for the Union:________________________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
54
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FORESTPRODUCTSLTD. AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
Camp cookeries will close on non operational weekends.
Original Letter Signed April 14, 1983
For the Union: F. Miron, President, Local 2693
For the Company J. B. Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division.
Signed for the Union: _________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:__________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President, Ebrestiy & Wood Products
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD,
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITYBENEFIT PLAN
This will confirm the Company’s interpretation of disabilityas defined in Section (b) of the Ontario Woodworkers Disability Benefit Plan.
It is our understanding and interpretation that an employee is entitled to benefits, forwhichhe may be eligible under the provisions of the EUan is a result of non-occupations) injuryor illness when unable to perform his regular duties and the Company is unable to offer him alternative suitable employment. It is understoodthe employee will be expected to accept the alternative employment, if it is available. If an employeevoluntarily accepts employmentwith another employer, the employeewillnotbe eligible for benefits under this Plan.
OriginalLettersigned Januaiy 18,1973
For the Company: E. F, Boswell, Vice-President
Farthelhkn:	T. Mlor, President,Local2693
Signed for the thiai; ___________________________________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:	______________________________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wed Products
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDYFORESTPRODUCTS LTD,
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RF.: nNTARlf)WDODM3RKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN SECTION 7 (a)
It is understood that an employeereceiving benefits under this Plan will make an applicationfor Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when the employee's disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee's physician. If the applications approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offsetby the amount of CPP/QPP primarybenefit received by the employee, retro active to the date of eligibilityas approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
OriginalSigned December 16,1980:
ForthelhimtT. Mior, President, Local 2693
Forthe Company: /. B, Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:_______________________________
W, McIntyre, President,Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_____________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President,
Forestry & Wood Products
51
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, AND
LOCAL 2693 ■ IWA CANADA
RE; fart;a start time due to fire hazard shutdown
It is understood that operationsmay commence up to 2 hours early when the Mnisby of Natural Resources directs operations to be shutdown. Arrangements will be discussedwith local union steward and the employeesinvolved at the start of each fire season.
Original Signedat Sudbury, (Mario,this 14th day of June, 1988 FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
J. B. ATHERTON	EKED MIRON
General Manager of Fibre	Resident, Local 2693
Supply
Signed for the Union: __________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:,
E. C, McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Wood Products
58
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTSLTD, FORESTRYDIVISICN MEMORANDUM CF UNDERSTANDING Reached Between
E. B. EDDY FORESTPRODUCTS LTD,
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
ARTICLE VII -HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
Covering employees departing before completion of last shift prior to aholiday.
An employee, who desires to leavepriorto the end of his lastshift before a holiday, shall make reasonable arrangementswith the Companysufficiently in advance of his leaving to provide for reschedulingor replacement, unless other arrangements have beenagreedto between the Company and the Union, either at camp level or management level. Under these circumstances the employee will not be penalized for HolidayPay where early departure is necessary due to transportation problems either by rail or other means.
Permissionfor these requests will not be unreasonablyrefused.
Original Memorandumsigned:
For the Union: D, W, Labelle
For the Company: L, F, Lounder
Signed for the Um.cn:____________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_____________________________
E. C, McManus, VicePresident,
F orestry & Wbod Products
59
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, AND
LOCAL2693 -IWA CANADA
RE: ARTTCIEXI• HOURSOEWORK
Notwithstandingthespecificterms of Article XI ■ Kjzsofwork, it is understood thatthe work-week and hours ofworkmay be amended to provide alternative scheduling.
Such alternative schedulingshall not include provision for a seven (7) day operation, will be applied on a operating unit basis, and all terms will be subjectto agreement between the Uram,the Company and the employees involved.
Signed at Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June 1988.
FOR THE UNION	FOR THECOMPAMT;
FRED MIRON	J.B. ATHERTON
President Local 2693	GeneralManagerof Fibre Supply
Signed for the Ihim:__________________________
W, McIntyre, President Local 2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Hbod Products
so
E B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, FORESTRYDIV1SION ESPANOLA ONTARIO
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ARTICLE 12,03 (a)
It is agreed that in the administrationof 12,03 (a) (layoffs and mallsXat time of layoff employees will indicatewhetherthey wish to be recalled (I) on Company-wide basis, or (2) to their regularcamp when it opens. It is understoodthat where an employee elects option (1) and is recalled to a camp other than his regular camp, he will return to his regularj ob when it becomes available. If in the event that his regularj ob is abolishedhe will be transferred to thejob in his regular classification^) which he is entitledby seniority.
Original Memorandum signed: FortheUmai: D. W, Labelle For the Company: L. F, Loundet
Signed for the Uim:____________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company.
E. C. McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Wood Products
61
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: SENTORTTY RIGHT OE AN EMPLOYEE IN THE EXERCISE OFHIS SENTORTTY UNDER12.Q3 (a) UPON NOTICE OFLAYOFF
An employee, who has been notified that he is to be laid a££,may accept lay off or exercise his seniority right, aid occupy ajob that is continuing and which he has the qualificationson the basis of 12,01 to occupy, aid which is eithervacant or filled by an employee with less seniority.
Th ejobs, that he is permitted to exercise his seniority to occupy, shall be in the following preferential order:
(a)	. Camn Unit
(1) .	on ajob with a comparable rate to thejob he was laid off,
(2) .	on ajob with a higher rate,
(3) .	on ajob with a lowerrate in comparisonto the rate of thejob he was laid o ff.
In the event that the employee does not have sufficient seniority to occupy a j ob as set out under (a) •
(1)	aid (2), aid he does not prefer to exercise his seniority o n ajob as set out in (3), he shall be permitted to exercise his seniorityat a camp where board aid lodging are provided, or a commuter operation, eitherat his election:
(b)	. Company Wide
(1)	.on ajob similar, or ajob with a comparable rate to thejob he was laid cff,
(2) .	on aj ob with a higher rate,
(3) .	on ajob with a lower rate in comparison to the rate of thejob he was laid off.
Original Signed February 3,1911:
FortheUnion T. Mior,President, Local2693 For the Company: J,B, Atherton, Omani Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President
Forestry & Wood Products
62
LETTER OF UND ERSTANDIN G
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOEESTPRODUCTS LTD,
AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
AR TTCT ,E XT V ■ ME,PTC ATSURGTC ATDRUG AND HOSPTTAT, CARE PT ,ANS
If due to legislativeaction, any type of corporateassessmentis levied to fund any of the above plans, the agreed to amounts will be used first tooffsetdbecl costs to the Company and in no case will the Company's contributionsexceedthe agreed to amounts
Orig/na/Letter signed January 18,1979:
For the	Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J,B, Atherton, General Manager Etrestry Division
Signed for the Urkn:____________________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:.
E. C, McManus, Vice President, Forestry & Wood Products
S3
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDYFOREST PRODUCTS LTD,
AND
LOCAL 2693-IWA CANADA PIECEWORK - TREE LENGTH
1.	Implementation
(a)	. Piecework will be implemented in the cut and skid operations by September 1,1985,
(b)	. When piecework andmechanical harvesting equipmentare operating out of (he same camp, the Companywill designate separate operating areas for each group.
(c)	. When cleanup is required behind mechanicalharvesting operations, it will be done on a daywork basis.
2.	Transportation
Transportation separate fern dayworkers will be supplied for pieceworkers,
3.	Layout
Boundaries of individual blocks will be marked in the field.
4.	Skidder operatorswill not be required to grease their machines,
Original Letter Signed July 24,1985:
For the Union: F, Muon, President, Local 2693
For the Company: I, B, Atherton, Generalhtracp: Forestry Division
Signed for the Union: ____________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:___________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President, Forestry & TCniProducts
fie
ADDENDUM TO PIECEWORK MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT- JULY 24.1985
1.	The number of employees in each cut and skid crew shallnot exceed
two employees at any time.
2.	Add to memorandumArtide #8
When a mate is absent, tho remaining employee will be treated as a day worker in accordancewith 11,04 (a) and 11,04 (b). However he may be assignedwak in another two man crew to form a three man crew if mutually agreed by the crew.
3.	Skidway Preparation: Skidways will be prepared by the Company when required. This will be determinedby the Supervisorin consultationvifh the crew,
Original Signed:
Signedforthe Union: F, Miron, President,Local 2693
Signed for the Company: J. B. Atherton, General Manager of Fibre Supply
Signed for the Union: _____________________________
W, McIntyre, President,Local2693
Signed for the Company:.
E. C, McManus, Vice President, F orestry & Wbod Products
65
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
The Companywill agree to condition cf i 1.03 (d) (postingof vak schedule on previous Thursday).
However it is understood that should cmployccabsenteeism increase as a result cf the posting on Thursday affecting operations on Friday, the Companywill meet and discuss the problem with local union representative and postingwill revert to Friday.
Original Letter signed February 3,1977:
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
Forthe Company: J.B.Atherton, General Manager Forestry Darisiai
Sigsd for the Union:________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_____________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President testiy & Wood Products
66
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTSLTD,
FORESTRY DIVISION
AND
LOCAL2693 ■ IWA CANADA
Subject:	OwnerOnerator Eaulpment
Opportunities for employees to operateself-owned equipmentontheoperationswillbe phased in and accomplishedin accordancewith the followingprinciples.
1. )	Privately owned equipmentwill be on a voluntary basis. No employee shall be required to own or least any equipmentas a condition of employment
2. )	The Company will ensure that all terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement are followed.
3. )	Repairs shall be carried outby Company tradesmenemployedinthejob classifications while this equipment is on Units and wort: sites of the Company.
It is understood that operators scheduledon such equipmentmay be required lo do minor repairs during their scheduledshift,
4. )	The Companyagrees that any incentive bonus plans will loe paid through the Company payroll,
50	The number of employees owning or leasing equipmentwill not exceed twenty (20%)
percent of the number of employees on the seniority list as of January 1,1998. The 20% number will not include the wood haul tracks,
6. )	Senior employeeswill be given first opportunity to lease or purchase such equipment subject to Article XII Seniority 12,01, paragraph 1,
7. )	The Companywill provide financial assistancetopurchaseequipment and to provide for business training to employees who are contracting to become owner-operators.
8. )	The Companywill review and set the rates and oonditionsannually after which the owner operatormay request a meeting to discuss the rates and conditions.
67
TheUnion President will attend this noting.
Shouldthe owner operatorbe in disagreementwith the rates, the matter will be referred to a non binding mediator.
9. )	The Companyis prepared to offer work to the owner operator’s equipment ahead of Company owned or leased equipment.
10. )	Owners’ contract will establish seniorityas of the date it becomes operative on the limited and worksites of the Company.
Signed this 18th day of July, 1999 at Sudbury, Ontario.
Signed for the Union:________________________________
W. McIntyre, President Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_______________________________________
Matin Litchfield, Regional Woodlands Manager Central Ontario Region
6a
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. AND
LOCAL 2693
IWA CANADA
RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
During the term ofthe Collective Agreement effective September 1, 1982 to August 31, 1984 the Company does not expect any reduction in its present employees (i.e. all employees on the work sites April 14, 1983 and the revised seniority list April 14,1983) as a result of changes in wood fibre supply to the Espanola Mill. (Normal seasonal layoffs excepted).
Theincreasedproductionofsawlog material onE. B, Eddy Forest Products Ltd., timber licence substantiates this expectation.
In the event circumstances dictate a change in the sources of the wood fibre supply to the Bspsnola mill which affects employment security to such employees then the Company agrees:
(1) .	To give as much advance notice as is possible.
(2) .	To discuss with the Union, job opportunities for displaced employees and other work in
accordance with Article XII so as to minimize the adverse effect on employees displaced by such changes.
Original Letter Signed
For the Union: T. Mior, President, Local 2693
For the Company: J. B, Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:__________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:________________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry k Wood Products
69
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
E. B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LT D, AND
LOCAL2693 - I.W.A. CANADA RECOGNITION- JURISDICTION
This will confirm our understanding that during the term of the CollectiveAgreement from September 1, 1987 to August 31,1990, it is not theCompany'sintentto reduce its productionof wood fibre from Companyoperations to less that230,000 cunits of the requirements to the Naim Sawmill.
However, if circumstances arise which were beyond the contra 1 of the Company, resulting in the Company altering this volume and which could affect the employmentopportunities of cur employees, we will undertake to advise the union as early as possible and discuss ways and means of providingjob opportunities for our employees in accordance with Article XU,
Signedat Sudbury, Ontario, this 14th day of June, 1988,
FOR THE COMPANY:
J.B. ATHERTON General Mancpr of Fibre Supply
FOR THE UNION
FRED MIRON President,Local2693
Signed forthe Union:_______________________________
W, McIntyre, President,Local2693
Signed for the Company:
E. C, McManus, Vice President Forestry & WoodProducts
70
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
REACHEDBETWEEN E. B, EDDY FORESTPRODUCTSLTD,
AND
LOCAL 2693 - TWA CANADA
Covering the applicationand administrationof Section3.01(c) of Article HI, of their Collective
Bargaining Agreement forthe period commencing September), 1966,
1.	Any thirdparty operatorwho was not establishedon the Company’s limits as of August 31,1966 shall be bound by the provisions of Section 3,01 (c),
2.	The operationof each of the thirdparty operators whovtas establishedon the Company’s limits as of August31,1966 shall be subjectto the following terms and conditions:
(a) .	They shall, as of April, 1968, be subjectto the provisions of Section 3,01 (c),
(b) .	They shall, in season 1967-68 (April 1,1967 March 31,
1968), limit the production of forest products for the company’s account,to volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 production levels.
(c), As of April 1, 1968, they may continue to deliver to the Company, chips manufactured from sawmill residues in volumes which do not exceed their 1966-67 chip p reduction 1 evels, The d elivery t o a nd t he C ompan/s purchase of such chips shall not be construed to be contrary to the provisionsof Section3,01 (c),
Original Tether signed
FortheUrim-D. W. Labelle
Forthe Company- D, W, Gray
Signed for the Urkn:___________________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:_
E C, McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
71
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
AND
LOCAL 2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject: Recognitlon/Jurisdlctlon
In conjundionwith the resolution cf the owner operator, the Companywill endeavour to harvestall allocated fibre from its limits and work sites.
Priorto any third party agreements being issued, the parties will neb to determinewhether or notthe fibre can be economically harvestedby equipment owned and operated by Company employees.
Signed this 17th day of April, 1994, atSudbury, Ontario
Signed for the Union:________________________________
W, McIntyre, President,Local 2693
Signed for the Company:.
E. C. McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
72
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FORESTPRODUCTSLTD, AND
LOCAL 2693 IWA CANADA
RE: LICENCES -TRUCK AND BUS DRIVERS
The Companywill reimburseTruck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportationand Communications to renew their licence, where such renewal is required in order to continue in their jobs as a Truck or Bus Driver,
Original Letter Signed December 16,1980
FortheUnion: T, Mior, President,Local2693
For the Company: J, B, Atherton, General Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:__________________________
W, McIntyre, President,Local 2693
Signed forthe Company:_________________________
E. C, McManus, Vice President Forestry&Wood Products
n
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
E. B. EDDY FORESTPRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
AND
LOCAL 2693 • IWA CANADA
The Company will providewashing and drying facilities for the use of the Camp 12 cookery personnel.
(amp 500 cookery personnel have their laundry provided for by the central laundry located in that camp.
OriginalLettersignedFebmary3,1977
Forthethim:T. Mior, President,Local2693
Forthe Company: J.B,Atherton, Genera/Manager Forestry Division
Signed for the Union:__________________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local2693
Signed for the Company:.
E. C. McManus, Vice President Foreshy & Wood Products
74
/W AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE VI VACATION PAY
TheCompanyand the Union agree to amend Article VI of the Collective Agreement as follows:
1,	VacationPayaccrualwillbepaidtoemployeeupcn request.
2.	Bequest for vacation payrrust he submitted at leasttwo weeks inadvanceof payment date.
Signed: FortheUnion __________________________________________
Wilfred McIntyre, President, Local 2693
For the Company ___________________________
E. C. McManus, Vice President Etestiy & Wood Products
Signed: Januaiy28,1993
75
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, FORESTRY DIVISION
AND
LOCAL 2693 ■ IWA CANADA
Subject:	CAMP COSTS
Recognising the excessivecosts involved inprovidingthe present contractual obligationcoveringcamp operating aid I i ving conditions, it is understood that should operationsbe carried out in the future in areas which are not accessible fern communities on a daily commuter basis or where the costs of tzanspcotingpersonnel fcon existingcampsis excessive, other suitable arrangement for living accommodations, etc., will be arranged with the Union
The parties agree to work together dining the term of the Collective Agreement to identify aid recommendto their principlesmeasures that will help reduce camp costs thereby justifying the continuation of camp life.
A committee of 2 Union representatives and 2 Management representatives will be established within one (1) month following the ratification of the Agreement, Mas peoplemay be assigned to this Committee if required.
The parti es further agree that the scope of this Committee's work will not b e limited in anyway by what already exists in the CollectiveAgreement
Signed this 17th day of April, 1994 at Sudbury, Ontario
Signed for the Union:________________________________
W. McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the Company:______________________________
E C, McManus, Vice President Forestry & Wood Products
76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E B. EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD. FORESTRY DIVISION
AND
LOCAL2693 - IWA CANADA
Subject:	Inter Camp Transfen
This is to confirm the discussions that were held during the 1993 round of
bargaining.
As a result of these discussiais, it has been agreed to between the parties that limit wide postings can be made forboth a mobile harvesting camp and a portion of the truck haul,
Signed this 17th day of April, 1994 at Sudbury, Ontario
Signedforthe Union:__________________________________
W, McIntyre, President, Local 2693
Signed for the CompanyL.
E. C. McManus, Vice President Rrnasby & Wood Products
77
April 17,1994
Mr. W. McIntyre
President, IWA Canada
DearWilf:
As discussed duringthe 1993 negotiations, the Companysupports the concept of selling up a process to monitor training.
Ib this end, we are prepared to set up a procedure whereby an hourly rated employee at the camp level will be kept up to date as to how an employee is progressing in qualifying for a specificjob.
It is further understood that a decisionwill be made within two (2) months from the commencement of training as to whether or not an individual qualifies for the job for which he is being trained.
Yours truly,
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD.,
RG. ARMSTRONG, Manager Logging Operations
:tc
78
April 17,1994
Mr, W, McIntyre
PresidentyLocal 2693
DearWilf:
1.	All cookery personnel will be giventhe Sudbury HealthUnit Course in Food handling.
2.	AI! cookery personnelwill be required to have an annual medical consistentvih their job.
3,
in possession
Provincialcertificate.
Yours truly,
E. B, EDDY PORESTPRODUCTS LTD,
R, G, ARMSTRONG,
Mtap: Logging Operations
:tc
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTS LTD, AND
LOCAL 2693 -IWA CANADA
REi MobileCamn • Camn 605 Operations
In reference to the Letter of Understanding contained in the current Collective Agreement • (Page 85 Paragraphl);
"Recognizing the excessive costs involved in providing the present contractual obligation covering camp operating and living conditions, it is understood that should cperations be carried out in the future in areas which are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis or where the costs of transporting personnel firm existing camps is excessive, other suitable arrangement for living accommodations,etc, will be arranged with thelito!'
It is understood and agreed that the Camp conditions at the Mobile Camp are of a different standard than those as described in the Collective Agreement.
It is also understood and agreed that the Mobile Camp positions will not be posted. Due to theremote location of many future harvest blocks, the Mobile Camp setup will now serve as the housing quarters fortheCamp605 operations which are presentlybased at Camp 12,
Capacity
40 to 70 employees Staffing
2 cooks	@ Cooks wage rate
1 Cookee	@ Cookee's wage rate
1/2 timeBullcook	@ Bullcookswagerate (handledty "additionalwcrk1 postings)
Extended Operations from the Camp 12 Site
If a portion of the Camp 605 operations will continue to operate firm the existing Camp 12 site for an extended period of time, the senior employees will be given first option to remain there. This does not refer to that period required for a norml move where puts of the operation are required to slay behind in order to complete thejob.
so
This Camp will meet the current Government requirements for an industrialcamp.
It is agreed that if certain conditions surrounding the operation of the Mobile Camp are not satisfactory to eitherthe Union of the Oanpary ,both parties will mast to resolvethe issue.
Dated fids 27 th day ofTehruaty 1997.
Signed for the Union:	Signed for the Oanpary:
W, McIntyre, President, E.C.McManus, Vice President, Local 2693	Forestry & Wnod Products
81
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
E. B, EDDY FOREST PRODUCTSLTD.
AND
LOCAL 2693 -IW A CANADA
Restricted Operations Dus to Fire Hazards Conditions and Application of Seniority High fire hazard conditionsoften results inpartial or restrictedhour operations. In that event, and for the durationof the hazardous period, operationsand assignment of work will be carried out in accordancewith the following:
[fall operations continue on restricted hours, the employee filling eachjob on a regular basis will continue to do so. Should such employee be a member of a regular designated fire-crew,and his crew is called or assigned for duty, a morejunior qualified fue-crew member may take his place on the fire crew if available.
If Partial operations only continue on a restricted basis, the employeefilling eachjob on aregularbasis will continue to do so.
Each employee, prior to leaving, will be asked whether or not they wish to bump within their own camp, and this information will be communicated to the Unan ResourcesDepartmentwithout delay.
After an absence of five (5J working days, employeeswho have indicated their desire to do so shall be permitted to bump to aj ob for which they are qualified, as per past practice.
When operations previously shut down resume on aoartial or restrictedbasis employees will be called to fill available work on the basis of company seniority (Such employee shall have the option of declining such call without loss of seniority rights if it is not his regular position and location)
When operations resume on a normal basis each employee will, when advised to do so, automatically return to the location andj ob which he held prior to the emergency situation.
If other circumstances arise which have not been addressed in this memorandum, the Companyand the Urim will meet to resolve anyproblems identified.
Signed at Sudbury, OitTario this 8th day of April, 1997
SIGNED FOR THE UNION	SIGNED FOR THE COMPANY
W,McIntyre, President, Local2693	E.C.McManus, Vice President
forestry & Wood Products.
82
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERSDISABILITYBENEFIT PLAN
1.	Definitions
In thisplan, unless otherwise specifically provide!,
(a). "Accident" is abodily injury causedby external Violent means;
00, "Disability" is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan;
(c) .	"Employee" means an employee in the active employment of the Company,
who cores under thejurisdictionofthe Labour Agreement by and between;
Domtar Inc. andLocal2693 - 1, W, A Canada;
(d) ,	"Insurer" means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the
company;
(e) .	"Plan"means the Ontario Woodsworkers DisabilityBenefit Plan;
(f) .	"Company" means Domtar Inc.;
(g) ,	"Weekly Earnings" means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 40 hours x
his regular rate:
00, "Medical Practitioner" means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
2,	Participation
(a), All employees of the company shall be eligibleto participate in this Plan, in accordancewith the provisions listed herein.
00 Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3,	Amount of Disability Benefits
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined i n Section 1 (g) i immediately p receding the date of disability, subject to a maxiirum weekly disability benefit of $550.00 effective first of month following date of ratification.
83
The Weekly Indemnity maximum will be increased by $15.00 per week or each subsequent September l, for those employees activelyatwork as outlined below:
Date of Ratification	•	$580,00 per week
September \, 2004	-	$590.00 per week
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount payable for such week under the Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 aid ita regulation as amended.
4,	Eligibility for Payment
(jy	Exceptinthecaseofadisabilityarisingoutofanaccident. an
employee shallbe eligibleto receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability.
j'jjy In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance vifh Section3 hereof, fora period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(by An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefitunder this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid cff had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to fiimish evidence satisfactory to the company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(cy An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(dy An employee making a claim for an amount of disabilitybenefit after layoff or termination of employment, for disability establishedto the satisfaction of the company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his layoff or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disabilitybenefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commencedprior to actual layoff or termination.
(e). An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of layoff and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be consideredas startingfrom the date he is required to return to work.
a4
4, Eligibility for Payment -Continued...
(fy Successiveperiods of disability separated by less tan four consecutive weeks shall be consideredone period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous disabilityand commences after return toactiveemploymenton full time.
(gy An amount of disability benefit under this EQai shallnot be paid in the event the absence is a result of,
(i).
(ii).
(8).	(»i).
(iv).
Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
Disability or loss (1) while the protected person is on or could be placed on pregnancy/matemity leave, or (2) if a protected person fails to qualifyfor pregnancy/matemity leave because of failure to meet the I ength o f service r equirements, during the period of pregnancy/matemity leave that the protected person could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statues, or,....
Any injury or illness entitling the employee to canpaisaticn under any Workplace Safety and Insurance Beard or similar legislation, or
self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or
insane, or
any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a not, or civil commotion, or
(vi).	disability for which the employee isnot under the treatment of a
medical practitioner, or
(vii) ,	for a period of disability in excess of four weeks when
treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractor, certification of disability will only be acceptedfor payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
(viii) ,	alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is
undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addition, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
es
(h). An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or ncre than one-half tty’s regularpay, from the Company.
(i),	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following
the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the companypensionplan.
(j) .	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early
retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
(k) .	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the
amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total aid permanent, disability provision for the company pension plan.
Disputed W.S.I.B. Claim
If an employee covered by the W.I, Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute or delayed with WSIB, W.I. payment will be made retroactively, if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one month due to the disability without the WSIB having acceptedthe claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the W.I. plan. If the WSIB daim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the W.I. payments) received to the appropriate fund or insurance company.
5> Payment of Benefits
(a) .	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered
as starting from the first day of disability, however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as startingtwo complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
(b) .	A daily rate of payment for each calender day of absence that qualifies for
payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
(c) ,	The amount of disability payments will be paid every week. Such benefits
on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
86
6. Miscellaneous Provisions
/In employee absent on an authorizedleave of absence on the date he was to become eligible under this Elai,&s set out in Section4, shall, upon the date ofhis return to active employment, be eligible to participate in thisplan.
(b). If an employee.who has been coveredunder the terms of thisplan is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should layoff occur during this period.
(<>)■
T he 5/12 of the U.I.C. premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
7.	Government Disability Plans
(a) .	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the
amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability, for which the employee is receiving an amount of disabilitybenefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workplace Safety and Insurance Board disability pensions.
(b) .	The Company and/or Insurer may require certificationor verification of the
amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other GovernmentPlans.
(c) ,	The amount of disability benefit in excess ofthe amountwhich shouldhave
been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disabilitybenefit, or repaid by the employee to the company and/or insure:, as the case may be, throughsomeothermutually satisfactoryarrangement.
8,	Physical Examinations
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to rapre periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9,	Administration
1 shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the company of his absence due to disability, following which the company will issue the necessaryinitial claim forms to him,
a?
9. Administration - Continued..,
1(b).	Completed claim forms will be checked by the company to determine
whether <r not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the company may then forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for hither processing.
(c). The Company will meet with representatives of the Unm from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the Plan and any problemswhich may arise.
(d). Should any employee or the Unm have any canplaint concerning entitlements to benefits under the Plan, the matter may be taken up as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided fcr under Article VIII of file Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
88
APPENDIX "A"
DOMTAH INC.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR WOODLANDSEMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long TermDisabilityBenefit Plan,
The Long TermDisabilityBenefitPlan shall be administered in accordance Wilh the terms of an insurancepolicy.
1.	Eligibility
The Long Ifenn Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage
An eligible employee is entitled to benefitsprovided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Plan becomes effective.
An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accidentat the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to cmtinims active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutiveweeks.
An eligible emp loyee absent from work due to layoff at the effective date of the Plan shall be entitled to the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan benefits upon recall on reporting to work.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning ftxmsuch layoffto determinetheir eligibilityunder the Plan.
3.	Qualifying Period
An insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Lung Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of benefit entitlement for the same diability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	Definition of Disability
''Disability1 shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan aid is thereafter unable because cf disease or injury to work at any occupation in toe Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
99
5, Amount of Benefit
1(a).	The disability t shall beS5% of monthly earnings effective first of
month following date of ratification for those employeesactivelyaf work
(b).	"MonthlyEarnings" means, in the case of a day or shift works, 173 x his
regular hourly rate; in the case of a pieceworker, 173 x the Feller Limber hourly rate,
(c). "Hourly Rate" means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or difb bonus.
(d). The benefits payable under this Plan are reduced by any primary disability payments made under the Canada Pension Plan, or any Company group disability income plan Benefits are not affected by P6cteBiaB,WS(B Disability Pensions, or ty any i nsurance p olicies b e m ay h ave p urchased himself.
(e). While receiving benefits infer this Plan, the employee will continue to accrue full pension credits as though still working af no cost to the employee based on earnings equal to the rate of pay far the job on which he was employed immediately prior to disability, in the caseof a pieceworker, the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
6.	Duration of Benefit
(a). Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled
(b).	Serviceforpurposesoftheplanwillbebasedonthepraent calculationn['
pension seracesince January 1,1951.
(c).	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears,
7. Termination of Benefits
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of anyone o f the following:
(a) .	Onthedatetheemployeeceasestobedisabledlf there is a recurrence of the same
disability wfcttnn sir (6) months of return to work, anew qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability B enefi! p ayments. T his p revision s hall t ake p recedence o ver any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
(b) .	On exhaustion of the benefit period, or
90
(c) .	UptonamBlreSrementage.or
(d) ,	On death,
8.	Exclusion
1(4),	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible
for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
(b). Benefitsunder the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
(j),	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing
any act or thing pertaining to any occupation co: employmentforremuneradonorprofit, or
(ii), any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any WidjilaaB Safety and InsuranceBoard or similar legislation, or
(b). (iii),	self-destruction or any self-inflictedinjury, while sane or
insane, or
(jv), disability for which the employee is irtunderthe treatment of a physician, or
(v),	alcoholism or drug addiction,unless the employeeis
undergoing a recognized course of treatmentby a specialist in the case and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoingregular rehabilitativetreatment approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
vil, Disabilityof loss (1) whilethe employee is on, or could be
placed on Pregnancy/Matemity Leave, or (2) if employee fails to qualify for Pregnancy/Matemity leave because of failure to meet the lengthof service requirements, during the period cf Pregnancy/Matemity Leave that the employee couldbe on if she qualified for suchleave, in accordance with the Employment StamterrisAct 1974, Ontariooranyotherrelevant provincial statutes.
9.	Rehabilitation
An employee receiving an amount of Long Tferai Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. if such employeerefusesto undertakesuchrehabilitation, he maybe declared not eligiblefor an amount cf disability benefits.
91
10. Physical Examinations
Hie Company and/or insurer reserves (he right to require periodical physical examinations throucfioii the duration of the aiployee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the company and/or insurer.
Cost c£physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION
Signed for the Union:
Signed for the Company
92