COLL
AGRE
OUVHMVALDS«i$ TIMBER CO.
The Lumber and Sawmill Worker’s Union, LOCAL 2995,
September 1,1986 to August 31,1989.
00045 (02)
-1 -
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS’ UNION LOCAL 2995, of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (hereinafter called the “Union”)
ARTICLE I-PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in Article X of this Agreement and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
ARTICLE II-Period
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of the Agreement from September 1st. 1986. to August 31st. 1989. inclusive and from year to year thereafter unless either partydesires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to August 31st of that particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
-2-
ARTICLE III - RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
3.01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in Woods, Sawmill and Planing Mill operations on the limits and on the work sites of the Company. For purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the Wage Schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on job classifications which may be established and become part of the attached Wage Schedule during the term of this Agreement.
3.01	(b) The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the terms of this Agreement, save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractors who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an Agreement with a Union or Unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
3.02	Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as the result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other trade Union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matter as fixed by the C.L.C. and the Company will not be asked to act upon any matter of jurisdiction between organizations of the C.L.C.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The Wage Schedule is attached hereto and forms part of this Agreement.
-3-
ARTICLEIV • RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS (Cont’d)
4.02	If, during the term of this Agreement, a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached Wage Schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least thirty (30) days advance notice in writing.
During the thirty (30) day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union and discuss such changes.
For the new job classifications, the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the Wage Schedule.
Following implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes, shall commence without delay.
After agreement is reached, such rates shall become part of the attached Wage Schedule.
In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within thirty (30) days of the effective date of the change or alteration, the matter may be referred to Stage 2 of the Grievance Procedure. The thirty (30) day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties. New rates when established shall be retroactive to the date of establishment of the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached Wage Schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from daywork to piecework or vice versa if such a change adversely affects the average earning of the employees concerned.
-4-
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02	(a) Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.02	(b) When hiring employees, the Company will, after complying with Article XII of this Agreement, give preference to Union members who apply and are capable of doing the work required of them. If Union members are not available, the Company shall have the right to hire non-Union help until such time as Union members are available. The Company further agrees to advise the Union Office of its labour requirements from time to time thereafter. The Company shall furnish the Union Steward with a list of new employees each week.
5.02	(c) New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall upon hiring advise all new employees by letter, with a copy to the Union Steward, to report to the Steward within ten (10) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
5.02	(d) The Company shall put employees on checkoff at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union’s monthly membership dues from monies due him.
5.03	If an individual employee, who is a member of the Union or wished to become a member, so desires, the Company agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon his written request, or upon written notice by the Union, pay Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him.
-5-
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP (Cont’d)
5.04	Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union, said remittances to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names with Christian names and amounts. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month. A copy of the list will be given by the Company to the Union Steward.
5.05	Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Company’s operations. Credentials carried by the Union representatives shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union, and shall be presented to a Company Official upon arrival on the operations.
5.06	The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and Representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
ARTICLE VI - VACATION WITH PAY
6.01	(a) Vacation with pay shall be paid to each employee by separate cheque to be issued at the time of termination of employment or at the time vacation is taken or at the option of the employee in cases of lay-off when such are to exceed one (1) month.
6.01	(b) Vacations will, as far as possible, be granted at times most desired by employees. An employee, to ensure consideration of his desire, must notify his supervisor of his preferred vacation period by April 1st in any given year. When requests of two or more employees in a department conflict with the Company’s requirements, the Company will allocate vacations giving preference to the most senior employees.
Each 2% increment of vacation pay entitles an employee to one (1) week of time off.
6.02	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on the following basis commencing the first pay period following signing of the contract:
-6-
ARTICLE VI • VACATION WITH PAY (Cont’d)
6.02	a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who have less
than 800 days of seniority.
b)	6% of gross earnings for employees who have 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days seniority.
c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have
2.000	days or more but less than 4,000 days seniority.
d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have
4.000	days or more but less than 5,400 days seniority.
e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have 5,400 days or more seniority.
0 Supplementary Vacations with Pay
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation with pay, in the calendar year in which they attain:
Age 60 - 1 week (2% of gross earnings)
Age 61-2 weeks (4% of gross earnings)
Age 62 - 3 weeks (6% of gross earnings)
Age 63-4 weeks (8% of gross earnings)
Age 64-5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
6.03	For the purpose of this Article, seniority will be acquired and maintained as defined in Article XII of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees will be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays:
New Year’s Day January 2nd Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Civic Holiday Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the
following Monday shall be deemed to be the Holiday.
-7-
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY(Cont’d)
7.01	(Corn’d)
Effective January 1, 1988 exchange Winter Wonderland for the following:
In addition, employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority will be granted one(l) floating holiday per year to be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor. If an employee has not taken his floating holiday by the end of December each year and has not signified his intention of taking it, such floating holiday will be scheduled by the Company before February 28 of each year.
Requests for floaters must be submitted in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, three (3) working days in advance of the floater with the exception of emergency situations. Management will respond within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the request.
7.02	(a) An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article 12.02 is eligible for holiday pay provided he works his last scheduled shift immediately preceding the Holidays and his first scheduled shift immediately following the Holidays.
7.02	(b) I. An employee who is qualified under Article XII and who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence.
II.	An employee who is qualified under Article XII and who ceases work due to lay-off during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday (s) within such thirty (30) day period.
III.	An employee qualified under Article XII, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday (s) within such thirty (30)^day period.
-8-
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY(Cont’d)
7.02	(c) If an employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, is recalled and works any time during the twenty-one (21) calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.03	A special leave of absence may be granted to a qualified employee who must travel a long distance to be home for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive pay for the holiday provided he returns on time. Any request for such leave of absence must be made to the Camp Foreman prior to the end of the third (3rd) week of December.
7.04	(a) If qualified, a pieceworker will be paid at the rate of Operator Skidder on daywork, for the Statutory Holiday, and a dayworker shall be paid a day’s pay at his or her regular rate for the Statutory Holiday.
7.04	(b) If qualified, a dayworker who is requested to work on any Statutory Holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate, and in addition shall receive one (1) day’s pay at such regular rate in lieu of the holiday. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
7.04	(c) A pieceworker who is requested to work on a holiday shall receive his earnings plus one-half day at the appropriate rate in 7.04 (a) and, if qualified, shall receive in addition one (1) day at the appropriate rate in 7.04 (a). Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
7.05	An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period. This does not apply in connection with a period of shut-down not related to a period of vacation entitlements under Article VI and specifically does not apply in connection with any shutdown between Christmas and New Year.
-9-
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01	It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
8.02	The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership of two (2) Union Grievance Committees of three (3), each headed by a Union Steward, one (1) in the bush operations and one (1) at the Mill site.
Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing the receipt of such notice. The Company foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
8.02	(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee men.
8.02	(c) Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man may be allowed time off during his working hours at a time acceptable to the Company in connection with Union/Company business, provided that it does not interfere with the efficient operation of the Company (excluding negotiations or Collective Agreement). The Company shall pay the Union Steward and/or Grievance Committee man, at his regular or premium rate, which may be proper for any time spent in connection with 8.02.
8.03	A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
-10-
ARTICLE VIII ■ ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES (Cont’d)
8.04	Grievances as defined above may be taken by the employee, the Union Steward or the Union Representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee’s immediate supervisor for adjustment. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman, in accordance with this procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the foreman, in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
STAGE 2 - The matter shall be referred to the General Manager of the Company or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union’s President, or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then,
STAGE 3 - Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee’s grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.06	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 2 of this Grievance Procedure.
-11 -
ARTICLE VIII - Adjustment of Grievances (Cont’d)
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section 8.03 it shall commence at Stage 2 of this Grievance procedure by the Woods Manager or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days, then the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager of the Company or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following (15) fifteen days refer the matter to Arbitration.
8.08	In arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one (1) person; these two (2) shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party’s nomination. This Arbitration Board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) persons selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party. Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a single Arbitrator to arbitrate grievances arising out of discipline or discharge.
8.09	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to altep, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
8.11	Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall not be included in any time limits in this Article of the Agreement.
-12-
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE • NO LOCKOUT
9.01	In view of the orderly procedure established by this Agreement for the settling of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, it shall not cause, call or support any strike, picketing, slowdown or stoppage of work, either complete or partial, and the Company agrees that there will be no lockout.
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint safety committee to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of safety committee each calendar quarter. The position of Chairman shall alternate between a Company co-Chairman and a Union co-Chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall ensure that a report is made in triplicate, copies going to the Company office, the Union Office and the Company bulletin board. A member of the Committee is entitled to such time off from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
10.02	There shall be adequate First Aid Stations at or near worksites. Such stations to meet the standards of the Workmen’s Compensation Act and the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
All mobile equipment will be equipped with adequate fire extinguishers. It is the responsibility of the operator to see that it is in working order and is continually filled.
Adequate transportation facilities shall be provided by the Company for sick or injured employees.
10.03	Adequate car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees.
-13-
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
(Cont’d)
10.04	(a) Suitable portable shacks will be supplied and built by the Company for year round use to employees in the cut and skid piecework operations. Company will supply stove and screens.
10.04	(b) There shall be a fifteen (15) minute coffee break during each half shift, near midpoint of half shift. Coffee and cakes to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery during working hours; coffee breaks shall be on Company time. The Company will maintain lunchroom facilities for the sawmill, garage and barker.
10.05	(a) It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation.
10.05	(b) The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons, on loan, and other suitable uniform apparel at cost and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Where appropriate, washing machine facilities will be supplied for the use of cookery personnel.
10.05	(c) The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire and theft of tradesmen’s tools normally required by tradesmen, to the full value of such tools, while on Company property. It is understood that coverage for theft and fire of tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. (Sawmill, Planing Mill, Garage, Warehouse). Tradesmen shall supply an itemized list of tools to the Company, so that proper coverage can be provided.
Powersaws will be insured for loss by fire or theft to a maximum of $2,000.00 when stored in Company warehouse. Damage to employee owned powersaws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their depreciated value. An employee who causes a fire or causes damage willfully, or through established negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss.
-14-
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
(Cont’d)
10.06	The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of two (2) scales per pay. Pieceworkers will be provided with a copy of the scale slips after each scale. The scale slips will be closed everyday and provide the following information, where applicable; number of cords, number of pieces, riding and/or walking allowance and footage of strip or main road cut. Monthly payroll sheets shall be provided to all employees showing the rates of pay, days worked, monthly earnings and deductions and, for piecework cutters, amount of wood scaled.
When an employee gives twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment, the Company will endeavour to provide him with a settlement within another twenty-four (24) hours, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
The Company shall notify the affected employees when a skidway is to be removed before forty-eight (48) hours after being scaled.
Employees shall be paid every second Thursday.
A Times and Earnings Statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, time worked, total earnings and deductions covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be given to employees by the Company.
10.07	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others. All hand tools and such equipment will be charged to the employee’s account at the time of issue. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required. Full credit will be given for all tools returned. All tools not returned will be charged for in full Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned.
-15-
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
(Cont’d)
10.07	(Cont’d)
No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in the Agreement. No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company unless agreed to by the Company and the Union.
10.08	Powersaw operators will be provided with free chain saw files provided the old files are returned, and will be issued on loan the following:
1.	Light metal power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (1) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
The Company agrees to stock two (2) types of powersaw chains and chain saw repair kits, consisting of spare links and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at cost plus handling charges. The Company will pay 50% of one chain brake per year for employee owned powersaws. Employee shall provide proof of purchase in order to claim.
10.09	A separate building will be provided for the storage of power saws. Said building shall contain sufficient lockers for storage. In addition, a suitable separate heated building with work bench and vise will be provided for the repair of powersaws. No powersaws shall be repaired or stored in living and / or service quarters.
10.10	Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation and to be equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for the employees at waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities, where practical. The Company will, for
-16-
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
(Cont’d)
lO.lO(Cont’d)
the safety of its employees have either communication or transportation available at waiting places. If an employee is requested by the Company and agrees to supply his own means of transportation, to satisfy certain operational requirements, he will be paid seventeen cents (.17<t) per kilometer for all kilometers travelled. Effective September 1st, 1982, nineteen cents (.194) per kilometer.
10.11	Night Watchman shall be employed in all major operating camps.
10.12	The Company agrees to discuss with the Union each particular operation ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement, and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
10.13	Each tractor operator shall have a helper accompanying the machine when deemed necessary in the interest of safety.
10.14	The Company agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching in the producing and delivering operations on its limits.
10.15	The Company, consistent with its stated intent to promote and ensure the safety of employees, will not require an employee to work alone in an isolated area unless such operation is deemed safe. There shall be no less than two (2) per gang for piecework at all times.
10.16	The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all men who are transferred from camp to camp.
10.17	The Company will furnish on loan all non-personal safety apparel required. Employees will pay for personal safety apparel such as shoes, pants, etc.
-17-
ARTICLE X ■ WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
(Cont’d)
10.17	(Cont’d)
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a conditon of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union or is mandatory under Government legislation.
Raincoats at the jackladder, welding gloves and leather aprons will be loaned by the Company to employees using same in the execution of their work.
The Company will supply machinists, mechanics, welders, millwrights, electricians and other employees who perform maintenance or dirty work, suitable coveralls and provide for laundering of same free of any charge.
The Company further agrees to sell to employees safety boots at ten dollars ($10.00) below invoice price, also safety gloves or mitts to powersaw operators and to persons handling cable at five dollars ($5.00) below invoice price. Worn out gloves or mitts must be returned to Company in order to receive a new pair and at intervals for which same should last. Employees may purchase boots privately and in order to qualify for the above will have to show proof of purchase.
The Company agrees to supply free of charge one (1) pair of gloves or mitts per month to Boardway men who qualify under Article XII.
Effective date of ratification the subsidy for boots will increase to twelve dollars ($12.00) and seven dollars ($7.00) for safety gloves.
10.18	The Company will provide proper toilet and washing facilities with running water at the Sawmill. Washing and drinking water will also be provided at the garage.
Upon signing of this Agreement, the Company will take such measures as are required to improve ventilation, heating and dust control in both Sawmill and Planing Mill.
-18-
ARTICLE X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
(Cont’d)
10.19	There shall be spare skidders for pieceworkers using Company skidders. If same are not available when needed at worksite, it is understood that the employee (s) may proceed to the Company garage to select same, and will be paid for all hours lost or be offered alternative work if said machine is not available. It is further understood that the above alternate work or time lost will be paid at the rate of powersaw operator.
10.20	SKIDWAY PREPARATIONS
Company shall pay 5% of base earnings for skidway preparation where right of way hasn’t been cut.
10.21	SORTING BONUS
When at Company’s request the crew is required to sort wood 2.86% of base earnings will be paid. The Company agrees that such said bonus applies on all conifers if separated.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK
11.01	(a) The work week shall consist of forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive.
Employees may be required to work in excess of their regular day or shift or week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 for such time worked. Except in cases of emergency, an employee will, upon his reasonable request, be excused from working overtime.
11.01	(b) For the purpose of this Agreement, a Saturday or a Sunday or a Holiday shall begin at 7.00 a.m. of that day and end at 7.00 a.m. the day following.
11.02	(a) The day or day shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. mealtime excepted.
11.02	(b) The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. mealtime excepted.
-19-
ARTICLE XI - HOURS OF WORK (Cont’d)
11.02	(Cont’d)
On two (2) shift operations a shift differential of thirty-four cents (,34<C) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for the night shift, effective September 1st, 1987, thirty-five (.35®) per hour and effective September 1st, 1988, thirty-six cents (.36C) per hour.
11.03	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is required for work on Saturday or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Friday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at the overtime rate provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period if so requested by the Company and accepts alternate work if such work is offered to him provided such work falls within the qualifications of the employee and that he is adequately dressed.
11.04	If a day or shift worker reports for work and/or is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, he shall be paid for a minimum of eight (8) hours. To qualify for the above, an employee must remain on the job until told by the foreman that he may leave and must accept other than his normal work if it is offered, provided the employee is adequately dressed weatherwise to perform such work.
11.05	(a) Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked on Saturday and Sunday and all hours worked by an employee outside his schedule shift shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half with the exception when an employee has arranged with the approval of his supervisor to exchange shifts with fellow employee.
Overtime work required will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring the overtime.
-20-
ARTICLE XI HOURS OF WORK (Cont’d)
11.05	(b) All the classifications specified below who may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week shall receive after one (1) month’s employment four (4) days off with pay per month, such time to be taken off at a time satisfactory to the employee’s immediate supervisor. It is understood that the employee must take this time off. It is further agreed that these classifications shall receive the above bonus on a pro-rated basis for any partial month worked. In order to qualify for such pro-rated bonus, an employee must have worked at least fifteen (15) consecutive days.
a)	Choreboys
b)	Watchmen
These classifications are not subject to the provisions of Section 11.05 (a).
11.06	Walking distance up to 1 - 112 miles each way or riding time up to one-half (1/2) hour each way or walking and riding time combined and not exceeding one-half (1/2) hour each way, shall not be included in the regular hours of work and shall be on the employee’s time.
11.07	An employee, who is called back for work after completing his day or shift shall be paid time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours’ pay at the straight time rate.
11.08	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift he will be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
-21 -
ARTICLE XII SENIORITY
Effective September 1st, 1981, the provisions set out hereunder in compliance with the Letter of Understanding of June 3rd, 1982, shall come into full force and remain in effect.
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after lay-offs.
Seniority for the purpose of this Agreement shall mean all days worked and working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropractor plus total number of days on vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty, bereavement leave and Company approved off-the-job training in any calendar year.
Overtime work is not to be regarded as accumulative seniority time.
It is agreed and understood that an employee’s seniority will be cancelled if there should be conclusive evidence that he would have been capable of performing his regular work while absent for medical reason or that he worked elsewhere while on authorized leave of absence.
An employee who is on authorized leave of absence on Union business shall accrue seniority while on such leave of absence.
An employee who has accrued seniority and is then employed by the Union, shall retain such accrued seniority for a period not exceeding eleven (11) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employees shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days in one period of employment except on cases of layoff. Thereafter, Article 12.01 shall apply and the employees shall be credited with thirty (30) days of accrued seniority.
12.03	(a) Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers and layoffs.
-22-
ARTICLE XII SENIORITY (Cont’d)
12.03	(Cont’d)
When layoffs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations or a part thereof each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Company prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended layoff, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
12.03	(b) In transfers from one job classification to another senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. In case of temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate of his previous job classification unless the change is made at the employee’s request in which case he would receive the rate for the lower classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to daywork jobs, the rates specified for Operator Skidder on daywork shall apply or the rate of the job classification whichever is the higher.
12.03	(c) If as a result of a lay-off or for any other reason it is necessary to transfer an employee from one classification to another, senior employees will be given preference provided they have the skill, efficiency, and ability to meet or to be trained to meet the job requirements.
Employees who require training will be allowed five working days to qualify or such further period of time as may be mutually agreed to by the parties.
It is agreed however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for filling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
-23-
ARTICLE XII SENIORITY (Cont’d)
12.03	(Cont’d)
Job openings will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (5) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements.
Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five (5) day period.
The job will be filled from among the applicants on the basis of Section 12.01 of this Agreement.
Failure of an employee to qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits.
12.04	In cases of lay-offs, due to a shortage of work, the Company will give written advance notice of at least five (5) working days to the employees intended to be laid off and to the Steward. The time period set out herein shall not be applicable in cases involving a breakdown of machinery or an electrical power failure nor in the case of inclement weather and in connection with private skidder owners and their crews.
12.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of lay-off, employees will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in any case, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made, in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by April 30th of each year an alphabetical list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement, showing their hiring date following their last break in seniority and Company seniority in days as specified in Section 12.01, as at March 31st, of the same year. The list will show in addition each employee’s occupation and address.
12.07	A seniority list shall be prepared and posted monthly on the bulletin boards showing the total accumulated Company seniority of each employee with a copy to the Union Stewards.
-24-
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY (Cont’d)
12.08	Sickness certified by a physician, dentist or licensed chiropractor, authorized leave of absence or disabling injury, shall not affect an employee’s seniority. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with Section 12.02 of this Article shall retain such seniority for twelve (12) months during layoff. However, for any employee not recalled the twelve (12) month period shall be extended for another twelve (12) month period, if requested in writing by the employee affected or by the Union on his behalf.
An employee who quits of his own accord or is discharged and not reinstated, or fails to report to work following recall as provided in Section 12.05 of the Article, shall automatically lose all seniority. An employee who fails to return from leave of absence on the date specified shall lose his seniority unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
12.09	When jobs are discontinued due to the introduction of new methods and equipment, or due to curtailment of operations, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs in accordance with Article XII, to meet the Company’s labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company. It is understood this does not apply to seasonal lay-offs.
12.10	Effective September 1, 1988 an employee with three (3) or more years of continuous service for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technology changes or automation can upon termination elect to receive a severance allowance of one (1) week’s pay for each year of employment during his last period of continuous service up to the date of termination, computed on the basis of forty (40) straight time hours at the employee’s regular rate.
The maximum severance allowance payable being (30) weeks. It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowances will be terminated from his employment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this agreement.
-25-
ARTICLE XIII • BULLETIN BOARD
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs upon the bulletin boards of the Company and the Company shall provide the Union with one glass lockable type bulletin board; such notices to have approval of the Foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - JURY DUTY
14.01	In the case of an employee who is called for jury service or subpoenaed as a witness for the Crown, the Company shall pay for each day of such service an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his/her regular straight time hourly rate and the payment he/she received for jury service. The employee will present proof of service and of pay received therefore, when making his/her claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XV - HEALTH AND WELFARE
15.01	For each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will pay the premium cost of O.H.I.P., drug plan equivalent to the current Blue Cross Drug Plan (.354) and semi-private Hospital Care Plan monthly.
On lay-off, the Company will continue to pay the monthly premium costs of the following plans to the end of the month which the employee is laid off and for the succeeding month.
a)	O.H.I.P.
b)	Drug Plan
c)	Semi-Private
d)	Dental Plan
e)	Life Insurance
ARTICLE XVI LIFE INSURANCE
16.01	For each employee who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will initiate and maintain and pay the full premium cost to provide $22,500.00 Life Insurance while employed (A.D. & D. to the same amount included). Effective September 1, 1988 the amount will increase to $25,000.00.
-26-
ARTICLE XVII - DENTAL CARE PLAN
17.01	The Company will maintain a dental care plan with participation compulsory for all employees on the following basis:
1.	ELIGIBILITY:
Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to lay-off or leave of absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commences.
2.	PLAN DESIGN:
a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50%). The Plan provided for the application of the O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Effective date of ratification - 1985 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
September 1st, 1987 - 1986 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
September 1st, 1988 - 1987 O.D.A. Schedule of Fees.
Maximum of $ 1,000.00 per calendar year per person.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with a copy of Rules and Regulations relating to the Plan.
3.	ADMINISTRATION:
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the Plan Design outlined in Item 2 above. The decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, in-
-27-
ARTICLE XVII - DENTAL CARE PLAN (Cont’d)
17.01	ADMINISTRATION (Cont’d)
surance companies or self-administration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4.	PREMIUMS:
The premium cost of this Plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	INTEGRATION:
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by Federal or Provincial Legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement, Federal or Provincial Governments shall introduce legislation to provide benefits already covered by this Plan, the Plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XVIII - BEREAVEMENT PAY
18.01	Effective upon signing of the Agreement, when death occurs to a member of an employee’s immediate family that is an employee’s father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his regular rate, straight time, for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days. Pay will be granted for the employee’s schedule work days lost during this period. It is further understood that on death of an employee’s spouse and or children, a five (5) day leave with pay shall apply.
Any claim for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee’s immediate family.
It is understood for purposes of this Article, step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
The day of the funeral must be one of the three (3) days.
-28-
ARTICLE XIX - WEEKLY INDEMNITY INSURANCE PLAN
19.01	The Company will maintain the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnity Insurance for employees who have established seniority in accordance with Article XII. The Plan will provide for seventy per cent (70%) of weekly earnings: forty (40) hours times an employee’s regular rate up to a maximum of $250.00 dollars weekly, to commence on the first day in case of non-compensable accident or hospitalization and after three continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness and will continue for the period of the disability up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. Effective date of ratification such maximum coverage to be increased to U.I.C. maximum and any increases thereafter.
NOTE:	a) A claim for weekly indemnity benefits must be
supported by a certificate from a physician, dentist or licensed chiropractor.
b)	It is further understood that the Company and the Union will co-operate fully and in every reasonable respect to ensure that all claims for benefits herein are legitimate.
c)	Provided that the required and necessary medical information and documentation in regard to a proper and legitimate weekly indemnity claim has been provided to the Company promptly, then payments in regard to the said weekly indemnity claim will be made on a biweekly basis, and in cases of disability of less than two (2) weeks’ duration, will be made as soon as the amount is ascertained.
d)	Subject to Article 19.01 above, it is understood that an employee is entitled to weekly indemnity benefits for non-compensable injury or illness when unable to perform his/her regular duties and if the Company is unable to offer him/her alternative suitable employment. It is understood that the employee will accept alternative suitable employment if it is available and offered. If an employee voluntarily accepts
employment with another employer, the employee will not be eligible for weekly indemnity benefits.
-29-
ARTICLE XIX - WEEKLY INDEMNITY INSURANCE PLAN
(Cont’d)
19.01	(Cont’d)
e)	If an employee’s Weekly Indemnity Benefit Claim is delayed by more than one (1) month, the Company will advance the benefit payments to the employee.
NOTE:	I. A drug plan benefit whereby an employee,
upon having a prescribed drug ordered must pay the druggist a flat rate of thirty-five cents (,35t) per prescribed drug, the balance being covered by the carrying insurance Company, and furthermore, there being no co-insurance factor and no limit.
II.	A major medical insurance benefits for other than drugs with co-insurance factor and a flat twenty dollars ($20.00) deductible per person or per family per year.
III.	A semi-private hospitalization benefit unlimited as to duration or amount and not subject to the deductible or co-insurance.
NOTE:	All of the benefits set forth above are to be
described in a pamphlet in French and English to be supplied to each employee by the Company.
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIM
If an employee covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan, suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.C.B. Weekly Indemnity, payment will be made retroactively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.C.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.C.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment (s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance Company.
-30-
ARTICLE XIX - WEEKLY INDEMNITY INSURANCE PLAN
(Cont’d)
DISPUTED W.C.B. CLAIM (Cont’d)
For employees who qualify under Article XII, the Company agrees that an employee shall be paid at the regular rate for the balance of his shift lost, because of injury while at work. It is also agreed and understood that where an employee is unable to return to work, he will be required to show proof, to qualify for the above. Continued coverage on all benefits for a period of twelve (12) months if employee is off due to sickness or accident.
ARTICLE XX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
20.01	Effective November 1, 1980, the Company will institute, maintain and pay the monthly premium cost of Long Term Disability Plan providing for benefits of 50% of monthly earnings up to a maximum monthly payment of $1,100.00 based on accumulated seniority. Such plan to become effective after the weekly indemnity plan is exhausted. Effective September 1, 1988 the maximum will increase to $1,150.00 per month.
ARTICLE XXI - PENSION PLAN
The Company agree to provide a Pension Plan to be effective September 1,1988.
This Pension plan will be in the form of three (3) equal units totalling to $45.00 per month of defined contribution to be deposited with a Trustee to the credit of individual pension account under the Plan. The Company will be responsible for and pay the cost of administering the Plan.
The Company shall contribute $15.00 to each member’s account each month, or within thirty (30) days after the end of each month, in which a member who has not attained age 65 is entitled to receive pay for time worked or is on
a)	Weekly Indemnity
b)	The first twelve (12) months of benefits under the Worker’s Compensation Act (Ontario)
-31 -
ARTICLE XXI - PENSION PLAN (Cont’d)
c)	Vacation; or
d)	Jury Duty, bereavement leave, maternity leave, apprenticeship leave or other leave authorized by the Company.
For an employee who is eligible, the Company shall contribute an additional $15.00 to a member’s account each month or within thirty (30) days after the end of each month, in which the member contributes the sum of $15.00 to the member’s account in accordance with Section 3.04 of the Pension Plan for employees (Sawmill Agreement) of Olav Haavaldsrud Timber Company Limited. Employees will join this Plan after completing two-hundred (200) days of work and attainment of age 25.
MISCELLANEOUS Leaves of Absence:
Leaves of absence will not be granted for a period of more than one (1) month.
Travelling Time:
Where a dayworker’s travelling time to and from work is composed of riding, driving, and/or walking time, he will be paid for all travelling time, in excess of one half (1/2) hour each way at the regular straight time rate, based on the employee’s regular rate of pay.
Travelling time, for the purpose of this Agreement is comprised of all time spent by an employee from the marshalling point (Becker, or the employee’s residence, whichever is the closest) to the worksite.
Bus drivers only will be paid at time and one half for driving bus to and return from work.
It is agreed that for tractor operators, grader operators, and loader operators, the Company will pay straight time rate at regular employee’s rate from Becker to worksite during the term of this Agreement.
-32-
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, THIS. DAY OF________, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
-33-
WAGE SCHEDULE
HOURLY RATES Juiy28/87		Sept. 1/87	Sept. 1/88
WOODS DEPARTMENT Bringing Treelength to Barker	$13.73	$14.13	$14.43
Debarker Feeder - Hydraulic	13.73	14.13	14.43
Debarker Operator	13.73	14.13	14.43
Saw Operator	13.73	14.13	14.43
Loading Cars or Down Piling	13.73	14.13	14.43
Operator Bulldozer I	14.25	14.65	14.95
Operator Bulldozer 11	13.67	14.07	14.37
General Labour	13.23	13.63	13.93
Operator Skidder	13.71	14.11	14.41
Operator Koehring Feller Forwarder	13.94	14.34	14.64
Operator Feller Buncher	13.94	14.34	14.64
Truck Driver Hauling Gravel	13.65	14.05	14.35
Truck Driver Sander	13.65	14.05	14.35
Truck Driver Trailer	13.94	14.34	14.64
Operator Grader	13.94	14.34	14.64
Operator Chain Saws	13.94	14.34	14.64
Tire Repair Man	13.71	14.11	14.41
Top Loader	12.72	13.12	13.42
Fuel Man - Niteman	13.22	13.62	13.92
Loading and Unloading Treelength on Haul 80 Cruzair and 50 Drott	13.94	14.34	14.64
Mechanic Helper	13.71	14.11	14.41
III	14.11	14.51	14.81
II	14.63	15.03	15.33
I	15.36	15.76	16.06
A	15.80	16.20	16.50
LEAD	16.09	16.49	16.79
Welder: I	15.36	15.76	16.06
II	14.63	15.03	15.33
SAWMILL AND PLANER DEPARTMENTS			
Operator Slasher Hoist	$13.19	$13.59	$13.89
Operator Slasher Saw	13.19	13.59	13.89
Operator Slasher Hydraulic Offloader	13.19	13.59	13.89
Portable Barker: Hydraulic Operator	13.19	13.59	13.89
Barker Feeder	13.01	13.41	13.71
-34-
WAGE SCHEDULE (Cont’d)
SAWMILL AND PLANER DEPARTMENT (cont’d)
Stationary Electric Barker: Front End Loader	July 28/87	Sept. 1/87	Sept. 1/88
Operator	$13.19	$13.59	$13.89
Barker Feeder	13.01	13.41	13.71
8’ Box Man	12.61	13.01	13.31
Catering and Watchman:			
Cook	101.66	117.66	129.66
Second Cook	97.44	113.44	125.44
Cookee	91.81	107.81	119.81
Bullcook	97.44	113.44	125.44
Watchman Gate & Night Watchman and	114.71	130.71	142.71
Mill Clean-up	120.33	136.33	148.33
Sawmill:			
Barker	13.19	13.59	13.89
Boardway	12.61	13.01	13.31
Bulledger	13.19	13.59	13.89
Canter	13.19	13.59	13.89
Chipper	12.61	13.01	13.31
Saw & Edger Tailer	12.61	13.01	13.31
Jack Ladder (Log Deck)	12.61	13.01	13.31
Planer Feeder	13.19	13.59	13.89
Sawyer	13.55	13.95	14.25
Trimmer	13.19	13.59	13.89
Chip and Saw	13.79	14.19	14.49
Grader	13.19	13.59	13.89
Planer Piler	13.01	13.41	13.71
Fork Lift Operator	13.19	13.59	13.89
Hydraulic Mill Feeder	13.19	13.59	13.89
Lumber Truck	12.96	13.36	13.66
MILLWRIGHT HELPER	13.01	13.41	13.71
II	13.79	14.19	14.49
I	14.37	14.77	15.07
A	14.97	15.37	15.67
-35-
WAGE SCHEDULE (Cont’d)
PIECEWORK RATES
Cutting and Skidding Tree Length
Rates per tree length piece, cut limbed, topped and piled, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule:
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
Size of Butt to be marked on all trees cut with powersaw.
Skidding Distance
Maximum skidding distance 600 feet. Each cutting patch will be 600 feet square, and all patches will be distributed in regular succession and without favouritism.
Cutting and Skidding Veneer Bolts (Poplar and Birch)
July 28/87 Sept. 1/87 Sept. 1/88
Piled by Crew Per Cord	$18.54	$19.10	$19.48
Piled by Company	$17.33	$17.85	$18.21
(Per cord)
TREE PLANTING RATES
Bare Root Stock	.084
Container Stock	.064
Effective date of ratification increase to .09 and .07 respectively.
-36-
METRIC CONVERSION - PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES - SPRUCE AND BALSAM
Butt Diameter	Effective	Effective	Effective
(Centimeters)	May 8/87	Sept. 1/87	Sept. 1/88
12	.400	.412	.420
14	.607	.625	.638
16	.875	.901	.919
18	1.203	1.239	1.264
20	1.517	1.563	1.594
22	1.865	1.921	1.959
24	2.270	2.338	2.385
26	2.733	2.815	2.871
28	3.221	3.318	3.384
30	3.639	3.748	3.823
32	3.947	4.065	4.146
34	4.222	4.349	4.436
36	4.841	4.986	5.086
38	5.459	5.623	5.735
40	6.172	6.357	6.484
42	6.923	7.131	7.274
44	7.666	7.896	8.054
46	8.670	8.930	9.109
48	9.843	10.138	10.341
50	10.881	11.207	11.431
52	11.793	12.147	12.390
54	12.760	13.143	13.406
56	14.894	15.341	15.648
58	16.208	16.694	17.028
60	17.186	17.702	18.056
62	18.148	18.692	19.066
64	19.251	19.829	20.226
66	20.358	20.969	21.388
68	21.461	22.105	22.547
70	22.527	23.203	23.667
72	23.526	24.232	24.717
74	24.531	25.267	25.772
76	25.202	25.958	26.477
78	26.001	26.781	27.317
80	26.920	27.728	28.283
82	27.819	28.654	29.227
84	28.682	29.542	30.133
-37-
METRIC CONVERSION • PIECEWORK TREE LENGTH RATES • JACKPINE
Butt Diameter	Effective	Effective	Effective
(Centimeters)	May 8/87	Sept. 1/87	Sept. 1/88
12	.334	.344	.351
14	.574	.591	.603
16	.832	.857	.874
18	1.166	1.201	1.225
20	1.481	1.525	1.556
22	1.817	1.872	1.909
24	2.187	2.253	2.298
26	2.597	2.675	2.729
28	3.083	3.175	3.239
30	3.444	3.547	3.618
32	3.670	3.780	3.856
34	3.849	3.964	4.043
36	4.290	4.419	4.507
38	4.772	4.915	5.013
40	5.257	5.415	5.523
42	5.744	5.916	6.034
44	6.234	6.421	6.549
46	6.752	6.955	7.094
48	7.282	7.500	7.650
50	7.816	8.050	8.211
52	8.358	8.609	8.781
54	8.899	9.166	9.349
56	9.438	9.721	9.915
58	9.972	10.271	10.476
60	10.511	10.826	11.043
62	11.052	11.383	11.611
64	11.590	11.937	12.176
66	12.154	12.519	12.769
68	12.699	13.080	13.342
70	13.235	13.632	13.905
72	13.778	14.191	14.475
74	14.342	14.772	15.067
76	14.887	15.334	15.641
78	15.426	15.889	16.207
80	15.969	16.448	16.777
82	16.555	17.052	17.393
-38-
WAGE SCHEDULE (Cont’d)
HANDICAPPED WORKERS
A special rate may be established by agreement between the Company and the Union for aged and handicapped workers.
SCALING
For the purpose of this Agreement, a stacked cord of 4 ft. rough pulpwood shall be 50” x 8’; a stacked cord of 8 ft. rough pulpwood shall be 50” x 100” x 4’.
Where rough wood over 19 feet in length is cube scaled, 85 cubic feet of solid wood shall constitute a cord without allowance for overlengths. Such cube measurements shall be made according to Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
POWER SAW RENTALS
A dayworker using his power saw will be paid a power saw rental of $10.00 per 8 hour shift and he will be supplied with gas and oil free of charge by the Company.
SKIDDING BEfilND FELLER BUNCHER
It is agreed that limbing, topping and skidding treelength produced by Feller-Buncher shall be carried out on piecework rate set at 60% of the rates applying under the section of cutting and skidding treelength in this Agreement.
SKIDDING BEHIND FELLER BUNCHER WITH LIMBS
Forty per cent (40%) of the rates applying under the section of cutting and skidding treelength to a maximum distance of 900’ with a 667 machine or equivalent.
CUTTING WITH LIMBS, WITHOUT TOPPING ON CONVENTIONAL CUT AND SKID
70% of conventional rates. Effective September 1, 1985 change to 75% of conventional rates.
-39-
MAINTENANCE TRADES ANNUAL REVIEW
Annually in the month of March, an evaluation committee consisting of the Plant Manager or his representative and the Maintenance Supervisor, together with a qualified Union Member and/or a Union Representative, will evaluate the performance and progress of each Helper and Tradesman below the category of “I”, with a view of upgrading personnel who qualify.
If upgrading is necessary in the interim it will be done by the Plant Manager and the Maintenance Supervisor.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the operations, to direct the work force, and to hire, promote, transfer or lay-off employees and to suspend or discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; provided that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers shall be subject to the express provisions of the Agreement.
SIGNED AT HORNEPAYNE, ONTARIO, this_____________
day of________, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-40-
TRADES APPRENTICE PROGRAM
1.	Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.05 (Job Postings).
2.	There will be a probationary period of up to three (3) months prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement during which time the employee may return or failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former department without loss of seniority.
3.	Any helper who fails his apprenticeship exams shall be required to be re-examined within twelve (12) months but not earlier than six (6) months. Failure to pass the re-examination will result in the apprentice being dropped from the program and returned to his former department without loss of seniority. The above will not apply to the persons currently employed in any of the categories of Trades in the event that they shall become indentured in the future or are currently indentured.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfill the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training Program allowances and the employee’s normal earnings based on his regular straight time rate, multiplied by 40 hours per week. For purposes of calculation, the Canada Manpower at home allowance shall be used.
6.	Providing a journeyman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such Certificate and receive the “A” rate immediately upon receipt of his Provincial Trade Certificate.
-41-
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
The following paragraphs are for the purpose of clarification only and are not intended to change the context of Article XII in any way.
A - Re: Article X - Working and Living Conditions
In the application of the provisions contained in the second paragraph of Article 10.06 the Company and the Union agree to the following exceptions:
1.	Wheeled Skidder Owner-Operators who are members of the Hearst Skidder Association are permitted to continue as per the established practice.
2.	The Company may continue to engage truck owner-operators together with their equipment in order to supplement the Company’s own fleet of trucks, subject to the following conditions:
a) It is agreed and understood that where an Owner-Operator who supplies more than one truck, the additional driver for these trucks shall be subject to Article XII of the Collective Agreement and the Company shall post for these openings approximately one month prior to the commencement of the logs hauling.
-42-
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT (cont’d)
b) Owner-Operators shall pay a work permit to the Union for every month or part thereof, which shall be deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Local Union Office.
It is understood that skidder owners and their crews, truck owners, are excluded from the provisions of Article 10.10.
B - Re: Article XII - Seniority
In the application of the seniority provisions of the agreement, it is agreed that Truck owners will not be displaced by the exercise of seniority. However, it is also agreed that such said owner-operators will not in any way be allowed to cause that Company drivers be subject to loss of earnings or layoff.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario, this _________ day of
__________ 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-43-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
RE: ARTICLE XII
The parties hereto agree to the proposition as set forth herein to be submitted to the employees of the Company in a separate ratification vote.
PROPOSITION:
It is agreed that the total accumulated days of seniority of each employee on the ratification date for the 1981 Agreement, between the Company and the Union, will establish the seniority order of each employee on the seniority list as per the provisions of the expired Agreement and that from that date, the order of seniority will remain fixed and can only be altered by the termination of employment of any of the employees on the list.
In which case those listed on the seniority list below the employees who terminates, will climb upwards to fill the vacancy.
All new employees to be added in the order of hire.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario, this _____________ day of
__________, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-44-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
RE: BONUS	.
1.	It is agreed and understood that there shall be no preferred rates or bonuses paid in money or in kind during the term of this Agreement, unless agreed to by the Company and the Union.
2.	It is agreed and understood that the bi-weekly production bonuses on the Treelength Debarker Operation will remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
3.	It is further agreed and understood that effective date of ratification the Company will introduce a bonus system similar to the Treelength Debarker Operation in the Sawmill and Planing Mill Operations.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario, this ____________ day of
__________, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-45-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
RE: CAMP
It is agreed and understood that the camp living accomodations as previously provided by the Company will be closed effective May 2, 1982. In the event that the Company intends to reopen said camp, the Company will notify the Union at least thirty (30) days in advance in order to negotiate terms and conditions for such camp.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario, this _________ day of
__________,1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-46-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
It is agreed and understood that the treelength barker operation may be scheduled on a three shift operation.
1.	Start and stop times shall be: First - 8:00 to 4:00
Second - 4:00 to 12:00 Third-12:00 to 8:00
2.	The schedule may be changed upon mutual agreement.
3.	Shift differential shall be:	First shift (day) - Nil
Second shift - .344 Third shift - .364
Effective September 1,1987:	First shift (day) - Nil
Second shift - .354 Third shift - .374
Effective September 1 st, 1988:	First shift - Nil
Second shift - .364 Third shift - .384
This letter shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario, this ____________ day of
__________,1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:	FOR THE UNION:
-47-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
(Hereinafter called the “Union”)
RE: INTER-DEPARTMENT “BUMPING”
It is agreed and understood that no “bumping” shall be permitted between the woods department and sawmill and planer department and vice-versa.
It is further agreed and understood that in the woods department, pieceworkers will not be allowed to bump on the treelength barker operation and vice-versa.
It is further agreed and understood that when a job posting hasn’t been filled in one department, the Company shall post said opening in the other department and any employee so transfering shall do so with full seniority. In the event the opening isn’t filled, the Company shall have the right to hire new employees.
In the event of a permanent layoff, Article 12.09 shall come into full force and effect.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario this ___________ day of
__________,1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
-48-
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
OLAV HAAVALDSRUD TIMBER COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the “Company”)
and
THE LUMBER AND SAWMILL WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 2995
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
RE: DELIMBING OF WOOD
It is agreed and understood that in the event of a total seasonal layoff, delimber operators shall be permitted to continue working for a maximum of two weeks without being “bumped”, in order to finish up the delimbing.
SIGNED in Hornepayne, Ontario, this _________ day of
__________, 1988.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION: