BETWEEN:
MANFOR LTD.
LUMBER DIVISION & WOODLANDS DIVISION
/ .
} ■■ ■) .• • . AND , ,•.
INTERNATIONAL
WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA
LOCAL 1-324
Effective September 1st, 1983 to August 31st, 1985.
5 ' 0 LMof
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
Article
I	Purpose ...................................
II	Scope ol
a)	Lumber..............................
b)	Woodlands ..........................
III	Management Rights .........................
IV	Union Recognition..........................
V	Employee Security .........................
VI	Committees ................................
VII	Technological Change .....................
VIII	Hours of Work and Overtime................
IX	Rates of Pay..............................
X	Call Time..................................
XI	Travel Time ...............................
XII	Cost of Living Allowance..................
XIII	Statutory Holidays........................
XIV	Annual Vacation..........................
XV	Health & Welfare Contributions...........
XVI	Pension Plan Contributions.,.............
XVII	Seniority...............................
XVI II Job Posting.............................
XIX	Leave of Absence.........................
XX	Accident Prevention Committee............
XXI	Lock-Out Procedure.......................
XX I I Adjustment of Grievances................
XXIII	Arbitration.............................
XXIV	General-Lumber Woodlands ...............
XXV	General-Lumber..........................
XXVI	General-Woodlands......................
XXVII	Maintenance and Protection During
Suspension of Work ......................
XXVIII	Strikes and Lockouts..................
XXIX	Duration of Agreement.................
Schedule A - Wages ............................
Schedule B - Woodlands Boundaries..............
Schedule C -1 Icallh and Welfare...............
Schedule D - Sawmill Training Program .........
Schedule E - Trades Apprentice Program ........
NO.
7
7
8
9
10
13
13
14
15
17
19
20
20
22
23
25
26
26
29
29
3 I
32
34
37
38
40
43
5 I
52
53
53-
61
63
68
72
ALPHABETICAL INDEX TOPIC	PAGE NO.
Accident Prevention Committee ....
Apprenticeship Program.............
Arbitration.........................
Access to Company’s Operations. ...
Absence - Notification of .........
Accidental Death & Dismemberment
31
. 72
37
12
. 30 64
Bereavement Leave. Blocks............
31
46
Camps Check-Off. .	.
Clean-up.................
Call Time.................
Coveralls - Lumber Division
-	Woodlands Division
Chokers..................
Chain Saw File Contracting - Luniber Division
-	Woodlands Division Cookery Schedule Check Scale
47
II
47
19
42
43
44 44
7
8
50
51
Deductions of Dues ... Disciplinary Action ... Duration of Agreement Dental Plan ............
10 . 13 . 53 . 66
bmployees Security ... Educational Courses .. Equipment Availability
. 13
13
44
Field Tradesman ................................... 19
Filing Room Line of Progression.....................70
Filing Room Rales ................................. 70
General Lumber/Woodlands.....................38
General Provisions - Lumber.................... 40
2
General Provisions - Woodlands
Grievance Committee...........
Grievance Procedure . . . .
43
14
34
Health & Welfare Contributions......
Hours of Work and Overtime..........
Hot Meals ..........................
Health & Welfare....................
-	Contributions.................
-	Coverage during lay-off ......
-	Coverage during leave of absence
-	Description of Plan ..........
25
15
48
63
25
25
25
25
Independent Owner-Operator ______
Insufficient Number of Employees
8
19
Job Posting Jury Duty .
29
40
Lunch Period .
Leave o f Absence Letters	....
Lock Out Procedure.......
Licence Renewals . . ..
Lock-Up Facilities.......
Lumber Purchasing........
Locked Gate..............
Life Insurance ..........
Long Term Disability . .. .
48
29
77
32
39
39
40 43 64 64
Management Rights........................9
Negotiating Committee No Work Available ... Notice Board .........
13
19
16
Overtime
I i
Purpose o f Agreement . Personal File .	.	.
Piecework Non-Productive
Rate
7
13
IX
3
Pension Plan Contributions Probationary Employees .
Pay Statements.........
Paydays ...............
Power Saw Shack........
Power Saw Chain........
Pieceworkers Final Scale . Power Saw Purchase. . . .
26
27
. . 28 . 38 . . 44 . . 45 . 45 45
Qualifications for Statutory Holiday Pas 22
15
17
44
17
IX
IX
28
28
Regular Hours of Work Rest Periods - l umber Division....
-	Woodlands Dis ision Rates of Pa!
Red Circle Rates Roads
Reduction of Forces Recall Notice
Refamiliarization Period........... ....	28
Remote Areas ...................... .	43
Reconditioned Skidders ............ ■	43
Scope - Lumber Division
-	Woodlands Division Scheduled Work Week Scheduled Hours of Work Seniority Split Shifts Shift Premium Statutory Holidays Seniority - Principle of
-	During Lay-Offs
-	List
-	Termination of Seniority Supervisor Reinstated Safety equipment -Lumber Division
-	Woodlandt Division Skidding Distance Scale Sheets Spare Skidders Strikes and Lockouts
Strip Shacks..............
Suspension of Work........
Technological Change......
Travel Time ..............
Transportation Home ......
Transfer of Employees ----
Training Program - Sawmill
Union Recognition.........
Union Security............
Unjust Discharge..........
Vacation Entitlements.....
Vacation Scheduling ......
Weather Conditions........
Woodlands Boundaries .... Weekly Indemnity .........
46
51
14
20
41
46
68
10
10
38
23
24
44
61
63
THIS AGREEMENT made this 29th day of March, 1984 at The Pas, Manitoba
BETWEEN:
MANFOR LTD.,
LUMBER DIVISION AND WOODLANDS DIVISION
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART -and-
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA AFL-CIO-CLC,
Local 1-324
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
MASTER AGREEMENT I.W.A. LOCAL 1-324 MANFOR LUMBER/WOODLANDS ARTICLE I
1:0I The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions and living conditions as specified in this Agreement and to ensure to the utmost extent possible. the safety and physical welfare of the employees. the economy of operations. quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully. individually. and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1:02 In the event that an Agreement regarding proposed change is not reached prior to the end of the Agreement year, the existing Agreement shall continue in effect during the next Agreement year or until a decision is reached with respect to the proposed changes.
ARTICLE II
A. Scope - Lumber Division
A 2:01 This Agreement shall apply to all employees employed by Manfor Ltd.. Lumber Division, at The Pas, the Province of Manitoba, except foremen, office employees, those above the rank of foremen and those excluded by the Act.
.A 2:02 (a) In the event the Company considers contracting or sub-contracting any work out of the bargaining unit, they will negotiate a satisfactory contractor and subcontractor clause with Local 1-324.
(b) In the event the Company considers contracting or sub-contracting, such employees working five (5) straight days and/or five (5) days in intervals after completion of such days shall pay initiation fees, Union dues, and remain members in good standing of the International Woodworkers of America. Such employees shall not be covered by the Forty-Five (IS) day probationary 7
period in the Agreement. The Company shall have all employees sign check-off and welfare cards and be responsible for all deductions payable to Local 1-324. I.W.A. in separate check-off list.
This clause is not intended to cover contractors with Manfor Ltd., Lumber Division, working on jobs related to new construction: i.e. construction trades with their own union affiliation.
The purpose of this clause shall be not to replace jobs normally performed by members of the Bargaining Unit of Local 1-324, I.W.A.
B. Scope - Woodlands Division
B 2:01 This Agreement shall apply to and cover all employees of the Company save and except Foremen, those above the rank of Foreman, Scalers, Office Staff and persons excluded by the Act.
B 2:02 Contractors and/or Sub-Contractors of the Company working within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Union must become signatory to this Agreement unless specifically excepted as hereinafter set forth.
B 2:03 The following employees and sub-contractors are specifically excluded from the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(a)	Independent owners operating under permits issued by the Department of Mines, Natural Resources and Environment of the Province within the said Schedule “B”.
(b)	Maintenance personnel employed by vendors of manufacturers of equipment engaged in maintaining equipment manufactured, sold or leased by their respective employers pursuant to a guaranteed maintenance program covering the specific equipment.
B 2:04 Independent owner-operators trucking wood within the area described in Schedule “B” and owner-operators of equipment shall as a condition of employment pay to the International Woodworkers of America Union Local 1-324, monthly dues of two and one-half (21/:) times base rate, and other assessments proposed by the Union.
X
In the event that contractors and/or sub-contractors, truck owner operators. do not submit dues and health and welfare and pension check-off assessments, the Company shall be responsible for all such deductions.
The Company agrees that during the life of this Agreement that, on the average, there shall be no more than thirty (30) percent contractors and/or sub-contractors employed in log production for the mills at The Pas.
The thirty percent (30) above is exclusive of the Crown Corporation -Moose Lake Loggers Ltd. As job openings occur in Moose Lake Loggers Ltd. these openings shall be posted in the village of Moose Lake for Residents of Moose Lake. If these openings are not filled within three (3) days they will be posted Throughout Manfor’s Woodlands Division. From the date of signing this agreement there will be free movement of employees between the Manfor Woodlands Division and Moose Lake Loggers Ltd. payrolls through the exercising of seniority. Each employee will carry full seniority from time of hire with the parent Company including fringe benefits. An employee would not carry camp seniority from Manfor to Moose Lake Loggers or from Moose Lake Loggers to Manfor in the first move made after signing of this Agreement. however, if the employee further exercised his seniority and returns to his original company through job posting, lay off. or transfers then full camp seniority from the original date of hire will then apply.
There will be no exercising of seniority during vacation periods or spring break-up due to weather conditions.
B 2:05 The Company shall notify the Union Office when new contractors come on the job.
B 2:06 Any independent contractors or truckers hauling wood into the Complex will as a condition of delivery, pay dues.
ARTICLE III
Management's Rights
3:01 The management and the operation of. and the direction and promotion of the working forces is vested exclusively in the Management, provided, however,
b
that this will not be used for purposes of discrimination against employees.
3:02 The Company shall have the right to select its employees and to discipline or discharge them from proper cause.
ARTICLE IV
Union Recognition
4:01	(a) The Company recognizes the Union, during
the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, as the exclusive representative of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to hours of work, rates of pay and conditions of employment contained in this Agreement, subject to Article II above.
(b) Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
UNION SECURITY
4:02	(a) All employees covered by this Agreement as
a condition of employment, who are now employees, or on the thirtieth (30) day from the beginning of their employment, whichever last occurs, shall become and remain members of the Union to the extent of keeping paid all regular initiation fees, assessments, and regular dues as set by the Union.
(b) Any employee who fails to maintain his membership in the Union as prescribed herein by reason of refusal to pay dues and assessments shall be discharged after seven (7) day’s written notice to the Company of the said employee’s refusal to maintain his membership. 4:03 The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee who authorizes such deductions, initiation fees, monthly dues, assessments, and accumulated dues not to exceed six (6) months, and to remit such deductions to the Secretary of the Union, Local 1-324, Post Office Box 1886, The Pas, Manitoba, once a month together with a list of the employees showing the amount deducted from the pay of each. The recci pt of such by the Secretary, shall constitute full compliance with this Article by the Company. The local Union shall inform the employer in writing of the charges to be deducted and any
10
change which may be authorized from time to time by the employee. such charges and changes are not binding on the employee until received by the Company. The Company agrees to furnish the Union with the Social Insurance Number of all employees when the first Union dues are deducted from the employee’s pay.
4:04 The Company shall require all new employees at the time of hiring to execute the following assignment of wages in duplicate the forms to be supplied by the Union.
INTERNATIONAL WOODWORKERS OF AMERICA — CHECK-OFF
Date____________________________19-----
Name of Employer ______________________
Please Print
Operation _____________________________
Name of Employee ______________________
Phone _________________________________
Address _______________________________
Social Insurance No. __________________
Arc you a member of the IWA? __________
In what operation were you last employed?
Local Union ________________________________________
I hereby authorize and instruct you to deduct from rm
wages and remit to Local 1-_____________the following
in payment of the amounts set out below:
1.	Union Initiation Fees in the amount of $_________
2.	Union Back Dues in the amount of $_______________
3.	Union Dues S______________per month
commencing -------------------------------- 19------
I I
4. Union Assessments in the amount and at the time stated in notice received by you from the Local Union designated
above.
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
I hereby request and accept membership in the International Woodworkers of America, Local No. I-_________,
and agree to abide by the constitution and by-laws of the organization. In case of misstatement of qualification for membership I agree to forfeit all rights, privileges and moneys paid.
Signature of
Applicant-employee _________________________________
Clock No. __________________________________________
Oupiiciiio cop\ in be lnr\s;irdcd in ihe I uc.il ( niun Oll'icc
This assignment in the case of employees already members of the Union shall be effective immediately and for those employees not previously members of the Union, it shall become effective Thirty (30) calendar days from the date of execution. The Local Union shall notify the Company by letter of the amount of back dues owed by new employees and copies of such letter shall be furnished to the employee and the Committee. The said assignment shall remain effective until and unless the same is revoked in writing by the employee.
4:05 The employer shall submit to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union, not later than the fifteenth (I 5) day of the following month, the dues, arrears and assessments deducted, together with a list of names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and also monthly statements showing the names of all additions and deletions of employees.
4:06 Official Union Representatives shall obtain access to the Company’s operations for the purpose of this Agreement by written permission which will be granted by the Company on request and subject to such reasonable terms and conditions as may be laid down by the Company.
13
ARTICLE V
Employees Security
5:01 There shall be no discrimination, coercion, interference or restraint by the Company or by the ^ \ Union or by representatives of cither party against any J' ' employee because of race, creed, colour, sex. religion or national origin.
5:02 Employees whose regular jobs arc not in the bargaining unit shall not work on any jobs which are included in the bargaining unit. In situations involving s employees training or emergencies there will be times when * supervisors will operate equipment. This docs not mean ' that supervisors, in carrying out such duties, shall exclude or replace employees in the bargaining unit.
5:03 The expulsion of any employee from membership in the Union shall not be deemed cause foi\ dismissal, except for non-payment of union dues.
5:04	(a) At the employee's option, a job steward shall
be present during disciplinary action against the employee by the Company.
(b) Any employee shall have the right to view his own personal file in the presence of the Industrial Relations Officer during the grievance procedure.
J
ARTICLE Vi
Committees 6:0 I Negotiating Committees
(a) The Company agrees that a Negotiating Committee, not to exceed four (4) employees in number, selected bv the Union, shall be recognized as the authorized negotiating representatives of the Union.
6:01	(b) The Union shall supply the Company with
names of the employees constituting the Negotiating Committee and shall Inform the Company two (2) days prior to the meeting of any changes in the personnel of the said Committee.
6:02 The Company shall deal with the said Committee w ith respect to proposals for modification ol
I?
the Agreement as outlined in Article XXIX. Accredited officials of the International Woodworkers of America may participate in, such negotiations.
6:03 Grievance Committee
(a)	The Company agrees that a Grievance Committee, not to exceed four (4) employees in number, from each operation selected by the Union shall be recognized as the authorized representatives of the Union to handle all grievances outlined in Article XXII after Step 1 Grievance Procedure.
(b)	The Union shall supply the Company with the names of the employees constituting the Grievance Committee and shall inform the Company at least two (2) days prior 10 any meeting of any changes in the personnel of the said Committee.
6:04 The Company shall not pa\ Committee Members for time lost from work due to conciliation and arbitration proceedings.
ARTICLE VII
Technological Change V1'
7:01 The Company shall give reasonable notice in any case not less than ninety (90) days in adyapcc of intent to institute technological changes in working methods or facilities which would involve the laying off of employees.
7:02 When technological changes arc implemented every effort will be made by the Company to retrain its employees to satisfactorily perform the new duties required of them.
7:03 An employee who is set back to a lower paid job because of automation or technological change will receive the rate of his regular job at the time of the setback for a period of three (3) months and for a further period of three (3) months he will be paid an adjusted rate which will be midway between the rate of his regular job at the lime of the setback and the rate of his new regular job. At the end of this six (6) month period the rate of his new regular job will apply. However, suoh employee will have the option of terminating his employ-
14
ment and accepting severance pay as outlined in 7:04 below, provided he exercises the option within the above referred to six (6) month period.
7:04 Employees discharged or laid off from their reg, ^\)	ular job who sever their employment because of
'Ur',. technological change or automation shall be entitled to ■ spJterance pay of one (I) week’s pay for each fifty-two , 0- (52) weeks of service with the Company. The amount t, v calculated under such entitlement shall not exceed a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks pay.
ARTICLE VIII
■yV
Hours of Work and Overtime
8:01 The regularly scheduled work week for all pro-"l /
y. * y
$
:: si duction employees shall commence on Monday.
8:02 The regular hours of work shall consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. A rate of one and one-half (I V:) shall be paid for all work per-^ [ formed on the sixth (6th) day and double time for the seventh (7th) day of the regularly scheduled work week. Overtime payment on a daily basis will not be duplicated on a weekly basis.
8:03 All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (I) day or forty (40) hours in the work week shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I '/:) times. All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid at double time, provided the employee has worked five (5) shifts during the preceding six (6) days, in any event the rate of pay shall not be less than rate and one-half (I '/2).	.,{3
8:04 All hours worked, at the request of the Company
in excess of twelve (I 2) hours on a daily basis?, shall be paid at the rate of double time provided no rate^i^, shall be pyramided.	s/'t
‘ fVf
8:05 li is agreed that maintenance, repair and con- ' struction employees can be scheduled on a Tuesday-to-Saturday work week for which they will be paid straight-time for Saturday work. In such event. Sunday and Monday will be recognized as their rest days and any work performed on Sunday will be paid for at double lime. If the employee works on Monday at the request of
15
the Company the rate of pay will be rate and one-half. It is further agreed, that the rest day, Monday, may be changed by mutual consent between the employee and the Company. In such event, work performed on Monday will be paid for at straight-time.
8:06 The regular work week for employees such as camp staff, Woodlands employees loading rail cars and Watchmen shall be as scheduled. They will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (P/2) times their regular rate on Sunday or their sixth (6th) work day, and double time on their seventh (7th) work day.
8:07 Camp staff on a daily rate shall be paid overtime after eight (8) hours worked in each day. They shall not split shift more than twelve (‘I 2) hours per day. 8:08 For the purpose of this Article, a Statutory Holiday shall be considered a shift worked.
8:09 The Union recognizes that the Company has the right to schedule hours of work subject to the
following:
(a)	The Company will post the regular hours of work for all its employees in a conspicuous place in the operations.
(b)	Forty-eight (48) hours of notice will be given of any change of posted hours of work. The notice required refers to a change in the crew schedule and does not refer to individual change.
8:10
All employees who are required to work unscheduled overtime of more than one (I) hour (shall be supplied with a hot meal after one (1) hour, or in y V lieu of a meal, receive six ($6.00) dollars. Sandwiches or 0 JfJ'.V. dinners shall be no substitute. The hot meal shall be V/served on Company time. An employee working on an d-L/ ' unscheduled overtime shift shall be supplied with a hot , ' yneal at each regular meal period.
(^8:11 Employees shall not be required to suspend work •	during their normal work week for purpose of
absorbing overtime.
8:12	(a) When an employee works continuously for
more than sixteen (16) hours, lunch period included, and if scheduled to work the next day he will be given a rest period of eight (8) hours. He will not be
16
required to report for work until the end of the eight (8) hour rest period. He will be paid straight time for any time lost from his work day as a result of the rest period.
(b) Afternoon shift employees, rescheduled to work day shift the following day shall be given an eight (8) hour rest period. They shall be paid straight time for any time lost from their work day as a result of the rest period. 8:13 No employee shall be required to work more than five (5) hours without a lunch period. Lunch period shall consist of one (I), thirty (30) minute period in each regular shift except for guards and watchmen who by nature of their work, work eight (8) consecutive hours.
8:14 Lumber Division employees working on a continuous operating shift shall not overlap shifts. The Lumber Division shall have the right to operate the plant or any part thereof on a three (3) shift basis and all employees working under this arrangement shall receive eight (8) hours pay upon completion of the full hours established as their regular shift. Any hours worked beyond their regular scheduled shift shall be at the premium rate. Graveyard shift shall not be a swing shift for Production workers.
9:01	(a) The Company and the Union agree that the
rates of pay as set forth in the attached Schedule “A" shall form part of this Agreement and shall continue
in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
(b)	The Parties hereby agree that wages of all hourly
rated and piecework employees covered by this Agreement shall be increased by Four (4'7c) Percent or a minimum of Fifty-Two Cents (52c) per hour, effective September 1. 1984.	&Q /
(c)	The Parties agree that effective Sejnember 1. 1984 the minimum rate shall be Thirteen Dollars & Forty-Eight Cents ($13.48) per hour.
9:02 When an employee is assigned to perform work in a job classification paying a higher rate than his own. he shall be paid at the rate of the job to which
17
he is assigned. No hourly rated employees shall receive a rate lower than the rate of pay at which he commenced his day’s work. Piecework employees unable to complete their normal days work due to circumstances beyond their control will be given the opportunity to perform other work if available. In the event there is a reduction in the work force an employee shall receive the rate of the job to which, by virtue of his seniority, he is assigned provided he is able to perform the work of the job concerned.
9:03 If a new job is established or if there is a substantial change in the job content during the term of this Agreement, it is understood that the Company shall set the rate of pay for the new job or changed job taking into consideration present classifications in Schedule “A” of this Agreement. The Company shall notify the Union in writing of such changes of classifications. If requested by the Union, the Company shall meet with the Union before the end of a thirty (30) day trial period to explain, discuss and negotiate such new rates. When Agreement is reached on the new rate, it shall be retroactive to the date the employee was assigned the new job. 9:04 Red Circle Rates in Lumber Division
Incumbents in job categories for which the wage rate is reduced as a result of job evaluation shall continue at the original rate as long as the incumbents are on said job and shall be referred to as “Red Circle Rates.”
9:05 In all cases where a pieceworker is to be paid for non-productive hours he shall be paid at the power saw operator’s rate, except where otherwise specifically stated.
9:06 In those areas where it is necessary to clean up an area which has previously been partially cut. or where the density of wood is less than eight (8) cords per acre, the hourly rate in Schedule “A” for skidder and power saw operators together with the hourly rate for power saw plus wood will be paid.
9:07 On Cut and Skid Operations main or designated roads for the access of pieceworkers that arc more than one thousand feet (I ,000’) long will be cut in advance and a premium of twenty percent (20%) of the regular piecework rate will be paid.
Designated access roads will be indicated on the map provided in Article 26:33 of Woodlands General.
18
9:08 It is agreed that skidder and power saw operator rates as stated in Schedule “A” will not be used for production work except working behind feller-bunch-crs.
9:09 The hourly rates as agreed are minimum guaranteed rates and do not preclude the Company and Contractors from establishing piecework rates for the loading and driving crews. This minimum guaranteed rate is to be computed at the end of each Two (2) week consecutive period on an hourly basis and the piecework rads '•£ to be computed at the end of the same Two (2) week ' consecutive period and the loaders and drivers shall be~ paid the greater of the Two (2) sums. The employer will confirm the offered piecework rates for each haul area in writing to the employee involved in the loading and driving crews at the time the rate for each area is agreed upon.
The truck drivers arc required to help load and unload their trucks as instructed.
9:10 Shift schedules for trucks shall not exceed Twelve (12) hours.
9:11-	(a) The shift premium differential will be:
^,2 41 “ n \	Afternoon shift .3 I c
Graveyard shift - .3 I c 9:12 Field Tradesmen normally assigned off site shall be paid a field allowance of Ten Cents (SO. 10)
per hour.
ARTICLE X
Call Time
10:01 An employee reporting for work at the marshalling area/Lumbcr Division at his scheduled starting time for whom no work is available, and who has not been notified not to report, shall receive three (3) hours pay at the regular hourly rate. In the event the employee commences work and the operation closes, he shall be entitled to a minimum of four (4) hours at his regular rate of pay.
10:02 An\ employee who because of an emergency, is called out for duty any time before or alter his
19
regular hours of work shall be free when the emergency Is over, but shall nevertheless be paid four (4) hours for each unrelated job he is assigned at straight time or overtime for hours worked, whichever is the greater. Work scheduled one (I) shift in advance but outside of the regular or normal scheduled work week is not call in.
10:03 It is further understood and agreed that if at any time there is an insufficient number of employees to operate the Lumber Division, through no fault of the employer, who do not report for work at the regular starting time then the balance of the employees on that shift shall not receive call time provided for in Article X. Section 10:01 of the said Collective Agreement.
ARTICLE XI
Tratel Time
11:01 Woodlands employees shall be paid at the regular hourly rate for all time spent bv him in proceeding from the marshalling point 10 and from the / place of work, in excess of One-half (1 i) hour. Travelling [Xy time shall not be included in the regular work day. Stand- y, ard Measure for walking time is established as Three (3) miles per hour. For the purpose of this Agreement the camp shall be the marshalling point. In the case of pieceworkers, their place of work shall be their strip. It was agreed that the Woodlands Divisional Garage would be the marshalling point for the Woodlands Divisional Garage employees.
ARTICLE XII
Cost of Living Allowance
12:01 During the qualifying period September I, 1981 to August 3 1,1983 a Cost of Living Allowance, hereinafter referred to as COLA, will be effective as follows:
12:02 COLA payments made under the terms of this article will be determined in accordance with changes in the official Consumer Price Index for Canada (all items) published by Statistics Canada (197 1 = 100) and hereinafter referred to as the CPI.
20
I 2:03 COLA payments under this article will be paid to employees if the CPI rises more than Twenty-eight Percent (28%) accumulated from September l, 198 1 to and including August 3 l, 1983. COLA payments, as described in 12:04 below will be paid lo employees following each calendar month in which the CPI has exceeded Twenty-eight Percent (28%) during the qualifying period including the month in which the CPI exceeds Twenty-eight Percent (28%).
I 2:04 COLA payments will be calculated by multiplying each employee’s eligible hours in the calendar month by One Cent (.Ole) for each full .20 rise in the CPI beyond Twenty-eight Percent (28% ) during the qualifying period.
12:05	(a) Eligible hours arc hours worked, vacation
hours, statutory holiday hours, jury duty and bereavement leave and hours actually spent in Apprentice School training.
(b)	COLA shall not be used in computing overtime premium or in the calculation of any other pay. allowance or benefit.
(c)	COLA payments will be made after release of CPI monthly statistics with a statement which will show detail of the COLA payment calculation.
I 2:06 In the event that COLA becomes payable and the CPI Inter declines to a point where it is no longer payable. COLA would cease to be payable in the month following the last month that the CPI exceeded Twenty-eight Percent (28%) accumulated from September 1, 1981.
12:07	II'.Statistics Canada changes the form or basis
ofcalculating CPI. the Parlies to this Agreement will request Statistics Canada io make available the discontinued index or. failing this, determine an appropriate substitute.
12:08 This article will remain in effect only for the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XIII
Statutory Holidays
13:0! The following days shall be observed as paid holidays:
New Years Day
Good Friday
Victoria Day
Dominion Day
August Civic Holiday
Labour Day
Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day
Christmas Day
Boxing Day (December 26th)
In the event the Province of Manitoba or the Government of Canada proclaim Heritage Day to be a Stalulor) Holiday during the term of this Agreement, the Company will recognize such holiday as a day off with pay.
13:02 The observance of the above holidays may be made on days other than calendar dates when so proclaimed by the Province of Manitoba, or upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. Employees shall be entitled to payment for any of the above holidays provided that the employee qualifies as outlined in Section 13:06. A holiday falling on Saturday will be celebrated on Friday and a holiday falling on Sunday will be celebrated on Monday and the employee will be entitled to straight time pay only on the original Statutory Holiday.
13:03 On the original statutory holiday, statutory holiday pay for pieceworkers will be calculated by dividing their gross earnings for the previous payroll month by the number of days worked during that period.
13:04 Employees working on a holiday will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I1/:) times their straight time rate in addition to their Statutory Holiday pay.
13:05 An employee working on a holiday will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (I Vi) his rate or appropriate premium rate.
?2
13:06	(a) An employee, to-qualify for Statutory Hol-
iday pay, must comply with each one of the following three (3) conditions:
(i)	Have been on the payroll Forty-Five (45) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday.
(ii)	Have worked his last regular scheduled work day before and his first regular scheduled work day after the holiday unless his absence is due to illness, compensable occupational injury, or is otherwise authorized by the employer.
(iii)	Notwithstanding (ii) above, the employee must have worked one (I) day before and one (I) day after the holiday both of which must fall within a period of sixty (60) calendar days.
(b)	In case of injury or illness in (a) above, the employer shall have the right to request a medical certificate.
(c)	Employees while on Leave of Absence for Union business, or any employee while member of a Negotiating Committee, shall qualify for paid Statutory Holidays. This Section shall not apply to those employees on Leave of Absence under Article XIX, Section 19:03 (a) and (c). 13:07 If a Statutory Holiday falls on an employee’s
normal day off. the employee shall be granted one (I) additional day off in lieu of the holiday with pay, at a time mutually agreeable to the man and his supervisor.
ARTICLE XIV	,- A \
Annual Vacation
14:01 An employee who has completed One (1) year ,,	of continuous service with the Company shall be
/	0 ' entitled to an annual holiday of Two (2) weeks and shall
' be paid Five Percent (5%) of his total earnings earned in the prior vacation year.
14:02 An employee who has completed Two (2) years ^ t i	of continuous service with the Company shall be
(i entitled to an annual holiday of Three (3) weeks and shall be paid Seven Percent (77r) of his total earnings earned in the prior vacation year.
23
14:03	(a) An employee who has completed Seven (7)
or more years of continuous service with the Company shall be entitled to an annual holiday of Four (4) weeks and shall be paid Nine (9%) Percent of his total earnings earned in the prior vacation year.
(b) After One (I) year continuous employment, time not exceeding One (1) year lost as the result of an accident recognized as compensable by the Workers’ Compensation Board and suffered during the course of employment shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of qualifying for vacation provided that the employee returns to his employment.
14:04 An employee whose employment has terminated shall receive vacation pay al the appropriate rate contained in Sections 14:01,14:02 or 14:03 above.
14:05 The vacation year shall be based on the employee’s anniversary date.
14:06 An employee shall be entitled to the above vacation only when his service has been continuous. Continuous service shall terminate by reason of an
employee:
(a)	Being dismissed for just cause.
(b)	Leaving the employ of the Company.
(c)	Being laid off due to lack of work for more than the length of time as outlined in Article XVII. Section 17:03 (a) and (b).
(d)	Failing to return to work within Fifteen (I 5) days after being notified to return after a layoff.
(e)	Being absent for any other reason for more than the length of time outlined in Article XVI I, Section 17:03
(a)	and (b).
14:07 Employees shall take vacations at times scheduled by the Company in order to cause the least disturbance to the efficient operation of the Divisions. Vacations shall be between January 1st and December 31st. The Company will try to schedule vacations when possible between May 1st and September 30th. All vacations must be completed by December 31st. Preferred vacation schedules will be based on employee's seniority. The Company will endeavour to announce the vacation schedule by April I st.
24
14:08 Where a Statutory Holiday falls within an employee's annual vacation period such day shall not count as a vacation day. The holiday shall be taken on the day preceding or following the vacation period.
14:09 An employee who qualifies for vacation pay referred to in Section 14:02 and 14:03 shall be entitled to the increased Derccntaee effective on the employee's personal anniversary date: Employees shall be entitled to their annual vacation pay on the first day prior to commencement of the vacation period.
ARTICLE XV
Health and Welfare Contributions
15:01 The Manfor Ltd. Health and Welfare Plans shall be administered in accordance with the terms of the current insurance policies. The following is a description of the plans and the insurance policies should be consulted for a comprehensive description of the coverage provided.
15:02 The Company agrees to provide to its employees the Health and Welfare Plan described in Schedule “C“ herein. Employees will be eligible to become members of the plan upon completion of Forty-Five (45) calendar days of continuous employment with the Company. provided they are at work on that date. If not at work on that date, they will be eligible immediately upon return to work.
(a)	An employee with more than One (I) year of continuous service who is laid off, shall be covered under the Health and Welfare Plan, and Dental Plan, for a period of Three (3) months.
(b)	An employee with more than Forty-Five (45) days of continuous service but less than One (I) year shall be covered if laid off due to scheduled vacations.
1 5:03 Employees on an approved Leave of Absence shall be covered under the Health and Welfare Plan to the end of the calendar month in which the leave was granted.
25
ARTICLE XVI
Pension Plan Contributions
16:0) The Company will contribute to a Pension Plan / for all employees falling within the scope of this ' Agreement.
16:02 Contributions shall be paid into the International Woodworkers of America Pension Fund. Payment will be made on all hours worked on the basis of Sixty-Two Cents (620) per hour.
ARTICLE XVII,
Seniority
17:01	(a) The Company recognizes the principle of
seniority. In the application of seniority, it shall be determined by Lumber Division or Woodlands Division seniority but the seniority of each Division will be separate and distinct from the seniority of the other.
(b)	The selection and promotion of supervisory officials from the bargaining unit shall be entirely a matter ,/t for the Company’s decision, in making such selection or T_, I promotion, length of continuous service will be given due consideration.	"
17:02 In the event of a reduction of forces, the last person hired shall be the first released.
17:03 It is agreed between the parties that seniority during lay off shall be retained on the following
basis:
(a) Employees with less than one (1) year of service shall retain their seniority for a period of six (6) months.
G-
7%
(b) Employees with one (1 ) or more years service shall retain their seniority for one (I) year, plus one (1) additional month for each year’s service up to an additional twelve (12) months. It shall be the employer’s responsibility to maintain an address file of the employees and it shall be the employees' responsibility to notify the employer in writing of any change of address. This clause is effective as of the date of ratification.
If , '■	"l '
26	ji :	'
17:04 For the purpose of establishing seniority for all employees during the term of this Agreement. it is hereby agreed that seniority shall be by number starting with Number One (I). When an employee leaves the operation his number shall cease to exist and shall not be given to an employee entering into the employ of the ComPany' S"
17:05 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement it shall be mutually agreed that all employees arc hired on probation, the probationary period to continue for Forty-Five (45) calendar days during which time they arc to be considered probationary employees only. During this same period no seniority rights shall be recognized. Upon completion of Forty-Five (45) calendar days they shall be regarded as regular employees and shall then be entitled to seniority dating from the day in which they entered the Company’s employ.
17:06 It is agreed, that, when hiring new employees, preference shall be given to those employees of the Company having had previous seniority and who have applications on file.
I 7:07 The Company agrees to provide the Union with a seniority list, by Division, of the Company’s employees by number once each six (6) months, setting out the number, name, camp, (Woodlands Division) and seniority with the Company of each employee. The seniority of the employees will be posted on the bulletin boards in conjunction with the list being sent to the Union.
17.08	(a) In any case where an employee has been
transferred by the Company to a supervisory position and at a later date ceases to be a supervisory worker and the Company desires to retain his services. it is hereby agreed that reinstatement can be made within the bargaining unil, provided however, that supervisory workers reinstated in the bargaining unit must return within one (1) year to the job held at the time of their promotion to a supervisory position providing the job is not held by an employee having more Plant seniority. If the employee returns to the bargaining unit after the expiration of one (I) year from the date of his promotion, he shall return to a base rate job to which his seniority entitles him.
n
(b)	Supervisory employees in (a) above shall have their seniority frozen while in a supervisory position. 17:09 An employee shall cease to have seniority and his employment shall be terminated if the
employee:
(a)	Is discharged for proper cause.
(b)	Terminates his employment with the Company.
(c)	Does not return to work fifteen (15) days after he is called back to work.
17:10 In case of major recalls after reduction in the labour force employees will be notified by telegram at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the commencement of operations. Upon receipt of the recall the employee will notify the Company by telegram collect, within seven (7) days of his intent to work on the specified date. It shall be the employee's responsibility to keep the Company informed of his address during layoff.
Recall notices will be sent to the last known address on record of the employee.
17:1 I (a) During a reduction of work forces when an employee’s seniority is such that he will not be able to keep his regular job he may elect to apply his seniority to obtain a job paying a higher rate if he has previously held the job in the operation on a regular basis. |
(b) He may also elect to apply his seniority to obtain Y -tV a lower paid job or a job paying the same rate of pay. \ provided he is able to perform assigned work. When V increasing the workforce, an employee shall be returned to service in order of seniority, provided he is able to perform the work.
17:12 Employees exercising their seniority shall be allowed a Two (2) day period as a refamiliarization period.
17:13 In the case of layoffs, the Company will notify the employee or employees concerned at least Fourteen (I 4) calendar days in advance unless the lack of work is beyond the Company’s control.
17:14 Laid off employees will be recalled to a temporary or emergency position by telephone in order of seniority, subject to their availability at the time of the call.
28
ARTICLE XVIII
Job Posting
18:01	(a) Vacancies for other than base rate jobs shall
be posted in advance for a period of not less than Five (5) working days. All job posting awards will be posted within Five (5) working days at the close of the bid date. A carbon copy of the job tender will be available to the bidding employee.
(b)	The Company will notify the Camp Chairman of job postings and awards.
(c)	After a trial period of Twenty (20) working days where an employee does not qualify for the position concerned he shall revert to his former position without loss of seniority.
(d)	In filling vacancies, senior employees shall be given preference provided they are able to perform the work.
(e)	This section shall not apply to temporary replacements of Two (2) weeks or less necessitated by illness or injury, or other Leave of Absence, or to temporary replacement of longer duration for employees on vacation, but in filling these vacancies senior employees will be given preference, in accordance with Article XVII, Section 17:01 (a) provided they are able to perform the work.
ARTICLE XIX
Leave of Absence
19:01 The Company will grant leave of absence to employees suffering injury or illness for the term of this Agreement subject to a medical certificate if requested by the Company. The employee shall report or I cause to have reported the injury or illness which requires his absence to the Company as soon as may be reasonably possible. The employment of any employee not returning to work within one (I) year of his being granted leave of absence may be terminated by the Company unless proper justification for further leave is shown.
29
19:02	(a) Any employee desiring Leave of Absence
must obtain permission in writing from the Company for such leave.
(b)	All employees on Leave of Absence must return to the position vacated when such leave was granted. While on Leave of Absence seniority shall accrue. Consultation between Union and Company will take place before extended periods of Leave of Absence can be granted.
19:03	(a) The Company will grant Leave of Absence
to employees who are appointed or elected to Union office for the term of such office. The employee who obtains this Leave of Absence shall return to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days after completion of his term of employment with the Union.
(b) The Company will grant Leave of Absence to employees who arc elected as representatives to attend Union meetings and Union conventions or as members of the Negotiating Committee of the International Wood-workersof America in order that they may carry out their r duties on behalf of the Union.	-

(c)	The Company will grant Leave of Absence to employees lo permit them to improve their education at a recognized educational institution as a full-time student lyy’/ for a period not to exceed six (6) months. The employee / A who obtains this Leave of Absence shall report for work to the Company within Fifteen (15) days of the comple- OJ, tion of his educational training. This training must be / relative to the Industry.
(d)	The Company will grant Leave of Absence to employees elected or nominated to full time Federal or. Provincial Office. Once elected, Leave of Absence will be granted for the term of such office Employees elected to < Municipal Office will be granted Leave of Absence if’ requested and needed to fulfill the duties of their office
(e)	In order for the employer to replace the employee with a competent substitute, it is agreed that before the employee receives his Leave of Absence, as set forth in Clause (a), (b), (c) and (d) above the employer will be given due notice in writing; in the case of (a), (c), and (d). Twenty (20) calendar days; and in the case of (b). Five (5) calendar days.
i1*
^4
30
19:04 The Company will not grant Leave of Absence to employees who desire to obtain employment with another employer or any other gainful employment.
19:05 Bereavement Leave:
In the event of death of a father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-. -O in-law, son-in-law. daughter-in-law, step parent, grant-parent, grandchild, legal guardian or ward of an employee> the employee shall receive up to Three (3) consecutive 'j 1 days leave, these days to include the date of the funeral1?''
In the event Three (3) days are not sufficient time to attend the funeral, further leave shall be granted without pay.
The employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay at his regular straight time rate for each day that falls on his regular scheduled work day. The Company may require proof of relationship and date of funeral.
ARTICLE XX
Accident Prevention Committee
20:01 The Committee shall consist of not more than eight (8) members nor less than four (4) members including two (2) co-chairmen, one (I) chosen by the employer’s members, and the other chosen by the Union members, and the co-chairmen shall alternate the function of chairing the meetings of the committee and shall participate fully in the deliberations and decisions of the Committee.
20:02 The general duties of the Safety Committee shall
be:
(a)	To make a thorough inspection not less than once a month of the entire operation for the purposes of determining hazardous conditions. to check on unsafe practises and to receive complaints and recommendations with respect to these matters.
(b)	To investigate promptly all serious accidents and any unsafe conditions or practises which may be reported to it. Such investigations shall include accidents which might have caused serious injury to a workman whether or not such injury actually occurred.
31
(c)	To hold regular meetings at least monthly for the discussion of current accidents, their causes, suggested means of preventing their recurrence and reports of investigations and inspections.
(d)	The Company will keep a record of all investigations, inspections, complaints, recommendations, and minutes of the meetings on behalf of the Safety Committee. The minutes shall indicate what action has been taken with respect to the suggestions or recommendations previously made and if no action has been taken, the reason therefore shall be given. Copies of minutes shall be sent promptly to the Workplace Safety and Health Division, Industrial Relations Department and local Union.
(e)	To investigate fire conditions, examine fire escapes, fire extinguishers, water buckets, sand buckets, and all fire fighting appliances.
(f)	To inspect lighting arrangements in all places of employment, and to report to management all insufficiently lighted passageways and other portions of the plant where workmen are liable to be injured in the course of their employment.
(g)	All safety meetings and safety tours to be conducted on Company time with no loss of normal earnings.
20:03 St. John’s Ambulance First Aid Courses will be 3 made available outside normal working hours to all employees who desire to be trained and one (1) trained employee in each work area of the Woodlands Division and one (I) trained employee on each shift in the Lumber Division will receive the first aid allowance.
ARTICLE XXI
Lock-Out Procedure
The purpose of a plant lock-out procedure is to ensure that through proper instruction and plant practices all energy activated equipment is safe to work on. That before commencing maintenance or repair work or any other adjustments where the inadvertent starting of the machinery could endanger a workman, the main control device must be locked-out.
32
Who Locks Out?
(a)	The person starting work on the machine.
(b)	Any other person working on the same equipment by individual lock.
(c)	After the above procedures have been followed, the first individual referred to shall make sure the power is off by trying the “start” button.
Removal of Locks:
(a)	On completion of work. the power shall remain locked out until the last person finished is clear of the equipment and has removed his own lock.
(b)	Locks shall only be removed:
(i)	By the person who installed them.
(ii)	IN AN EMERGENCY. by the senior shift supervisor or superintendent (if he is taking the place of a Foreman) who shall first make every effort tocontact the individual who put the lock on. He must ensure that the machinery or equipment can be operated safely.
(c)	Persons coming on shift must place their own locks on all switches before the individual going off shift removes his lock.
(d)	Senior shift supervisors may lock-out the machine during shift changes to allow the person going off shift to remove his lock.
Special Circumstances
(a)	Casuals: The lock-out procedure will be reviewed with all casuals and/or overtime workers.
(b)	In the event that joint work on equipment is done by an outside maintenance crew and part of the regular crew. the maintenance procedure will be reviewed with both parties present and only the regular procedure will be used.
(c)	If the work is being done directly by an outside maintenance crew, the regular lock-out procedure will be reviewed with them and only that procedure will apply. Other Sources of Energy
Electrical power is not the only source of energy that can cause accidents if inadvertently operated. Compressed air (and other gases), pressurized water, hydraulics.
33
and gravity arc some examples of energy sources that must be de-energized and locked out before physical contact is made with the equipment. If physical contact is required on equipment, then the employees involved must be trained to understand that lock-out of the above energy source is also required.
The Following Rules Apply:
(a)	Lock-out controls to de-energize all valves.
(b)	Bleed hydraulic air or water systems after pumps or supply have been locked-out.
(c)	Block-up all equipment that can move because of gravity (i.e., hoists, hold down rolls, lathe backup rolls). Additional Points:
(a)	This lock-out procedure shall apply to ALL PLANT PERSONNEL. This includes office staff, production employees, supervisory staff, and maintenance personnel.
(b)	All main control boxes are to be high-lighted and properly identified in the plant.
(c)	The provisions of lock-out procedure will be written into a job safety analysis as it is drafted for the operation.
(d)	There will be regular reviews of this plan for all plant personnel.
(e)	It will be reviewed by all new employees.
Mobile Equipment:
In case of mobile equipment a tag-out procedure will be used and same general rules will apply.
ARTICLE XXII
Adjustment of Grievances
22:01 It is the intention of the Company and the Union that by execution of this Agreement industrial peace will be maintained and that the Union and the Company shall cooperate to that end and that work will be done efficiently and without interruption.
22:02 It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto that the complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an
34
employee has no grievance until he has given his foreman an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
22:03 The Company and the Union mutually agree that should any grievance arise between the parties to this Agreement as to its interDretation. aDDlication or violation, it shall be dealt with, without stoppage of work in the following manner:
Step 1. The individual employee with a job steward of his choice shall first take up the matter with his foreman/camp superintendent within fourteen (14) calendar days of the origin of the grievance. The fore-man/camD superintendent shall replv within five (5) working days. ‘Failing a satisfactory adjustment and no later than five (5) working days from the date of which the foreman is required to reply then.
Step 2. The matter shall be taken up by the same employee and the Grievance Committee with the Woodlands Production Superintendent/Lumber Superintendent. or his appointee, in writing. The Woodlands Production Superintendent/Lumber Superintendent, or his appointee, shall reply in writing no later than five (3) working days from the date on which the grievance was received in writing by him. Failing settlement then,
Step 3. The matter shall be taken up by the authorized Divisional Representative(s) of the Local Union with the Woodlands Manager/Lumber Manager, or his appointee, in writing within five (5) working days. The Woodlands Manager/Lumber Manager, or his appointee, shall reply within five (5) working days. Failing settlement, then.
Step 4. The Company and the Union will refer the grievance to a committee composed of representatives from the Negotiating Committees for this contract before going to the Arbitration step of the Grievance Procedure. For the Union, the Regional Vice-President, the President of the Local, and One (I) of the other members of the Negotiating team, and for the Company, the Woodlands Manager/Lumber Manager, the Industrial Relations Manager, Woodlands/Lumber Division, and the Corporate Director Human Resources should be on this Committee.
Step 5. Either party may. within the following
35
Fifteen (I 5) days after the completion of Step 4, refer the matter to arbitration as provided in the Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
22:04 If a grievance has not advanced to the next stage under Steps 2, 3 or 4, within Five (5) working days after the completion of the preceding stage, then the grievance shall be deemed abandoned. In the event of the absence of authorized agents of the Company or the Union, the time limit may be extended by mutual consent.
22:05 The Union shall promptly notify the Company of the personnel of 'its Grievance Committee and of any change in the personnel: and the Company shall notify the Union of the names of the officials of the Company referred to herein.
22:06 As far as is practical, all grievances will be dealt with at the close of the regular work shift or in the case of the night shift, prior to the beginning of the regular work shift without loss of earnings. Where grievances are dealt with outside of regular working hours at the request of the Company, the employees engaged in the discussion of the grievance shall be paid at straight time rate of pay for the time so spent. The aggrieved employee or employees, providing they arc present, shall be considered as participating in the discussion of the grievance.
22:07 The job steward on duty will be allowed sufficient time on any shift for the purpose of handling grievances, in such instances, he must secure permission from his supervisor prior to undertaking an assignment. Permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
22:08 The job steward or his appointee shall be employees of the Division where the grievance originated.
22:09 The Company shall advise the Union in any case where an employee has been discharged. Such advice to be provided at the earliest possible time. In cases where the Union considers it necessary to contest a discharge, the matter shall be dealt with through the provisions of Article XXII. Section 22:03, Step 3.
22:10 The business agent for the Union shall be entitled to represent and/or assist the Grievance Committee at any step in the grievance procedure.
36
22:11 In the event of an) violation of this Agreement between a Contractor and an employee of a Contractor, the matter shall be referred to the grievance procedure. Step 1. The Company shall be responsible for any violation of the collective agreement beyond that point.
ARTICLE XXIII
Arbitration
23:01	(a) When either party decides to submit a griev-
ance to arbitration as per Article 22:03. Step 5, then the other party shall be so notified in writing by registered mail.
(b)	The parties shall appoint a panel of six (6) arbitrators. The single arbitrator shall be selected from this panel.
(c)	If the parties fail to agree on the selection of a single arbitrator from among the panel, they shall request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of Manitoba to make the appointment from among the said panel.
(d)	In the event that the arbitrators provided for in this Section are not available to preside as arbitrator, the parties agree that they will request the Honourable Minister of Labour of the Province of Manitoba to appoint a temporary replacement.
23:02 No person shall be appointed as an arbitrator who has been involved previously in an attempt to negotiate or settle the grievance.
23:03 In the case of arbitration, the conferring parties may have the assistance of the employee or the employees concerned and any necessary witnesses, and all necessary arrangements will be made to permit the conferring parties to have access to the plant and to view disputed operations and to confer with the necessary witnesses.
23:04 The remuneration and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be borne equally b\ the Company and the Union. Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
23:05 The proceedings and decision of the Arbitration Board shall be expedited by the Company and the Union. The decision of the majority of such board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto, but the arbitrator shall not be authorized to make, nor shall they make, any decision or recommendation inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, nor alter, add to, modify or amend any part of the Agreement, or make any general changes, such as changes in wage rates. nor deal with any matter not covered by this Agreement.
23:06 In all cases of interpretation or arbitration of the terms of this Agreement, the text of the original signed copies shall govern.
ARTICLE XXIV
General Lumber/ Woodlands
24:01	(a) On each pay day the Company shall provide
to each employee an itemized statement setting forth the total number of hours worked by the employee concerned during the immediate preceding pay period, the rate of wage applicable to him. all deductions made from his wages whatsoever, the purpose for which such deductions were made, the total amount actually payable to him, and other such information as may from time to time be agreed upon by the parties.
(b) Pay days shall be every second Friday and any shortage in pay shall be made up as soon as possible. 24:02 The Company agrees that the Union may post notices on a notice board supplied by the Company for Union business.
24:03 An employee hurt in an industrial accident, and attending a doctor, shall be paid for the loss of time on the day he was injured, at his regular hourly rate for his regular scheduled work day.
24:04 In the event of employees sustaining injuries at work, or becoming affected by occupational disease during the course of their employment and becoming physically handicapped as a result thereof, every effort will be made by the Company to give the handicapped employee such suitable employment as is available.
38
24:05 If any provision of this Agreement or any collective agreement made in pursuance thereof is found to be contrary to the provisions of the law, now or hereafter enacted, this Agreement will not be abrogated, but is subject to such amendments as may be necessary IO bring it into conformity with the law.
24:06 The Company and the Union desire each employee to be familiar with the provisions of this Agreement and his rights and duties under it. For this reason. the Company will have the Agreement printed in booklet form and the management will give a copy to each employee. The cost of such printing to be shared equally by the Company and the Union.
24:07 An employee proven to have been unjustly discharged, suspended or demoted shall be reinstated to his former position and receive pay for all time lost. 24:08	(a) Employees undertaking Company approved
educational courses, including correspondence courses, upon successful completion shall be entitled to reimbursement of Seyenty-Five Percent (75%) of course
fees- 0	- I
(b) Employees undertaking educational courses, including correspondence courses. that are required as a condition of job requirement, the Company will reimburse the employee for One Hundred Percent (100%) of the course fees upon successful completion of the course. 24:09 The Company will pay the cost of occupational license renewals and renewal examinations and will reimburse an employee for the time lost while writing these examinations. These licenses and examinations must be relevant to the employee's job in the Division. Driver's licenses are excluded.
24:10 The Company will supply lock-up facilities for employees‘ tools. and will replace tools lost in a fire or broken on the job, provided that in the case of broken tools they are produced for replacement. Tools lost by theft (provided there is evidence of forced entry), or fire from Company provided lock-up facilities in buildings or garages (and which arc listed in the inventory of Mechanic's Own Tools mutually agreed to by the Mechanical Superintendent and the employee) will be replaced.
59
24:11 The Company will make available tradesmen’s tools required upon the introduction of the metric system at no cost to the employee.
24:12 The Company agrees to supply, free of charge, insect repellant to all employees to a maximum of Two (2) units per month.
24:13 The Company will sell to employees full packages of lumber for pickup during regular working hours at the market price existing at time of purchase. 24:14 Upon presentation of a voucher from the Clerk of the Court showing fees received for Jury Duty, Coroner’s Witness, Coroner’s duties and Crown Witness, an employee will be paid the difference between such fees and normal hourly rate for regular siraight time Eight (8) hour working days lost as a result of such duties.
V,- 0 , v ARTICLE XXV
General Provisions — Lumber 25:01 The Company and the Union shall cooperate in the formulation and the enforcement of Company rules and regulations to maintain order, discipline, and efficiency and to promote measures necessary to assure the maximum safety and health of all employees. In the case of disagreement the procedure for processing other grievances shall apply.
25:02 The employees are required to take good care of any article provided them by the Company and such articles shall be returned to the Company on termination of employment.
25:03 The Company shall supply safety equipment when the Safety Committee and the Company agree such equipment is necessary for the protection of employees. The first stage of this provision shall be on the following basis:
(i)	Mitts for:
(a)	Green Chain
(b)	Dry Chain
(c)	Lumber Pilcrs
(d)	Gloves for Welders
Replacement in (a), (b), and (c) above shall be made on an exchange basis.
40
(ii)	Aprons for
(a)	Green Chain
(b)	Dry Chain
(iii)	Safety-Toed Boots
(a)	Where required.
The Company and the Union agree to the principle of wearing safety footwear at all times and new employees must obtain them prior to the commencement of employment.
(iv)	Protection Rainwear
(v)	Hard hats. winter hard hat liners. safety goggles. earmuffs.
In the case of(i) (a), (b), (c) and (ii) (a) and (b). the first pair and one (I) pair per month if required thereafter.
In the case of (i) (d) the first pair and one (I) pair per three (3) months if required.
In the case of (iii) the Company shall cover the cost of the first pair at fifty (SO) percent of the cost and pay fifty (SO) percent of the cost of one (I ) additional pair of boots each calendar year thereafter.
25:04 All employees obtaining lumber graders’ certificates shall be paid at straight time base rate for the hours in class.
25:05 The Company will arrange transportation home, where required, to employees held over to work overtime at the end of their shift, who miss or lose their ride as a result.
25:06 All employees shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (I 5) minute rest periods during each regular shift provided always that the Company will have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
25:07 A Lumber Division employee who accepts a posted position will not be eligible to rebid for another vacancy for a period of four (4) months from the time he took over the originally posted job except to bid into the apprenticeship program.
25:08 Employ ees becoming ill on the job and permitted to leave to obtain medical attention shall be provided with transportation home, if required, at the
41
Company’s expense. Affected employees may be asked to provide a medical certificate.
2S:09 Employees hurt in an industrial accident requiring medical attention or hospitalization, or who are permitted to go home, shall be provided with transportation, if required at the Company's expense.
25:10 The Company will supply to maintenance employees, utility man and shaker clean-up man, clean coveralls as required on an exchange basis.
25:11 The Company shall pay straight time hourly rate for employees to attend Union Management
meetings.
25:12 Pay statements will be placed in envelopes before distribution to employees.
25:13 Maintenance employees shall be allowed wash up time at the end of each shift.
25:14 An employee absent from work, due to illness or other reason shall notify his foreman at least one-half (Vi) hour ahead of his shift commencement. A medical certificate will not be required for a one (1) day absence, provided however that cases of habitual absenteeism will require medical certificates for one (I) day absences. Failure to notify the Company, or provide a valid reason for absence will be dealt with in accordance with Article III, Section 3:02 of this Agreement.
25:15 Watchmen will be placed on a seven (7) day swing shift schedule which is: work seven (7) 12 to 8 shifts -- two days off, work seven (7) 4 to 12 shifts — one (1) day off, work seven (7) 8 to 4 shifts, four (4) days off.
Calculation of pay for the Watchmen will be based on a Sunday to Saturday calendar week.
25:16 It shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement for employees to respect a legal picket line established by a bona fide trade union provided such picket line blocks entrance to the Employer’s premises and has been authorized by the trade union.
H
25:17 The Company and the Union agree that a continuous job evaluation program for all hourly paid categories within its operation is necessary and desirable. During the term of this Agreement a Joint Committee
42
will be formed for the purpose of reviewing the existing evaluation program as an effort to develop a Job Evaluation Plan that will be satisfactory to both parties. This Committee will consist of two representatives of Management and Union respectively.
ARTICLE XXVI
General Provisions — Woodlands
26:01 The Company shall install a locked gate where practical on all main roads to cutting operations of the Company. The Company will be responsible for ail tools as listed in the inventory of the employees own tools mutually agreed to by the Supervisor and the employee which are left in locked Company buildings with the consent of the employee's immediate supervisor.
26:02	(a) The Company will supply to maintenance
employees clean coveralls as required on an exchange basis.
(b) The Company will supply clean coveralls as required on an exchange basis to employees required to service the following mobile Company equipment:
Drotts
Dozers
Graders
Slashers
Loaders
Scrapers
26:03 There shall be no strip cutting for the duration of this Agreement.
2604 Where an employee is scheduled to work by himself in an area remote from other employees, a second man will be assigned.
26 05 The Company agrees to the principle of the two (2) man gangs and will apply wherever possible.
26 Oh It is agreed that when new Company owned Skidders or reconditioned skidders arc assigned to a cutting area the skidder operator with the most seniority will be given the first option to have the skidder assigned to him on a one time basis within Six (6) months
43
26:07 The Company shall supply windshields for all skidders during the winter months.
26:08 If weather conditions are found to be too severe for crews to work they shall have the option (subject to common sense) to cease work for the duration of such weather conditions.
26:09 All employees shall be entitled to two (2) ten (IO) minute rest periods during each regular shift provided always that the Company shall have the right to use relief employees in implementing this provision.
26:10 Skidders shall not be required to skid over one thousand (I ,000) feet from skidway or landing. 26:1) The Company shall supply each pulp cutting crew, upon request, with a ten (IO) gallon drum for power saw gas, at no cost and all power saw gas will be free of charge.
26:12 The Company shall supply scale sheets to employees itemising each pile on separate scale
slips.
26:13	(a) The Company shall have one (I) spare skid-
der in each operating area.
(b)	The Company shall supply chokers as required.
(c)	The Company shall provide a cable cutter for each skidder.
26:14 Falters and buckers shall be supplied one (1) free chain saw file per week.
26:15 Transportation shall be available on all job sites. 26:16 The Company agrees to provide a power saw shack at all resident camps and such shacks shall be properly lighted and heated and equipped with vice, anvil, chain breaker, air compressor, and proper lock-up lockers for power saw storage, such facilities shall be available for the use of employees at each camp.
26:17	(a) The Company agrees to make available at
each camp or marshalling area, for the use of employees, the following equipment and supplies at Company cost plus five (5) percent for handling:
Axe bits, axe handles, pulp hooks, gas cans, wedges, lunch kits and thermos bottles.
44
The above items will be debited to the man’s account but upon the return of cttch item to Company Stores the account of the workman will be so credited. Oil will be supplied for power saw use at Company cost plus Five (5) Percent for handling. Items on loan that arc not returned at the time an employee exits from his camp or marshalling area will be charged for at the wholesale price plus Five (5) Percent handling charge. It is understood and agreed that in the case of loss or breakage of these items while they arc on loan, the cost will be borne by the employee at his own expense. The Company shall make available where possible, personal safety items such as work gloves at Company cost.
(b)	The Company shall supply hard hats, winter hard hat liners, earmuffs and safety goggles.
(c)	In the case of safety-toed boots, the Company
shall cover the cost of the first pair at Fifty (SO) Percent of the cost and pay Fifty (50) Percent of the cost of one (I) additional pair of boots each calendar year thereafter. 26:18	(a) The Company agrees to supply one (I) power
saw chain every Twenty-Two (22) days worked for those people cutting Sixteen (I 6) and Eight (8) foot wood, and One (1) power saw chain every Twenty-One (21) days worked for those fallcrs cutting tree length. Those employees normally working as skidder operators will receive a saw chain every Forty-Two (42) days worked on an exchange basis.
(b)	Buckets will receive a power saw chain as required on an exchange basis. Fallcrs will receive a power saw chain every Twenty-One (21) days worked on an exchange basis.
(c)	The Company will maintain a reasonable supply of power saw parts in each camp which will be available to employees at cost.
26:19 Pieceworkers intending to quit shall give the Company foreman reasonable notice of leaving and the scalers shall scale him up within Three (3) days. Such time limit shall be exclusive of Sundays and holidays.
It is understood the intent of this section is that the Company will endeavour to have the pieceworkers final
45
scale completed and the worker paid in accordance with the final scale prior to the worker leaving the operation. 26:20 The Company agrees to have a sufficient number of strip shacks available for each crew on or before October 1 st of each year and they shall be kept in good repair or replaced as required.
26:21 The Company agrees to have power saws available for purchase with payment on a per cord basis by employees at one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per cord.
26:22 The Company agrees that existing bonus rates will continue at present levels. unless changes in equipment or methods dictate a revision.
26:23 (a) Pieceworkers who are transferred at the request of the Company from one camp to another will be given the first opportunity to return to their original camp when openings occur in that original camp from which they had been transferred.
(b)	The senior employee shall have the right to transfer or remain in his camp/marshalling area. In case of transfer of a machine, the operators assigned to the machine will be transferred with the machine.
(c)	Job transfers at the request of the Company from camp to camp shall be paid at the hourly rate and mileage where applicable.
26:24 When supervision has had four (4) hours or more advance notice preferably at the end of the day’s shift or prior to the days’ shift commencing at the completion time of a block and the crew is caused to wait for supervision to move them to another block the crew shall be compensated for such time lost at power saw operator rate plus the power saw rental rate per hour for their power saw.
26:25 Supervisors shall check the block before the crew moves and state at that time if it is satisfactory or not. If after receiving assurance that the block is satisfactory and the crew is requested to return Article IX. Section 9:06 will apply. However, if a crew has been instructed during the four (4) hour notice, to clean up a block before moving and fails to do so and must return to that block to clean-up, they shall not be paid for the time so spent on clean-up.
46
26:26 Each employee in the crew involved will be paid for moving time in excess of one-half ('/:) hour at power saw operator rate plus the power saw rental rate when moving from one block to another or to a new area if the move takes place during the normal working day. Moving time is the lapse time required to move a cutter(s) from one block or area to the other. This clause shall not apply in the case of an employee requesting a transfer from crew to crew or camp to camp.
26:27 Each block shall have definite markers on all four (4) sides where possible except where obvious natural boundaries are used such as creeks, roads, and lakes. Markers shall not be moved after the crew has been assigned the block unless agreed to between the parties involved.
26:28 All blocks will be numbered consecutively. The blocks will be assigned in sequence, after each crew has completed their previous block.
26:29 Should a dispute over block assignment arise, the crew and the Union representative shall have access to all area layout information.
26:30 A block is defined as a worksite or area where individual crews are assigned.
26:31 In the event a block has been improperly assigned.
the rate of compensation shall not be less than their daily average gross earnings for days actually worked during their last pay period.
26:32 Where regular production crews arc assigned to clean-up situations for more than one (I) strip the rate of compensation shall not be less than their daily average gross earnings for days actually worked during their last pay period.
26:33 A map with the numbered blocks will be posted in a suitable location in each operation stating all the necessary information.
26:34 The Company may establish camps and upon the completion of the construction and erection thereof, the Company shall maintain therein good condition of cleanliness. sanitation and health.
26:35 The Company shall install a washing machine and dryer in all camps for laundry purposes.
47
26:36 Meal periods in camps will consist of one (1) hour for example; dinner shall be from 12:00 noon until I 00 p.m.
26:37 The Company will at all times supply fresh meat, milk, fruit juices, fresh fruit and vegetables when in season. Fruit juices shall be supplied for breakfast served in containers allowing self-service for consumption at the table.
26:38 All camps shall have one (1) tier single beds and two (2) clean sheets and one (1) pillow case will be issued once a week. Clean blankets will be issued to employees upon arrival at camp and will be replaced as conditions warrant. All beds shall be provided with a canvas cover.
26:39 The Company will provide separate drying rooms.
washrooms, storage facilities for baggage, a clothes closet or locker, and where possible, adequate hot water supply. Where possible, inside showers and toilets will be provided.
26:40 Pest control measures within the camp buildings shall be carried out as required.
26:41 The Company will provide suitable refrigeration for all perishables.
26:42	(a) The charge for board and lodgings shall be
two dollars ($2.00) per man per day. An employee who leaves camp on authorized leave, weekends, or because he is ill or has been injured, will not be charged, providing he notifies the camp clerk at the time of leaving camp.
(b) Disabled or sick Company employees may stay in a Company camp during their recovery period for two dollars ($2.00) per day. During the recovery period, the employee must observe normal camp rules and regulations.
26:43 An employee shall be required to pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Wax paper shall be supplied for the wrapping ol lunches.
26:44 Food served to the employees shall at all times be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and
48
shall include in season fresh fruit, vegetables and greens when in season.
26:45 It is the intention of the Company to show a film once per week at each camp, provided on a camp basis if there is a reasonable demand for this service. Shuffleboards or pool tables will be provided in each recreation hall.
26:46 The Company agrees to supply air conditioners for all camp kitchens. Air conditioning will be provided in the lunch room of the Woodlands Divisional Garage.
26:47 The Company will install twenty-six (26) inch colour T.V.'s in all camps.
26:48 The Company agrees to the following schedule of cookcrv staff:
Scheduled for the cafeteria style cookeries (with mechanical dishwasher]:
No. of Persons hating
2nd	Night
Cook Cook C ookee Baker Total
1-14 I 5-30 31-50 51 -70 71-100 101-125 I 26-150 151-180 181-215 216-250 251-285
1
2
I	2
I	3
I	4
I	4	I
I	5	I
1	6	I
2	6	1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
I0
2	7 I II
It is agreed that this Schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work arc introduced.
46
26:49 Schedule for Cookery Personnel
(with no mechanical labour saving devices):
No. of Persons Eating
2nd	Night
Cook Cook Cookee Baker Total
14 or less
15-25
25-45
45-65
65-85
85-105
105-125
125-145
or
over 145
__	_1_	__
—	2
I	2	—
I	3
1	4	—
1	5	—
2	6	—
1	6	I
2	6	I
1
2
3
4
5
6 7 9 9
IO
It Is agreed that this Schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour-saving devices or other factors reducing the work are introduced.
26:50 A single room for the Union Camp Chairman Is available under the following procedure:
(a)	After the Area Logging Superintendent is advised in writing of the name of the Union Camp Chairman. and after a request for a single room is made to the Area Logging Superintendent.
(b)	In such instances where a change is made re Union Camp Chairman the former Union Camp Chairman reverts back to the standard of two (2) employees to a room.
(c) No alteration will be made to the room during the Union Camp Chairman's occupancy.
26:51 Pay statement or cheques will be placed in envelopes before distribution to employees. Employees may have cheques deposited direct to banks in The Pas on request.
26:52 The Company will supply gasoline to all employees for use in their vehicles at Company cost plus Ten Percent (10%) for handling.
26:53 During the life of this Agreement it is agreed that no pieceworker that is presently on the Company payroll will be put out of work because of the use of mechanical felling equipment.
50
26:54 When a dispute over the scale arises, it shall be dealt with, in the first instance by the Company Check Sealer, the employees involved and the Camp Steward.
The check scale must be called for by the employees within Fourteen (14) calendar days after receiving the original scale slip and then must be completed and returned to the employees within Fourteen (I 4) calendar days after notifying their immediate supervisor. The maximum relative scaling variation is plus or minus ( ± ) Four Percent (4%) on stack scale and no adjustments will be made unless the variation exceeds plus or minus ( ± ) Four Percent (4%) in which case the actual pile as scaled shall be adjusted accordingly to reflect the full difference.
If no agreement is reached it shall be dealt with by the Chief Scaler, Union Business Agent or his appointee, the employees involved and a licensed Manitoba Scaler agreed upon by both parties.
The tree-length deck will be slashed or bucked into 16'6" and 8'6" lengths and will be cube-scaled by this licensed scaler.
On the third (3rd) and final binding cube scale if it differs from the original scale by more than plus or minus ( ± ) Three Percent (3%) of the original scale, the original scale will be adjusted accordingly and the cost for the independent scaler shall be charged to the party who was out of favour with the final and binding scale.
In the event the Manitoba Scaling Manual is changed to provide for tree-length scaling this clause will be reviewed to reflect the change(s).
26:55 The Company will give instruction in metric scale. 26:56 During the term of this Contract, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss a system of grouping of categories in the logging sector.
ARTICLE XXVII
Maintenance and Protection During Suspension of Work
27:01 It is agreed that during any general suspension of work at any time and for any cause whatsoever, the Company's property shall be protected and the
51
Company’s equipment shall be left in good condition by the employees. All safety provisions shall be fully complied with by all employees prior to any cessation of work.
27:02 It is understood that those employees who arc required to remain at work under the provisions of Article XXVII, Section 27:01 above, shall be available for such work during suspension of work.
27:03 The employees referred to in Article XXVII, Section 27:02 above, shall be paid at the wage rate in effect at the time of the general suspension of work.
ARTICLE XXVIII
Strikes and Lockouts
28:01 It is agreed that neither the Union nor the employees of the Company shall in any way authorize, condone, support, or participate in any slow down, suspension of work, walk out, strike, or picketing by any employee or groups of employees during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for the renewal of this Agreement are in progress subject to the provisions of Article XXV, Section 25:16.
28:02 It is agreed by the Company that there be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for renewal of this Agreement are in progress.
28:03 It is agreed that at all times. whether during the term of this Agreement or otherwise and for any cause whatsoever, the Company’s property shall be protected and the Company’s plant. equipment and inventory shall be left in a good and safe condition by the employees. No employee shall leave his work without first assuring that all prescribed safety provisions have been complied with.
28:04 It is also agreed that those employees who arc required to remain at work to fulfill the functions as provided in Article XXVIII. Section 28:03, shall be available as required for such work during any suspension of regular operations.
52
28:05 The employees referred to in Article XXVIII, Section 28:04. shall be paid the regular wage rate applicable to their respective classifications in effect at the time they were required to perform the work contemplated by Article XXVIII, Section 28:03 and 28:04.
ARTICLE XXIX
Duration of Agreement
29:01 The provisions of this Agreement shall become effective from the first day of September. 1983 and shall, notwithstanding any statutory provisions to the contrary, continue in force and effect until the 31st day of August. 1985 and thereafter from year to year, provided that either party may, not less than Thirty (30) days nor more than Ninety (90) days before said expiry date of August 3 1,1985, serve notice in writing by Registered Mail, on the other party to terminate or negotiate a revision of this Agreement, and where notice is given the party shall forthwith bargain collectively with a view to the renewal or revision or conclusion of a new Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have caused these presents to be executed by their duly authorized representatives on the date given below, to take effect on the first day of September, 1983.
53
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF: Manfor Ltd,.
Lumber & Woodlands Divisions:
R. BATIUK N. A. BARKETT R. J. LEBLANC D. J. CURRY R. O. CLEMENT
SIGNED ON BEHALF OF:
International Woodworkers Of America, Local 1-324:
RENE JOSEPH RICHARDS JAMES K. ANDERSON V. G. LANDRIAULT DAVID MATHESON R. A. GAREAU
54
SCHEDULE “A”
SAWMILL RATES
Effective F.ffectue Scpl. 1/83 Sept. 1/84
Croup 1
Cleanup Man (Inside)	12.96	13.48
Strip Saw Tailcr	12.96	13.48
Group 2
Cleanup Man (Outside)	13.02	13.54
Strip Cutter	13.02	13.54
Croup 3
Unscramblcr (Logs or Lumber) Edge Sort Pilcr Strip Layer
(■roup 4
Planer Hoist Operator Sawmill Hoist Operator Planer Chain Puller Green Chain Puller Log Deck Chaser Car Blocker
Watchman/Pickup Truck Group 5
Chip Plant Operator Assistant Warehouseman Kiln Transfer Operator
Croup 6
Edge Sort Feeder Group 7
Drop Sorter “C" (Cine I )
Drop Sorter “C" (Line 2) Automatic Log Sort Operator Manual Log Sort Operator Planer Feeder End Stack Operator
Group 8
Warehouseman
I3.I I
13.11
13.11
I 3.20
13.20 I 3.20 I 3.20
13.20 I 3.20
13.20
13.29
13.29 I 3.29
I 3.39
I 3.48 I 3.48 I 3.48 l 3.48 l 3.48 I 3.48
I 3.58
13.63
13.63
13.63
13.73
13.73
13.73
13.73
13.73 I 3.73
13.73
13.82
13.82 I 3.82
I 3.93
14.02
14.02
14.02
14.02
14.02
14.02
14.1 2
55
Group 9
Stacker Operator (Kilns)	13.67
Tallyman/Bander Operator	13.67
Group 10
Auto Trimmer (Planer Mill)	13.77
Group 11
Auto Trimmer (Sawmill)	13.89
Forklift Operator	13.89
Carrier Driver	13.89
Truck Driver (Hog Fuel &	13.89
Chips)
Group 12
Chipper Canter/Fixed Edger	14.00
Chip-N-Edger	14.00
30" Barker Operator	14.00
18" Barker Operator (Twin	14.00
Barkers)
Group 13
Kiln Operator	14.11
Group 14
Chip-N-Saw	14.23
Group 15
No category in this group	14.37
Group 16
Log Loader Operator/Cat 980	14.52
Group 17
No category in this group	14.69
Group 18
No category in this group	14.87
Group 19
No category in this group	] 5.04
Group 20
Planer Grader	15.22
Group 2 I
Operating Plancrman	15.39
56
14.22
14.22
14.32
14.45
14.45
14.45
14.45
14.56
14.56
14.56
14.56
14.67
14.80
14.94
15.10
15.28
I 5.46
15.64
15.83
16.01
Group 22
No category in this group	I 5.58
Group 23
Head Planerman	15.77
Group 24
No category in this group	16.02
Group 25
Sawyer (Single Cut Band)	16.25
Group 26
No category in this group	16.52
Group 27
No category in this group	16.79
All Tradesmen	17.26
Utility/Relief	14.18
Oiler	14.22
Employees with Grader’s Certificate...........
Employees designated as lead hands............
Employees designated as first aid man.........
57
16.20
16.40
16.66
17.46
17.95
14.75
14.79
.1 S/hour
.25/hour
.25/hour
SCHEDULE “A”
WOODLANDS RATES
Cook 2nd Cook
Cookcc
Bull Cook Night watchman Labourer Junior Partsman Driller Helper Power Saw Operator Handy Man Partsman Powder Man Bus Driver
Truck Driver Tandem Skidder Operator Grapple Skidder or Flail Air Trac Without Ticket Bombardier Swamp Tractor Truck Driver Trailer 10' & Under Bunk
Truck Driver Trailer Over
IO’ Bunk
Truck Driver Multi-Trailer Air Track with Ticket Heavy Duty Equipment Opcr. Slasher On/Off Loader
Fellcr/Limbcr/Buncher Slasher Operator Tradesmen
Effective Sept. 1, 1983 (per day)
110.79
104.80 103.68 104.58
01:
13.13
13.13 13.35
13.39
13.40
13.67
13.68
13.68 13.84
13.89
13.89
13.89
Effective Sept. 1. 1984 (per day)
115.22 108.99
107.83 108.76
107.83
1M.
13.66 13.88
13.93
13.94
14.22
14.23
14.23 14.39
14.45
14.45
14.45
13.92
14.48
14.05
14.05
14.19
14.19
14.27
14.28 14.41 (7.26>
14.61
14.61
14.76
14.76
14.84
14.85 14.99 17.95
Pilcr Operator	.98 per cord	1.02 per cord
Employees designated as f irst Aid Men... $ 0.25 hour
Employees designated as Lead Hands........$ 0.25 hour
Power Saw Operators working on an hourly basis, using their own saws, will be paid One Dollar & Ten Cents ($1.10) per hour for their saw. plus free gas and oil.
Rates for payment of mileage for the use of private vehicles will be Forty (40c) cents per mile.
58
Cut & Skid crews felling, limbing, skidding and piling tree length merchantable timber shall be paid per crew cord including power saw rental as follows:
Two (2) Man Crew consisting of a Faller and Skidder Operator.
Effective
Metre Feet	Sept. 1/83
(Per cord)
15.0	50’ or longer 15.53 45' or longer
13.5	+	.50 adj.	16.03
40’ or longer
12.0	+ I .00 adj. 16.53 35’ or longer
10:5	+	1.50 adj.	17.03
30’ or longer
9.0	+	2.50	adj.	18.03
25’ or longer
7.5	+	3.25	adj.	18.78
Effective Effective Effective Sept. 1/83 Sept. 1/84 Sept. 1/84 (Per cu.M.i (Per Cord! (Per cu. M.i
6.46	16.15	6.72
6.67	16.67	6.94
6.87	17.19	7.14
7.08	17.71	7.36
7.50	18.75	7.80
7.81	19.53	8.12
Three (3) Man Crew consisting of Two (2) Fallers and One (I) Skidder Operator:
Metre Feet Fallers
15.0	50’ or longer
13.5	45’ or longer
12.0	40’ or longer
10.5	35’ or longer
9.0	30’ or longer
7.5	25’ or longer
Skidder Operators
15.0	50’ or longer
13.5	45’ or longer
12.0	40’ or longer
10.5	35’ o r longer
9.0	30’ or longer
7.5	25’ o r longer
Per Cord Per Cu. M. Effective Effective Sept. 1/83 Sept. 1/83
15.53	6.46
16.03	6.67
16.53	6.87
17.03	7.08
18.03	7.50
18.78	7.81
14.24	5.92
14.74	6.13
15.24	6.34
15.74	6.54
16.74	6.96
17.49	7.27
Per Cord Per Cu. M. Effective Effective Sept. 1/84 Sept. 1/84
16.15	6.72
16.67	6.94
17.19	7.14
17.71	7.36
18.75	7.80
19.53	8.12
l’4.81	6.16
15.33	6.38
15.85	6.59
T6.37	6.80
17.41	7.24
18.19	7.56
Cut & Skid crews felling, limbing, skidding and bucking Eight Feet, Six inch (8'6") and Sixteen feet. Six inches (16'6") merchantable timber shall be paid per crew cord, including power saw rental as follows:
59
Three (3) Man Crew	Kffeclhe Sept. 1/83
(Feet) Cu. M.
Fallers and/or Buck-	19.96	8.30
ers
Skidder Operators	18.20	7.57
Two Man (2) C’rew
Failers and/or Buck-	19.96	8.30
crs
Skidder Operators	19.96	8.30
20.76	8.63
20.76	8.63
60
SCHEDULE “B”
Woodlands Boundaries
All that portion of the Province of Manitoba bounded as follows: On the North by the North limit of Township Eighty-four; on the West by the West boundary of the Province of’ Manitoba; on the South and East by the following described boundary: Commencing at the intersection of the said West boundary of Manitoba with the North limit of Township Forty-six; thence East along said North limit of Township Forty-six to the West limit of Range Twelve West; thence North along said West limit of Range Twelve West to the North limit of Township Fifty-eight; thence East along said North limit of Township Fifty-eight to the West limit of Range Ten West; thence North along said West limit of Range Ten West to the North limit of Township Sixty-two; thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty-two to the West limit of Range Two West; thence South along said West limit of Range Two West to the North limit of Township Sixty: thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty to the West limit of Range One East: thence North along said West limit of Range One East to the North limit of Township Sixty-two. thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty-two; to the West limit of Range Twclve East: thence North along said West limit of Range Twelve East to the North limit of Township Sixty-eight; thence East along said North limit of Township Sixty-tight lo the West limit of Range Fourteen East; thence North along said West limit of Range Fourteen East to the North limit of Township Seventy-eight; thence East along said North limit of Township Seventy-eight to the line of West Longitude 95°; thence North along said line of West Longitude 95° to the North limit of Township Eighty-four, excepting thereout all those portions thereof contained within the limits of the Grass River Provincial Park, the Cormorant Provincial Forest and the Clearwater Provincial Park, all rights-of-way for railways, highways and roadways, all lands underlying any natural rivers or lakes or other body of water, and excepting also all lands therein to which the Government has granted a valid subsisting lease, licence or patent before February I, 1966, a list whereof has been given to the Company by the Govern-
61
mcnt on or before such date, which said area represents the area in which the Company will operate under the terms hereof, or any extension of the said area granted by the Government to the Company under the terms hereof.
62
SCHEDULE “C”
Health and Welfare
I	GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
(a)	Premium cost for insurance shall be paid by the Company.
(b)	Participation in the plan is to be a condition of employment.
(c)	Coverage will be portable for employees moving between the Lumber Division, Woodlands Division or Moose Lake Loggers and there will be no waiting period for such qualified employees.
(d)	The Company will mail a weekly indemnity form to an employee at his request.
(e)	Benefit coverage will continue where an employee is absent from active employment and is being paid wages by the Company during his absence. Benefit coverage will cease on the cessation of active employment except that under the following circumstances, coverage will continue as indicated:
(1)	I f a covered employee is absent on Worker’s Compensation claim for temporary disability, coverage will continue during the period in respect of which the covered employee receives Worker's Compensation temporary disability time loss payment to a maximum of one year.
(2)	If a covered employee is absent on weekly indemnity claim under the plan, coverage will continue during the period in respect of which the covered employee receives weekly indemnity benefits under the plan.
(3)	Benefit coverage will continue to the end of the calendar month only for an employee who is on an authorised leave of absence.
II	WEEKLY INDEMNITY:
The Company will pay the full cost of the following Weekly Indemnity Plan, providing for a Fifty-two (52) ^iQ week period of disability with benefits commencing the first day of a non-compcnsablc accident, the first day of . hospitalization as a bed patient, and on the Fourth (4th) \Q day of sickness. Coverage will be Seventy Percent (70%)
I
_ ft
I oM63
M,"0
of normal weekly earnings for the Fifty-two (52) week period of disability up to a maximum of Three Hundred & Sixty Dollars ($360.00) per week. The Union accepts the improved Weekly Indemnity coverage as payment in kind of the employee’s share of the reduction in U.I.C. premium resulting from the qualifications of the Weekly Indemnity Plan under U.I.C. regulations.
III	LONG TERM DISABILITY:	,.| 0
The Company will provide a long term disability v,
program based on Fifty-five Percent (55%) of an employ- riy cc’s normal annual earnings, less offsets, from the date of j ' expiration of weekly indemnity coverage to Age 65. “Normal Annual Earnings” is defined as an employee’s regular ^ straight time hourly rate multiplied by 2,080 hours. -r
IV	CROUP LIFE:	^
The Company will provide group life insurance j}
coverage, insuring each employee for twice his annual y earnings, as defined in 3, above. ?-[ w
V	Accidental Death and Dismemberment.
The Company will provide A.D. and D. coverage^
insuring each employee for once annual earnings as defined in 3, above.	*-t i , *]
Death...........................................100%
Loss of both hands or both feel.................100%
Loss of both eyes.............................100%
Loss of one hand and one foot....................100%
Loss of one hand and one eye.....................100%
Loss of one foot and one eye.....................100%
Loss of one hand or one foot......................50%
Loss of one eye.................................. 50%
Loss of thumb and any finger of the same hand.....................................25%
VI	Comprehensive Health Plan (Employees & Dependents)
1.	Manitoba Medicare The Company will contribute to all employees’ Manitoba Medicare to a maximum of present cost per year.
2.	The Company will provide the following coverage:
(a)	Medical (N.B. There is no deductible . for this section of the plan.) COVHRAGT:


(i)	The difference between the cost of semi-
private accommodation in an accredited Manitoba hos- . pital and the standard ward rate paid by Manitoba Medicare.	.
(ii)	Up to five (5) dollars per day to a maximum of One Hundred Eighty (180) days while confined in a nursing home or convalescent hospital in any one year.
(iii)	The difference between the cost of hospitalization outside Canada, including semi-private accommodation and other hospital expenses, and the cost for these services paid by Manitoba Medicare. There is no daily maximum and the plan pays for ninety percent (907r) of the above incurred expenses.
(b) Major Medical — (N.B. There is no deductible for this section of the plan). The maximum payable by the Insurance carrier under this section is Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($15,000.)	per employee in any ,
Three (3) year period.	"T
(i)	This portion of this section is covered at
One Hundred Percent (lOO'/f).	3
-- jrcscripugajdmgtc.^-	'
professional ambulance service, diagnostic services not covered under Manitoba Medicare.	')
medical appliances such as artificial limbs, wheelchairs, etc.
optical care, inclndinu the cost of frames and lenses, contact lenses, artificial eyes and the fitting of prescription glasses to a maximum cost per person of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($ I 50.00) in any Two (2) year period.
(ii)	This portion of this section is covered at F.ighty Percent (8()'/f).
services of a registered nurse, dental repair as a result of an accident, hearing aids to a maximum of Three I lundred Dollars ($300.) per family per vear
th 0
(S-)
ft
private room up to Ten Dollars(S10.) per day additional if recommended by a licensed physician or surgeon.
services of a licensed chiropractor, osteopath, podiatrist, physiotherapist, up to Six Dollars ($6.00) per visit with a maximum of Fifty (50) visits per family, per year, extra billings of a licensed physician or surgeon outside Manitoba with no maximum limitations.
VII	Dental Care Plan (Employees & Dependents)
The Company will pay all of the premiums for , this plan.	j
I.	Benefits
(a)	Diagnostic Services
All necessary procedures to assist the dentist in evaluating the existing conditions to determine the required dental treatment including:
P
(i)	Oral examination
(ii)	Consultations
(iii)	X-rays (complete	mouth	x-rays	will	be
covered only once	in	a	three	(.1)	year
period).
(b)	Preventative Services
All necessary procedures to prevent the occurrence of oral disease, including:
(i)	Cleaning and scaling
(ii)	Topical application of fluoride
(iii)	Space muintainers
(c)	Surgical Services
All necessary procedures for extractions and other surgical procedures normally performed by a dentist.
(d)	Restorative Services
All’ necessary procedures for filling teeth with amalgam, synthetic porcelain, and stainless steel crowns. Gold inlays or onlays will be provided as a filling material only when teeth, in the professional opinion of a dentist, cannot be restored with any of the above materials. Gold
66
foil will be provided only in eases of repair to pre-existing gold restorations.
(c)	Prosthetic Repairs
All necessary procedures required to repair or rcline fixed or removable appliances.
(f)	Endodontics
All necessary procedures required for pulpal therapy and root canal filling.
(g)	Periodontics
All necessary procedures for the treatment of tissues supporting the teeth.
(h)	Prosthetic Appliances and Crown and Bridge Procedures
The services of a certified orthodontist registered 'U as such by the college of Dental Surgeons of Manitoba only after the patient has been covered continuously for Twelve (12) months. Appliances lost, broken, or stolen will not be replaced. These services arc only available for dependent children up to their Nineteenth (19th) birthday.
Lifetime maximum benefit is Two Thousand ($2,000.) Dollars per person for all services provided by an orthodontist.
2.	Co-Insurance
In respect to benefits a. to g., the plan provides reimbursement of Eighty Percent (80%) of eligible expenses.
Benefits h. and i. will be subject to Fifty Percent (50%) co-insurance.
(i)	Crowns
(ii)	Partial a	dentures, but
not more than once in five (5) years, (i) Orthodontics
67
SCHEDULE “D”
Sawmill Training Program
The purpose of this program is to provide on the job training in order that employees may better exercise their seniority as job vacancies occur, to' Improve the knowledge and skill of the employees employed in the operation, and to provide suitable trained employees for skilled jobs within the operation.
1.	The Company will provide a list of key jobs that
require an extended and intensive training program. Employees training on key jobs will be given supervised training until they arc thoroughly familiar with the fundamentals of the job. Practice time will then be scheduled until the trainee is judged qualified. The following is the list of key jobs:
1.	Chip & Saw Operator
2.	Beaver Canter Operator
3.	Debarker Operators
4.	Graders
5.	Edgermcn
6.	Trimmcrmcn
7.	Reman Drop Sort Operators
8.	Fork Lift Operators
9.	Log Loader Operators
10.	Kiln Operators
11.	Oilers
12.	Watchmen
13.	Truck Drivers
14.	Planer Feeder
15.	Assistant Warehouseman
2.	Definitions
Regular: Defines the status of the present incumbent employed on a full time basis at the inception of this program.
Spare: Defines the status of an employee who has previous successful job tenure and/or successfully completed the plant trainee program.
Trainee: Defines the status of an employee currently training in this program.
68
3.	The length of training period will be determined by the trainee’s progress and management will
endeavour to qualify personnel concerned in the shortest possible time.
4.	(a) Selection of trainees shall be in accordance with the appropriate provisions of Article XVII
- Seniority of the Current Collective Bargaining Agreement. Employees trained through the program or employees agreed to as spares shall establish their right to key job openings.
(b)	Job bids under this program shall be valid for 30 calendar days.
5.	(a) No employee shall be permitted to train for more than one job at a time and no more than
three jobs within a twelve month period.
(b) Trainees who of their own accord give up the training job or arc disqualified shall maintain full rights to train for two more jobs within the twelve month period.
(c)	A twelve month period is defined to commence with the employee's initial bid into the program.
6.	Trainees will be notified in writing of their progress at intervals during the training period.
7.	The Company will notify the trainee, the local Union, and the Plant Committee in writing when
he is judged to be qualified as a spare or he is removed from the training program.
8.	Rates of pay for trainees will be their regular job j rate except that they will not receive more than
the established rate for the job they arc training for. How- j, ever, in the absence of close supervision (close supervision v is defined as a supervisor or qualified operator in the immediate vicinity of the key job, thereby enabling such supervisor or qualified operator to instruct or oversee job performance) if the trainee performs the job in excess ol one hour per day he shall receive the job rate for the actual hours worked.
9.	Regular status employees cannot be displaced by
a “spare” even though the "regular" may have less seniority, unless due to a reduction of forces by plant seniority. On recall from such curtailment (by plant seniority) the regular status employee will return to his original job.
69
10.	The Company shall determine the number of sparer and/or trainees required for any one job.
and the length of the training period may be established where necessary.
11.	The “Utility Man” will be a posted job and everything being equal, the senior man will be
awarded the job. He will be used to fill the gap between trainees, spares, and regular operators, but the “Utility Man” will never permanently fill one particular job. This clause is not intended to restrict in any fashion the provisions of the program.
1 2. Spares who refuse for other than proper cause to accept vacancies for which they arc trained, shall lose their spare status on the second refusal.
13. The Company shall supply a list to the local Union and Plant Committee of employees who are now qualified or now training at the inception of this program who shall be considered already enrolled in the training program and the terms of the plan will apply to them just as if they had been selected under the provisions laid out herein.
14. FILING ROOM LINE OF PROGRESSION
Length of Time in Program
Effective Effective Sept. 1/83 Sept. 1/84
0 to 3 months (Training Per.)
4 to 12 months
13 months to 24 months
25 months to 36 months
Circular Sawfilcr
Benchman
Head Sawfilcr
13.81	14.36
14.36	14.93
14.74	15.32
15.27	15.88
17.12	17.80
17.26	17.95
19.06	19.82
It is agreed by the Company, and the Union, that the above line of progression and terminology will apply in the Filing Room. It is further agreed that the Knife Grinder, after one year, will receive further training through the stages of Saw Fitter 1st year. Saw Fitter 2nd year, and Circular Saw Filer. No person can progress beyond Circular Saw Filer unless the position above this becomes vacant. The length of time to be similar to existing apprenticeship training programmes in the Industries. Schooling to be scheduled when practical.
It is agreed that the Head Saw Filer will perform the Benching duties along with instructing and teaching all 70
personnel engaged in saw filing and knife grinding. The Head Saw Filer will also have supervisory responsibilities.
The Circular Saw Filer will receive further training as a Benchman and will receive the rate only for the time he is required to do benching on Band Saws.
It will be considered part of the duties of all personnel in the Filing Room to grind knives.
No incumbents will have their rates reduced as a result of this Agreement.
1 5. The Planer Feeder will receive further training to qualify as an Operating Plancrman.
71
SCHEDULE “E”
Trades Apprentice Program
The purpose of this Agreement is to assist interested and qualified men in furthering and developing their skills, and to provide tradesmen of the highest possible calibre to the Company’s Operations.
The program will cover all designated trades, or trades to be incorporated in accordance with the Company’s requirements.
The term of each apprentice’s training will be in accordance with the Manitoba Department of Labour Apprenticeship Board rules and regulations.
Applicants for entry into the program will be subject to meeting the standards required by the Department of Labour Apprenticeship Branch.
I	ENTRY STANDARDS
1.	Education Applications will be accepted from applicants who meet the educational level specified by the Apprenticeship Branch.
2.	Age Limit Entry will be limited to new applicants aged IX years or over.
3.	Testing Applicants who meet the criteria established in I. and 2. above will be required to pass a mechanical aptitude test.
II	SELECTION
Apprenticeship openings will be filled in accordance with the provisions of Article XVIII Job Postings. However, only those employees who meet the criteria established in 1. and 2. above may apply and be tested. The successful applicant will be selected from applicants scoring seventy-five percent (li'/r) or better in their test, based on Woodlands and Lumber Division seniority where applicable.
The openings for apprenticeship training will be determined by the Company and its requirements. One application per employee will be considered for the Apprenticeship Program: therefore each candidate must decide regarding the trade he desires before filling his application.
72
The Company intends to train its own employees: however. if no qualified employees apply for apprenticeship openings, the Company may hire new qualified employees to enter the program.
Ill	GENERAL
I. A Joint Apprenticeship Committee will be formed, comprised of two Union and two management representatives with the Industrial Relations Manager acting as Co-ordinator. The Committee will be expected
to:
(a)	Review test results on initial applications.
(b)	Periodically review apprentice's progress.
(c)	Make such recommendations as it deems necessary from time to time for improvements to the program.
2.	Apprentices will be required to perform work in accordance with the following general outline:
(a)	First Year -- The apprentice will work as a Trades helper taking necessary direction from a journeyman and/or his supervisor.
(b)	Second Year The apprentice shall be qualified to assist the journeyman and work under the direction and instructions of the Journeyman and/or his supervisor. He will work alone at limes performing assignments in keeping with his training.
(c)	Third Year The third year apprentice will be required to perform work of increasing complexity and in accordance with his tools and his training. He may work alone frequently, but occasionally will require direction or assistance from a Journeyman and/or his supervisor.
(d)	Journeymen must be qualified to carry out the responsibilities of their trade as outlined by the Act. and be able lo direct assistants.
3.	All journeymen tradesmen shall be required to have and shall not qualify for the journeyman's rate unless they have a full kit of hand tools necessary to perform the job for which they are hired with the exception of machinery and tools which shall not be deemed to fall within the responsibility of the journeyman.
Apprentices shall be required to have and maintain a basic tool kit and be in the general process of building up
73
the necessary tools to equip himself for the job. Tools must be acquired, year by year, as shown.
4.	Vacations may not be taken as a group and no apprentice may take his vacation at a time that is in conflict with his appropriate school term.
5.	Apprentices will have all rights and responsibilities under the Labour Agreement.
6.	There will be a probationary period of up to three (3) months prior to entering into an apprenticeship agreement, during which time the apprentice may return or be returned to his original job without loss of seniority. During the probationary period, any candidate who fails to meet the Company’s requirements will be returned to his previous job. Employees hired directly intoapprenticeship training failing to pass the probationary period will be able to apply their Lumber/Woodlands Division seniority where applicable.
7.	Effective September I si, 198 I those emrpiuyves entering the Apprenticeship Program or those presently^/ in the program shall be paid the following rates:
Length of l ime	Sept. I,
in the Program	1983
0	to 3 months	$13.81
4	to 12 months	14.36
1 3	to 24 months	14.74
25	to 36 months	15.27
37	to 48 months	15.79
Sept. I. , 1484
$14.36
14.93
15.33
15.88
16.42
f
If an applicant is qualified to write and pass the examination at any stage of the program, he shall have the right to slot in at that stage.
Apprentices who have obtained a journeyman certificate shall be paid at the ticketed tradesman rate.
8.	There will be :i training syllabus designed for each trade. A record will be maintained of each apprentice’s progress.
9.	Training — Schooling:
(a) The Provincial Apprenticeship Hoard recommends that apprentices spend time in the practical aspects of their trade prior to entering their annual school term. In this case, as the probationary period for apprentices is Three (3) months, apprentices will not enter school
74
prior to the completion of their three month probationary period.
10. Thereafter, entry into school will depend on the schedule of school sessions set up by the Apprenticeship Board. The Company will make up the difference between the Canada Manpower Training and Assistance Program Allowance and the employee’s normal earnings (based on his regular straight time hourly rate multiplied by 40 hours per week) for the duration of the school term. Upon completion of each period of training in an approved vocational school, apprentices will be required to pass examinations set by the Apprenticeship Branch. In the event of failure to pass the examination, apprentices shall be required to be reexamined within 12 months. Failure to pass the second examination will result in the apprentice being removed from the program Apprentices removed from the program will return to their original position. In the event the original position no longer exists, he will return to one with an equivalent rate. It is our understanding that the Department of Labour. Apprenticeship Branch pays allowances for travel expenses, tuition Ices and text books.
The lollowing is the current schedule of Canada Man power Allowance paid to apprentices attending school:
Canada Manpower Allowance
No dependents One dependent Two dependents Three dependents Four or more dependents
Al Home	Living Away From
Weekly	Home Weekly
$ 70.00	SI 15.00
100.00	145.00
115.00	160.00
130.00	175.00
145.00	190.00
Existing Maintenance employees hired prior to September I, 1981 and still in our employ who have not obtained a Journeyman’s ticket will be encouraged to enter the program at a level to be individually determined by the Apprenticeship Branch. Persons presently employed as Journeymen who do not wish to become certified, or who take the technical qualifications examination and fail shall continue to be employed as journeymen, and if a person presently employed as a journeyman fails to pass the test for a voluntary Technical Qualifications certificate, he can then become indentured as an apprentice.
75
Once started in the Apprenticeship Program, subject however 10 the provisions of the Collective Agreement, the apprentice shall have the right to continue providing he passes all prescribed tests as provided for by the apprenticeship regulations, and work is available to him. Upon completion of his first year of apprenticeship an apprentice shall not be affected by operational curtailment as it applies to other employees exercising their seniority.
7 ft
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PROCEDURE FOR EXERCISING SENIORITY IN THE WOODLANDS DIVISION
In order to qualify to exercise seniority, the following will apply:
(1)	Be on ihc payroll for Forty-five (45) days.
(2)	Must be laid off.
(3)	When reducing the workforce, senior employees may exercise their seniority to displace the junior employee in the work area in any job which the employee is able to perform the work. Employees exercising their seniority shall be allowed a two (2) day refamiliarization period.
(4)	If a Woodlands’ employee is unable to exercise seniority in his/her work area and wishes to exercise seniority in other areas within the Woodlands Division, the same procedure will apply as above, (bump the junior employee on the seniority list in the classification being bumped).
(5)	When the employee’s original job is reactivated again, the employee has to return to the original job provided the employee has not bid into another job during that period.
(6)	in the case of lay-offs, the Company will notify the employee or employees concerned at least fourteen (I 4) calendar days in advance unless the lack of work is beyond the Company’s control.
Within the seven (7) days of notification, where practical. a Personnel Notification Form. Supplement No. 1, should be completed stating whether they accept a layoff or wish to exercise seniority.
(;|) If during the lay-off period, the employee wishes to return to work and so notifies the Company Personnel Supervisor, he shall be called back to work as soon us his seniority entitles him to a job once an opening occurs.
77
(b) The application of this provision shall not result in an employee, in the exercise of his rights, bumping an employee with less seniority once he accepts a lay-off in six (6) above.
Dated the 29th day of March, 1984.
Manfor Ltd. Woodlands Division:
D. CURRY
international Woodworkers of America. Local 1-324:
JAMES K. ANDERSON
78
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PHYSICAL LIMITATIONS
When an employee has an established physical handicap or infirmity to the point where he/she can no longer perform his/her regular duties, then the Employee, the Industrial Relations Manager and the Business Agent of the Union will consult and see whether or not there is a job classification that the employee can perform on a full time, regular basis.
If the three (3) parlies mutually agree that such job(s) exist, then the Company and the Union reserve the right to by-pass the job bidding and posting procedure to place the handicapped or infirmed employee on the iob, based on his/her seniority.
Dated the 29th da\ of March. 1984
Manfor Ltd.
Lumber & Woodlands Ditisions:
R. O. CLEMENT
International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-324:
JAMES K. ANDERSON
79
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SCALING
A Committee will be formed consisting of the Woodlands Manger, Business Agent of the Union, one employee representing the Company and one employee representing the I.W.A., to meet as required to review check scaling requests and procedures.
Dated the 29th day of March. 1984.
Manfor Ltd. Woodlands Division:
R. O. CLEMENT
International Woodworkers of America, Local 1-324:
JAMES K. ANDERSON
80