AGREEMENT
Between
/Ibitibi-Price
Newfoundland Fibre ftetoureei
And
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada local 60N
January 1,1996 to Decernber 3 1,1998
00051(05)
2
THIS AGREEMENT made at Grand F alls-W indsor, in the Province of New found land and Labrador this 22nd clay of March, Anno Domini One Thousand Nine Hundred N inety-Six.
BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC., OF GRAND FALLS-W INDSOR, NEWFOUNDLAND, (hereinafter called the “Employer") of the one part,
AND
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY & P A PE R W 0 RK ER S UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 60N (hereinafter called the “Union”) of the other part.
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Ease
Article I -Purpose ...........................................................5
Article II - Term of Agreement.................................................... 5
Article III -Recognition and Jurisdiction .................................... ..5
Article IV - Rates and Classifications ....................................... .. 7
Article V - Union Membership.................................................. .. 8
Article VI - Annual Vacation ................................................. .. 9
Article VII -Holidays With Pay...................................................II
Article VII - Floating Holidays................................................ .13
Article IX - No Strike/No Lockout................................................13
Article X - Working and Living Conditions .......................................14
Article XI -Hours of Work........................................................23
Article XII - Seniority ....................................................... .28
Article XIII - Adjustment of Grievances..........................................32
Article XIV - Safety........................................................... .35
Article XV - Discipline........................................................ .37
Article XVI - Commuting ....................................................... .37
Article XVII - Walking and Riding Time ........................................ .38
Article XVIII - Cookhouse and Bunkhouse Staff.................................. .39
Article XIX - Bereavement Leave .................................................40
Article XX . Training.......................................................... .41
Article XXI - Fringe Benefits ................................................. .41
Article XXII -Jury Duty..........................................................42
Article XXIII - Leave of Absence............................................... .42
Article XXIV • Classification Seniority ....................................... .43
Article XXV - Other Provisions (Piecework) Without Guarantee ....................44
Article XXVI - Special Provisions - Guaranteed Rate .............................47
Purchase Wood.................................................................. .48
Schedule “A” .................................................................. .48
Schedule “B”................................................................... .50
Schedule "C” .................................................................; -51
Schedule “D” .................................................................. .52
A rticle r-Purpose
1:01 The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working and living conditions, and to ensure insofar as possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1:02 In this Agreement, the word Employer refers to the Company and the reference to any non-working contractor refers to contractors who are not employees under this Agreement but are bound by the Agreement.
Article II - Te_rm of Agreement
1:01 This Agreement shall become-effective aSLflfJhfiJjlSldayjofJanuary |996 _ (except as otherwise proyidcd).and shall Kmaitunftill fhise^i.cTfecup^nd ’ irtcludingjhejls! day of December, 1998 and from year to yearjtherenfter, unless either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of December ofthat particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
Article III - Recognition and Jurisdiction
3:01(a) The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all the employees of Abitibi-Price Inc., Grand Falls Fibre Resources Division, including all employees on the seniority listfs) of Abitibi-Price Inc., in woods operations on the Grand Falls timber limits save and except Fibre Resources Manager, Assistant Fibre Resources Manager, Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents, General Foremen, Foremen, Assistant Foremen, Scalers, Assistant Scalers, Technical, Clerical and Office Staff. Guards. Towermen, Gatekeepers. Non-Working Contractors, Non-Working Sub-
5
Contractors, persons employed in Silviculture operations, persons employed in supervisory, advisoty and confidential capacities, and those above the rank of Assistant Foreman.
(b) Members of the Union who are promoted outside the Union will retain seniority and accumulated seniority for a period not exceeding three (3) months. At any time before the three (3) months has expired, the promoted employee may return or be returned to his former classification provided he has remained a member in good standing of the Union. This is applicable to permanent positions only.
3:02(a) The Employer agrees that if contracts are made, such Contractors shall be required to apply all the terms of this Agreement, including the wage rates, i.e., it is understood and agreed between the parties hereto that any person who works on the Fibre Resources operation of the Company in any capacity referred to in the Wage Schedules attached hereto or any new classification to be added thereto under Article IV shall be considered to be an employee of the Employer for purposes of this Agreement. The Company agrees to notify the Union two (2) weeks prior to awarding any contracts.
(b)	It is further agreed that Contractors and/or Sub-Contractors who themselves work and any workmen whom they hire shall be considered employees of the Employer.
(c)	Employees of Contractors engaged for the purpose of erecting structures outside the limits of the Company are covered by this Agreement.
3:03 Anyone performing work, except for the purpose of instruction, in case of emergency, as listed in the job classifications set out in the Wage Schedules attached to and forming part of this Agreement, including new job classifications added under Article IV, shall be considered employees of the Employer within the terms of this Agreement.
3:04 Supervisory personnel shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee listed in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, including new job classifications added under Article IV. except for the purpose of instruction in case of emergency.
6
3:05 The jurisdiction area of application under this Agreement shall be the Province ofNewfoundland and Labrador and shall cover those job classifications listed in the Wage Schedules which are part of this Agreement, including job classifications added under Article IV.
3:06 The Employer shall not be asked to act upon and shall not be responsible for questions ofjurisdiction which may arise between the Union and any other union or unions. It is also agreed that the Employer’s operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other union or unions.
3:07 No Company official, Supervisor or Foreman shall have any private understanding or agreement with any individual employee or group of employees in conflict herewith.
Article IV- Rates and Classifications
4:& The Wage Schedules are attached hereto and form part of this Agreement.
4:02 For job classifications and experimental jobs used in the procurement of wood fibre used in the manufacture of newsprint or for fuel not listed in the attached Wage Schedules? the Employer shall set estimated or temporary rates of which the Union will be notified in writing within thirty (30) days from the date the new job commences. Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedules. After a trial period of sixty (60) days: any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and, after such agreement is reached, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedules and attached hereto. Upon failure to reach agreement on the rate or rates, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. It is understood that the sixty (60) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. The workmen concerned shall be entitled to all the benefits of the Agreement from the date the new job commences.
4:03 All rates under this Article may be made retroactive to the end of the trial period by an Arbitration Board.
^rticle V-Union M|jhbership
5:01 The Employer agrees that it is in favour of its employees, covered by this Agreement, becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5:02 All employees covered by this Agreement shall become members of the Union within 30 days from the date they commence employment. All members shall maintain their membership in good standing as a condition of employment through the terms of this Agreement. In the event of the Union having to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union, in writing, at least seven (7) days before the suspension.
5:03 It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Employer, in writing, of any employee who has refused to join the Union or any member who refuses to maintain his membership in good standing, and the Employer shall not be required to release an employee until notice in writing has been received. In the event of such release, the Company will not be required to issue the notice of lay-off as contained in Clause 12.08.
5:04 The Employer shall deduct each month from the wages of each employee within the Union’s jurisdiction, the regular monthly working membership dues of the Local Union and, on his behalf, remit the same to the Local Union.
5:05 If an individual employee who is a member of the Union or wishes to become a member so desires, the Employer agrees that it will, on his behalf and upon written request, deduct Union Initiation Fees and/or Back Dues from monies due him.
5:06 Remittance of all deductions accompanies by an itemized list, in duplicate, showing the payroll number, hours worked, name, SIN, address, date of birth, date of hire, and amount by individual and totals by camp or work areas, shall be sent to the Local Union as soon as possible: but, in any event, not later than two (2) weeks from the end of the calendar month in which it is deducted.
5:07 The Employer shall advise the Union from time to time of the Employer’s labour requirements, When hiring additional employees, the Employer will give preference to Union members who have applied in writing within the previous six (6) months, and who are capable of doing the work required of them. (N.B. This does not apply to employees with recall rights.)
8
5:08 The Union shall furnish the Employer with a list of Local Officers, Representatives and Job Stewards ‘and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur.
5:09 Union Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all Fibre Resources operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Employer’s operations on condition that said representative will abide by the regular rules and regulations; of the Employer. Credentials carried by the Union Representative shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union and a Travel Permit signed bj the Fibre Resources Manager of the -Company. Accredited Union Representatives shall be provided with board and lodging, if available, on an Employer’s premises at $5.50 per meal. It is recognized that on commuter operations, a special situation is created making it necessary for the Union Representatives to sign up men during working hours. This shall be done after consultation with and with the consent of the Foreman or his representative. It is agreed that the Foreman will be instructed by the Employer to permit the Union Representative to sign up ryien during working hours when this is possible without undue interference; with production. In so doing, the Union agrees that said Union Representative shall have due regard for production.
5:10 Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked sixty (60) days. During the period of probation, any new employee who proves unsatisfactory in work performance may be disciplined up to release from enployment without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Discharge for cause other than poor, work performance may be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
Article VI - Annual Vacation
Vacalionm e
6:01 The Employer shall grant vacation time off to employees covered by this Agreement in accordance with the following provisions: An employee’s vacation entitlement will become effective at the time the employee accumulates the required number of days.
a)	Less than 150 days: one (1) day vacation for each 30 days of seniority.
b)	150 - 900 days: two (2) weeks vacation.
c)	901 -1,500 days: three (3) weeks vacation,
d)	1,501 • 3,150 days: four (4) weeks vacation.
e)	3,151 - 5,150 days: five (5) weeks vacation.
f)	Over 5,150 days: six (6) weeks vacation.
6:02 Vacation Pay shall be paid to employees at the time of vacation, weekly with regular earnings, or deposited in trust and paid if requested on the following basis:
a)	4% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under 6:01 (a) and (b) above.
b)	6% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under 6:01 (c) above.
c)	8% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under 6:0I(d) above.
d)	10% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under 6:01(e) above.
e)	12% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under 6:01(0 above.
6:03 An employee who loses his seniority rights through voluntary separation shall have his vacation credits included with his pay at the time of separation.
6:04 Employees wishing to take vacation time off will make arrangements with his immediate supervisor four (4) weeks in advance. Such vacation time shall be for a period which is mutually agreed. If for any reason the employee cannot be granted his vacation on the date requested, the employee shall be notified, in writing, at least three (3) weeks in advance of the date requested.
6:05 The Employer shall provide vacation application forms in multiple copies so that an employee shall have for himself a copy of his request signed by the appropriate Company official.
6:06 Subject to the foregoing, an employee shall be granted vacation time off on dates requested unless it causes acute manpower shortage in his classification at his worksite. Vacation periods are not to be divided into shorter periods than one (I) week, seven (7) consecutive calendar days. Vacation Pay will be paid in proportion to the time taken unless the employee makes a request, in writing, to be paid differently.
10
6:07 Should two or more employees apply for the same vacation dates, the date of application should determine. Should the date of application be the same, seniority shall determine.
6:08 Vacations shall commence on the first day of the employee’s normal work week, unless other arrangements can be made between the employee and his supervisor so that adjustments in the scheduling of crews can be kept to a minimum. Vacation Pay, in accordance with Clause 6:02. shall be on a separate cheque and paid not later than the Friday preceding the day that the vacations are due to commence.
6:09 If during the life of this Agreement any legislation is proclaimed which provides for more Vacation Pay than is provided for in this Article, the legislation shall have effect from the date of proclamation,
Article VII . ^Holidays With _Pay
7:01 Qualified employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid for the following holidays without the performance of work providing the qualifying time is worked on the Fibre Resources operations of the Company.
Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Labour Day
The holidays as outlined above shall be observed on the official date as declared by Provincial Legislation, unless otherwise mutually agreed. If any of the above holidays fall on the employee’s scheduled day or days off, the employee shall be granted extra day or days off as his holidays with pay.
7:02 To be eligible for pay for the holidays as outlined in Clause 7.01, employees must qualify as follows:
a)	For employees whose names have not been entered on the seniority list as per Clause 12:03, the required days worked between holidays shall be fifteen (15) days.
II
b)	Employees must have worked the last scheduled shift before and the first scheduled shift after the holiday except when the employee is on vacation or is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid if he otherwise qualifies. Employees on vacation or absent due 10 a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence. A special leave of absence for any of the above holidays may be granted to employees who have to travel long distances to be home for the holiday, provided that a request for such leave is made five (5) days before the holiday.
c)	Employees who otherwise quality but are laid off on any of the twenty-five (25) calendar days immediately preceding the holiday will be paid for the holiday. Employees w ho otherwise qualify but who are laid off prior to the pay period in which the holiday occurs will not be paid at the time the holiday is due. Such holiday or holidays pay will be added to the first payroll period after recall.
7:03 Employees who meet the other requirements of this Article and who work on or after 30th November of any calendar year shall be granted three&Bonus Days. These days may be taken separately as requested by the employee with the same conditions applying as with Floating Holidays in Article 8:03.
7:04 An employee does not have to report before or after the stipulated day as per 7:02(b) if his regular employment is not available.
7:05 All employees qualifying for a paid holiday, except those working on negotiated piecework rates, shall receive pay for the holiday at their regular . rates. Those working on negotiated piecework rates shall receive pay for the holiday at the General Labour Rate plus 8%.
7:06 All employees who qualify for a paid holiday and work on the paid holiday will receive pay for the time worked at time and one-half and in addition will receive the Holiday Pay for which they qualify. All employees who do not qualify for pay for a holiday and work on such holiday shall receive pay for the time worked at time and one-half Days absent from work while on vacation and all days for which an employee received pay or part pay shall be considered as days worked for the purpose of qualifying for a paid holiday.
12
Article VII - Floating Holidays
8:01 Every employee covered by this Agreement is entitled to three {JXFIoating Holidays with pay provided he/she meets the following requirements:
a)	To be eligible for the first Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 25 days in the previous payroll year,
b)	To be eligible for the second Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 50 days in the previous payroll year.
c)	To be eligible for the third Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 100 days in the previous payroll year.
8:02 It is further agreed that an employee may elect to take eight (8) hours pay in lieu of time off.
8:03 Time off must be arranged with the employee’s immediate supervisor and any employee who does not take the Floating Holiday when the Fibre Resources are operating will be paid for the day during the last week of operations prior to the regular fall shutdown, The Floating Holidays will not be accumulative from year to year.
Article IX - No Strike/No Lockout
9:01 It is agreed that all disputes shall be settled in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article XIII of this Agreement, and that there shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members against the operations covered by this Agreement nor lockouts by the Employer during the life ofthis Agreement.
Article X - Working and Living_Conditions
10:01 The Employer agrees to abide by the terms and conditions of the Logging Camps Act 1960, the amendments thereto and the regulations thereunder. The Union agrees that the workmen covered by this Agreement will cooperate with the Employer in maintaining the general rules of cleanliness and order in the living quarters, mess halls: outhouses and surroundings of camps and places of work.
13
10:02 Subject to this Agreement, it is clearly understood and agreed that it is the sole right of the Employer to administer Fibre Resources operations, direct employees in such a way as to ensure maximum efficiency, change its methods or system of operation and distribute work The Union shall be advised of any significant change in operations at least thirty (30) days in advance of the introduction of such change.
10:03 The Employer agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement
10:04(a) The weekly pay period shall be the period commencing on S a,m. each Sunday and ending at 8 a.m. on the following Sunday. Weekly pay cheques will be available at the end of the regular shift on the first Friday following the weekly pay period. However, there may be occasions when such things as weather conditions, computer breakdown, transportation difficulties, etc., etc., will arise which will prevent the Company from meeting this commitment If such is the case, cheques will be distributed as soon as they are available. Direct Deposit will be made available upon the employee’s request.
For each pay period, a memo of earnings slip will be issued to reach employee giving the following information: the period covered, hours and/or days worked, tales of pay, walking and riding time, number of cords, cunits or cubic metres, number of piles, earnings and deductions and any other pertinent information,
(b)	Employees covered by this Agreement who experience a two-week delay in Workers’ Compensation payments will, upon request, be advanced an amount equal to the Workers’ Compensation payment
10:05(a) When van purchases are made, the employee will be given an itemized bill showing date ofpurchase and price of each item.
(b)	Except in cases of emergency, in camps, van shall be available and open a minimum of two nights a week on Tuesday and Thursday for at least two hours each night between the hours of 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
(c)	Van shall be sold to employees at no profit to the Employer.
14
10:06(a)
(b)
(<0
10:07
10:08
10:09
Only factory-built buses, automobiles or snowmobiles shall be used for the ground transportation ofemployees. Such vehicles are to be kept clean and in good repair so as to provide the safe and comfortable transportation qualities intended. Same to have adequate seating accommodation for all on board. Tools and gasoline containers are to be transported separately.
Shelters shall be provided at waiting anchor lunch places and shall be equipped with oil stoves or wood stoves that shall be equipped to meet the fire regulations. It is nevertheless agreed that when it is necessary to take fire prevention precautions in the summer, no first will be permitted in such shelters.
A committee of Union and Management shall be formed to cover all Fibre Resources operations to inspect all lunch shelters. Union Representatives will be reimbursed for any time lost. The Company agrees to consider all reasonable recommendations made by said committee.
Where employees provide a Coleman stove for their own use in lunch shelters, the Employer will make such stoves available at cost less a subsidy of S10.00 per stove. The Employer will provide free fuel and will also stock parts for sale at cost. The use of such stoves shall not be restricted during the tire season unless Government Regulations dictate otherwise.
Employees taken from their job to fight forest fire will be paid their regulat rates for such work except those working on negotiated piecework rates who will be paid the General Labour Rate from the time they are taken from their jobs. It is further agreed that the Employer will make every effort to limit the daily working time on fire fighting to eight (8) hours.
When pulpwood has been destroyed by tire before being scaled, such wood shall be paid for at the agreed rate. The Employer will make every effort to establish the quantity of wood burned with a reasonable degree of accuracy.
Employees losing personal belongings through fire while on the Employer’s operations will receive 75% of the cost of the personal items lost to a maximum of $200.00. In addition, the loss of a chainsaw due to fire will be reimbursed up to 75% of the cost to a maximum of $400.00.
15
10:10 Employer regulations require every chainsaw operator to have a reliable tire extinguisher on his person while using a chainsaw during the fire season. The Employer will make available suitable tire extinguishers to saw operators free of cost. The fire extinguisher shall be on loan to the employee and he shall return it in good condition to the Employer at the end of the fire season.
10:11(a) At each operating camp, and where practical on worksites, a separate building will be provided for the storage and repair of power saws and shall be large enough to be adequate and have sufficient space for storage and in addition shall be adequate lighted and heated and equipped with work bench and vice to facilitate repair of power saws. On cutting operations under Schedule "C", the Employer will supply chainsaws and parts to be sold at the Employer’s invoice cost to the employee if so requested.
(b)	On cuffing operations under Schedule "C". it is agreed that the employees may be required to supply their own power saws. However, the Company shall have on all such operations spare power saws that the employee may rent should the employee’s saw break down Such spare saws shall be available on the basis of one (1) spare saw for every five (5) cutters. The Company ma) charge the employee $4.00 per day hire for such saw. The period of hire shall not be longer than five (5) days.
(c)	On cutting operations under Schedule "D" and on a voluntary basis, subject to approval by the Company, it is agreed that employees may use their own power saws. However, the Company shall have on all such operations, spare power saws that the employee may rent should the employee’s saw break down Such spare saws shall be available on the basis of one (1) spare saw for every five (5) cutters.
The Company may charge the employee $7.00 flat rate per day hire for such saw. The period of hire shall not be longer than five (5) days.
The amount to be paid to employees working under Schedule "D" will be $1.70 per hour for their own saws. This $1.70 per hour allowance includes hire for saw, cost of parts, chains, bars, fuels, lubricants and maintenance.
10:12(a) The Company will standardize the price of gas and oil supplied to cut and bunch employees based upon the average invoice cost for all existing areas. Such price will be communicated to the Union prior to the cutting season.
16
(b)
10:13(a)
(b) 10:14(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Once the price is set, it will remain in effect until the beginning of the next cutting season. Any increase in the set price will be paid for by the Company during each cutting season
The Company agrees to supply chainsaw files as required.
On mechanical skidding operations, chainsaws will be supplied by the Employer. In the event that in a spirit of cooperation due to an emergency an employee uses his own saw on any mechanical skidding operation, he will be paid chainsaw rental at the rate of $4.00 per day with gas and oil supplied free of charge by the Employer.
When an employee is transferred to cutting operations under Schedule "C" from another classification, the Employer will rent the employee a saw for a reasonable period of time at the rate of $4.00 per day, gas and oil paid for by the employee.
Tradesmen such as mechanics and carpenters may be required to supply all hand tools for their personal use, customarily furnished by tradesmen of their craft. Mechanics’ tools over one-half inch drive and taps and dies shall be provided by the Employer free of charge.
Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all hand tools required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. When tools are provided on loan by the Employer such tools will be charged in full if not returned If returned in worn out or broken condition, they will be replaced by the Employer.
It is recognized as most desirable that repairs to mechanical equipment and welding be performed under shelter. The Employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to ensure this condition.
Tradesmen who lose tools by means of theft while on Company operations will be compensated by the Employer where there is evidence of theft.
17
10:15 Day workers using their own power saws will be paid on the following basis:
a)	For road cutting - $5.00 per day. Gas and oil to be supplied by the
Employer without charge.
b)	For improvement jobs - $5.00 per day. Gas and oil to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
c)	The Foreman is to decide if the chainsaw is to be used and inform the man to take his saw to the job, in which case he will be paid the full day’s hire whether his saw is used or not.
d)	Saws are not to be left on the job indefinitely for hire purposes, i.e., a man, on being told that his saw is required on a certain day, will not be able to leave it there for another day or days and expect to collect hire.
10:16 The Employer agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching on their Fibre Resources operations (except by mutual agreement between the parties and under conditions mutually agreed to before any shacking or batching commences.
10:17 It is agreed that the Employer will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health, and it is the duty of the employees to cooperate in this regard. Employees’ living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week and the Employer will continue to provide improved camp facilities.
10:18(a) All camps shall have inside toilet facilities, single tier beds, and shall be furnished with a wardrobe-type storage locker for each employee for hanging his clothes. The locker shall be of sufficient height for an inside shelf at the top and inside storage of footwear at the bottom The Company will provide, within the camp, an area where employees may hang work clothes.
(b)	Inside toilet facilities, washroom facilities, and drying rooms shall be accessible without travelling outdoors.
(c)	Employees on other than regular day shift shall have separate sleeping quarters to enable them to obtain proper rest.
(d)	Cookhouse and Bunkhouse staff shall have separate sleeping quarters, separated from the kitchen and dining room facilities to the extent that these operations will not unduly heat or disturb their sleeping quarters.
18
10:19 Camps shall be constructed so as to accommodate all employees with not more than two (2) per room. The rooms shall measure approximately 8' x 10'. All beds and mattresses shall be of good quality and maintained in a serviceable condition at all times. The Employer shall continue to provide spring-filled mattresses and bedding consisting of pillows, pillowcases, sheets and blankets. Pillowcases and bed sheets will be changed once a week. Clean blankets shall be supplied upon hiring or transfer from another worksite and shall be changed as required. Such items of bedding must not be removed from the Employer’s premises except by those employees who must do so in the course of their duties.
10:20 All camps shall be of smooth wall construction inside. All camps shall be maintained in such a manner as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the summer. All camps shall be properly lighted.
10:21 All camps shall have separated proper washing facilities including adequate showers. The Employer shall provide jrroper facilities for washing clothes in the form of washing machines and an adequate supply of hot and cold water. In camps where washing machines are presently made available for the use of cookery personnel, such machines are to be made available to all other employees.
10:22 All camps shall have separate drying rooms, adequate to the extent that it will not be necessary for employees to have wearing apparel and/or footwear drying in their sleeping quarters. It is agreed that drying rooms must be large enough to accommodate all employees, each of whom shall have, for his use only, a hanger-type device to facilitate the drying ofwearing apparel.
10:23 All camps shall have a recreation room for the use of employees. Such rooms shall be large enough and equipped to accommodate at least half the employees in a comfortable manner.
10:24 All Bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups except where drinking fountains are provided in the Bunkhouse.
10:25 The Employer will provide a colour T.V. set for the use of the camp where T.V. is available and, in addition, where future replacements are made, a colour T.V. set will be provided for Cookhouse personnel. Radios will also be provided.
19
10:26(a) Food shall be handled in a sanitary manner at all times. Food served to employees in the camps shall at all times be of high quality and of reasonable variety and sufficient quantity.
(b)	Fruit juices shall be supplied for breakfast.
(c)	Fresh apples and fresh oranges shall be made available in Cookhouse five (51 days a week. Two additional items of fruit shall be made available two (2) days per week.
(d)	Every reasonable effort will be made to make available two (2) varieties of fresh meat for all take-out lunches. Suitable material will be supplied for the wrapping of lunches.
(e)	A hot mid-shift lunch shall be made available to night-shift employees who are within walking distance of the cookery. All others shall have available a suitable lunch shelter, which in addition to provisions contained in this Agreement, shall be: adequately lighted.
(For the purpose of this Clause, walking distance shall be defined as a distance which will permit an employee to travel on foot from his worksite to the cookery for his lunch and return to his worksite within the time period allotted for lunching.)
(f)	The Employer shall maintain at all camps non-carbonated fruit-flavoured cold drink dispensers. The Employer shall maintain steam tables in all camps and where new camps are constructed, such camps shall be equipped with additional electrical appliances to meet the needs of the cookery.
(g)	An exhaust fan will be installed in Bunkhouse washrooms and in the Cookhouse.
(h)	Food coolers will be provided in all Cookhouses.
(i)	The Company will investigate the feasibility of supplying fresh milk. Based on the findings conduct a trial in one camp in 1996.
10:27(a) Where a mid-day meal is taken, a ten-minute coffee break is allowed in the morning and in the afternoon.
20
(b)	Where men lunch away from camp, they may decide themselves, on a crew basis, to take their lunch at mid-day with ten-minute coffee breaks in the morning and afternoon, or they may have two regular lunch periods of 40 minutes each per day.
(c)	During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on the Employer’s time.
(d)	The present practice regarding evening snacks will continue.
10:28 Room and Board will be provided by the Company at a set rate of $13.00 per day for the life of this Agreement.
Board & Lodging - Weekend
Board and lodging in camps will be available to those who desire it on a seven-day week basis, and cookery staff shall not be sent home for weekends, thus depriving them of wages due them.
10:29 Upon spring recall, the Company agrees to pay each employee who has accumulated a minimum of one hundred (100) days of seniority at the end of the previous computer payroll year, a lump sum annual payment, on a separate cheque, to cover subsidies dealing with safety footwear, safety pants, all clothing, gloves and white clothing for Cookhouse staff. All safety related clothing must adhere to the Company’s protective clothing policies and CSA standards. This lump sum payment will be on the following basis:
1.	For all trades people a payment of $145.00. In addition, the Company will supply 2 pairs of coveralls and 1 pair of rainwear per year. Such clothing will be issued once annually upon spring recall.
2.	For all employees, excluding those noted in Item #1, a payment of
$200.00.
10:30 All employees transferred on a temporary basis from one camp to another at the Employer's request shall be paid all authorized travelling expenses. Travelling expenses will include board, lodging and wages while in transit.
10:31 Hand cleaner and waste rags shall be made available for mechanics and others repairing mechanical equipment at their place of work.
10:32
10:33
10:34
10:35
10:36
10:37
10:38
10:39
10:40
: A .
When camps are in use, the Employer agrees to put forth reasonable efforts to maintain camp access roads in fair condition.
The dining room will be made available to Union Representatives for holding Union meetings subject to availability of the room and consent of the Camp Foreman.
It is agreed that the Employer and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Employer agrees to maintain good work trails and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that at least one member of the crew in each camp or on each worksite will be qualified to render first aid. It is agreed there shall be emergency first aid kits in all camps and, where practical, at or near worksites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation of men. All employees will be provided with a mini safety kit.
Mobile radio telephones shall be installed in all camps, in suitable booths, and shall be made available to all employees. Employees using this service must do so at their own expense.
Suitable two-way communication will be installed in commuter buses.
The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a suitably equipped room in the Bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
The Company agrees to maintain garage environment so that there is no danger to employees’ health due to exhaust fumes.
Whenever the employees or the Union organizes a Recreational Committee in a camp, the Employer will appoint a member to that committee. Such committees will review the recreational needs of that particular camp and make recommendations to the Employer. The Employer will give due consideration to all reasonable recommendations.
All bulldozers will be equipped with suitable cabs during winter months.
Employees working in the main garage at Grand Falls, who are required to work overtime in excess of one hour without prior notice, will be provided with a meal. The lunching time required to eat such meal will be limited to twenty (20) minutes. Prior notice means prior to the start of the shift.
22
10:41
The Employer shall provide, for the sole use of the Union, a bulletin board similar in all respects to that of the Employer’s, at each place where the Employer has a bulletin board.
Article_XI -Hodrs or Wore
11:01
II:02(a)
tM.
//i.
(b)
11:03(a)
(b)
(c)
Il:04(a)
The standard work week for operations shall be six (6) days per week, Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The regular work week shall be forty (40) hours, composed of five (5) shifts of eight (8) consecutive hours per day, meal time excepted, from Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive, for all employees unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. It is agreed that workers to whom this Clause applies may be required to work in excess of their regular work week or work day and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Article. If an employee requests to excused from working overtime, permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Meal time for lunch, i.e„ the mid-workday meal or lunch, shall be one hour after approximately half of the work time of the shift has expired or as otherwise agreed between the parties.
For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a m. Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
A holiday, under Article VII, shall begin at 7:00 a m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday.
An employee’s scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
The day shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., meal time excepted.
(b) The night shift consists of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.. meal time excepted.
(c)	A shift differential of sixty cents (60d) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all second shift work for the term of the Agreement.
(d)	On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. ‘The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry the regular shift differential.
(e)
If it becomes necessary to work a three-shift operation, the first shift, i.e. the day shift, shall be worked within the time specified in 11:04(a) with the second shift immediately following the first shift: and the third shift immediately tJ 4T _ Following the second shift. Under these conditions, the work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours plus the shift differential as provided for 0 5 in 1 l:04(c) for the second shift and a shift differential on the third shift of sixty-five cents (65(i) per hour. Meal time shall be 20 minutes and on the Employer’s time, approximately four (4) hours after the shift commences.
(0 The hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) shall be scheduled and posted on the Company and Union bulletin boards not later than 7:00 p.m. on Thursday of the previous week. Failing such posting, unless the employee is personally notified before the regular quitting time of his fifth weekly shift or a change in his schedule for the coming week, the schedule of the week previous shall apply. The starling and stopping times and shift schedule shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly periods subject to the following:
1.	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee’s shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one a one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked and, if not, time and one-half shall apply. An employee cannot be short-shifted by reason of changing shifts, i.e. if this takes place, he shall be paid for the shift or shifts lost at his regular rate.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements, such starling times for employees within any given job classification shall
24
be confined to a two-hour period, and in such cases, the work shift shall take place between the hours of 7:00 a.m to 6:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. as the case may be.
11:05(a) If an employee is required to work on his scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday), on Sunday, on a holiday,under Article VII, or on Christmas Day, Boxing Day or New Year’s Day, such overtime shall be scheduled and posted in the same manner and with the same conditions applying as for the hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) under 11.04(f). If he is available for posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive two (2) hours pay at time and one-half. If requested by the Employer, the employee must remain available for the two (2) hours to be eligible for such pay. If work commences during the two(2) hour period, he shall receive pay at time and one-half for all time worked plus time and one-half for idle time when available or two (2) hours at time and one-half, whichever is greater.
(b)
Employees covered under Schedule “A” will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours on Sundays, except in the case of ship loading and unloading, in which case employees covered under Schedule “A” will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours on Sundays.
11:06
An employee called out after the completion of his regular shift will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours or lime and one-half for hours worked, whichever is greater.
The Employer has the right to enforce the hours of work. Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked on Sunday, except at provided for in 11.05(b), all hours,worked by an employee on his scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday), or outside his schedule day or shift, and all hours worked on holidays under 'Article VII, and all hours worked on Christmas Day, Boxing Day or New Year’s Day, shall be paid for at time and one-half. All time worked in excess:of eight (8) hours on Sunday will be paid at double time. Premium time will not apply to fire fighting.
11:07 Time spent travelling to and from work shall not be considered as time worked unless otherwise specified. Walking and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in this Agreement.
25
11:08 Cooks, Second Cooks, Cookees, Watchmen, and Bunkhousemen are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement providing for a 5-day work week and eight (8) hour work day or shift, In lieu thereof, they shall receive alternate weekends off from Friday noon until Monday noon without loss of pay. If Friday is a holiday, time off without loss of pay shall begin on Thursday noon. If Monday is a holiday, time off without loss of pay will be extended to Tuesday noon in both cases, as his holiday with pay if he qualities. This is not to be construed as a right upon which a claim for extra pay may be made if not availed of.
11:09 In cases of lay-off, Cookhouse and Bunkhouse staff shall be paid, in lieu of their earned time off for all days worked since their last scheduled weekend off at the calculated rate per day, which is equivalent of their actual rate fot days worked, i.e. 5'/i days per week.
ll:10(a) Employees working on incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed rate will be governed by the following breakdown clause:
Should a machine break down, an employee who has to slop work before he completes his shift shall have his lime calculated as follows:
(	1. The Employer shall pay all the remaining hours lost from work on
incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed rate during that /> shift at the employee’s regular rate of pay.
2. Fellers and buckets may be required to continue cutting, in which case this may be done on their regular cutting strip until such time as it interferes with their ability to earn bonus. At this point, they will move to another strip other than the one on which they were working at the time of breakdown. In so doing, all hours worked on the separate strip shall be kept separate and apart from any hours worked on incentive bonus and all wood produced during such time will be considered the Employer’s wood and will not be included with the wood produced on bonus.
With reference to the foregoing the skidder operator shall be required to make every reasonable effort to immediately notify the Supervisor.
(b)	All other employees shall be governed by the following breakdown clause:
26
An employee reporting for work as directed shall not be sent home because Ihere is no work available due to a mechanical breakdown. In such cases, the employee will be offered alternate work (which may include cutting under Schedule "C") to complete the first day of such reporting at his regular rate of pay or the prevailing rate for the job performed, whichever is higher.
In 11:10(a) and 11:10(b), alternate work shall be offered for the next shift. In such cases, the employee shall be paid at h/s regular rate for such alternate work. In both of the foregoing Clauses, if it becomes necessary to change an employee’s shift in order to offer such alternate employment, the Employer will not be subject to the penalty provided for in Clause 11:04(f) 1. of this Agreement. Furthermore, in both of the [foregoing Clauses, should the employee refuse to perform the alternate employment, he loses his rights to the provisions contained herein.
If no alternate work is available, the employee shall be paid the shifts referred to above at his regular rate.
With reference to all of the foregoing, the employee must remain available for work.
Where any breakdown continues for more than the shifts referred to above and no other suitable work is available, the employee shall be offered cutting under Schedule "C", but shall not lose his seniority if he elects not to accept it.
If the breakdown continues for more than one full week beyond the week in which the breakdown occurs, or if as a result of the breakdown a decision is made to phase-out the broken-down machinery, the employee may, if he so desires, exercise his seniority as per Article XII. Any employee who elects not to exercise his seniority or accept the alternate work will be laid off. Recall will be in accordance with Clause 12:01.
Note: For the purpose of this Article, power saws are not considered to be machines.
11:11 When work has to be discontinued after commencing, an employee shall receive a half day’s pay if the number of hours worked is less than four and a full day’s pay if the number of hours worked is more than four.
27
11:12 An employee who, during his scheduled work week, reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, shall receive two hours_ pay at his regular rate unless he was ' notified previously that work would not commence, and providing that when requested to do so by the Employer, the employee shall remain available for work for the two hours. An employee in a camp operation shall be deemed to have reported for work once he leaves the immediate camp premises. Camp premises is defined as the area that is covered by a radius of 300 metres from the main entrance door to the Cookhouse. An employee on commuter operations shall be deemed to have reported for work when he arrives at the Marshalling Point. This Clause does not apply when the reason for noncommencement is due to Acts of God.
11:13 An employee who, when recalled, reports for work as directed and no work is available, shall be paid for all regular working hours spent waiting to go to work at the rate of the job for which he was recalled. It is understood that the employee can be offered alternate employment and, if refused, he is not entitled to any payment.
11:14 Employees working on cut and bunch operations who experience downtime in excess of one hour due to moving front one cutting area to another, nonavailability of Company spare saws, or other reasonable circumstances, will be compensated for the downtime at the General Labour Rate.
Article XII - Seniorijy 12:01(a) There shall be two types ofseniority:
1.	General Seniority
2.	Classification Seniority
(b)	General Seniority is defined as the employee’s length of accumulated service in days worked as of the date of hire as shown on the Seniority List.
(c)	For the purpose of hiring and lay-off, a person’s position on the Frozen Seniority List of June 30,1991 will prevail provided the senior employee is
'i capable after a reasonable period of training.
28
(d)	Employees will accumulate seniority for all time worked in a particular classification, it being understood that an employee may have more than one type of Classification Seniority.
(e)	When considering seniority for promotions and demotions, the first consideration shall be Classification Seniority. Where Classification Seniority
J / is equal, position on the Frozen Seniority List shall be considered.
//
(f)	When a vacancy occurs at. a camp or operation because of accident, illness, leave of absence, etc., the Foreman may till the vacancy on a temporary basis with an employee from that camp or operation with seniority in the classification. Employees will be offered the temporary position in order of seniority in that classification. A temporary placement will not remain in the position beyond the end of the calendar week following the week in which the temporary placement became necessary.
(g)	If the vacancy continues beyond the time limit specified above, the position will be tilled by the employee with the most Classification Seniority who is not working in that classification at that time and wishes to accept the position
(h)	The employee placed on a temporary basis will continue to accumulate seniority in his previous classification unless he is not replaced, in which case he will accumulate seniority from the date he was originally placed.
(i)	The decision on the part of the employee not to accept a position when offered will not affect his position in a classification should future opportunities become available.
12:02 General Seniority and Classification Seniority shall be accrued for all days on authorized vacation, for all authorized holidays for which the employee is paid and for all days that would have been worked but were lost because of confirmed illness or injury or leave of absence or Union business, but such service will not be considered to the extent to change his position on the Seniority List
12:03 An employee not on the Seniority List shall be entered on the Seniority List when, he has accumulated thirty (30) days of work and his seniority shall be effective from the date of employment.
29
12:04
12:05
12:06
12:07
12:08(3)
(b)
When the time of recall has been determined following a general shutdown, adequate notice will be given by telephone advising an employee of the date to report for work and the employee will be expected to report for work on the date specified unless other arrangements have been made. It is the responsibility of the employee to advise the Company of any change in address or telephone number on record at the employment office. In recalling employees after a general shutdown, the Employer shall be allowed a leeway of ten (10) days during the period of recall. The Employer will only exercise the IO-day leeway when to do otherwise would cause hardship to an employee or seriously hamper the Company operations. It is understood and agreed that the provision of 10 days leeway does not apply to any work that may become available during the period of general shutdown, nor following temporary layoff such as may be caused by weather and the conditions following therefrom . Notwithstanding the foregoing, when emergency jobs of short duration have /J? to be done during periods of general shutdown, the Company will not be required to recall the most senior employees.
Subject to the provisions of 12:02, employees who are prevented from continuing work because of sickness or accident will accrue their seniority during the period of absence required to recover from such sickness or accident, it being understood, however, that a medical certificate of fitness shall be required for purposes of rehiring.
Employees who have to leave the job because of personal injury or sickness shall return to the job from which he left if same is continuing. Otherwise, he will be placed according to his seniority. A medical certificate of fitness shall be required for the purpose of rehiring.
Where the term "camp " is; used, it shall also mean commuter operation.
In the case of the planned general shutdown, a notice will be posted on all bulletin boards in areas where the shutdown applies. In cases of lay-off other than those caused by Acts of God, employees shall be given written notice of such lay-off of one (1) week’s pay in lieu thereof. For the purpose of this Agreement, an Act of God shall include weather conditions and any other conditions over which the Company does not have control.
When lay-offs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each employee so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority to transfer to another job if he so desires, subject to the principles of Clause 12:01. Transfers will be made only if the employee, having received
30
the advanced notice of lay-off, in accordance with Clause 12:08(a), advises the Company, in writing, of his desire to be transferred two working days after the notice of lay-off (posted or by individual notice). Forms will be provided by the Company for this purpose.
(c)	The Management and the Union agree to work cooperatively to encourage and promote all employees of the Company to achieve improvements in safety, cost, quality and customer satisfaction.
12:09 Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, it is understood and agreed that an employee shall not exercise seniority to the extent that the Employer shall have to hire him and provide board and lodging on any commuter operation.
12:10 An alphabetical list of names of thei employees for whom seniority is established as abovewill be submitted to the Union in triplicate every three (3) months, showing accumulated seniority to date, their hiring date following their last break in seniority, occupation or occupations, date of birth, and address. Seniority Lists will be confirmed as accurate if no protest is received within thirty (30) days from the date of posting such lists in camps and/or in buses on commuter operations.
12:11 In case of lay-off and hiring, the Job Steward will be given preference of employment over all other employees provided he is capable ofperforming the 2,() available work efficiently. This provision will only apply where a Job Steward /'(X' is being laid off or hired in a camp or operation where he was originally elected as Steward.
The above provision will only apply if the Job Steward is a regular employee (30 days or more seniority).
12:12 An employee who has established seniority shall lose all seniority if he:
1.	Quits the employ of the Company.
2.	Is discharged and not reinstated.
3.	Fails to answer recall or fails to report for work in both cases without satisfactory reason fallowing leave of absence or recall from lay-off.
O Ss
31
4.	Is laid off for over twenty-four (24) months.	' -j' /J
5.	Has not complied with Article V of the Labour Agreement.
Article^ XIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
13:01 It is the mutual desire o( the parties hereto that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an errployee has no Grievance until he has first given the Foreman, or his representative, an opportunity to adjust his complaints, and it is agreed that a person must be hired and have clearly made known to him the name of the Foreman or the Foreman’s representative before commencing work.
13:02(a) Where possible, the Union shall arrange for the election, from its working membership at each camp or worksite by the members therein, of a Union Committee of up to three (3) - one of whom shall be the Union Steward and spokesman for that committee. Immediately after an election the Union will notify the Company, in writing, as to the name of the Union Steward and committee members. The Foreman shall not be required to recognise either the Union Steward or the Union Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
(b) It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Committee.
13:03 A Grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference including the degree or extent of disciplinary action between the parties or between any one ofthe employees and his Employer covered by this Agreement, involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Ktamn Prints of employees must first be taken by the employee himself directly to the Foreman and/or his representative for adjustment without undue delay, but in any event, not more than thirty (30) days immediately following the occurrence of event giving rise to the complaint. It is understood that an employee may, if he so desires, be accompanied by the Union Steward and/or representatives. If the complaint is not adjusted satisfactorily within three (3) days, the matter becomes a Grievance and must be taken up at Singe l.
32
No employee’s Grievance will be recognized until the Foreman has first had an opportunity to settle the complaint, providing the employee remains employed under the same Foreman. If the employee is no longer employed under the same Foreman, the Grievance may be taken up commencing at Stage 2.
Sl326.il The matter shall be taken up by the Union Committee and/or Union Representative with the Area Superintendent or his representative or. in the case of a non-working contractor, with the Contractor or his representative, within three (3) days from the end of the three (3) day period in Singe I, in writing, on forms supplied by the Union. When a Grievance is submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. The Area Superintendent or his representative shall make a reply, in writing, and failing a satisfactory adjustment within three (3) days, then:
Stage 3: In all cases the matter will be referred to the General Operations Superintendent or his representative within.three (3) days from the end of the decision period in Stage 2. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within four (4) days, then:
Stage 4: The matter shall be referred to the Fibre Resources Manager or his representative within three (3) days, and failing a satisfactory adjustment within fifteen (15) days, then:
SlagtlSl Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration. Failure of the griever or the Union to process a Grievance to the next step in the Grievance Procedure within the time limit specified shall not he deemed to have prejudiced the Union on any future similar Grievance.
13:04 The Employer will notify the Local Union Secretary, in writing, at the time of discharge or suspension of an employee, giving the reasons for such discharge or suspension A Grievance arising from a claim of unjust discharge or suspension may be processed beginning at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure, in writing, not later than six (6) days after receipt of notification. Where it has been finally established by an Arbitration Board that an employee has been improperly discharged or suspended, he shall be reinstated in his former job without loss of seniority and the consideration of the Grievance shall include the determination of the extent, if any, to which he shall be compensated for lost pay and reimbursement for the premium cost of anj health and welfare coverage currently in effect. Arbitration will in no way
33
award redress exceeding that which the employee would have earned in the Company’s employ had he not been improperly discharged or suspended.
13:05(a) If the Union has a Grievance as defined in Section 13:03, it shall commence at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b) Grievances of employees who are defined in Article in, Section 3:02(b), shall commence at Stage 2.
13:06 In Arbitration, the Employer and the Union shall each select one (1) nominee -these two shall select a third party who will act as Chairperson. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the name of the other party’s nominee and shall forthwith inform the other party of the name of the nominee. The Arbitration Board’s decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) nominees selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above within ten (10) clays, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower to appoint a third patty and such appointee shall be accepted by both parties as Chairperson. If the party to whom notice is given fails to select an arbitrator within the period of five (5) days after receiving notice, the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower shall, on the request of either party, name an arbitrator on behalf of the party who failed to select an arbitrator.
13:07 It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement, and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement, except arbitrations under Article IV.
13:08(a) Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board. The decision of the majority of the members of the Arbitration Board shall be the decision of the Board.
(b) The Arbitration Board shall file their decision with the parties within fifteen (15) days of the hearing.
13:09 Time limits specified in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the
34
parties or by mutual consent of the respective nominees to an Arbitration Board. Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays specified under Article VII. shall not be included in any rime limits of this Article.
article XIV-_SaFETY
14:01 The Company and Union shall cooperate in the prevention of accidents and industrial diseases and shall promote measures necessary to ensure the safety and health of all employees.
14:02 An employee who suffers an injury is required, subject to circumstances prevailing, to present himself as soon as practical to his supervisor or his representative, who will arrange for first aid treatment and, in the case of a serious injury, make arrangements for medical treatment.
14:03(a) The Company and the Union mutually agree that it is desirable to obtain and maintain an accident-free experience in the Fibre Resources operations. To this end, the Employer will continue its search for improved and more varied items of safety apparel and safety devices in order to offer maximum protection to its employees.
(b)	The wearing of a safety hat is a condition of employment. Safety hats and harnesses will be made available to employees on loan.
(c)	The wearing of safely pants of a type approved by the Employer is a condition of employment for all employees using power saws, axes, or pulphooks.
(d)	Thewearing of safety footwear is a condition of employment. Employees will be instructed as to what type of boot is to be worn depending on the job being performed.
(e)	The wearing of eye protection is a condition of employment in designated areas. Approved eye protection will be made available to employees required to wear same. The initial issue will be free of charge to employees and will be replaced by the Employer when worn or damaged through fair wear and teay Items lost or damaged through negligence will be replaced by the employee at his own cost
(f)	The wearing of hearing protection devices is a condition of employment for all employees working in areas where the noise level exceeds 85 decibels.
35
Approved hearing protection will be made available to employees required to wear same. ‘The initial issue will be free of charge to employees and will be replaced by the Employer when worn or damaged through fair wear and tear.
When lost or damaged through negligence, will be replaced by the employee at his own cost.
14:04(a) The Employer agrees that all those engaged in the transportation of employees in Employer vehicles will follow good and safe transportation practices.
(b) The Employer agrees to require all others engaged in the transportation of employees on Employer’s roads to engage in safe transportation practices.
14:05 Cutters shall not be allowed to work in areas where they cannot be in ready contact with other workers.
14:06(a) A joint Union-Management committee will be established. There shall be a & safety representative on each operation. The Union shall appoint Union " ly representatives on this committee. Meetings will be held as required, but not less than once a month during the operating season. Meeting time and place to be arranged by the Safety Supervisor.
(b)	In general, the function of the committee shall be to advise the Company in all matters pertaining to the safety and occupational health of employees.
(c)	Minutes of committee meetings shall be kept, copies to be posted on the applicable notice boards and copies to be forwarded to the Union.
14:07 Noise level checks will be made whenever a change of equipment or process causes an appreciable change in noise level, or as recommended by the committee. Records of noise level readings will be made available to the committee.
Article XV-Discipline
15:01 Disciplinary action by an Employer may be taken against an employee for just cause. Just cause may be deemed to be, but not necessarily restricted to, violations of any of the following:
36
a)	Bringing liquor info the operations, or being under the influence of liquor while on the job.
b)	Neglect of duty.
c)	Disobedience.
d)	Deliberate destruction or removal of the Employer’s or other employees’ property.
e)	Infraction ofthe regulations for protection of the forest from fires.
f)	Disorderly conduct.
g)	Dishonesty.
h)	Violation of safety regulations or safe working practices.
1) Violating other rules ofthe Employer or standard practice to the detriment
of the Employer, the Union, or another individual.
15:02 Any employee subjected to disciplinary action other than discharge will be considered to have a clear record if he has no further disciplinary action taken against him under this Article for a period oftwenty-four (24) months.
Article XVI-Commuting
16:01 A commuter, for the purpose of this Agreement, is an employee not obtaining board and lodging in a camp.
16:02 Bach community from which employees commute shall have an agreed central place or places as a Marshalling Point for the purpose of commuting.
16:03 The Employer will provide free and acceptable transportation for commuters from the Marshalling Point to the disembarkation point in the work area. When transportation is by road, factory-built buses or automobiles will be used.
16:04 Employees shall not be allowed to commute to an operation in their own vehicles except by arrangement between the parties.
16:05 If it becomes necessary to hire a man who is not a bonafide resident of a community from which free transportation is provided, board and lodging wilf be provided in that community by the Employer at the agreed camp rate.

37
16:06 Where camps are operating and board and lodging is available, employees who use their own transportation will not receive a commuting allowance.
Article XVH - Walking and Riding Time
17:01 Walking and riding time will be established on the following basis:
a)	For the purpose of this Article, it is agreed that an employee walks at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
b)	Time allowance for riding time from the designated starting point to the disembarkation point will be established between the parties. Where a commuter bus makes frequent stops to allow employees to disembark, the time lost shall not enter into the calculation for walking and riding time.
c)	Where travelling time to the place of work is composed of walking and riding time, it shall be combined.
d)	Walking and riding time from a camp shall be reckoned from the dining room door to the employee’s place of work.
e)	Walking and riding time for commuters shall be reckoned from the
Marshalling Point to the employee’s place of work.
17:02 Employees will be paid for walking and/or riding time to and from wotk over one-half (!6) hour each way on the basis of a flat rate of $9.00 per hour. The flat rate will be adjusted by the amount of the General Wage increase for the life of the Agreement,
17:03 Walking and/or riding time shall not exceed one and one-half (1 'A) horns each way.
17:04 Where two separate crews travel on the same bus from the same Marshalling Point to separate disembarkation points, there will only be one designated riding and walking time.
38
Article XVIII - Cookhouse and Bunkhouse Staff
18:01 The cookery staff supplied for the workforce, including supervisory personnel, shall be as shown below. For the purpose of this Article, the cookery staff will not be considered part of the workforce.
WORKFORCE 1-15 employees 16-50 employees 51-81 employees 82- 106 employees 107-132 employees 133-155 employees 156-180 employees 181-205 employees
COOKERY STAFF 1 Cook
1 Cook, 1 Cookee 1 Cook, 1 Second Cook, 1 Cookee 1 Cook, 1 Second Cook, 2 Cookees I Cook, 2 Second Cooks, 2 Cookees 1 Cook, 2 Second Cooks, 3 Cookees 1 Cook, 2 Second Cooks, 4 Cookees 1 Cook, 2 Second Cooks, 5 Cookees
For further increases in workforce, the Cookhouse staff shall be increased proportionately.
On mechanical harvesting operations which are supplemented by a manual operation (Tree Length to Slasher or Cut and Bunch 8') and both operations are working conflicting shifts and the total number of people on the manual operation is equal to or greater than 25% of the mechanical harvesting crew, one additional Cookee will be added.
It is agreed that this Schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or other factors reducing work are introduced.
Where it is mutually agreed that circumstances warrant, the Bunkhouseman will not be hired until the workforce exceeds fifteen (15) employees. The Bunkhouseman’s duties will be performed by another employee as part of his daily duties.
When the number of employees in a camp reaches 110, an additional Bunkhouseman will be added, making a total of two (2) Bunkhousemen. An extra Bunkhouseman will be added for every additional ninety (90) employees thereafter.
In determining the number of Bunkhousemen to be hired, supervisor) personnel shall be included when calculating the number in the workforce.
39
18:02 Cookery staff shall not be required to do work aside from kitchen and dining room duties. The Bunkhouseman is not permitted to work at the preparation of food or the washing of dishes.
18:03 On camp operations where shift work is carried out and 25% or more of the employees perform shift work, the Bunkhouseman will schedule his responsibilities around peak workload periods in the Cookhouse.
18:04 Cooks who are required to work after 9 p.m. in the preparation of food for firefighters will be paid time and one half of the General Labour Rate.
Article XIX - Bereavement Leave
19:01 When death occurs to a member of an employee’s immediate family, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid eight(S) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers shall be paid 8 hours at the General Labour Rate plus 8%) for time lost to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. When death occurs to a member of an employee’s family, other than immediate family, leave will be granted under the same conditions to a maximum of three (3) consecutive days. The intent of this Clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. One day must be granted for the funeral and pay will only be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during this period.
19.:02 For the purpose of this Article, immediate family is defined as husband, wife, child, adopted child, and stepchild. Family other than immediate family is defined as father, father-in-law, stepfather, mother, mother-in-law, stepmother, foster parent, grandparents, grandchild, brother, brother-in-law, stepbrother, sister, sister-in-law, and stepsister.
19:03 If an employee’s family member dies while the employee is on vacation, his vacation shall be extended by the number of days bereavement leave for which he would have qualified.
40
Article XX - Training
20:01 The Company and the Union recognize the value of a training plan and agree when it becomes necessary to train employees, the training will be posted and the employees will be given, an opportunity to demonstrate their ability to perform the job. Training will be done by seniority. There shall be a training committee of union and management which will define the parameters of quality and quantity of work performed.
Article XXI - Fringe Benefits
a)	Group Life Insurance
b)	Weekly Indemnity
c)	Medical & Drug Plan
d)	Accidental Death &Dismemberment Plan
e)	Dental Plan
f)	Pension Plan
g)	Long Term Disability Plan
The above negotiated plans form part of this Agreement. This will only be altered, extended, or cancelled in whole or in part by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
Article XXII- Jury Duty
22:01
Any employee who is summoned by a court or other agency with such authority for jury duty or to attend a hearing, shall be paid the same wages as he would have received if he had been at work during the time he was absent from work because of his compliance with the summons and time spent Incidental to the matter before the court, arbitrator, or otheijudicial body. This Clause does not apply in the case of accused of the Griever.
22:02 When an employee is called for duty as in 22:01 and is scheduled to work on the midnight shift prior to court convening, he shall have this shift off with pay,
Article XXm • Leave of Absence
23:01 Leave of absence without pay, up to a maximum of three (3) months, may be granted for the following reasons:
a)	Legitimate personal reasons.
b)	Candidacy for public office at the Federal or Provincial level. Such leave may be extended until seven (7) days have elapsed following the date of the election.
c)	Military service.
d)	Duties of an elected Municipal Office.
23:02 Any leave of absence granted pursuant to 23:01 will not result in any loss of seniority.
23:03 Leave of absence without pay may be granted for service as an elected representative in the Federal or Provincial Legislature. Such leave, if granted, /j shall normally expire thirty (30) days following conclusion of the period of ■	elected office, but in no case shall it be in excess of five (5) years.
23:04 Any leave of absence granted pursuant to 23:03 will not cause a break in continuity of service, but the period of absence shall not be counted in calculating any service-related benefit.
23:05 Employees, when granted a leave of absence in excess of one (1) month, will be required to prepay the full premiums for Group Life Insurance and all other insurance coverage in accordance with the provisions of the respective policies.
23:06 All leaves of absence must be applied for in writing.
23:07 An employee who is employed by the Union shall be granted a leave of .	absence. Upon his return to work, such employee shall be placed in his
■	position on the Seniority List.
23:08 The Company may require an employee to exhaust his normal vacation entitlement before commencing a leave of absence.
42
23:09 Time off with pay will be provided to employees writing qualifying examinations during scheduled working hours for certificates required in his occupation.
23:10 Such pay will be at his straight time rate and limited to eight (8) hours.
23:11 Female employees may be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of four
Article XXIV - Classification Seniority
24:01 (a)
7?
r
All job vacancies that are established will be posted so that all employees who wish to apply for the job may do so. The notice will be posted for a period of twenty (20) working days. The Company will select the senior person who is capable, with the necessary training, to perform the work required. On commuter operations, notices will be posted on buses.
(b) An employee wishing to transfer from one job to another, will notify the Company in writing This information will be considered when placing crews and filling vacancies.
Article XXV - Other Provisions (Piecework! Without Guarantee
25:01 The Contractor or Foreman will rotate the cutters in order to obtain equalization of cutting chances for each camp or work site.
25:02 At the start of each cutting season: the Company will provide the Union with a list containing the names of all Contractors with whom contracts are made for the production of pulpwood, also the camp or work site to be operated b> the Company, and the name of the foreman supervising same. Such lists to be promptly amended from time to time as additions and deletions take place. The list will also show by classifications the estimate quantity ofpulpwood to be produced and the location of the cutting area for each Contractor or Foreman. At the end of Labour Contract year, the Company will provide the Union with a breakdown of the wood produced.
43
25:03(a)
(b)
(c)
25:04
25:05
25:06
25:07
For the purpose of this Agreement “cubic metre” shall mean the solid wood content of a pile ofpulpwood scaled on a stacked basis and converted to solid measure using a factor of .6641 in the case of 1.25 metre length pulpwood and a factor of .6250 in the case of 2.5 metre length pulpwood.
It is agreed that a piececutter is entitled to know the amount of wood he had cut before it is removed, and conditions become such that it is impossible for him to check the accuracy of his scale. To this end. all cut and piled wood shall he scaled on the landing to which it was forwarded. The cutter will be given reasonable time to check his scale before the wood is removed. On tree length operations, the employee shall be notified how much wood he has produced before conditions are such that he is unable to check the accuracy of his scale. On commuter operations, information will be posted on the bus or in the lunch shelter. Employees will be notified as soon as possible after their scaling tables are changed.
No scale on 2.50 metre wood shall exceed three (3) weeks.
Insofar as the Grievance Procedure is concerned, on receipt of written notice from the Union of a contractor’s failure to perform any act within the time limits required, Abitibi-Price Inc. will either rectify such failure without undue delay, or failing same, agrees to be substituted for the contractor during the remaining steps of the Grievance Procedure.
The Company agrees to notify the Union of any addition of licensed timber limits.
It is understood and agreed between the parties that should a Cook be transferred from his regular position to cook at a Company Fishing Lodge: he will continue to accumulate seniority as though he remained at his regular position.
It is understood and agreed between the parties that when a cutter cutting 2.50 metre Cut and Bunch wood is required to place such wood on a single skid per pile, an additional thirty-six cents (366) per cubic metre will be paid. Where he is required to place such wood on two skids per pile, an additional seventy-two cents (726) per cubic metre will be paid in addition to the negotiated rates.
44
25:08 Add Memorandum of Agreement - 12-Hour Shift - Dated 01/03/91
This agreement, which is supplementary to the Collective Agreement between the parties, covers the special conditions applicable to employees working on a 12-hour shift schedule, which are necessary to ensure that implementation of such a schedule results in no increase in the cost of the Company’s operations.
While the various provisions of the Collective Agreement continue to operate, except as specifically modified by this supplementary agreement, it is understood that problems may subsequently be identified which are not addressed by this Memorandum of Agreement. Should this occur, the parties agree to meet and resolve such problems in the spirit of this Memorandum; that is, in a manner that will result in no increased cost to the Company.
It is agreed that no premium time will be paid as a result of a change from an 8-houi to a 12-hour shift schedule or, conversely, as a result of a change from a 12-hour to an 8-hour shift schedule.
While it is intended that this Memorandum of Agreement will remain in effect for a trial period of sixteen (16) weeks commencing March 3, 1991, it is understood and agreed that either party has the right to terminate this agreement by providing 30 days’ written notice to the other party.
If such termination occurs, the parties agree to revert back to the present working arrangement.
1.	Hours of Work:. The schedule of hours for workers on 12-hour shifts shall be from 8 am. to 8 p m, and 8 p.m to 8 am An employee shall not normally be required to work in excess of sixteen (16) continuous hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period.
2.	Shift Differential: Shift differential will be paid as follows:
8 a m. to 8 p.m.:$0.00 per hour 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.:$0.66 per hour
3.	.Vacation with Pav: It is understood that a week’s vacation will consist of four (4) consecutive scheduled working days off.
45
4.	Statutory Holidays: An employee who qualifies for a paid holiday and works on the paid holiday will receive pay for twelve (12) hours at time and one-half; and, in addition, will receive the “Holiday Pay” for which he qualifies. An employee who does not qualify for pay for a holiday and who works on the holiday shall receive pay for twelve (122) hours at time and one-half.
When an employee qualifies for a paid Statutory Holiday and that holiday coincides with his scheduled day off, he will receive pay for eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate.
When an employee qualifies for a paid Statutory Holiday and the holiday does not coincide with his scheduled day off and the employee does not work, he will receive pay for twelve (12) hours at his regular straight time rate.
5.	Floating Holidays: An employee will be granted eight (8) hours off with pay at his regular straight time rate for each Floating Holiday for which he qualifies. An employee taking a Floating Holiday may elect to be paid for eight (8) hours or twelve (12) hours (if he qualifies).
fi.-Batc.ptj; mi
a)	Regular straight time rate plus shift differential, if applicable, shall be paid for all hours worked during a twelve-hour shift.
b)	Time and one-halfshall be paid for all consecutive hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours.
c)	Time and one-half shall be paid for the first twelve (12) hours worked on Sunday and double time for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours.
7.	Calculation ofSeniorltv: Seniority days will be determined by dividing the number of regularly scheduled hours worked by eight (8).
8.	F.xehanplng Days Off: Employees are prohibited from exchanging day or days off or shifts if it would result in any employees being scheduled to work more than sixteen (16) hours. Under no circumstances will such a change in day or days off or shifts cause additional cost to the Company.
This exchanging can only be done with the agreement of the employee’s supervisor.
46
Article XXVI-SpecialProvisions - Guaranteed Rate
26:01 An employee cutting under Schedule “C" rates or incentive bonus system, who works overtime at his regular job, shall be paid on the basis of his regular rate for overtime shall receive, in addition, half time at the hourly rate for the work being performed. If there is no rate for the work, the General Labour Rate shall apply. This shall be kept separate and apart and shown thusly on memo slips.
26:02 The Employer agrees that there will be no lumping of established classifications, i.e„ when a financial remuneration is provided for in the Agreement, it shall be kept separate and apart and shall be shown thusly on memo slips It is understood that any work covered by a guaranteed daily rate will be considered as a classification, and the rate set for the rental of owner-operated or employee-owned equipment shall be considered a classification for the purpose of this clause.
26:03 Where mechanical logging is carried out on piecework and hauling of wood is part of the logging method, employees shall not be required to pull such wood more than 1,300' - 3 cutters, 1,800' • 2 cutters.
26:04 The Employer will set a rate for the rental of each piece of mechanical equipment that is owner-operated or owned by an employee and this rate shall not be lumped with any other financial remuneration provided for in the Agreement, but shall be solely for the rental of equipment and shall not be a variable rate, i.e., the financial remuneration of an employee shall in no way whatsoever be taken from the earnings of the owner-operated or employee-owned equipment.
26:05 Commuting allowance and walking and riding time shall not be lumped with any other rate.
Purchase Wood
The Company agrees that no purchase wood will be harvested on the Grand Falls Timber Limits unless mutually agreed between the parties except that the parties agree to recognize the historical operation in existence involving J.T. Maloney. A maximum of 17,876 m3 will be harvested by this operation in each calendar year. The Company further agrees to supply the Union twice annually a complete summary of wood harvested from the Grand Falls Timber Limits by J. T. Maloney.
48
SCHEDULE “A”				
HOURLY	WAGE RATES			
	Rate	Rate	Rate	Rate
	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
	Jan. 1/95	Jan. 1/96	Jan. 1/97	Jan. 1/98
				
* Mechanic 1st Class Certified	19.92	20.82	21.64	22.49
Mechanic 1st Class • Uncertified	18.55	19.40	20.18	20.98
Mechanic 2nd Class	17.32	18.13	18.87	19.64
Mechanic - Helper & Learner	16.88	17.67	18.40	19.15
• Welder 1st Class Certified	19.92	20.82	21.64	22.49
Welder 1st Class - Uncertified	18.55	19.40	20.18	20.98
Mechanic - Power Saw	17.59	18.41	19.16	19.93
				
Chipper Operator (Peterson)	17.31	18.02	18.66	19.32
Slasher Operator	17.31	18.02	18.66	19.32
Harvester Operator	17.47	18.18	(8.82	19.48
Forwarder Operator	17.19	17.89	18.53	19.18
Front-End Loader Operator (L.T.)	17.27	17.97	18.61	1927
Front-End Loader Operator (G.R.)	17.10	17.80	18.43	19.08
Backhoe Operator	17.10	17.80	18.43	19.08
Dozer Operator	17.10	17.80	18.43	19.08
Grader Operator	17.10	17.80	18.43	19.08
J5& John Deere Operator	16.76	17.45	18.07	18.71
Skidder Operator - Non-Production	17.06	17.76	1829	19.04
Proritirfrpn Class				
Wheeled Skidder Operator	16.95	17.64	1827	18.92
Feller &, Bucker	16.66	1724	17.76	1829
Musi possess a certificate of qualification or a certificate recognized by Provincial Government
Rrknlntc “A" rnnt’d.
49
	Rate	RATE	Rate	Rate
	Effective	EFFECTIVE	Effective	EFFF.CT1VE
	Jan.1/95	JaN. 1/96	Jan. 1/97	Jan. 1/98
				
Truck Driver - Pallet	16.93	17.62	18.25	18.90
Truck Driver - Trailer	17.16	17.86	18-50	19.15
Truck Driver - Knuckle Boom	17.27	17.97	18.61	19.27
Truck Driver - Single &. Tandem Axle (Hauling on Body)	16.76	17.45	18.07	18.72
Truck Driver - B-Train	17.31	18.02	1866	1932
' Bus Driver	16.76	17.35	17.87	' 18.41
JackhammerOperatoi	16.74	1733	17.85	1838
Carpenter 1 $t Class - Certified	18.73	19.59	2038	21.19
Carpenter - Uncertified	17.41	15-21	IS.96	19.73
Dynamite Man	16.79	17.38	17.90	18.44
Winch Boar Operator	16.87	17.46	17.98	18.52
Deck Hand	16.79	17.38	17.90	18.44
Boatsman - Rough Water	16.78	17.37	17.89	18.42
Motor Boat Driver	16.73	1732	17.84	1838
River Driver	1666	17.24	17.76	18.29
Sacking Lake /}	16.61	17.20	17.72	18.25
General Labour ^	y; 16.61	17.20	17.72	1835-
|aw|nit|				
Sawyer	17.18	17.78	1831	1836
Tail Sawyer	16.74	17.33	17.85	1839
Trimmer	16.61	17.20	17.72	18.25
Edger Man	16.90	17.49	18.02	1835
Canter	16.85	17.44	17.96	1830
Planer Operator	16.85	17.44	17.96	1830
Jack-up Man	16.61	1730	17.72	1835
Vt><rr|lbnMiK				
Painter	16.84	17.43	17.95	\ 18.49
50
SCHEDULE“B” BASIS - HOURS PER DAY AS REQUIRED BY THE JOB				
	Rate Effective Jan. 1/95	Rate Effective JAN. 1/96	Rate Effective Jan. 1/97	Rate Effective Jan. 1/98
				
First Cook	135.80	149.75	154.24	S5S.S7
Second Cook	123.57	134.32	138.35	142.50
Cookee	122.19	129.28	133.16	137.15
Bunkhouseman	122.19	129.28	133.16	137.15
Miscellaneous				
Watchman	122.19	129-28	133.16	137.15
51
SCHEDULE ‘C’
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER MJ (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
/
Rate
Effective Jan. 1/95
19.01 16.11
Rate
Effective Jan. 1/96
19.68
16.67
Rate Effective Jan. 1/97
20.27
17.17
Rate
Effective Jan. 1/98
20.88
17.69
4p per m’ will be paid on all wood produced in respect of poor bush bonus.
S1.25 per m1 will be paid as a winter bonus on all 2.50 metre wood during the period January 1st to April 30th. Cutters will not cut strip roads while cutting their strips.
52
SCHEDULE “D”
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER MJ
	Rate	Rate	Rate	Rate
	Effective	Effective	Effective	Effective
	Jan. 1/95	JAN. 1/96	Jan. 1/97	Jan. 1/98
4-Man Crew				
Feller & Bucker	8.16	8.44	8.70	8.96
Skidder Operator	XII	7-87	.121	
	10.93	11.31	11.65	12.00
				
Feller & Bucker	8.16	8.45	8.70	8.96
Skidder Operator		-111	3.65	j.76
	i 1.58	11.99	1235	12.72
The Contractor or Foreman will rotate the crews in order to obtain equalization of cutting chances for each camp or worksite.
IN WITNESS OF AND IN AGREEMENT WITH THE FOREGOING, the undersigned, being duly authorized to da so, have signed on this 4th day of April, 1996, at Grand Falls-Windsor in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.
FOR
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
\V. P. Furey * Manager • Fibre Resources
K. G. Dawe
Director of Employee Relations
W. A, Ball
Asst. Director of Employee Rel.
FOR
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 60N
F. Tremblett
National Representative
Budget! Secrctary/Trcasurcr
W. Mayne '
President
Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Employment
Between
Abitibi-Price Inc.
Newfoundland Fibre Resources
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada Local 60N
The most senior 353 employees of the Company for which an Employment Commitment currently exists will be offered a minimum of twenty-two (22) weeks work per year for the term of this Agreement, and all other employees will be offered a minimum of eighteen (18) weeks work per year.
Given that this Employment Commitment is related to the operation of the mill, downtime of less than six weeks in any one calendar year will not affect this Employment Commitment. Further downtime in the same calendar year, which is over and above this six-week period, will reduce the Employment Commitment by one (1) week for every two (2) additional weeks of downtime.
FOR C.E,P., LOCAL 60N
Date	5
BENEFIT PLANS
For Employees of
/Ibitibi-Price
Newfoundland Fibre Resources
Who are Members of
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers of Canada Local 6 ON
2
THIS BOOKLET DESCRIBES THE GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PLAN WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN MEDICAL INSURANCE PLAN ACCIDENTAL DEATH fir DISMEMBERMENT PLAN AND
DENTAL PLAN FOR
ELIGIBLE UNION EMPLOYEES OF
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
FIBRE RESOURCES
WHO ARE MEMBERS OF
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 60N
This booklet is designed to outline the benefits for which you are eligible and does not create or confer any contractual or other rights. All rights with respect to the benefits of a insured person will be governed solely by the group policies and administrative services only issued by Manulife Financial (with the exception of the pension plan and safety glasses).
Detailed information is available through your Employee Relations Department,
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Ea«
CROUP LIFE INSURANCE ..................................... 4
ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT.......................... 7
WEEKLY INDEMNITY......................................... 10
LONG TERM DISABILITY .................................... 15
MAJOR MEDICAL............................................ 20
DENTAL CARE PLAN
25
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
Type Of Plan
One year group renewal term.
Eligibility
All full time Union employees of the Fibre Resources Division, their spouses and dependents 'j- under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the employee’s J jO completion of a waiting period of 45 days of accumulated seniority.
If the employee is not actively at work on the date the coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on the employee’s return to regular employment on a full time basis.
Definitions
•	egular Emnlovees
Any employee of the Company who is covered by the current Collective Agreement shall be deemed a “Regular Employee”, provided that he has accumulated at least Forty-five (45) days of seniority.
*	Dependent
An unmarried child I year of age but less than 19 years of age (25 years of age when a student full time) wholly dependent on the employee for support
Benefit
Your life insurance benefit provides coverage on and off the job.
Death Benefit
If the employee should die, regardless of cause. $50,000.00 will be paid to the beneficiary for the term of this Agreement.
5
You may change your beneficiary at any time subject to the laws governing such changes.
If you do not appoint a beneficiary, or if your beneficiary predeceases you. the benefit will be paid 10 your executors, administrators or assigns.
SPOUSE
If the spouse should die. regardless of the cause. S5.000.00 Mil be paid to the employee for the term of this Agreement.
Dependent
If the dependent should die, regardless of the cause, S2.500.00 will be paid to the employee for the term of this Agreement.
Options at Death
In the event of your death: your Estate will receive the benefits under this plan in a lump sum payment unless you have made a prior request in writing that payment be made to a designated beneficiary in a lump sum or in monthly instalments.
PREMIUM COST
The Company will pay the full cost.	v
conversion Option
Should the employer: terminate employment. Group Life Insurance may be converted, regardless of health, to any regular individual policy used for this purpose, provided you make written application for conversion within 3 I days of the date of your termination. Should death occur during the 31*day period in which you are eligible to make application for conversion, the amount of your Group Life Insurance will be paid to your beneficiary-
The purpose of this provision is to make sure you do not lose coverage entirely if you are in poor health when you terminate. If you are in good health, you should compare the premium rates of other companies as well to be certain you are paying the best rate possible.
6
Periods of Lay-Off
Should the employee be temporarily laid-off the Group Life Insurance will remain in force for 240 days from the firsi date of lay-off.
Leave of Absence
The Employer may deem coverage to continue for a period of not more than 30 days following the date on which the employee is granted leave of absence for any tcason other than illness or injury.
Termination of Insurance
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	When the employee terminates employment.
2.	On the date the covered person enters the armed forces of any country on a full time basis.
3.	On the date the group policy terminates.
4.	On the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	On the date you die.
Life Insurance Benefit
In the event of a covered person’s death, the beneficiary should contact the fringe benefits section of the Employee Relations Department.
Chance of Carrier
The Company reserves the right to terminate this policy in order to change carrier.
Retirements
An employee or spouse who attains age 65 shall not continue to be covered by this plan and his certificate shall be cancelled.
7
ACCIDENTAL DEATH & D ISM E M B E R M EN T
//
Eligibility
All full-time Union employees of the Fibre Resources Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 90 accumulated seniority days. If you an: not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Contributions
Paid in full by the Employer
Schedule of Benefits
If, while insured, an employee suffers any of the losses listed below as a result of:
(a)	an accidental bodily injury visible on the surface of the body, or
(b)	a disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental injury, or
(c)	accidental drowning.
The benefits indicated will be paid providing that death or loss occurs within 365 days after and results directly from the accidental bodily injury. The total benefit payable for one accident shall not exceed 100% of the amount specified in the schedule of insurance. Should a later claim occur it will be considered as a new claim.
Employee
For the life of this Agreement, the principal sum under the Accidental Death and DismembetTnent benefit is S50,000.00.
Amount Payable
Loss of life
Loss of both hands or both feet
Loss of both eyes
Loss of one hand and one foot
Loss of one foot and one eye
Loss of one hand or one foot
Loss of one eye
Loss of thumb and any finger
of the same hand
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
50%
50%
25%
Spouse and Dependent
For the life of this Agreement an accidental death benefit will be provided for spouse and dependent as follows:
Dependent • an unmarried child 1 year of age hut less than 19 years of age (25 years of age when a student full time) wholly dependent on the employee for support.
Exposure and Disappearance
If. as a direct result of an accident, a covered person has died or has suffered one of the specified losses clue to exposure to the elements of nature, the Insurer will pay the benefit provided death or loss occurred within 365 days after the accident.
If, as a direct result of the accidental disappearance, wrecking or sinking of the conveyance in which a covered person was riding, such employee has disappeared and his body has not been found within 1 year, then on the presumption that he has died, the Insurer will pay the benefit.
Beneficiary
In the event of loss of life, the principal sum will be paid tO the employee’s beneficiary as recorded on his group insurance enrolment card.
spouse $5,000.00 Dependent $2,500.00
In the event of losses other than life, the amounts indicated will be paid to the Insured.
Definitions
•	"Accidental Death” means death resulting from any of the following:
(a)	accidental bodily injury visible on the surface of the body or disclosed by an autopsy.
(b)	disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental bodily injury.
(c)	an accidental drowning.
•	"Loss of Foot” mews severance at or above the ankle joint.
•	"Loss of Rand” means severance at or above the wrist joint.
« "Loss of Thumb and Finger” means severance at or above tha knuckles joining the thumb and finger to the hand.
•	‘‘Loss of Eye” means entire and irrecoverable loss of sight of the eye.
Exceptions
No benefits will be payable if death or accidental bodily injuiy results direedy or indirect)) from:
(a)	Any infection of bodily or mental infinity or disease existing before or commencing after the accidental injury except a disease or infection as provided in the definition of “accidental death”.
(b)	Suicide, intentionally self-inflicted injuries while sane, or self-inflicted injuries while insane.
(c)	Insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country in a state or war, whether or not war is declared, or participation in a riot
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
Should you be temporarily laid-off your Accidental Death and Dismemberment will remain in force for 90 days from the first day of lay-off.
10
Termination of Insurance
Coverage under this plan will terminate on ihe earliest of the following dares:
1.	when the employee terminates employment.
2.	on the date any covered person enters the armed forces of any country an a full-time baas.
3.	on the date the group policy terminates.
4.	on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY
Eligibility
All full-time Union employees of the Fibre Resources Division, under age 65, will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 100 accumulated seniority days.
If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Any employee who does not return to work when he is recalled and who loses his seniority will be considered as a new employee if x-hired.
Benefit
If you are totally disabled, unable to work and under the continuing care of a physician, you will be eligible to receive a weekly income of $485.39.
Effective January 1,1996 and the first of each year for the term of this Agreement, Weekly Indemnity will increase by a percentage equal to the General Wage increase.
Your benefit will commence:
1.	on the first day of a disability due to non-occupationa! accident.
2.	on the first day of disability due to illness if admitted to hospital for in-patient care
3.	on the fourth day of a disability due to sickness.
During any period of disability, your benefits will continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
11
Periods of Lav-Off
Commencing on the dare of lay-off, regular Weekly Indemnity benefits will cease. The employee must apply, ifeligible for UIC benefits. When the UIC benefit expires, or if the employee is not eligible for any benefits under UIC, the Company will treat his Weekly Indemnity as a continuation of his claim and the employee will receive a Weekly Indemnity benefit without satisfying a new qualifying period.
In all cases above, the total number of weeks to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits and UIC benefits will not exceed fifty-two (52) weeks.
Should the employee be disabled from the same accident or sickness on the date he is recalled to work, his benefit will resume from the date that he is recalled. The insured employee who becomes disabled during a period of lay-off will become eligible for benefits commencing from the day following the date he would have started to work.
Definition of Disability
Eligible employees who are unable to work because of non*occupational accident and/or sickness may claim benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan. To qualify, an employee must be under the regular care and treatment of a physician.
A period of disability means a period during which the Insured is under the care of & physician as a result of injury sustained or sickness contracted and is totally and continuously disabled such as to be unable to perform his own occupation.
However, in isolated regions where there is no physician, the Para*Medical Clause under Weekly Indemnity may be applied. Under this provision, the Insurer will accept a certification of disability completed by a Registered Nurse located in the region for payment periods of less than two (2) weeks; for longer periods, the Insurer reserves the right to request a medical statement from an M.D.
Under all circumstances, the Insurer shall have the right to require the disabled employee to undergo a medical examination at the Insurer’s expense and so often as it may be reasonable
Recurrent Disability
Successive periods ofdisability separated by less ih&n 30 calendar days shall be considered one period of disability unless the subsequent disability is due to an injury or sickness entirely unrelated to the causes of the previous disability and after the employee has returned to full-time active employment.
12
Integration of Benefits
Benefits payable under this plan will be offset by any benefits which are payable (or would have been payable had a satisfactory application been submitted) under the Canada Pension Plan or the Quebec Pension Plan, Workers’ Compensation Act and/or any government plan of automobile insurance which has been approved as an acceptable limitation by the Unemployment Insurance Commission. Benefits are also offset by earnings or benefits from any employer. These offsets apply to primary benefits only.
It is further agreed that the Union will fully cooperate with the Employer t6 control absenteeism and the misuse ofdisability payment provisions and, furthermore, that all necessary and reasonable attempts to investigate the legitimacy of all and any absences and that any employee proven to have made false statements or to have given misinformation is liable to dismissal.
Taxes at Source
Since disability benefits are taxable, federal taxes will be deducted at source according to the current Federal Tax Table as per reported TD1 exemption form. In any event, tax exemptions not reported on initial submission of a'disability claim will be applied at a flat ]$%.
Termination of coverage
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment.
1.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3.	on the date the group policy terminates.
4.	on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
Should you be receiving Weekly Indemnity benefits under this policy and the policy is terminated, then benefits will continue to the end of the benefit period, provided that you remain totally disabled.
Unemployment Insurance Commission Registration
In the event that any time the plan is registered with the Unemployment Insurance Commission, the total premium reduction will be retained by the Company.
13
Exceptions AND LIMITATIONS
Benefits will not be payable for the following:
1.	Those days for which you receive holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day’s regular pay from your Employer.
2.	A disability for which you are not under the continuing! care and treatment of a physician Benefits are not payable for a disability not supported by a specific diagnosis (i.e. fatigue, anxiety, etc., are not specified diagnosis).
3.	Self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane
4.	Any disability for which you are entitled to indemnity or compensation under Workers’ Compensation Act
5.	Bodily injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection: war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot
6.	Under all circumstances, the Insurer shall have the right to require the disabled employee to undergo a medical examination at the Insurer’s expense when and so often as may be required.
7.	On attainment of age 65.
S. Pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or any complication thereof.
9.	For a period of disability in excess of two weeks where treatment is rendered solely by chiropractor provided it has been recommended by a physician or surgeon. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of five (5) weeks per insured person per calendar year.
10.	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the Insurer and a licensed physician.
11.	The disability is due to cosmetic surgery or treatment as determined by the Insurer, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injury and commences within 90 days of the accident.
1A
12.	The disability arises while engaged in employment for remuneration or profit with an)
other employer, including strike or holidays.
13.	The disability is the result of engaging in a criminal act.
Weekly Indemnity Benefit
When you find that you cannot report to work because of a non-occupationa! accident or sickness, you should contact the fringe benefit section ofihe Employee Relations Department of Abilibi-Price Inc. in Grand Fails. (This contact must be made within fifteen (15) days from your first date ofabsence. Failure to do so id this time period may result in a loss of benefits.)
A claim form will be sent to you and you in tum will take that form to your doctor. Your doctor completes the portion headed "Attending Physician’s Statement”. If he/she does not answer all questions, the form will be returned and this could result in a delay of you payments. You must complete the section concerning you which is headed “Insured’s Statement”. You must return the form to the Employee Relations Department
You may from time to time be requested to have your doctor complete supplementary forms as required by the insurance company.
When the completed claim form is received at the Employee Relations Department it will be forwarded to the insurance company. They will make all decisions concerning approval or rejection of the claim. If approved, the cheques will be sent to the claimant through the Employee Relations Depanmem.lt is very important that the Employee Relations Department has your correct address to ensure that your cheques will not be delayed.
When there is a delay of two (2) weeks or more in Weekly Indemnity payments, the Company will make advance payments at normal intervals until the claim is processed if requested by the employee.
In cases where there is a medical dispute as to the validity of a claim or the continuance of a claim and where the physician of the employee and the Employer fail to reach an agreement, the dispute will be referred to a practising specialist who will render a final and binding decision,
Once you have been in receipt of Weekly Indemnity benefits, in order for you to be able to come back to work, you must have a return to work pass from your doctor. When you have the pass, you report for work on the designated day and present the pass to your foreman. All
15
foremen have been Instructed not to allow any employees back to work unless they produce a pass. It will be useless for you to report for work and tell your foreman that you have a pass but left it home. Your foreman will have no alternative but to send you home for il. In addition to a loss of wages this could mean a considerable expense to you depending on the travel distance involved.
Cost
The cost of the plan will be fully paid by the Company.
Government Disability Plans
1.	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible under the disability benefit provision in any other government plan for disability, for which the employee is entitled to receive an amount of disability benefit under this plan, except war disability pensions and Workers’ Compensation 7^ disability pensions. These reductions apply to primary' benefits only. The Company .-t reserves the right to request that an employee make application for government benefits /• and, if the employee refuses, his/her benefits will be suspended.
2.	The Company may require certification cm- verification of the amount of income from the Caiwla/Quebec Pension Plan or such other government plans.
3.	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company through some mutually satisfactory arrangement.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
Eligibility
All full-time Union employees of the Fibre Resources Division who are covered by the terms of the Weekly Indemnity Plan are covered by the Long Term Disability Plan.
16
Benefit
Effective upon date ofialification the maximum monthly benefit payable for any eligible employees who are actively at work on the above date will be 51,300.00 per month.
Effective January 1,1907 the maximum monthly benefits payable for any eligible employees who are actively at work on that date will be $1,400.00 per month. Effective on January 1 of each subsequent year for the term of this Agreement Long Term Disability benefits will increase by an amount equal to the General Wage increase.
This amount will be reduced by other income to which you may be entitled from any of the following sources:
1.	the Long Term Disability benefits shall be reduced by any benefits or replacement income that is payable, or would have been payable had a satisfactory request been submitted to the government under the CPP/QPP and under any Workers’ Compensation Act related directly to the accident or illness for which these benefits are paid. These reductions apply to primary benefits only.
2.	earnings or payments from any employer.
3.	disability benefits payable under any other group, association or franchise insurance plan
4.	retirement benefits provided by an employer and/or a government
5.	income replacement indemnity payable under any government plan of automobile
insurance.
The amount of benefit payable to the Insurer will not be affected by changes in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes result from:
t. A correction due to an error made when your award was originally determined
2.	A change of 10% or more in the benefit formula under the government plan.
The Insurer reserves the right to estimate the amount of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan award pending advice of the actual award.
Commencement of Benefits
Benefits begin after the expiration of Weekly Indemnity benefits provided proof of disability is submitted within 6 months following the qualifying period.
17
Maximum Benefit Period
Once you have satisfied the qualifying period, you will receive a monthly income until your 65th birthday or the cessation of total disability, or until you have received a maximum of 108 months in benefits, whichever occurs first. During a legal strike. Weekly Indemnity and L.T.D. will continue to be paid if supported by appropriate medical evidence if requested. Effective January 1,1997 the maximum period will increase to 114 months. Effective January 1,1998 the maximum period will increase to 120 months.
Definition of Total Disabiliti
“Disability” shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and who for up to the next ensuing twelve (12) months is unable because of disease or injury to work at his regular occupation and thereafter is unable to perform any and every duty of every occupation in the Fibre Resources for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or expertise.
Confinement is not normally required. However, you must be under the regular care of a physician and be prepared to attempt rehabilitative employment or participate in a rehabilitation program considered appropriate by the Insurer.
Rehabilitation
Long Term Disability benefits are designed to be paid during periods when you are disabled and cannot work. Often however, there will be a time when, although you are not yet full! recovered, you can work at some type of job and possibly earn an income. This type of work is usually considered to be rehabilitative employment and, provided the Insurer does class it as such, LTD benefits will not automatically cease but can continue while you are on rehab.
Although most income is normally used to reduce LTD benefits, in the case of rehab only half of these earnings will be used to reduce your LTD payments provided that while on rehab your income for all sources including those outlined previously is not greater than 100% of your earnings prior to yaw disability.
Recurrent Disabilities
Once you have been disabled and have received benefits under this plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by less than 4 months of full-time active employment.
18
A disability will not be considered to be recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is entirely unrelated to the causes of the previous disability.
If any period of disability is classified as "recurrent”, it will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. You will not have to re-satisfy any qualifying periods which may apply • benefits will begin again immediately,
Waiver of Premium
Premiums are due and payable during the qualifying period. However, once the qualifying period has been satisfied, premiums falling due during a period when benefits are payable, will be waived.
Exceptions and Limitations
Benefits will not be payable for the following;
1.	a disability caused by self-inflicted injuries or illness.
2.	a disability resulting from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country, or participation in a riot
3.	a disability resulting from alcoholism, drug addiction, or the use of any hallucinogen unless you are participating in a therapeutic program recognized by the Insurer and are under the continuous care of a medical specialist in this field.
4.	adisability which is the result ofengaging in a criminal act.
5.	a disability which arises while engaged in employment for remuneration or profit with any other employer, including strikes and holidays.
Complications due to pregnancy are covered. However, any disability due to any cause will
not be eligible for benefits at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could
be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with relevant government legislation
or the leave agreed upon by you and your employer.
19
Claim Procedures
You should contact the Employee Relations Department of Abilibi-Price Inc. in Grand Falls
A claim form will be sent to you. and you in turn will take that form to your doctor. Your doctor completes the portion headed “Attending Physician’s Statement”. If he/she does not answer all questions, the form will be returned and this could result in a delay of your payments. You must complete the section concerning you which is headed “Insured’s Statement”. You must return the form to the Employee Relations Department. You may, from time to time, be requested to have your doctor complete supplementary forms as required by the insurance company,
When the completed claim form is received at the Employee Relations Department, it will be forwarded to the insurance company. They will make all decisions concerning approval or rejection of the claim. If approved, the first and last cheque will be sent to the Claimant through the Employee Relations Department . all other cheques will come directly from the Insurer. It is very important that the Employee Relations Department has your correct . address to ensure that your cheques will not be delayed.
Under all circumstances, the Insurer shall have the right to require the disabled employee to undergo a medical examination at the Insurer’s expense and so often as it may be reasonable.
Claims must be submitted no later than 6 months following the qualifying period.
Termination of Insurance
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3.	on the date the group policy terminates.
4.	on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
6.	on the first of the month coincident with or immediately following the date you reach age 65 or retire.
When your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claims must be given to the Insurer within 90 days of the date of rumination of insurance.
20
Extension of Benefits
Long Term Disability benefits will extend beyond your termination date, subject to the maximum benefit period, provided you become disabled while you are still insured. Benefits will continue to be paid according to the contract provisions, regardless of the subsequent termination of the group policy. The Insurer reserves the right to require that while you are in receipt of LTD income, you furnish proof of the continuance of total disability and submit to an examination by The Insurer’s medical advisors when requested.
MAJOR MF.niPAT
All full-time Union employees of the Fibre Resources Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 90 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Eligible dependents are your spouse and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are under 21 years of age, unmarried children to age 25 if full-time student. If a child is mentally or physically infirm, wholly dependent on you for support, and was insured prior to attaining the maximum age, they will continue to be insured.
All your dependents must be registered (by name, relationship and date of birth) with the employer before claims are accepted for payment. If you are initially insured for employee benefits only, and later acquire a dependent, you should notify your employer accordingly in writing. Your dependent will then be enrolled in the plan. If one of your dependents is hospitalized on the date coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
Co-ordination of Benefits
This plan includes a Co-ordination of Benefits Provision. This provision operates in the event that you are covered under more than one health plan and insures that payments made by all plans do not exceed the actual expenses incurred.
21
Hospital Benefit	yi t?s/
If you or a covered dependent are confined in a licensed hospital, you will be reimbursed for room and board charges in excess of ward accommodation up to the level of semi-private accommodation. If confined in a private room, payment will be based on the hospital average charge for semi-private room and board.
Payment of Benefits
This benefit pays 100% of all eligible expenses under Item 1 and 80% of all other benefits which are in excess of a deductible of$25.00 up to a maximum per calendar year of 510,000.00 less any major medical payments made during the immediately preceding 2 calendar years for each covered individual.
Deductible
The S25.00 deductible is applied once each calendar year to the eligible expenses incurred that year per family.
Eligible Expenses
The following is a list of items currently eligible for payment under this group plan. However, should your provincial medicare plan alter to include any of these items, coverage under this plan will automatically adjust in accordance with the approved legislation.
Eligible expenses must be reasonable, customary and recommended as necessary by a physician. Hospital or physician’s charges incurred on an emergency basis outside Canada will be treated as specified under points 11 and 12.
■f/.' / 1. Drugs, medicines, sera and injectables, available only on a written prescription by a
i , physician or dentist and dispensed by a pharmacist, dentist or physician.
2.	Diagnostic procedures, radiology, oxygen and blood transfusion.
3.	Fees of a private nurse (R.N.) who is not related to you or ordinarily a resident in your home and whose continuous attendance is for justifiable medical reasons recommended and requested by the attending physician.
22
4.	Necessary licensed ground ambulance service to and from a local hospital.
5.	One return trip per calendar year for emergency transportation by air ambulance or regular scheduled airline or railroad to the nearest hospital qualified to provide treatment. Licensed ground ambulance service to and from the point of departure is also an eligible expense.
6.	Dental treatment required os a direct result of an accidental injury to natural teeth provided such treatment is rendered within 6 months of the accident and the Claimant’s insurance as well as his policy are still in force, the eligible expenses for such dental treatment shall be limited to the expenses incurred only to repair the damage resulting directly from the accident, and to an amount for the least expensive procedure which will provide a professionally adequate result..
7.	Purchase of a truss, brace or crutches or purchase of an artificial limb or eye when loss of the limb or eye occurred while insured under this plan.
8.	Purchase of a wheelchair.
9.	Rental of a hospital bed, iron lung or wheelchair.
10.	Room and board and normal nursing care for the patient in a licensed nursing home or
approved hostel, under the supervision of a physician, up to S30.00 per day to a maximum of 30 days per year.
11.	Physiotherapy by a person duly qualified and registered and legally engaged in the practice of physiotherapy provided such services, by duration and type, have been prescribed by a physician.
12.	Professional services of a physician (where this coverage is permitted by law) with the
following conditions:
(a)	In the case of treatment for mental and nervous disorders while not confined to hospital, payment will be at SO% and is subject to a maximum payment ofSIO.OO for each treatment and S500.0 for all treatments during any calendar year.
(b)	For emergency treatment outside Canada, reasonable and customary charges in the area in which the service is given will be considered as an eligible expense less the amount payable under your provincial medicare plan.
23
13.	Hospital charges incurred for emergency treatment outside Canada, including room and board (for the difference between the benefit payable by the provincial hospital plan and the actual cost of ward accommodation) and charges for special hospital services for a maximum of 31 days per period of disability.
14.	Orthopaedic shoes when prescribed by an attending physician. One pair peryear subject
to a maximum of S73.00.
15.	Chiropractor • S20.00 per visit to a maximum of S400.00 per year.
Vision Care * Employee and Dependents
->/r- '
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses, including prescription sun glasses and contact lenses, up to a maximum payment of S100.00 in any two consecutive calendar years. Payment will be exempt from the plan deductible.
The vision care benefit will be S100.00 once every twenty-four (24) months for employees and dependents age eighteen (18) and over, and once every twelve (12) months for dependents under age eighteen (18). An optometric benefit (eye examination) ofS20.00 once every twenty-four (34) months will bs extended to employees and dependents age eighteen (IS) and over and once every twelve (12) months for dependents under age eighteen (18).
Maternity Expenses
Charges incurred due to pregnancy will be treated in the same manner as charges incurred due to any other condition.
Expenses Not Covered
1.	Vitamins, periodic check-ups, travel for health and examinations required for the use of a third party.
2.	Cosmetic surgery or treatment when so classified by the Insurer unless such surgery oj treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
3.	Charges levied by a physician for his/her time spent travelling, broken appointments, his/her transportation costs, room rental charges, for advice given by him/her by telephone or other means of telecommunications.
4.	Any services, treatments or supplies payable under, or insurable only by, a government plan.
24
5.	Intentionally self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
6.	Any disability for which you are entitled to indemnity while sane or insane.
7.	Bodily injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in n riot
Periods of Lay-Off
Should you be laid-off, your medical benefit will remain in force for 90 days from the first clay of lay-off.
Termination of Insurance
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3.	on the date the group policy terminates.
4.	on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
When your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claims must be given to the Insurer within 90 days of the date of termination of insurance.
CLAIM PROCEDURE
HOSPITAL & MAJOR MEDICAL BENEFIT
Claim forms are obtainable from the supervisor in the area in which you work or from the Employee Relations Department of Abitibi-Price Inc. in Grand Falls. When hospitalized, a claim form should be completed by the hospital. The claim form can then be submitted to Abitibi-Price Inc.
When making a claim you must obtain the necessary form as outlined above, complete and return it along with any itemized bills to:
Abitibi-Price Inc.
Fibre Resources Division P. 0. Box 500 Grand Falls, NF A2A2K1
25
To be eligible for payment, claims must he submitted not later than the calendar year following the year in which the claim occurred.
Itemized bills in support of claims will not be returned but will be retained by the Insurer.
Note: It is your responsibility to pay for your medical bills and submit same to the Insurer for reimbursement.
DENTAL CARE PLAN Eligibility
All full-time Union employees of the Fibre Resources Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 90 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-rime basis.
Eligible dependents are your spouse and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are under 21 years of age, unmarried children to age 25 if a Full-time student. Any mentally or physically handicapped child may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of self-sustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
All your dependents must be registered (by name, relationship and date of birth) with the Employer before claims are accepted for payment. If you are initially insured for employee benefits only, and later acquire a dependent, you should notify your Employer accordingly in wiring. Your dependent will then be enrolled in the plan.
Co-ordination Of Benefits
This plan includes a Co-ordination of Benefits Provision. This provision operates in the event that you are covered under more than one health or dental plan and ensures that payments made by all plans do not exceed the actual expenses incurred.
Contributions
The cost of the plan will be fully paid by the Company.
26
COVERED EXPENSES
Effective upon date of ratification the maximum benefit per calendar year will be $700.00 per insured family member and covers extractions, partial dentures, full dentures, and denture repairs. Effective January 1.1997 this amount will increase to $800.00.
» Dental x-rays.
►	Oral surgery, including excision of impacted teeth.
►	Amalgam, silicate and plastic composite fillings.
►	Anaesthetics administered in connection with oral surgeiy or other covered dental services.
►	Injections ofantibiotic drugs by the attending dentist
►	Oral examination, scaling and cleaning of teeth once every six (6) months.
►	Endodontics treatment including Root Canal treatment.
►	Braces and retainers at 50°/oof the cost with a lifetime maximum of $750.00 per insured family member.
Reimbursements will be based on the suggested fees for general practitioners or denturists in the Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide for the previous year.
Predetermination of Benefits
If the cost.of a course of treatment planned is expected to exceed.S20Q.00, the course of treatment musl be filed with and approved by the insurance company prior to the commencement of treatment. The forms are available from your Employer. After reviewing the proposed treatment, the insurance company will notify both you and your dentist of the estimated payment under the plan. Failure to file and obtain approval may result in benefits of a lesser amount than would otherwise have been payable. When optional procedures are available, reimbursement will be based on the least expensive procedure which, as .determined by the insurance company, will produce a professionally adequate result.
Exclusions
The plan does not cover:
►	dental services not listed under “Covered Expenses”
►	services not performed by a licensed dentist or denturist.
a any eligible expenses for which coverage is provided or available (or would be if t^ie was not in effect) under any insurance or other contract, plan or law.
*	treatments received before the effective date of your benefits.
►	dental services performed primarily for cosmetic purposes.
*	travel expenses to and from the place of treatment.
27
. treatment brought about by conditions arising from war, riot or insurrection, or while serving in the armed forces of any country.
. self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
•	fixed bridgework.
. charges levied by a physician or dentist for his/her time spent travelling, broken appointments, his/her transportation costs, room rental charges, or for advice given by him/her by telephone or other means of telecommunication.
. dental treatment received from a dental or medical department maintained by an employer, an association, or a labour union.
•	services and supplies rendered for full mouth reconstruction for a vertical dimension correction or for a correction to temporal mandibular joint dysfunction.
Termination of Benefits
Insurance for you and your dependents will cease on the earliest of the following events:
1.	termination of employment Or retirement
2.	if you should die.
3.	if you enter the armed forces on a full-time basis.
4.	termination of the policy.
Extension ofBenefits
In most cases, no dental benefits are payable for expenses incurred after the dare your insurance terminates even if a treatment plan has been filed and benefits have been determined by the Insurer prior to the date your insurance terminates. However, benefits are payable under the following circumstances:
1.	Where an impression for a demure is taken prior to the date your insurance terminated and the denture is installed after the insurance terminates,‘dental expenses in connection with this procedure and incurred within 30 days after the termination of insurance are eligible.
2.	If your insurance terminates due to your death, dental expenses incurred on behalf of your dependents will be eligible for payment provided:
a)	the services are rendered within 90 days following your death, and
b)	they are part of a series of planned dental services started prior to your death or rendered at definite denial appointments made prior to your death.
3.	If your insurance terminates due to lay-off. benefits will continue for up to 90 days. There is no specific time limit for dentures provided tire work was started within the 90-day period.
Workers* Compensation
Disabled employees on Workers’ Compensation wiD be eligible for benefits for up to twelve (12) months after the date of disability.
Howto Claim
After you or one of your dependents have made an appointment with die dentist, obtain a claim form from your Employer. The completed claim form should be returned to your Employer for processing.
In the event that the dentist demands payment from the Claimant upon completion of treatment, it will be the Claimant’s responsibility to pay the dentist and then claim reimbursement from the insurance company. It will be necessary for the Claimant to secure a completed claim form from the dentist.
To be eligible for payment claims must be submitted no later than die calendar year following the year in which the claim occurred
Extension Of Benefits After 90 Days
Frinee benefit coverage is maintained by the Company during regular operating seasons and for ninety (90) days after lay-off. After ninety (90) days, employees who wish to maintain their fringe benefit coverage may pay the premium cost and continue their benefits.
LOCAL ISSUES • LOGGERS
]. All Letters of Intent in the existing Agreement and those Local Issues agreed to in this round of negotiations shall form part of this Agreement.
2.	Company agrees to have strips ribboned for cut and bunch employees recognizing that there will be areas that will not require ribboning.
3.	Company agrees that the TV room should be separate from sleeping quarters in Harpoon, Roebucks and Pat's Pond Camps.
4.	Company agrees to have proper ventilation (fan) in camps.
5.	Alt new camps shall have private sleeping quarters - two (2) employees per room
6.	Company agrees to have electrical outlets in each room.
7.	The Company recognizes the need for cooks lo have adequate time to prepare facilities and food for the opening of the camps on spring start-up. When the camp is lo be open for full operation on spring Start-up, one cook will be assigned on the Monday prior lo start-up date. In all other start-up situations, cooks will be given adequate time to prepare the camp.