BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
GRAND FALLS, NEWFOUNDLAND
AND
uMio/O C 6-^
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 60
JANUARY I, 1989 to DECEMBER 31, 1992
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC . GRAND FALLS, NEWFOUNDLAND
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 60
JANUARY 1, 1989 TO DECEMBER 31, 1992
2
3
3
6
7
10
13
15
16
17
32
42
47
52
55
56
57
58
60
61
61
62
62
64
65
67
68
69
70
71
73
INDEX
Purpose
Term of Agreement Recognition (* Jurisdiction Rates & Classifications Union Membership Annual Vacation Holidays With Pay Floating Holidays No Strike - No Lockout Working & Living Conditions Hours of Work Seniority
Adjustment of Grievances
Safety
Discipline
Commuting
Walking & Riding Time
Cookhouse & Bunkhouse Staff
Bereavement Leave
Training
Fringe Benefits
Jury Duty
Leave of Absence
Classification Seniority
Schedule "A"
Schedule "B"
Schedule "C"
Other Provisions Schedule "D"
Special Provisions Scaling
THIS AGREEMENT made at Grand Falls in the Province of Newfoundland
and Labrador this 29th day of June, Anno Domini One Thousand Nine Hundred and Ninety.
BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC., OF GRAND FALLS, NEWFOUNDLAND (hereinafter called the "Employer") of the one part,
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS unIon and ITS FORESTRY LOCAL 60 (hereinafter called the "Union") of the other part.
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
2 -
ARTICLE I ~ PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the
Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working and living conditions, and to ensure insofar as possible the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy o|r operations, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seejts to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of 4ll disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to cooperate fully, individually and collectively for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1.02(a) In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the words "Employer" or "Employers" shall mean the Company and any non-working Contractor, i.e., a Contractor who is not an employee under this Agreement, bound by the Agreement, and of whom the Union has received written notice by the Company to the effect that he is to be treated as a!n Employer for the Purpose of this Agreement.
(b) For the purpose of Article XIII, the term "Contractor" shall mean a non-working Contractor who is an Employer as per Article 1.02(a).
ARTICLE IX - TERM OF AGREEMENT
2.01	This Agreement shall become effective as of the first
day of January _1. J.989, (except as otherwise provided) and shall remain in full force and effect to and including the 31st day of December, 1992 and from year to year thereafter, unless either" party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, in which case the party desiring change or termination shall notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of December of the particular year that such as its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
ARTICLE ITT - RECOGNITION AND JURISDICTION
3.01	The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole collective
bargaining agency for all the employees of Abitibi-Price Inc., Grand Falls Woods Division, including all employees on the seniority list(s) of Abitibi-Price Inc., in woods operations on the Grand Falls timber limits save and except Woods' Manager, Assistant Woods' Manager, Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents, General Foremen, Foremen, Assistant Foremen, Scalers, Assistant Scalers, Technical, Clerical and Office Staff, Guards, Towermen, Gatekeepers, Non-Working Contractors, NonWorking Sub-Contractors, persons employed in Silviculture operations, persons employed in supervisory, advisory and confidential capacities, and those above the rank of Assistant Foreman.
- 4
3.02(a)
w
The Employer agrees that I if contracts are made, such contractors shall be required to apply all the terms of this Agreement, including the wages rates, i.e., it is understood and agreed between the parties hereto
that any person who works on the woods' operations of the Company in any capacity referred to in the Wage Scheduled attached heretj) or any new classification to be added thereto undejr Article IV shall be considered to be an employee of an Employer for purposes of this Agreement,
(b) It is further agreed thajt Contractors and/or Subcontractors who themselves work and any workmen whom they hire shall be considered! employees of the Employer who awards such contracts, ajnd the Agreement applies in the same manner as it does to other employees except as provided in Article XIII,, Section 13.05(b).
(c) Employees of Contractor^ engaged for the purpose of
erecting structures outride the limits of the Company are not covered by this (Agreement when such employees and the Contractor are bound by an Agreement with a
Union or Unions affiliated with the Canadian Labour Congress.
3.03	Anyone performing work.iexcept for the purpose of
instruction, in case of!emergency or casual assistance, as listed in the job classifications set out in the Wage Schedules, attache^ to and forming part of this Agreement, including new job classifications under Article IV, shall be considered employees of the Employer within the terras of this Agreement.
3.04	Supervisory personnel shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee listed in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, including new job classifications under Article IV, except for the purpose of instruction, in case of emergency or casual assistance.
3.05	The Employer reserves the right to select members of the Bargaining Unit to act as a Sub-Foreman on any operation. Employees who act in this classification shall receive all terms and conditions of the Labour Agreement. However, the right of selection shall be vested exclusively with the Employer.
3.06	The jurisdiction area of Application under this Agreement shall be the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador and shall cover those job classifications listed in the Wage Schedules which are part of this Agreement including job classifications under Article IV.
3.U7	The Employer shall not be asked to act upon and shall
not be responsible for questions of jurisdiction which may arise between the Union and any other Union or Unions. It is also agreed that the Employer's operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union or Unions.
6 i -
ARTICLE IV - RATES AMD CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The Wage Schedules are attached hereto and form part
of this Agreement.
For job classifications! and experimental jobs used in the procurement of woodifibre used in the manufacture
of newsprint or for fue Wage Schedules, the Emp.
, not listed in the attached oyer shall set estimated or temporary rates of which the Union will be notified in writing within thirty (30) days from the date the new job commences. Any such rates will be based on comparison with the prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the attached Wage Schedules. After a trial period ofjsixty (60) days, any such rate or rates shall be negotiated with the Local Union and, after such^agreem^nt I'S Fetched, it shall then become a part of the Wage Schedules and attached hereto. Upon failure to reach agreement on the rate or rates, the matter may be referred t^o Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. It is understood that the sixty (60) day period can be extended by mutual consent of the parties to this Agreement. The workmen concerned shall be entitled to all the benefits of the Agreement from the date the new job commences.
4.03	All rates under this Article may be made retroactive to
the end of the trial period by an Arbitration Board.
7
ARTICLE V ~ UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Employer agrees that it is in favour of its employees, covered by this Agreement, becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02	All employees shall become members of the Union within
seven (7) days from the date they begin work covered by	i
this Agreement, as a condition of continued employment.	/
All members shall maintain their membership in good	|
standing as a condition of continued employment through j the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union having to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified
by the Union, in writing, at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
5.03	It is the responsibility of the Union to notify the Employer, in writing, of any employee who has refused to join the Union or any member who refuses to maintain his membership in good standing, and an Employer shall not be required to release an employee until notice in writing has been received. In the event of such release, the Company will not be required to issue the notice of lay-off as contained in Clause 12.08.
a
5.04	The Employer shall deduct each month, from the wages of each employee within the Union's jurisdiction, the regular monthly working membership dues of the Local Union and, on his behalf, remit the same to the Local Union.
(/
8
5,05	If an individual employ&z, who is a member of the Union
or wishes to become a mjember, so desires, the Employer agrees that it will, on | his behalf, and upon his written request, deduct Union Initiation Fees and/or back dues from monies due him.
5,06
Remittance of all deduc list, in duplicate, sho S.I.N., address, date of by individual and total be sent to the Local Un any event, not later th the calendar month in wi
tiona accompanied by an itemized wing the payroll number, name, Dirth, date of hire, and amounts i by camps or work areas, shall Lon as soon as possible; but, in an two (2) weeks from the end of ich it is deducted.
The Employer shall advijse the Union from time to time of the Employer's laboujr requirements. When hiring additional employees, t/he Employer will give preference to Union members who have applied in writing within the previous six (6) months!, and who are capable of doing the work required of thjem.
N.B. This does not apply to employees with recall rights.
5,08	The Union shall furnish the Employer with a list of
Local Officers and a Li|st of Representatives and shall amend these lists promptly as changes occur.
9
5.09
5.10
Union Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all Woods' Operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Employer's operations on condition that said representative will abide by the regular rules and regulations of the Employer. Credentials carried by the Union Representative shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union and a Travel Permit signed by the Woods' Manager of the Company. Accredited Union Representatives shall be provided with board and lodging, if available, on an Employer's premises at $5.50 per meal. It is recognized that on commuter operations, a special situation is created making it necessary for the Union Representatives to sign up men during working hours. This shall be done after consultation with, and with the consent of the Foreman or his representative. It is agreed that the Foreman will be instructed by the Employer to permit the Union Representative to sign up men during working hours when this is possible without undue interference with production. In so doing, the Union agrees that said Union Representatives shall have due regard for	1
production.	/
Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked sixty (60) days.
During the period of probation, any new employee who proves unsatisfactory in work performance may be disciplined up to release from employment without recourse to the Grievance Procedure. Discharge for cause other than poor work performance may be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE VI
ANNUAL VACATION
10
Vacation Time
6.01
The Employer shall gr^nt vacation time off to employees covered by this Agreement in accordance with the following provisions.
An employee's vacatiojn entitlement in any calendar year is based on his [accumulated seniority as of the end of the previojus computer payroll year.
(a)	Less than 150 day each 30 days of s
(b)	150 - 900 days -
(c)	901 - 1,500 days
(d)	1,501 - 4,000 day
(e)	4,001 - 6,500 day
(f)	Over 6,501 days -
s - one (1) day vacation for aniority.
two (2) weeks vacation.
- three (3) weeks vacation, s - four (4) weeks vacation.
3 ~ five (5) weeks vacation, six (6) weeks vacation.
Vacation Pay shall bej paid to employees at the time of vacation or weekly wi|th regular earnings if requested on the following basin:
(a)	4% of gross earnihgs accumulated to the end of the previous computer:	payroll year for employees under
6.01	<a) and (b) above.
<b) 6% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer} payrol1 year for employees under
6.01	(c> above. ;
(c)	8% of gross earnijngs accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under
6.01	(d > above.
(d)	10% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer] payroll year for employees under
6.01	( e ) above.
11
6.02	(Cont’ d. )
(e)	12% of gross earnings accumulated to the end of the previous computer payroll year for employees under (f) above.
6.03	An employee who loses his seniority rights through voluntary separation, shall have his vacation credits included with his pay, at time of separation.
6.04	Employees wishing to take vacation time off during the prime vacation period (July 1 to October 1) must aPP-l-Yr in writing, for such vacation time off, not later than May 15 of that calendar year. Employees wishing to take vacation time off during any other time must apply for such vacation at least six (6) weeks in advance of the date requested. All vacation time off must be approved by the Employer before being taken. If for any reason, the employee cannot be granted his vacation on the date requested, the employee shall be so notified, in writing, at least three (3) weeks in advance of the date requested, at which time the employee shall also be notified of his/her approved vacation dates.
6.05	The Employer shall provide vacation application forms in multiple copies so that an employee shall have for himself a copy of his request signed by the appropriate Company official.
6.06	Subject to the foregoing, an employee shall be granted vacation time off on dates requested unless it causes acute manpower shortage in his classification at his jobsite. During the prime vacation period (July 1 to
- lj -
6.06	(Cont'd.)
October 1), not more thlan two (2) consecutive weeks vacation will be grantejd , Extended vacation will be granted to employees travelling out of the province. Vacation periods are nojt to be divided into shorter periods than one (1) wejek, seven (7) calendar days. Vacation Pay will be pa|id in proportion to the time taken unless the employee makes a request, in writing, to be paid differently.]
6.07	Should two or more employees apply for the same
vacation dates, the datj* of application shall determine, Should the date of application be the same, seniority shall determine.
6.08	Vacations shall commence on the first day of an
employee's normal work week, unless other arrangements can be made between the employee and his supervisor so that adjustments in 'the scheduling of crews can be kept to a minimum. Vacation Pay, in accordance with Clause 6.02, shall be n a separate cheque and paid not later than the Friiay preceding the day that the vacations are due to ccjmmence.
6.09
/ b/y
, V
sh to take vacation time during upon application on forms arned percentage of accumulate nd of the previous computer payroll year. Such employees shall be paid not later than three (3) weeks afjter the date of application.
Employees who do not wi the current year will, provided, be paid all gross earnings to the e
6.10	If an employee has not jcollected his Vacation Pay as
provided for in this Arjticle, the Company shall pay same at the end of the jsecond payroll year, but only up to the end of the prjevious computer payroll year.
- 13 -
6.11	If. during the life of this Agreement, any legislation
is proclaimed which provides for more Vacation Pay than is provided for in this Article, the legislation shall have effect from the date of proclamation.
ARTICLE VII - HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7,01	Qualified employees covered by this Agreement shall
be paid for the following holidays without the performance of work, providing the qualifying time is worked on the Woods' operations of the Company.
Good Friday	^
Victoria Day Memorial Day Labour Day
The holidays as outlined above shall be observed on the official date as declared by Provincial Legislation, where applicable. If any of the above holidays fall on the employee's scheduled day or days off, the employee shall be granted extra day or days off as his holidays with pay.
7.02	To be eligible for pay for the holidays, as outlined in
Clause 7.01, employees must qualify as follows:
(a)	For employees whose names have not been entered on the seniority list as per Clause 12.03, the required days worked between holidays shall be fifteen (15) days.
14!
7.02	(Cont'd.)
(b)	Employees must have worked the last scheduled shift before and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is on vacation or is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid if he otherwise qualifies. Employee'S on vacation or absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such
absence. A special
above holidays may fce granted to employees who have to travel long distances to be home for the holiday, provided that a request for such leave is made
five (5) days before (c) Employees who otherv any of the twenty-fi\
preceding the holida Employees who otherw prior to the pay per will not be paid at
Such holiday or holi' .first payroll perioc
Employees who meet the Article, and who work or any calendar year, shall
leave of absence for any of the
the holiday.
ise qualify but are laid off on (25) calendar days immediately y will be paid for the holiday, ise qualify but who are laid off iod in which the holiday occurs, the time the holiday is due. days pay will be added to the after recall.
other requirements of this or after 30th November of be granted three (3) bonus days. Such days will be taken together as directed by the Employer. It is understood that the employee may be paid compensation in lieu of time off.
7.04	An employee does not ha\le to report before or after
the stipulated day as p r 7.02(b), if his regular employment is not available.
15
7.05	All employees qualifying for a paid holiday, except those working on negotiated piecework rates, shall receive pay for the holiday at their regular rates. Those working on negotiated piecework rates shall receive pay for the holiday at the general labour rate, plus 8 per cent.
7.06	All employees who qualify for a paid holiday and work on the paid holiday will receive pay for the time worked at time and one-half and, in addition, will receive the "Holiday Pay" for which they qualify. All employees who do not qualify for pay for a holiday and work on such holiday shall receive pay for the time worked at time and one-half. Days absent from work while on vacation, and all days for which an employee received pay or part pay, shall be considered as days worked for the purpose of qualifying for a paid holiday.
ARTICLE VIII - FLOATING HOLIDAYS
J
8.01 Every employee covered by this Agreement is entitled
to three (3) Floating Holidays with pay provided he/she meets the following requirements:
(a)	To be eligible for the first Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 25 days in the previous payroll year.
(b)	To be eligible for the second Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 50 days in the previous payroll year.
(c)	To be eligible for the third Floating Holiday, an employee must have 150 days seniority and have worked 100 days in the previous payroll year.
- 16; -
8.02	/ It is further agreed that an employee may elect to
/ take eight (8) hours pay in lieu of time off.
8.03	Time off must be arranged with the employee's immediate
supervisor, and an employee who does not take the Floating Holiday when the Woodlands are operating will be paid for the day during the last week of operations prior to the regular fall shutdown. The Floating Holidays will not be accumulative from year to year.
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE - IiOCKO:
'jjT
It is agreed that all d accordance with the pro1 of this Agreement, and
9.01	It is agreed that all dLsputes shall be settled in
)pedure set forth in Article XIII :hat there shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members against the operations Covered by this Agreement nor lockouts by the Employejr during the life of this Agreement.
17
ARTICLE	X - WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	The Employer agrees to abide by the terms and conditions of the Logging Camps Act I960, the amendments thereto and the regulations tKereunder. The Union agrees that j the workmen covered by this Agreement will cooperate -with the Employer in maintaining the general rules of cleanliness and order in the living quarters, mess halls, outhouses and surroundings of camps and places of work.
10.02	Subject to this Agreement, it is clearly understood and agreed that it is the sole right of the Employer to administer Woods' Operations, direct employees in such a way as to ensure maximum efficiency, change its methods or system of operation and distribute work. The Union shall be advised of any significant change in operations at least thirty (30) days in advance of the introduction of such change.
10.03	The Employer agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
18 !-
10.04(a)
The weekly pay period shall be the period commencing on 8:00 a.m. each Sunday and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the following Sunday. Weekly pay cheques will be available at the end of the regulajr shift on the first Friday following the end of the| weekly pay period. However, there may be occasions when such things as weather conditions, computer breakdown, transportation difficulties, etc., etc.;, will arise which will prevent
the Company from meeting
the case, cheques will are available.
this commitment. If such is
be distributed as soon as they
10.05(a)
For each pay period, a memo of earnings slip will be issued to each employee cLving the following information: the period covered, hours and/or days worked, rates of pay, walking and riding /time, number of cords, cunits or cubic metres, number bf piles, earnings and deductions and any otherj pertinent information.
I
(b)	Employees covered by thi|s Agreement, who experience a two (2) week delay in a 'proved Workers' Compensation payments, will, upon request, be advanced an amount
equal to the Workers' Cojmpensation payment.
When van purchases are m de, the employee will be given an itemized bill showing adate of purchase and price of each item.
(b)
Except in case of emergen
in camps, van shall be
available and open a minimum of two nights a week on Tuesday and Thursday for at least two hours each night between the hours of 6: 3|0 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.
(c)	Van shall be sold to employees at no profit to the Employer.
- 19 -
10.06(a) Only factory-built buses, automobiles or snowmobiles shall be used for the ground transportation of men.
Such vehicles to be kept clean and in good repair so as to provide the safe and comfortable transportation qualities intended. Same to have adequate seating accommodation for all on board and equipped for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. When boats are used for the transportation of men, they shall likewise be kept clean and in good repair with due regard for the comfort and safety of men.
<b) Shelters shall be provided at waiting and/or lunching places and shall be equipped with oil stoves or wood stoves that are equipped to meet the regulations allowing their use during the fire season. Shelters shall be of smooth wall construction inside and shall be constructed in such a manner so as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the
summer, shall be tightly floored, have windows and, in
addition, shall have seating accommodation and table space for each employee, i.e., shelters shall be such that an employee can relax and eat his lunch or wait in comfort. It is, nevertheless. agreed that when it is necessary to take fire prevention precautions in the summer, no fires will be permitted in such shelters. Notices to this effect will be placed on camp bulletin boards and in buses on commuter jobs.
A Committee of Union and Management shall be formed to cover all Woods Operations to inspect all lunch shelters. Union Representatives will be reimbursed for any time lost. The Company agrees to consider all reasonable recommendations made by said Committee.
- 20 -
10.06(c) Where employees provide/ a Coleman stove for their own use in lunch sheltejrs, the Employer will make such stoves available a|t cost less a subsidy of $10.00 per stove. The Employer will provide free fuel and will also stock parts for sale at cost.
The use of such stoves jshall not be restricted during the fire season [unless Government Regulations dictate otherwise. i
10.07	The Union agrees that ijts members will observe all
regulations pertaining /to the prevention of forest fires as established by| the Provincial Government and the Company. All employees shall fight forest fires when called upon to do Iso by an authorized person. Employees taken from thjeir job to fight forest fires will be paid their regujlar rates for such work, except those working on negotijated piecework rates who will be paid the General Labjour Rate from the time they are taken from their jobs. I It is further agreed that the Employer will make everfy effort to limit the daily working time on fire fighting to eight (8) hours.
10. 08	When pulpwood has been /destroyed by fire before being
scaled, such wood shall! be paid for at the agreed rate. The Employer will make ievery effort to establish the quantity of wood burned! with a reasonable degree of accuracy. It is agreed that the man or men responsible for starting the fire w|ill not be paid for any pulpwood which he or they may halve lost.
- 21 -
10.09	Employees losing personal belongings through fire while on the Employer's operations will receive 75% of the cost of the items lost, to a maximum of 75% of the cost of one pair of mitts, one pair of socks and one suit of rainwear or a jacket. Individuals who lose personal belongings through fires caused by their own negligence will not be compensated.
10.10	Employer regulations require every chain saw operator to have a reliable fire extinguisher on his person when using a chain saw during the fire season. The Employer will make available suitable fire extinguishers to saw operators free of cost. The fire extinguishers shall be on loan to the employee and he shall return it in good condition to the Employer at the end of the fire season. If the fire extinguisher has been lost or damaged, he shall compensate the Employer for the cost of same.
10.11(a) At each operating camp and, where practical on worksites, a separate building will be provided for the storage and repair of power saws and shall be large enough to be adequate and have sufficient space for storage and, in addition, shall be adequately lighted and heated, and equipped with work bench and vice to facilitate repair of power saws. On cutting operations, under Schedule "C", the Employer will supply chain saws and parts to be sold at the Employer's invoice cost to the employee, if so requested.
(b)	On cutting operations under Schedule "C", it is agreed that the employees may be required to supply their own power saws. However, the Company shall have on all such operations, spare power saws that the employee may rent, should the employee's saw break down. Such spare saws
10.11(b)
- 22; -
(Cont'd.)
shall be available on the basis of one (1) spare saw for every five (5) cutters. The Company may charge the employee $4.00 per day Ijiire for such saw. The period of hire shall not be lorjiger than five (5) days.
(c)	Strip width shall not exceed 20 meters for 2.50 meter length pulpwood and 24 meters for 1.25 meter length pulpwood. On side hill roads, pulpwood should not be handled more than 4.5 meters on the lower side of what is known as a side hill road. Wood must be piled on the upper side of a side hill road, and all piles must be suitable for scaling .
10.12(a) Marked gas (which is exempt from Provincial Gas Tax) and oil for chain saws will be made available for purchase in camps and on worksites to employees for chain saw purposes only.	j
(b) The Company agrees to supply chainsaw files as required.	1
10.13(a) On mechanical skiddingbperations, chain saws will be
supplied by the Employ-a.. In the event that in a spirit of cooperation, due to jan emergency, an employee uses his own saw on any mechjanical skidding operation, he will be paid chain saw jrental at the rate of $4.00 per day with gas and oil supplied free of charge by the Employer.
(b) When an employee is transferred to cutting operations, under schedule "C" , frotn another classification, the Employer will rent the (employee a saw for a reasonable period of-time at the rate of $4.00 per day, gas and oil paid for by the empjloyee.
23
10.14(a) Tradesmen, such as mechanics and carpenters, may be required to supply all hand tools for their personal use, customarily furnished by tradesmen of their craft. Mechanics' tools over one-half inch drive and taps and dies shall be provided by the Employer free of charge.
(b)	unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all hand tools required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. When tools are provided on loan by the Employer, such tools will be charged in full if not returned. If returned in worn out or broken condition, they will be replaced by the Employer.
(c)	It is recognized as most desirable that repairs to mechanical equipment and welding be performed under shelter. The Employer agrees to make every reasonable effort to ensure this condition.
10.15	Day workers using their own power saws will be paid
on the following basis:
(a)	For road cutting - $5.50 per day. Gas and oils to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
(b) For improvement jobs - $5.00 per day. Gas and oils to be supplied by the Employer without charge.
(c)	The Foreman is to decide if the chain saw is to be used and inform the man to take his saw to the job, in which case he will be paid the full day's hire whether his saw is used or not.
24
10.15	(Cortt'd.)
(d)	Saws are not to be left on the job indefinitely for hire purposes, i.e.; a man, on being told that his saw is required on a certain day, will not be able to leave it there for another day or days and expect to collect hire.
10.16	The Employer agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching on their Woods' Operations except by mutual agreement between the parties and under conditions mutually agreed to before any shacking or batching commences.
10.17	It is agreed that the Employer will maintain good conditions in respect to cleanliness. sanitation and health, and it is the duty of the employees to cooperate in this regard. Employees' living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week, and the Employer will continue to provide improved
camp facilities.
10.18(a) All camps shall have inside toilet facilities, single tier beds, and shall be furnished with a wardrobe-type storage locker for each employee for hanging his clothes. The locker shall be of sufficient height for an inside shelf at the top and inside storage of footwear at the bottom. The company will provide, within the camp, an area where employees may hang work clothes.
10.18(b)
(c)
(d)
10.19
10.20
- 25 -
Inside toilet facilities, washroom facilities and drying rooms shall be accessible without travelling outdoors.
Employees on other than regular day shift shall have separate sleeping quarters to enable them to obtain proper rest.
Cookhouse and Bunkhouse staff shall have separate sleeping quarters, separated from the kitchen and dining room facilities to the extent that these operations will not unduly heat or disturb their sleeping quarters.
Camps shall be constructed so as to accommodate all employees with not more than two (2) per room. The rooms shall measure approximately 0* x 10*. All beds and mattresses shall be of good quality and maintained in a serviceable condition at all times.	The Employer
shall continue to provide spring-filled mattresses and bedding consisting of pillows, pillowcases, sheets and blankets. Pillowcases and bed sheets will be changed once a week. Clean blankets shall be supplied upon hiring or transfer from another worksite, and shall be changed as required. Such items of bedding must not be removed from the Employer's premises except by those employees who must do so in the course of their duties.
AH camps shall be of smooth wall construction inside. All camps shall be maintained in such a manner as not to be drafty during winter months and to keep out pests during the summer.
2(5
10.21	All camps shall be properly lighted and it is agreed
that flat wick lamps are inadequate for proper lighting. All camps of a permanent or semi-permanent nature shall have electric lighting. Where practical, painting will be done to aid in the desirable condition.
10.22	All camps shall have separated proper washing facilities,
including adequate showers. The Employer shall provide proper facilities for washing clothes in the form of washing machines and anj adequate supply of hot and cold water. In camps where iwashing machines are presently made available for the juse of cookery personnel, such machines are to be made available to all other employees.
10.23
All camps shall have separate drying rooms adequate to
the extent that it will to have wearing apparel
not be necessary for employees and/or footwear drying in their sleeping quarters. It jis agreed that drying rooms must be large enough to accommodate all employees, each of whom shall have, for his use only, a hanger-type device to facilitate the drying of wearing apparel.
All camps shall have a recreation room for the use of employees. Such rooms shall be large enough and equipped to accommodate at leastl half the employees in a comfortable manner.
10.25 ' All Bunkhouses will be [supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups except where drinking fountains are provided in the Bunkhoujse.
10.26	The Employer will provide a colour T.V. set for the use
of the camp where T.V. is available and, in addition, where future replacements are made, a colour T.V. set will be provided for Cookhouse personnel. Radios will also be provided.
10.27(a) Food shall be handled in a sanitary manner at all times.
Food served to employees in the camps shall at all times be of high quality and of reasonable variety and sufficient quantity.
(b) Fruit juices shall be supplied for breakfast.
(c) Fresh apples and fresh oranges shall be made available in Cookhouse five (5) days a week. Two additional items of fruit shall be made available two (2) days per week.
(d)	Every reasonable effort will be made to make available two (2) varieties of fresh meat for all take-out lunches. Suitable material will be supplied for the wrapping of lunches.
(e)	A hot mid-shift lunch shall be made available to
night-shift employees who are within walking distance of the cookery. All others shall have available a suitable lunch shelter, which, in addition to provisions contained in this Agreement, shall be adequately lighted.
(For the purpose of this Clause, walking distance shall be defined as a distance which will permit an employee to travel on foot from his worksite to the cookery for his lunch and return to his worksite within the time period allotted for lunching.)
28
18.27(f)	The Employer shall maintain at all camps non-carbonated fruit-flavoured cold drink dispensers. The Employer shall maintain steam tables in all camps, and where new camps are constructed, such camps shall be equipped with additional electrical appliances to meet the needs of the cookery.
(g)	An exhaust fan will be installed in Bunkhouse washrooms and in the Cookhouse.
h.)	Food coolers will be provided in all Cookhouses.
(i)	The Employer will provide reconstituted (powdered) milk in all camps.
10.28(a)	Where a mid-day meal is taken, a ten-minute coffee break is allowed in the morning and in the afternoon.
(b)	Where men lunch away from camp, they may decide themselves on a crew basis, to take their lunch at mid-day with ten-minute coffee break in the morning and afternoon, or they may have two regular lunch periods of 40 minutes each per day.
(Cl	During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on the Employer's time.
(d)	The present practice regarding evening snacks will continue.
10.29(a)	The Board Rate of $2.03 per meal ($6.09/day) will be frozen for the term of this Collective Agreement.
29
10.29(b)	An employee who reports to the cook on or before 7:00 p.m. on Thursday that he will not be eating supper at the camp on Friday shall not be charged for the supper meal, nor shall he be charged for any meals while away from the camp on weekends. However, if it becomes evident that this is being abused, the Company will revert to the practice of charging for the Friday evening meal.
(c)	Crews aboard towing boats who have to provide their / provisions and prepare their own food for three or ' more consecutive meals, will receive a subsidy of / $0.35 per meal to a maximum of three meals in one / day. i
(d>	If regulations permit, the Company will install a propane refrigerator on the deck of tow boats.
10.30	The following clothing allowance will apply: For cooks, second cooks and cookees, who are required to wear white clothing, sixty (60) cents per day. This allowance is being paid to the above-mentioned staff with the understanding that a white shirt and white pants shall be worn in the Cookhouse at all times. All other employees who have accumulated a minimum of two hundred (200) days of seniority at the end of the previous computer payroll year shall, after spring recall, receive a $50.00 annual clothing allowance to be paid on a separate cheque.
- 30 -
10.31	Except as may be worked out in Seniority Provisions, employees are not permitted to transfer from one camp or worksite to another except where operations have been terminated or curtailed in the camp or on the worksite at which they <jire employed.
10.32	All employees transferred on a temporary basis from one camp to another at the Employer's request shall
be paid all authorized travelling expenses. Travelling expenses will include b<j>ardf lodging and wages while in transit.
10.33	Hand cleaner and waste jjrags shall be made available for mechanics and others repairing mechanical equipment,
at their place of work.j
10.34	When transportation to camp is by or partially by water, the Employer shall make every reasonable effort to supply, without charge, transportation by water for men wishing to go home on weekends.
10.35	When camps are in use, the Employer agrees to put forth reasonable effort to maintain camp access roads in fair condition.
10.36	The dining room will be made available to Union representatives for holding Union meetings subject to availability of the room and consent of the Camp Foreman.
31
10.37	It is agreed that the Employer and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first aid practices. The Employer agrees to maintain good work trails and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that at least one member of the crew in each camp or on each worksite will be qualified to render first aid. It is agreed there shall be emergency first aid kits in all camps, and, where practical, at or near worksites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation of men. All employees will be provided with a mini-safety kit.
10.38	Mobile radio telephones shall be installed in all camps, in suitable booths, and shall be made available to all employees. Employees using this service must do so at their own expense. When suitable two-way communication is available, it will be installed in commuter buses that are not monitored by a second vehicle to and from the job site.
10.39	The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a suitably equipped room in the Bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
10.40	The Company agrees to maintain garage environment so that there is no danger to employee health due to exhaust fumes.
32
10.41	Whenever the employees or the Union organizes a
Recreational Committee ilji a camp, the Employer will appoint a member to that j Committee . Such Committees will review the recreational needs of that particular camp and make recommendations to the Employer. The Employer will give due consideration to all reasonable recommendations.
10.42
All bulldozers will be equipped with suitable cabs during winter months. ,

Employees working in thejmain garage at Grand Falls, who are required to workj overtime in excess of one hour without prior notice wiljl be provided with a meal. The lunching time required tj> eat such meal will be limited to twenty (20) minutes, jprior notice means prior to the start of the shift.
10.44	Bulletin Boards
The Employer shall provide, for the sole use of the Union, a bulletin board,' similar in all respects to that of the Employer's, jat each place where the Employer has a bulletin board.
ARTICLE XT ~ HOURS OF WORK
11,01	The standard work week f|>r operations shall be six (6)
days per week, Monday to; Saturday inclusive.
33
11.02(a)
The regular work week shall be forty (40) hours, composed / of five (5) shifts of eight (8) consecutive hours per day. meal time excepted, from Monday to Friday inclusive, or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive for all employees. unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. It is agreed that workers to whom this Clause applies may be required to work in excess of their regular work week or work day, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Article. I f an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.	/
(b)	Meal time for lunch, i.e., the mid-work day meal or lunch, shall be one hour after approximately half of the work time of the shift has expired, or as otherwise agreed between the parties.
11.03(a) For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday shall begin at 7:00 a.m. Sunday and end at 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
(b) A holiday, under Article VII, shall begin at 7:00 a.m. the day of the holiday and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following the holiday.
(c)	An employee's scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday)
shall begin at 7:00 a.m. on that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
11.04(a) The day shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., meal time excepted.
34 '•
11.04(b)
I)
The night shift consists'of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:0() p.m. and 5:00 a.m., meal time excepted.
A night shift differential of forty-five (45_)_ cents per hour shall be paid in adtjiit ion to the regular rates for all night shift work.
(d)	On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after.
The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, meal time excepted, and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry [the regular shift differential.
(e)	If it becomes necessary to work a three (3) shift
operation, the first shift, i.e., the day shift, shall
be worked within the time specified in 11.04(a) with the
second shift immediately following the first shift, and
the third shift immediately following the second shift.
Under these conditions, the work day or shift shall
consist of eight (8) consecutive hours plus the shift
l differential as providedifor in 11.04(c) for the second
Id / lOshift and a shift differential on the third shift of ; Wiir
v)fifty-five (55) cents per hour. Meal time shall be 20
' o minutes and on the Employer's time, approximately four (4) hours after the shif commences.
ft
X
- 35 -
11.04(f) The hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday
or Monday) shall be scheduled and posted on the Company and Union bulletin boards not later than 7:00 p.m. on Thursday of the previous week. Failing such posting, unless the employee is personally notified, before the regular quitting time of his fifth weekly shift, of a change in his schedule for the coming week, the schedule of the week previous shall apply. The starting and stopping times and shift schedule shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly periods subject to the following:
1. An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break
of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked, and, if not, time and one-half shall apply. An employee cannot be short-shifted by reason of changing shifts, i.e., if this takes place, he shall be paid for the shift or shifts lost at his regular rate.
2.	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements, such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a two-hour period, and in such cases, the work shift shall take place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. or 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. as the case may be.
36
11.04(g) If an employee requests to be excused from working
overtime, permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
11.05(a) If an employee is required to work on his scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday or a holiday under Article VII, or Christmas Day,rBoxing Day or New Year's Day. such overtime shall be scheduled and posted in the same manner and with the same conditiona applying as for the hours of work and the scheduled day off (Saturday or Monday) under 11.04(f). If he is available for posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive two (2) hours pay at time and one-half.
If requested by the Employer, the employee must remain available for the two (2) hours to be eligible for such pay. If work commences during the two (2) hour period, he shall receive pay ati time and one-half for all time worked plus time and one-half for idle time when available or two (2) holurs at time and one-half, whichever is the greater.
Employees covered under i Schedule "A" will -b.e paid double time for all time workejd in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours on Sundays, except in the case of ship loading and unloading in which case employees covered under Schedule "A" will be paid double time for all time worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours on Sundays.
11.05(c) An employee called out after the completion of his
regular shift will be paid a minimum of four (4) hours or time and one-half for hours worked, whichever is greater'." It is understood that employees who are notified that they are required for work after their regular shift has been completed and they are informed of this prior to the end of their regular shift will not be eligible for a call out payment, but will be paid in accordance with the overtime provisions under this Article.
11.06	The Employer has the right to enforce the hours of work. Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day. or shift, all hours worked on Sunday, except as provided for in 11.05(b), all hours worked by an employee on his scheduled day off, (Saturday or Monday), or outside his scheduled day or shift, and all hours worked on holidays, under Article VII, and all hours worked on Christmas Day, Boxing Day or New Year's Day, shall be paid for at time and one-half. All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on Sunday will be paid at double time. Premium time will not apply to fire fighting.
11.07	Time spent travelling to and from work shall not be considered as time worked, unless otherwise specified.
\ Walking and riding time shall be paid for as stipulated in this Agreement.
\ CO
38
11.08
11.09
cooks, second cooks, coojkees, watchmen and bunkhousemen are not subject to the pjrovisions of this Agreement providing for a 5-day wojrk week and eight (8) hour work day or shift. In ljieu thereof, they shall receive alternate weekends off from Friday noon until Monday noon without loss of pay. If Friday is a holiday, time off without loss of pay shall begin on Thursday noon. If Monday is a holiday, time off without loss of pay will be extended to Tuesday noon; in both cases, as his holiday with pay if he qualifies. This is not to be construed as a right upon which a claim for extra pay may be made if| not availed of.
In cases of lay-off, Coo6house and Bunkhouse staff shall be paid, in lieu of their earned time off, for all days
worked since their last !scheduled weekend off at the calculated rate per dayj which is equivalent of their actual rate for days worjked, i.e., 5 1/2 days per week.
11.10(a)
Employees working on incentive bonus and/or piecework covered by a guaranteed irate will be governed by the
following breakdown clau|se:
"Should a machine break down, an employee who has to stop work before he completes his shift shall have his time calculated as follows:
1.	, The Employer shall pjay all the remaining hours lost / from work on incentive bonus and/or piecework * covered by a guaranteed rate during that shift at the employee's regular rate of pay.
2.	Fellers and buckers may be required to continue cutting, in which case this may be done on their regular cutting strip until such time as it interferes with their ability to earn bonus.
39
11.10(a) (Cont'd.)
At this point, they will move to another strip other than the one on which they were working at the time of breakdown. In so doing, all hours worked on the separate strip shall be kept separate and apart from any hours worked on incentive bonus and all wood produced during such time will be considered the Employer's wood and will not be included with the wood produced on bonus.
With reference to the foregoing, the skidder operator shall be required to make every reasonable effort to
immediately notify the Supervisor.
(b)	All other employees shall be governed by the following breakdown clause:
An employee reporting for work as directed shall not be sent home because there is no work available due to a mechanical breakdown. In such cases, the employee will be offered alternate work (which may include cutting under Schedule "C") to complete the first day of such reporting, at his regular rate of pay or the prevailing rate for the job performed, whichever is higher.
In 11.10(a) and 11.10(b), alternate work shall be offered for the next shift. In such cases, the employee shall be paid at his regular rate for such alternate work. In both of the foregoing Clauses, if it becomes necessary to change an employee's shift, in order to offer such alternate employment, the Employer will not be subject to the penalty provided for in Clause 11.04(f) 1. of this Agreement. Furthermore, in both of the foregoing Clauses, should the employee refuse to perform the alternate employment, he loses his rights to the provisions contained herein.
40
<Cont’d.)
If no alternate work is available, the employee shall be paid the shifts referred to above at his regular rate.
With reference to all ojf the foregoing, the employee must remain available fpr work.
Where any breakdown continues for more than the
ole and no other suitable work Dyee shall be offered cutting shal 1 not lose his seniority :ept it.
shifts referred to aboV' is available, the emplo under Schedule "C" but if he elects not to acc
If the breakdown continues for more than one full week beyond the week in which the breakdown occurs, or if, as a result of the /breakdown, a decision is made to phase out the broke,-down machinery, the employee may, if he so desires, jexercise his seniority as per Article XII. Any employee who elects not to exercise his seniority or accept the alternate work will be laid off. Recall will be in accordance with Clause 12.01.
(Note :	For the purpose of this Article, power saws are
not considered to be machines.)
11.11	Whe n work has to be discontinued after commencing,
an employee shall receive a half day's pay if the
number of hours worked; is less than four, and a
full day's pay if the [lumber of hours worked is i
more than four.
- 41
11.12	An employee, who during his scheduled work week,
reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, shall receive two hours pay at his regular rate unless he was notified previously that work would not commence, and providing that when requested to do so by the Employer, the employee shal remain available for work for the two hours. An employee in a camp operation shall be deemed to have reported for work once he leaves the immediate camp premises. Camp premises is defined as the area 'that is covered by a radius of 300 meters from the main entrance door to the Cookhouse. An employee on commuter operations shall be deemed to have reported for work when he arrives at the marshalling point. This Clause does not apply when the reason for non-commencement is due to Acts of God.
11.13
An employee who, when recalled, reports for work as directed and no work is available, shall be paid for all regular working hours spent waiting to go to work at the rate of the job for which he was recalled. It is understood the employee can be offered alternate employment and, if refused, he is not entitled to any payment.
ARTICLE XII
SENIORITY
42
The Company recognizes the principle of seniority, so that in promotions, demotions, hiring, transfers, lay-offs and recalls from lay-off, seniority shall govern subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in the work required. In the application of the above, and where all other conditions of this Article are met, the junior employee shall at all times be the first laid off and the last recalled. '
12.02	Seniority shall be accrued for all days worked, all
days on authorized vacation, for all authorized holidays for which the employee is paid and for all days that would have been worked but were lost because of confirmed illness or injury, but such service will not be considered to the extent to change his or her position on the Seniority List.
12.03	An employee not on the Seniority List shall be entered
on the Seniority List when he has accumulated thirty (30) days of work and his seniority shall be effective from the date of employment.
- 43 -
12.04	When the time of recall has been determined following
a general shutdown, adequate notice will be given by telephone advising an employee of the date to report for work and the employee will be expected to report for work on the date specified unless other arrangements have been made. It is the responsibility of the employee to advise the Company of any change in address or telephone number. Recall will be made to an employee's address or telephone number on record at the employment office. In recalling employees after a general shutdown, the Employer shall be allowed a leeway of 10 days during the period of recall. The Employer will only exercise the 10-day leeway when to do otherwise would cause hardship to an employee or seriously hamper the Company operations. It is understood and agreed that the provision of 10 days leeway does not apply to any work that may become available during the period of general shutdown, nor following temporary lay-off such as may be caused by weather and the conditions resulting therefrom. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when emergency jobs of short duration have to be done during periods of general shutdown, the Company will not be required to recall the most senior employees.
12.05	Subject to the provisions of 12.02, employees who are
prevented from continuing work because of sickness or accident may retain their seniority during the period of absence required to recover from such sickness or accident, it being understood, however, that a medical certificate of fitness shall be required for purposes of rehiring.
44
12.06	Employees who have to leave the job because of personal
injury or sickness shall, when cleared for work in accordance with 12.05, return to the job from which he left if same is continuing. However, should a lay-off occur while the employee is off on accident or sick, he shall then be recalled in the same manner, with the same conditions applying as all other employees.
12.07	Where the term "camp" is used, it shall also mean
commuter operation.
In the case of a planned general shutdown, a notice will be posted on all bulletin boards in areas where the shutdown applies. In cases of layoff, other than those caused by Acts of God, employees shall be given written notice of such layoff or one .(1.) -Week-.s__pay in lieu thereof. For the purpose of this Agreement, an Act of God shall include weather conditions and any other conditions over which the Company does not have control.
When lay-offs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each employee so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority to transfer to another job if he so desires, , subject to the principles of Clause 12.01. Transfers will be made only if thejemployee, having received the advanced notice of lay-off, in accordance with Clause 12.08(a), advises/the Company, in writing, of his desire to be transferred, two working days after the notice of lay-off (posted or by individual notice). Forms will beprovided bytheCompany for this purpose.
45
12.09	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, it is understood and agreed that an employee shall not exercise seniority to the extent that the Employer shall have to hire him and provide board and lodging on any commuter operation. However, should the Employer find it necessary to hire an employee who is not a bonafide resident of a community from which a commuter operation is being carried on, the Employer shall provide the employee with board and lodging for which the employee shall pay not more than the agreed camp rate.
12.10	An alphabetical list of names of the employees for whom seniority is established as above will be submitted to the Union in triplicate every three (3) months, showing accumulated seniority to date, their hiring date following their last break in seniority, occupation or occupations, date of birth and address. Seniority Lists will be confirmed as accurate if no protest is received within thirty (30) days from the date of posting such lists in camps and/or in buses on commuter operations.
12.11	In promotions, demotions, hiring, transfers, lay-offs, recalls from lay-off, and subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in the work required, Union members shall at all times receive preference over non-Union men.
44
In case of lay-off and be given preference of employees provided he i available work efficien apply where a Job Stewa in a camp or operation as Steward.
hiring, the Job Steward will employment over all other s capable of performing the My- This provision will only rd is being laid off or hired where he was originally elected
The above provision will only apply if the Job Steward is a regular employee (Jthirty (30) days or more seniority).
12.13	Contractors, whose payroll is not done by the Company
computers, will show seniority days on weekly pay cheques.	|
12.14
An employee who has established seniority shall lose all seniority if he:
1.	Quits the employ of the Company.
2.	Is discharged and ncjt reinstated.
3.	Fails to answer recall. or fails to report for work in both cases v^ithout satisfactory reason,
(following leave of ^bsence or recall from lay-off.
4.	is laid off for over twenty-four (24) months.
5.	Has not complied with Article V of the Labour Agreement.
r.-y
ARTICLE
13.0]
13.02(a)
(b)
- 47 -
XIII ~ ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
It is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given the Foreman, or his representative, an opportunity to adjust his complaints, and it is agreed that a man must be hired and have clearly made known to him the name of the Foreman or the Foreman's representative before commencing work.
where possible, the Union shall arrange for the election, from its working membership at each camp or worksite by the members therein, of a Union Committee of up to three (3), one of whom shall be the Union Steward and spokesman for that Committee. Immediately after an election, the Union Committee in the camp or worksite will notify the Foreman, in writing, as to the name of the Union Steward and Committee men and the Foreman will acknowledge, in writing, the receipt of such notice. The Foreman shall not be required to recognise either the Union Steward or the Union Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Committee men.
13.03
48 +
A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference including the degree or extent of disciplinary acjtion between the parties or between any one of the employees and his Employer covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Stage X:	Complaints of employees must first be taken
by the employee himself d|irectly to the Foreman and/or his representative1 for adjustment without undue delay but, in any event, ^iot more than thirty (30) days immediately following the/ occurrence or event giving
rise to the complaint. I employee may, if he so de Union Steward and/or repr is not adjusted satisfact
ijt is understood that an ipires, be accompanied by the r|esentatives. If the complaint tbrily within three (3) days, the matter becomes a grievance and must be taken up at Stage 2. No employee's grievance will be recognized until the Foreman has first had an opportunity to settle the complaint, providing the employee remains employed under the same Fbreman. If the employee is no longer employed under the same Foreman, the grievance may be taken up! commencing at Stage 2.
49
13.03	((Cont1d.)
stage 2:	The matter shall be taken up by the Union
Committee and/or Union Representatives with the Employer concerned in cases where the Employer is a Contractor, and in other cases, with the Divisional Superintendent or his representative, as the case may be, within three (3) days from the end of the three (3) day period in Stage 1, in writing, on forms to be supplied by the Union. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with, in writing, at all stages thereafter. The Employer or Divisional Superintendent or his representative shall make a reply, in writing, and, failing a satisfactory adjustment within three (3) days, then:
Stage 3; In the case of a Contractor, either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration. In other cases, the matter shall be referred to the General Logging Superintendent, or his representative within three (3) days from the end of the decision period in Stage 2. Failing a satisfactory adjustment in such other cases within four (4) days, then:
Stage	The matter shall be referred to the Woods'
Manager, or his representative, within three (3) days and failing a satisfactory adjustment within fifteen (15 ) days, then:
Stage	Either party may, within the following fifteen
(15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration. Failure of the grievor of the Union to process a grievance to the next step in the Grievance Procedure within the time limit specified shall not be deemed to have prejudiced the Union on any future similar grievance.
13.04	The Employer will notifyithe Local Union Secretary, in
writing, at the time of discharge or suspension of an employee, giving the reasons for such discharge or suspension. A grievance jarising from a claim of unjust discharge or suspension may be processed beginning at Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure, in writing, not later than siix (6) days after receipt of notification. Where it has been finally established by an Arbitration Board that an employee has been improperly discharged or suspended, he shall be reinstated in his former job without loss
i
of seniority, and the consideration of his grievance shall include the determination of the extent, if any, to which he shall be compensated for lost pay, and reimbursement for the premium cost of any health and welfare coverage currently in effect. Arbitration will, in no way, award redress exceeding that which the employee would have earned in the Company's employ had he not been improperly discharged or suspended.
13.05(a) If the Union has a grievance as defined in Section 13«03, it shall commence at Stagje 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
(b) Grievances of employees who are defined in Article III, Section 3.02(b) shall commence at Stage 2.
13.06	In Arbitration, the Employer and the Union shall each
select one man, these two shall select a third party who will act as Chairman{ Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the name of the other party's nominee and shall forthwith inform the other party of
51
13.06	(Cont1d.)
the name of the nominee. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, within ten (10) days, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower to appoint a third party and such appointee shall be accepted by both parties as Chairman. If the party to whom notice is given fails to select an arbitrator within the period of five (5) days after receiving notice, the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower shall, on the request of either party, name an arbitrator on behalf of the party who failed to select an arbitrator.
13.07	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement, and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. except arbitrations under Article IV.
13.08(a) Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Provincial Minister of Labour and Manpower, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board. The decision of the majority of the members of the Arbitration Board shall be the decision of the Board and, if there is no majority decision, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board.
- 52 -
13.08(b) The Arbitration Board shall file their decision with
13.09	the parties within fifteen (15) days of the hearing. 'Time limits specified in this Article may be extended by mutual consent of the parties, or by mutual consent of the respective nominees to an Arbitration Board. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, specified in Article VII, shall not be included in any time limits of this Article.
ARTICLE	XIV - SAFETY
14.01	The Company and Union shall cooperate in the prevention of accidents and industrial diseases and shall promote measures necessary to ensure the safety and health of all employees.
14.02	An employee who suffers an injury is required, subject to circumstances prevailing, to present himself as soon as practical to his supervisor, or his representative, who will arrange for first aid treatment and, in the case of a serious injury, have arrangements for medical treatment.
14.03(a)	1 'The Company and the Union mutually agree that it is desirable to obtain and maintain an accident-free experience on the Woodlands' operations. To this end, the Employer will continue its search for improved and more varied items of safety apparel and safety devices in order to offer maximum protection to its employees.
53
14.03(b) The wearing of a safety hat is a condition of employment.
Safety hats and harnesses will be made available to employees on loan.
(Cl The wearing of safety pants of a type approved by the
Employer is a condition of employment for all employees using power saws, axes or pulphooks. The Employer will pay a subsidy of $10.00 annually to employees who purchase approved safety pants.
(d)	The wearing of safety footwear is a condition of employment. Employees will be instructed as to what type of boot is to be worn, depending on the job being performed. An employee, upon proof of purchase of safety footwear, shall receive a subsidy of 30% of the cost to a maximum of two (2) pairs per year.
(e)	The wearing of eye protection is a condition of
employment in designated areas. Approved eye protection will be made available to employees required to wear same. The initial issue will be free of charge to employees and will be replaced by the Employer when worn or	damaged	through fair	wear	and	tear.	Items lost
or damaged through negligence will be replaced by the employee	at his	own cost.
(f> The wearing of hearing protection devices is a condition of employment for all employees working in areas where the noise level exceeds 85 decibels. Approved hearing protection will be made available to employees required to wear same. The initial issue will be free of charge to employees and will be replaced by the Employer when worn or	damaged	through fair	wear	and	tear.	When lost
or damaged through negligence, will be replaced by the employee	at his	own cost.
- 54 -
14.04(a) The Employer agrees that all those engaged in the
transportation of men in Employer vehicles will follow good and safe transportation practices.
(b) The Employer agrees to require all others engaged in the transportation of men of Employer's roads to engage in safe transportation practices.
14.05	Employees will not be assigned to work alone in an
area that is considered dangerous.
A joint Union-Management committee shall be established. There shall be a safety representative on each operation. The Union shall appoint Union representatives on this committee. Meetings will be held as required, but not less than once a month during the operating season. Meeting time and place to be arranged by the safety supervisor.
(b> In general, the function of the committee shall be to advise the Company in all matters pertaining to the safety and occupational [health of employees.
(c)	Minutes of committee meetings shall be kept, copies
to be posted on the applicable notice boards and copies to be forwarded to the Union.
14.07	Noise level checks will be made whenever a change of
equipment or process causes an appreciable change in noise level, or as recommended by the committee. Records of noise level readings will be made available to the committee.
55
ARTICLE XV - DISCIPLINE
15.01	Disciplinary action by an Employer may be taken against
an employee for just cause. Just cause may be deemed
to be, but not necessarily restricted to, violations of
any of the following:
a)	Bringing liquor into the operations, or being under the influence of liquor while on the j ob.
b)	Neglect of duty.
c)	Disobedience.
d)	Deliberate destruction or removal of the Employer's or other employees' property.
e)	Infraction of the regulations for protection of the forest from fires.
f)	Disorderly conduct.
g)	Dishonesty.
h)	Violation of safety regulations or safe working practices.
i)	Violating other rules of the Employer or standard practice to the detriment of the Employer, the Union or another individual.
15.02
Any employee subjected to disciplinary action, other than discharge, will be considered to have a clear record if he has no further disciplinary action taken against him, under this Article, for a period of twenty-four (24) months worked.
ARTICLE XVI
COMMUTING
56
16.01	A commuter, for the purpose of this Agreement, is an employee not obtaining board and lodging in a camp.
16.02	Each community from which employees commute shall have an agreed central place or places as a marshalling point for the purpose of commuting.
16.03	The Employer will provide free and acceptable transportation for commuters from the marshalling point to the disembarkation point in the work area. when transportation is by road, factory-built buses or automobiles will be used.
16.04	Employees shall not be allowed to commute to an operation in their own vehicles, except by arrangement between the parties.
16.05	If it becomes necessary to hire a man who is not a bonafide resident of a community from which free transportation is provided, board and lodging will be provided in that community by the Employer at the agreed camp rate.
16.06	Where camps are operating and board and lodging is available, employees who use their own transportation will not receive a commuting allowance.
16.07
ARTICLE
17.01
17.02
- 57 -
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, bonafide residents of a community within walking distance of their place of work may commute on foot or otherwise; and walking time shall apply from the marshalling point in the community with 1 1/2 miles each way on his own time as for other employees.
XVII ~ WALKING AND RIDING TIME
Walking and riding time will be established on the following basis:
a)	For the purpose of this Article, it is agreed that
an employee walks at the rate of three (3) miles per hour.
b)	Time allowance for riding time from the designated starting point to the disembarkation point will be established between the parties. Where a commuter
a
bus makes frequent stops to allow employees to disembark, the time lost shall not enter into the calculation for walking and riding time.
c)	Where travelling time to the place of work is composed of walking and riding time, it shall be combined.
d)	Walking and riding time from a camp shall be
reckoned from the dining room door to the employee's place of work.
e)	Walking and riding time for commuters shall be
reckoned from the marshalling point to the employee's place of work.
)/
a
Employees will be paid for walking and/or riding time to and from work over one-half <l/2) hour each way on the basis of a flat rate of $9.00 per hour.
- 58 -
17.03	Walking and/or riding time shall not exceed one and
\	one-half hours each way.
17.04	Where two separate crews travel on the same bus from the same marshalling point to separate disembarkation points, there will only be one designated riding and walking time.
ARTICLE XVIII - COOKHOUSE AND BUNKHOUSE STAFF
18.01
The cookery staff supplied for the workforce. including Supervisory personnel, shall be shown below. For the purpose of the Article, the cookery staff will not be considered part of the workforce.
WORKFORCE
1-15 employees 16-50 employees 51-81 employees 82-106 employees 107-132 employees 133-155 employees 156-180 employees 181-205 employees
COOKERY STAFF
1	cook				
1	Cook,	1	Cookee		
1	Cook,	1	Second	Cook,	1 Cookee
1	cook,	1	Second	Cook,	2 Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	2 Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	3 Cookees
1	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	4 Cookees
l	Cook,	2	Second	Cooks,	5 Cookees
For further increases in workforce, the Cookhouse staff shall be increased proportionately.
It is agreed that this Schedule may be changed by mutual consent during the term of this Agreement when labour saving devices or othejr factors reducing work are introduced. It is agreed that the Bunkhouseman will be hired when the camp opens and the Bunkhouseman will be given assistance as and when required.
59
18.01	(Cont1d.)
When the number of employees in a camp reaches 110, an additional Bunkhouseman will be added, making a total of two Bunkhousemen. An extra Bunkhouseman will be added for every additional ninety (90) men thereafter. In determining the number of Bunkhousemen to be hired, Supervisory personnel shall be included when calculating the number in the workforce.
18.02	Fuel for heat and cooking will be supplied by the Employer, prepared and ready for use.
18.03	Cookery staff shall not be required to do work aside from kitchen and dining room duties. The Bunkhouseman is not permitted to work at the preparation of food or the washing of dishes.
18.04	On camp operations, where night-shift work is carried out, a member of the existing Cookhouse staff will be assigned to the night shift, The re-arrangement of the workload will facilitate cookery service during the night-shift without an added workload on the day-shift staff.
18.05	Cooks, who are required to work in excess of what is accepted as their normal hours of work in the preparation of food for firefighters, will be paid $9.81 per hour for
all such time worked.
60!
ARTICLE XIX. BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
19.01
if
When death occurs to a mjsmber of an employee's immediate family, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid eight (8) hours at his regular straight time rate (pieceworkers shall be paid eight (8) hours at the general labour rate, plus 8%) for time lost to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. When death occurs to a member of an employee's family, other than the immediate family, leave will be granted under the same conditions, to a maximum of three <3) consecutive days. The intent of this Clause is to allow the employee to attend tihe funeral without loss of earnings. One day must jbe the day of the funeral, and pay will only be granted for the regular scheduled work days lost during this period.
19.02	Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted to the
Company by the employee accompanied by written verification from an acceptable authority. Such verification shall designate the employee's relationship to the deceased.
19.03	For the purpose of this Article, immediate family is
defined as husband, wife, child, adopted and stepchild. Family, other than immediate family, is defined as father, father-in-law, stepfather, mother, mother-in-law,
stepmother, foster parent, grandparents, brother, brother-in-law, stepbrother, sister, sister-in-law, stepsister.
61
ARTICLE XX ~ TRAINING
20.01	The Company and the Union recognise the value of a
training plan, and will cooperate in solving any problems which may arise if a plan of training is instituted.
For the purpose of providing such cooperation, an advisory committee will be set up, consisting of equal representation of the Union and Management.
ARTICLE XXI ~ FRINGE BENEFITS
(a)	Group Life Insurance
(b)	Weekly Indemnity
(c)	Medical & Drug Plan
(d> Accidental Death & Dismemberment Plan
(e)	Dental Plan If) Pension Plan <g) Long Term Disability Plan
The above negotiated plans are covered in a separate booklet and form part of this Agreement. This will only be altered, extended or cancelled in whole or in part by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
64
23,10	such pay will be at his straight time rate and limited
to eight (8) hours.
Female employees may be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of four (4) months.
ARTICLE XXIV - CLASSIFICATION SENIORITY
24.01(a) All job vacancies in new classifications that are
established under Article IV of the Labour Agreement j will be posted so that all employees who wish to apply ■ for the job may do so. The notice will be posted for a ;	/ period of twenty (20) working days. Employees who apply
for job vacancies under this Clause will be considered subject to skill, efficiency, aptitude, ability to perform the work requiredjand seniority.
(b) An employee wishing to transfer from one job to
another, will notify the Company in writing. This information will be considered when placing crews and filling vacancies. '
61
MTIC L E__XX RAINING
20.01	The Company and the Union recognise the value of a
training plan, and will cooperate in solving any problems which may arise if a plan of training is instituted.
For the purpose of providing such cooperation, an advisory committee will be set up, consisting of equal representation of the Union and Management.
ARTICLE XXI ~ FRINGE BENEFITS
(a)	Group Life Insurance
(b)	Weekly Indemnity
(c)	Medical & Drug Plan
(d)	Accidental Death & Dismemberment Plan {e) Dental Plan
(f)	Pension Plan
(g)	Long Term Disability Plan
I
The above negotiated plans are covered in a separate booklet and form part of this Agreement. This will only be altered, extended or cancelled in whole or in part by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
62
ARTICLE XXII - JURY DUTY
22.01
i
Any employee who is summoned for, or is required to serve on a criminal jury, or who is required to attend court as a witness in a criminal or quasi-criminal case shall be paid the same wages as he would have received if he had been at work during the time he was absent from work because of his compliance with the summons for jury duty, and if he is required to serve as juror, because of the time he is required to spend on or incidental to jury duty, or if subpoenaed as a witness, the time spent while attending and incidental to attending court as a witness.
22.02	When an employee is called for duty as in 22*01 and
is scheduled to work on the midnight shift prior to court convening, he shall have this shift off with pay.
ARTICLE XXIII - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
23.01
Leave of absence without pay, up to a maximum of three (3) months, may be granted at the discretion of Management for the following reasons:
al Legitimate personal reasons.
b)	Candidacy for public office at the Federal or Provincial level. Such leave may be extended until seven (7) days have elapsed following the date of the election.
c)	Military service.
d)	Duties of an elected Municipal Office.
23.02
Any leave of absence granted pursuant to 23.01 will not j result in any loss of seniority.
3.03
23.04
3
Leave of absence without pay may be granted at the discretion of Management, for service as an elected representative in the Federal or Provincial Legislature. Such leave, if granted, shall normally expire thirty (30) days following conclusion of the period of elected office, but in no case shall it be in excess of five < 5 ) years.
Any leave of absence granted pursuant to 23.03 will not cause a break in continuity of service but the period of absence shall not be counted in calculating any service-related benefit.
23.05
23.06
23.07
Employees, when granted a leave of absence in excess of one (1) month, will be required to prepay the full premiums for Group Life Insurance and all other insurance coverages in accordance with the provisions of the respective policies.
All leaves of absence must be applied for in writing.
'A
An employee who is employed by the Union shall be granted a leave of absence for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months. Upon his return to work, such employee shall be placed in his position on the Seniority List.
Id
23.08	The Company may require an employee to exhaust his
normal vacation entitlement before commencing a leave of absence.
23.09	Time off with pay will be provided to employees writing
qualifying examinations during scheduled working hours for certificates required in his occupation.
64
23.10	Such pay will be at his straight time rate and limited
to eight (8) hours.
W'23.11
4,
/\X
^ /
Female employees may be granted maternity leave up to a maximum of four (4) months.
ARTICLE XXIV - CLASSIFICATION SENIORITY
24.01(a) All job vacancies in new classifications that are
established under Article IV of the Labour Agreement will be posted so that all employees who wish to apply . for the job may do so. The notice will be posted for a ,	, period of twenty (20) working days. Employees who apply
for job vacancies under this Clause will be considered subject to skill, efficiency, aptitude, ability to perform the work requiredjind seniority.
(b) An employee wishing to transfer from one job to
another, will notify the Company in writing. This information will be considered when placing crews and filling vacancies.
SCHEDULE "A1
HOURLY WAGE RATES
MECHANICAL CLASSIFICATIONS
RATE	RATE	RATE	RATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JAN. 1, 1988 JAN. 1, 1989 JAN. 1, 1990 JAN. 1, 1991 JAN. 1, 1992
Mechanic 1st Class - Cert. Mechanic 1st Class - Uncert. Mechanic 2nd Class Mechanic - Helper & Learner Welder 1st Class - Cert. Welder 1st Class - Uncert. Mechanic - Power Saw
14.99
13.78
12.85 12.43
14.99
13.78
12.86
15.44
14.23
13.30
12.88
15.44
14.23
13.31
17.34
16.13
14.95 14.53
17.34
16.13 15.21
18.17
16.96
15.78 15.36
18.17
16.96
16.04
19.04
17.83 16.65
16.23
19.04
17.83 16.91
EQUIPMENT OPERATORS
Slasher Operator	12.84	13.29	14.94	15.77	16.64
Harvester	Operator	12.99	13.44	15.09	15.92	16.79
Forwarder	Operator	12.72	13.17	14.82	15.65	16.52
Front-End	Loader Operator	(L.T.)	12.80	13.25	14.90	15.73	16.60
Front-End	Loader Operator	(G.R.)	12.63	13.08	14.73	15.56	16.43
Backhoe Operator	12.63	13.08	14.73	15.56	16.43
Dozer Operator	12.63	13,08	14.73	15.56	16.43
Grader Operator	12.63	13.08	14.73	15.56	16.43
J5 & John Deere Operator	12.31	12.76	14.41	15.24	16.11
Skidder Operator	-	Non.	Prod.	12.59	13.04	14.69	15.52	16.39
PRODUCTION CLASSES
Wheeled Skidder Operator Feller & Bucker
9.57
9.28
9.57
9.28
14.60
14.31
15.43
15.14
16.30
16.01
* Must possess a certificate of qualification or a certificate recognized by Provincial Government.
Schedule "A"
Cont' d. DRIVER CLASSIFICATIONS	BATE EFFECTIVE JAN. 1, 1988	BATE EFFECTIVE JAN. 1. 1989
Truck Driver - Pallet	12.48	12.93
Truck Driver - Trailer	12.69	13.14
Truck Driver - Knuckle Boom	12.80	13.25
Truck Driver - Single & Tandem		
Axle - Hauling on Body	12.31	12.76
GENERAL CLASSIFICATIONS		
Bus Driver	12.31	12.76
Jackhammer Operator	12.29	12.74
Carpenter 1st Class - Cert.	13.55	14.00
Carpenter - Uncertified	12.93	13.38
Dynamite Man	12.34	12.79
Winch Boat Operator	12.42	12.87
Deck Hand	12.34	12.79
Boatman - Rough Water	12.33	12.78
Motor Boat Driver	12.28	12.73
River Driver	12.21	12.66
Sacking Lake	12.17	12.62
General Labour	12.17	12.62
SAWMILL
Sawyer	12.71	13.16
Tail Sawyer	12.29	12.74
Trimmer	12.17	12.62
Edger Man	12.45	12.90
Canter	12.40	12.85
Planer Operator	12.40	12.85
Jack-up Man	12.17	12.62
MISCELLANEOUS		
12.39	12.84
Painter
RATE	BATE	KATE
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JAN. 1, 1930 JAN. 1, 1991 JAN. 1, 1992
14.58	15.41	16.28
14.79	15.62	16.49
14.90	15.73	16.60
14.41	15.24	16.11
14.41	15.24	16.11
14.39	15.22	16,09
15.90	16.73	17.60
15.03	15.86	16.73
14.44	15.27	16,14 '
14.52	15.35	16.22 cn
14.44	15.27	16.14 ^
14.43	15.26	16.13 1
14.38	15.21	16.08
14.31	15.14	16.01
14.27	15.10	15.97 y y
14.27	15.10	15.97 / j.
14.81	15.64	16.51
14.39	15.22	16.09
14.27	15.10	15.97
14.55	15.38	16.25
14.50	15.33	16.20
14.50	15.33	16.20
14.27	15.10	15.97
14.49	15.32	16.19
COOKHOUSE STAFF First Cook Second cook Cookee Choreboy
MISCELLANEOUS
Watchman
SCHEDULE "B"
BASILS - HOURS PER DAY AS REQUIRED BY THE JOB
RATE
EFFECTIVE JAN. 1, 1988
RATE	RATE	RATE
EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE	EFFECTIVE
JAN. 1, 1989 JAN. 1, 1990 JAN. 1, 1991
96.64
94.88
93.56
93.56
99.47
97.71
96.39
96.39
109.84
108.08
106.76
106.76
115.06
113.30
111.98
111.98
93.12	95.95
98.32	101.92
106.82	111.54
115.12	121.76
RATE
EFFECTIVE JAN. 1, 1992
120.53 118.77	'
117.45
117.45
117.01
128.72
Sub-Foreman
SCHEDULE "C"
PIECEWORK CUTTING BATES PER M3 (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
JAN. 1, 1989 TO DEC. 31, 1989
JAN. 1, 1990 TO DEC. 31, 1990
JAN. 1, 1991 TO DEC. 31. 1991
JAN. 1, 1992 TO DEC. 31. 1992
Cut and Pile
2.50 m	16.04	16.76	17.50	18.28	ON CD
Cut and Bunch 2.50 m	13.60	14.20	14.83	15.49	
$0.04 per m3 will be paid on all wood produced in respect of poor bush bonus.
$1.25 per m3 will be paid as a winter bonus on all 2.50 meter wood during the period January 1st to April 30.
Cutters will not cut strip roads while cutting their strips.
- 69 -
OTHER PROVISIONS - PIECEWORK (WITHOUT GUARANTEE)
A flat rate for cutting wood for each camp or worksite will be set up at the beginning of each cutting season. Rate to be established before cutting begins, and the cutter shall be informed of his cutting price before starting work. The Contractor or Foreman will rotate the cutters in order to obtain equalisation of cutting chances for each camp or worksite.
At the start of each cutting season, the Company will provide the Union with a list containing the names of all Contractors with whom contracts are made for the production of pulpwood, also the camps or worksites to be operated by the Company, and the name of the Foreman supervising same. Such lists to be promptly amended from time to time as additions or deletions take place.	The lists will
also show by classification, the estimated quantity of pulpwood to be produced, the cutting price per cubic meter and the location of the cutting area for each Contractor or Foreman. At the end of each labour contract year, the Company will provide the Union with a breakdown of the wood produced, as per the above agreements, which will show the average price paid per cutting cubic meter for each classification, such average price shall derive from varying prices paid for wood cut on the whole of the Company's operations.
SCHEDULE "D"
PIECEWORK CUTTING RATES PER M3
JAN. 1, 1989 TO DEC. 31, 1989
4-Man C r e w
Feller	6.89
Skidder Operator	2.33
9.22
3-Man crew
Feller	6.89
Skidder Operator	2.90
9.75
JAN. 1, 1990 TO DEC. 31, 1990
7.	.19
2.	.43
9,	.62
7.	.19
3	.00
10	.19
SAN. 1, 1991 TO DEC. 31, 1991
7.	.51
2,	.54
10.	.05
7	.51
3	.14
10	.65
JAN. 1, 1992 TO DEC. 31, 1992
7.84
2.66
10.50	i
: = = ==-~ = = =
o
7.84
3.29
11.13
The contractor or foreman .will rotate the crews in order to obtain equilization of cutting changes for each camp or worksite.
- 71 -
SPECIAL PROVISIONS - GUARANTEED RATE
The Employer reserves the right to place any part of the Woods' operations on a piecework basis, excluding the cookery, and the piecework rate to be paid for such work will be based on the conditions affecting the work. However, in placing any part of their operations on a piecework basis, the Employer agrees that the Hours of Work Article will apply and that over a settlement period not less than the rate for the classifications affected will be paid. If there is no rate, the General Labour Rate shall apply. This does not apply to cutting under Schedule "C", the rates for which are in the Agreement and for which there is no guaranteed daily rate.
An employee cutting under Schedule "C" rates or incentive bonus system, who works overtime at his regular job, shall be paid on the basis of his regular rate and for overtime shall receive, in addition, half time at the hourly rate for the work being performed. If there is no rate for the work, the General Labour Rate shall apply. This shall be kept separate and apart and shall be shown thusly on memo slips.
The Employer agrees that there will be no lumping of established classifications. i.e., when a financial remuneration is provided for in the Agreement, it shall be kept separate and apart, and shall be shown thusly on memo slips. It is understood that any work covered by a guaranteed daily rate will be considered as a classification, and the rate set for the rental of owner-operated or employee-owned equipment shall be considered a classification for the purpose of this paragraph.
Where mechanical logging is being carried out on piecework and hauling of wood is a part of the logging method, employees shall not be required to pull such wood more than 1,300' - 3 cutters, 1,800' - 2 cutters.
72
GUARANTEED RATE (Cont’d.)
The Employer will set a rate fo|r the rental of each piece of mechanical equipment that is owner hope rated or owned by an employee and this rate or rates shall not be lumped with any other financial remuneration provided for in the Agreement, but shall be solely for the rental of equipment and shall not be a variable rate, i.e., the financial remuneration of !an employee shall in no way whatsoever by taken from the earnings of the owner-operated or employee-owned equipment.
Commuting allowance and walking ar^d riding time shall not be lumped with any other rate.
If hauling is on piecework, tl[ie rates to be paid shall be determined by the Contractor or' Foreman. In determining such rates, due consideration shall be. given to:
a)	the price ranges established fjor piecework.
b)	the conditions affecting the Work for hauling.
SCALING
73
A)	For the purpose of this Agreement, "cubic meter" shall mean the solid wood content of a pile of pulpwood scaled on a stacked basis and converted to solid measure using a factor of . 6641 in the case of 1.25 meter length pulpwood and a factor of .6250 in the case of 2.50 meter length pulpwood.
B)	It is agreed that a piececutter is entitled to know the amount of wood he has cut before it is removed, and conditions become such that it is impossible for him to check the accuracy of his scale. To this end, all cut and piled wood shall be scaled on the strip. All cut and bunch wood shall be scaled on the landing to which it is forwarded. The cutter will be given reasonable time to check his scale before the wood is removed. The present practice with respect to the scaling and reporting of pallet wood shall continue, i.e., posted in camp each night. On tree length operations, the employee shall be notified how much wood he has produced before conditions are such that he is unable to check the accuracy of his scale. On commuter operations, information will be posted on the bus or in the lunch shelter. Employees will be notified as soon as possible after their scaling tables are changed.
MEMQI^ANDUM OF AQl?KTiMKNT
IN WITNESS OF AND IN AGREEMENT WITH THE FOREGOING, the undersigned, being duiy authorized to do so, ihave signed on this 29th day of June, A.D. 1990, at Grand Falls in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.
FOR ABITIBlI-PRICE INC.
R . IK -J4cr{Cel vie
Manager - Woodlands
.J. Murphy	U
irector of Industrial Relations
FOR CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 60
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS
AND
CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 60
It is understood and agreed between the parties that when a cutter, cutting 2.50 meter Cut & Bunch wood, is required to place such wood on a single skid per pile, an additional $0.36 per cubic meter will be paid. Where he is required to place such wood on two skids per pile, an additional $0.72 per cubic meter will be paid in addition to the negotiated rates.
FOR ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
FOR C. P.U. , LOCAL 60
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING RECONFIRMED ON JUNE 29. 1990
BETWEEN
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS GRAND FALLS. NFLD.
ANj5
CANADIAN PAPE^WORKERS UNION FORESTRY WORKERS LOCAL 60
1.	BOARD & LODGING - WEEKEND
Board and lodging in camps will be available to those who desire it on a seven-day week basis, and cookery staff shall not be sent home for weekends, thus depriving them of wages due them.
2,	FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OF EMPLOYER - SEPTEMBER 13/66
During negotiations for renewal of the Labour Agreement, discussions were held relative tb a contractor's failure to meet his financial obligations under the Grievance Procedure or his financial obligations to his employees.
Insofar as the Grievance Procedure is concerned, on receipt of written notice from the Union of a contractor's failure to perform any act within the time limits required, Abitibi-Price Inc. will either rectify such failure without undue delay, or failing same, agrees to be substituted for the contractor during the remaining steps of the Grievance Procedure.
. . . /2
2
With regard to the financial obligations of a contractor to his employees, should the employee of such a contractor be unable to effect a settlement of such obligations by the contractor, in accordance with the Agreement, Abitibi-Price Inc. agrees to reimburse the contractor's employee to the extent of the financial loss suffered by the employee, which includes paying to third parties deductions which should have been paid by the contractor.
3.	RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTING LUNCH SHELTER FIRES - SEPT. 21/72
With respect to the restrictions on the lighting of lunch shelter fires as contained in Section 10.06(b) of the Labour Agreement, the following Letter of Understanding is hereby submitted:
During Contract Negotiations 1972, an agreement was reached whereby the provisions of Section 10.06(b), as contained in the 1969-72 Agreement, would prevail.
It was further understood and agreed by the Company that during the period 1st June to 15th August, in any operating year, the use of stoves in lunch shelters would be prohibited.
Before, and after these dates, the Company will undertake to have stoves provided in all lunch shelters with the provision that the use of the same will be subject to further restrictions after joint consultation between the Company and the Union,
It is further understood that during the period 1st to 15th June, in cases of abnormal weather conditions, the Foreman will have the authority to permit the use of stoves in lunch shelters; but after 15th June stoves will be removed to avoid ■unauthorized use by sportsmen, etc., and the possibility of major forest fire catastrophes resulting therefrom.
/3
3
4.	RE:	INSTALLATION OF MOBILE TELEPHONES IN CAMPS - APR. 3/75
Further to the provisions as contained in Section 10.40 of the Labour Agreement, it is understood and agreed that all toll charges incurred by an employee will he his responsibility, and he will make payment in full to the Camp Foreman not later than his next payday.
Should there be a charge to the Company for employees' telephone calls, for which the Company has not received payment, then it is agreed that the Company will charge all telephone calls to employees' Sundry Debtors' Accounts (e.g. van).
5.	RE:	AVAILABILITY OF POWER SAWS - MARCH 1, 1975
With respect to the availability of power saws as discussed at the 1977 negotiations, the Company will provide spare saws in direct proportion to the number of skidder crews, e.g., where there are five (5) skidder crews, there will he five (5) spare saws.
6.	RE: INDEPENDENT SAWMILLS - JUNE 19, 1979
By this Letter of Understanding, the Company is prepared to agree that in the future, the Company will notify the Union when independent sawmills are to be set up on Company limits. The Company will also indicate the approximate size of the sawmill and the geographical location of same. This notification will take place prior to the commencement of such operations.
. . . /4
4
7.	RE:	LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING OF NOVEMBER 10, 1983
The following paragraphs of that letter are reconfirmed. Paragraph #2
The Company agrees to notify the Union of any addition of
licensed timber limits. (March 25, 1903)
Paragraph #4
Where a skidder operator is hired to pay-pack wood or to do other similar work where he is separated from the production piecework bonus operation, he will receive the rate for skidder operator (non-production) as contained in the Wage Rates, Schedule "A".
18::______COOKS AT FISHING LODGES - AUGUST 6, 1985
It is understood and agreed between the parties that should a cook be transferred from his regular position to cook at a Company Fishing Lodge, he will continue to accumulate seniority as though he remained at his regular position.
/5
5 -
9. RE: COMMUTER CONTRACTORS
AUGUST 6, 1965
Zone 1
(North of Exploits River) (Badger and West of Badger to Buchans)
William Stuckless - Badger Joe McDonald - Badger
ffone 2
(North of Exploits River)
((East of Badger to and including 'Point au Bay)
Elliott Brothers - Grand Falls Stan Vineham - Northern Arm 2hesley Manuel - Northern Arm The Commuter Zones designated ahove are separated and apart from Seniority Divisions named in Clause 12.17 of the Labour Agreement and are only for the commuter contractors listed above or those added to the liist by mutual agreement of the parties. All other commuter contractors will be designated as being in the appropriate Seniority Division.
j
Employees on the above named commuter operations will accumulate seniority for purposes of job security within the designated zone, but will not a Accumulate seniority for purpose of job security in the Seniority Divisions named in Clause 12.17 of the Labour Agreement. However, if employees are transferred by the Company into a Seniority Division, they shall carry with them all accrued seniority.
3.	The Commuter Operators listed will not operate when the Seniority Divisions are not operating without the expressed agreement of the Union.
4.	If there is a curtailment of operations in a Seniority Division, senior employees from that Division who live within commuting distance of a Commutjer Contractor Operation in the Zone shall have the option to jbump into the Zone but will not lose their seniority if they elect not to exercise this option.
/6
6
5.	Before contracts are let, the Company will consult with the Union on volume to be cut, number of employees and commuting arrangements.
6.	The Union shall have the right to cancel this Agreement for any or all contractors listed above upon giving 30 days written notice to the Company.
Date
President - Locrfl 60
Date /	7
BKTWBEN

INC.
NEWFOUNDLAND WOODLANDS
ANI|)
It is understood and agreed between the parties that when a cutter, cutting 2.50 meter Cut & Bunch wood, is required to place such wood on a single skid per pile, an additional $0.36 per cubic meter will he paid. Where he is required to place such wood on two skids per pile, an additional $0.72 per cubic meter will be paid in addition to the negotiated rates.
FOR ABITIBI-PRICK INC.	FOR C.P.U., LOCAL 60
Manager - Woodlands
President
Date
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
THE
BENEFIT
PLANS
FOR
UNION EMPLOYEES OF
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
THIS BOOKLET SUPERSEDES
ALL BOOKLETS PREVIOUSLY ISSUED
THIS BOOKLET DESCRIBES THE
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
WEEKLY INDEMNITY PLAN MEDICAL INSURANCE PLAN ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PLAN AND
DENTAL PLAN FOR
ELIGIBLE UNION EMPLOYEES
OF
ABITIBI-PRICE INC.
AND
WHO ARE MEMBERS OF CANADIAN PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 60
This booklet is designed to outline the benefits for which you are eligible and does not create or confer any contractual or other rights. All rights with respect to the benefits of an insured person will be governed solely by the group policies and administrative services only issued by Confederation Life Insurance Company (with the exception of the pension plan and safety glasses).
Detailed information is available through your Industrial Relations' Department.
- 2 f
group life Insurance
TYPE OF PLAN	j
One year group renewal term.
eligibility
All full time Union employees ofithe Woodlands Division, their spouses and dependents under age 6j5 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the employee's completion of a waiting period of 60 days of accumulated seniority.
If the employee is not actively a' would normally become effective, i employee's return to regular emplo'
work on the date the coverage t will become effective on the vment on a full time basis.
DEFINITIONS
Regular Employees
Any employee of the company,, including is covered by the current Collective "regular employee", provided that he
days of seniority.
a contractor's employee, who Agreement shall be deemed a has accumulated at least 60
Dependent	,
An unmarried child 1 year of age bi|t less than 19 years of age (25 years of age when a student full j time) wholly dependent on the employee for support.
- 3 -BENEFIT
Your life insurance benefit provides coverage on and off the job.
DEATH BENEFIT
If the employee should die paid to the beneficiary.
regardless of cause, $35,000 will be
YOU may change your beneficiary at any time subject to the laws governing such changes.
If you do not appoint a beneficiary, or if your beneficiary predeceased you, the benefit will be paid to your executors, administrators or assigns.
SPOUSE
If the spouse should die, regardless of the cause, $2,500 will be paid to the employee.
DEPENDENT
If the dependent should die, regardless of the cause, $1,000 will be paid to the employee.
OPTIONS AT DEATH
In the event of your death, your estate will receive the benefits under this plan in a lump sum payment unless you have made a prior request in writing that payment be made to a designated beneficiary in a lump sum, or in monthly instalments.
PREMIUM COST
The company will pay the full cost.
4
CONVERSION OPTION
should the employee terminate employment, group life insurance ma* lie converted, regardless of health, to any regular individual policy used for this purpose, provided you make written application for conversion within 31 days of, the date of your termination. Should death occur during the 31-day period in which you are eligible to make application for conversion, the amount of your group life insurance will be paid(to your beneficiary.
The purpose of this provision is to make sure you do not lose coverage entirely if you are in jpoor health when you terminate. If you are in good health, you shojuld compare the premium rates of other companies as well, to be certain you are paying the best rate possible.
PERIOqS__OF .LAX-QJJF
Should the employee be temporarily laid-off, the group life insurance will remain in force for 240 days from the first date of lay-off.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
The employer may deem coverage to continue for a period of not more than 30 days following the date on which the employee is granted leave of absence for any reason other than illness or injury.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	When the employee terminates employment.
2.	On the date the covered person enters the armed forces of any country on a full time basis.
3. On the date the group policy terminates.
4. On the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	On the date you die.
5
CLAIM PROCEDURES
LIFE INSURANCE BENEFIT
In the event of a covered person's death, the beneficiary should contact the fringe benefits section of the Industrial Relations Department.
CHANGE OF CARRIER
The company reserves the right to terminate this policy in order to change carrier.
RETIREMENTS
An employee or spouse who attains age 65 shall not continue to be covered by this plan and his certificate shall be cancelled.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 200 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
CONTRIBUTIONS
I
i
I
Paid in full by the employer.
- 6 -
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
If, while insured, an employee suffers any of the losses listed below as a result of:
(a)	an accidental bodily injury [visible on the surface of
the body ,or	S
<b) a disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental injury, or
(c> accidental drowning.
The benefits indicated will be piiid providing that death or loss occurs within 365 days after [and results directly from the accidental bodily injury. The {total benefit payable for one accident shall not exceed 100% pf the amount specified in the schedule of insurance. Should i later claim occur, it will be considered as a new claim.
EMPLOYEE
Effective August 1,	1990, the principal sum under the accidental
death and dismemberment benefit is $35,000.
NATURE OF LOSS	AMOUNT PAYABLE
Loss	of	life	100%
Loss	of	both hands or both feet	100%
Loss	of	both eyes	100%
Loss	of	one hand and one foot	100%
Loss	of	one foot and one eye	100%
Loss	of	one hand or one foot	50%
Loss	of	one eye	50%
Loss	of	thumb and any finger of the same hand	25%
SPOUSE AND DEPENDENT
Effective August 1, 1990, for eligible employees, an accidental death benefit will be provided for spouse and dependent as follows:
Spouse	$2,500
Dependent	$1,000
Dependent - an unmarried child 1 year of age but less than 19 years of age (25 years of age when a student full-time) wholly dependent on the employee for support.
- 7 -
EXPOSURE AND DISAPPEARANCE
If, as a direct result of an accident, a covered person has died or has suffered one of the specified losses due to exposure to the elements of nature, Confederation Life will pay the benefit provided death or loss occurred within 365 days after the accident.
If, as a direct result of the accidental disappearance, wrecking or sinking of the conveyance in which a covered person was riding, such employee has disappeared and his body has not been found within 1 year, then on the presumption that he has died, Confederation Life will pay the benefit.
BENEFICIARY
In the event of loss of life, the principal sum will be paid to the employee's beneficiary as recorded on his group insurance enrolment card.
In the event of losses other than life, the amounts indicated will be paid to the insured.
DEFINITIONS
"Accidental Death" means death resulting from any of the following:
(a) accidental bodily injury visible on the surface of the body or disclosed by an autopsy.
<b) disease or infection resulting directly from an accidental bodily injury.
(c) an accidental drowning.
"Loss of Foot" means severance at or above the ankle joint,
"Loss of Hand" means severance at or above the wrist joint.
"Loss of Thumb and Finger" means severance at or above the knuckles joining the thumb and finger to the hand.
"Loss of Eye" means entire and irrecoverable loss of sight of the eye.
- 8 -
EXCEPTIONS
No benefits will be payable if death or accidental bodily injury results directly or indirectly from:
(a)	Any infection or bodily or mental infirmity or disease
existing before or commencing after the accidental injury except a disease or infection as provided in the definition of "accidental death".
(b)	Suicide, intentionally self-inflicted injuries while sane, or self-inflicted injuries while insane.
(c)	Insurrection, war, service in:	the armed forces of any country
in a state of war, whether or not war is declared, or participation in a riot.
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
Should you be temporarily laid-off, your accidental death and dismemberment benefit will remain in force for 90 days from the first day of lay-off.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when the employee terminates employment.
2.	on the date any covered person enters the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3. on the date the group policy terminates.
4. on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
9
WEEKLY INDEMNITY ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division, under age 65, will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 100 accumulated seniority days.
If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it. will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Any employee who does not return to work when he is recalled and who loses his seniority will be considered as a new employee if rehired.
BENEFIT
If you are totally disabled, unable to work and under the continuing care of a physician, you will be eligible to receive a weekly income of:	f t,,	^
Effective August 1, 1990 - $400.00 per week. r-’■ U ((f-f '
Effective January 1, 1991 and January 1, 1992, Weekly Indemnity will increase by an amount equal to the general wage increase.
Your benefit will commence:
1.	on the first day of a disability due to non-occupational accident.
2.	on the first day of disability due to illness if admitted to hospital for in-patient care.
3.	on the fourth day of a disability due to sickness.
During any period of disability, your benefits will continue until you recover or for a maximum of 52 weeks, whichever is earlier.
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
10
Commencing on the date of lay-off, regular Weekly Indemnity benefits will cease. The employee must apply, if eligible for U.I.C. benefits. When the U.I.C. benefit expires, or if the employee is not eligible for any benefits under U.I.C., the company will treat his Weekly Indemnity as a continuation of his claim and the employee will receive a Weekly Indemnity benefit without satisfying a new qualifying period.
In all cases above, the total number of weeks to receive Weekly Indemnity benefits and U.I.C* benefits will not exceed fifty-two ( 52 ) weeks .
Should the employee be disabled from the same accident or sickness on the date he is recalled to work, his benefit will resume from the date that he is recalled. The insured employee who becomes disabled during a period of lay-off will become eligible for benefits commencing from the day following the date he would have started to work.
DEFINITION OF DISABILITY
Eligible employees who are unable to work because of nonoccupational accident and sickness may claim benefits under the Weekly Indemnity plan. To qualify, an employee must be under the regular care and treatment of a physician.
A period of disability means a period during which the insured is under the care of a physician as a result of injury sustained or sickness contracted and is totally and continuously disabled such as to be unable to perform any work.
However, in isolated regions where there is no physician, the paramedical clause under Weekly Indemnity may be applied. Under this provision, the insurer will accept a certification of disability completed by a Registered Nurse located in the region, for payment periods of less than two (2) weeks; for longer periods, the insurer reserves the right to request a medical statement from an M.D.
Under .all circumstances, the insurer shall have the right to require the disabled employee to undergo a medical examination at the insurer's expense when and so often as it may be reasonable.
RECURRENT DISABILITY
- 11
Successive periods of disability separated by less than 30 calendar days shall be considered one period of disability unless the subsequent disability is due to an injury or sickness entirely unrelated to the causes of the previous disability and after the employee has returned to full-time active employment.
INTEGRATION OF BENEFITS
Benefits payable under this plan will be offset by any benefits which are payable (or would have been payable had a satisfactory application been submitted) under the Canada Pension Plan or the Quebec Pension Plan, Workers' Compensation Act and/or any government plan of automobile insurance which has been approved as an acceptable limitation by the Unemployment Insurance Commission. Benefits are also offset by earnings or benefits from any employer.
1.	It is understood and acknowledged that the master contract between the employer and the insurance carrier is the governing instrument and that decisions made in accordance with the terms and conditions of the insurance contract are not subject to the grievance procedure.
2.	It is further agreed that the union will fully cooperate with the employer to control absenteeism and the misuse of disability payment provisions and, furthermore, that all necessary and reasonable attempts to investigate the legitimacy of all and any absences and that any employee proven to have made false statements or to have given misinformation is liable to dismissal.
TAXES AT SOURCE
Since disability benefits are taxable, federal taxes will be deducted at source according to the current Federal Tax Table as per reported T.D.l exemption form. In any event, tax exemption not reported on initial submission of a disability claim will be applied at a flat 15%.
12
TERMINATION OF COVERAGE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3.	on	the	date	the	group policy terminates.
4.	on	the	date	you	are no longer eligible.
5.	on	the	date	you	die.
Should you be receiving Weekly Indemnity benefits under this policy and the policy is terminated, then benefits will continue to the end of the benefit period, provided that you remain totally disabled.
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE COMMISSION REGISTRATION
In the event that any time the plan is registered with the Unemployment Insurance Commission, the total premium reduction will be retained by the company.
EXCEPTIONS and limitations
Benefits will not be payable for the following:
1.	Those days for which you receive holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one-half day's regular pay, from your employer.
2. A disability for which you are not under the continuing care and treatment of a physician. Benefits are not payable for a disability not supported by a specific diagnosis
(i.e. fatigue, anxiety, etc., are not specified diagnosis).
3.	Self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
4.	Any disability for which you are entitled to indemnity or compensation under Workers' Compensation Act.
5.	Bodily injury resulting directly or indirectly from insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot.
6.	Under all circumstances, the insurer shall have the right to require the disabled employee to undergo a medical examination at the insurer's expense when and so often as may be required.
13
7.	On attainment of age 65.
8.	Pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or any complication thereof.
9.	For a period of disability in excess of two weeks where
treatment is rendered solely by chiropractor provided it has
been recommended by a physician or surgeon. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four (4) weeks per insured person per calendar year.
10.	Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is confined in a hospital or institution licensed to provide care and treatment incident thereto, or unless the employee is undergoing a regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the company and a physician.
11.	The disability is due to cosmetic surgery or treatment as determined by Confed, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injury and commenced within 90 days of the accident.
12.	The disability arises while engaged in employment for remuneration or profit with any other employer, including strike or holidays.
13.	The disability is the result of engaging in a criminal act.
CLAIM PROCEDURES
WEEKLY INDEMNITY BENEFIT
When you find that you cannot report to work because of a nonoccupational accident or sickness, you should contact the fringe benefit section of the Industrial Relations' Department of Abitibi-Price Inc., in Grand Falls. (This contact must be made within fifteen (15) days from your first date of absence. Failure to do so in this time period may result in a loss of benefits.)
A claim form will be sent to you and you in turn will take that form to your doctor. He completes the portion headed "Attending Physician's Statement". If he does not answer all questions, the form will be returned and this could result in a delay of your payments. You must complete the section concerning you which is headed "Insured’s Statement". You must return the form to the Industrial Relations’ Department.
- 14 -
You may from time to time be requested to have your doctor complete supplementary forms as required by the insurance company.
When the completed claim form is received at the Industrial Relations' Department, it will be forwarded to the insurance company. They will make all decisions concerning approval or rejection of the claim. If approved, the cheques will be sent to the claimant through the Industrial Relations' Department. It is very important that the Industrial Relations' Department has your correct address to ensure that your cheques will not be delayed.
Once you have been in receipt of Weekly Indemnity benefits, in order for you to be able to come back to work, you must have a return to work pass from your doctor. When you have the pass, you report for work on the designated day and present the pass to your foreman. All foremen have been instructed not to allow any employees back to work unless they produce a pass. It will be useless for you to report for work and tell your foreman that you have a pass but left it home. Your foreman will have no alternative but to send you home for it. In addition to a loss of wages, this could mean a considerable expense to you, depending on the travel distance involved.
COST
The cost of the plan will be fully paid by the company.
GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS
1
The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee and/or the employee's dependent is eligible under the disability benefit provision in any other government plans for disability, for which the employee is entitled to receive an amount of disability benefit under this plan, except war disability pensions and Workers' Compensation disability pensions. The company reserves the right to request that an employee make application for government benefits and, if the employee refuses, his benefits will be suspended.
2. The company may require certification or verification of
the amount of income 'from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other government plans.
3.	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the company through some mutually satisfactory arrangement.
15
LONG TERM DISABILITY
ELIGIBILITY
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division, under age 65, will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period.
If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage; normally become effective, it will become effective on your to regular employment on a full-time basis.
i'
BENEFIT
. /
Effective January 1, 1991^ the maximum monthly benefit payable be increased to $1,200 Vper month for any claim which commence or after January 1, 1991.
An0
will d on
This amount will be reduced by other income to which you may be
entitled from any of the following sources:
1.	the long term disability benefits shall be reduced by any benefits or replacement income that is payable, or would have been payable, had a satisfactory request been submitted to the government under C•P■P•/Q*P.P • and under any Workers' Compensation Act related directly to the accident or illness for which these benefits are paid.
2.	earnings or payments from any employer.
3.	disability benefits payable under any other group, association or franchise insurance plan.
4.	benefits payable under any Workers' Compensation Act.
5.	retirement benefits provided by an employer and/or a government.
6.	income replacement indemnity payable under any government plan of automobile insurance.
The amount of benefit payable to Confederation Life will not be affected by changes in your Canada or Quebec Pension Plan benefit unless the changes result from:
1.	a correction due to an error made when your award was originally determined.
2.	a change of 10% or more in the benefit formula under the government plan.
16
Confederation Life reserves the right to estimate the amount of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan award pending advice of the actual award.
COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFITS
Benefits begin after the expiration of Weekly Indemnity benefits provided proof of disability is submitted within 6 months following the qualifying period.
MAXIMUM BENEFIT PERIOD
Once you have satisfied the qualifying period, you will receive a monthly income until your 65th birthday or the cessation of total disability, or until you have received a maximum of 60 months in benefits, whichever occurs first. During a legal strike, Weekly Indemnity and L.T.D. will continue to be paid if supported by appropriate medical evidence if requested.
DEFINITION OF TOTAL DISABILITY
Totally disabled means you are wholly and continuously disabled due to illness or accidental bodily injury and, .as a result, you are unable to perform the duties of your normal occupation during the qualifying period and the succeeding 12 months. If, after this time, you are unable to perform the duties of any occupation for which you are or may become fitted by eduction, training or experience, you will still be considered totally disabled.
Confinement is not normally required. However, you must be under the regular care of a physician and be prepared to attempt rehabilitative employment, or participate in a rehabilitation programme, considered appropriate by Confederation Life.
REHABILITATION
Long Term Disability benefits are designed to be paid during periods when you are disabled and cannot work. Often however, there will be a time when, although you are not yet fully recovered, you can work at some type of job and possibly earn an
income.	This type of work is usually considered to be
rehabilitative employment and, provided Confederation Life does class it as such, L.T.D. benefits will not automatically cease but can continue while you are on rehab.
17 -
Although most income is normally used to reduce L.T.D. benefits, in the case of rehab only half of these earnings will be used to reduce your L.T.D. payments, provided that while on rehab your income from all sources including those outlined previously is not greater than 100% of your earnings prior to your disability.
RECURRENT DISABILITIES
Once you have been disabled and have received benefits under this plan, a later disability will be defined as recurrent when it is separated from the previous one by less than 4 months of full-time active employment.
A disability will not be considered to be recurrent if it results from an injury or sickness which is entirely unrelated to the causes of the previous disability.
If any period of disability is classified as "recurrent", it will be treated as a continuation of the previous disability. You will not have to re-satisfy any qualifying periods which may apply -benefits will begin again immediately.	^
/\ ^
WAIVER OF PREMIUM	'

Premiums are due and payable during the qualifying period. However, once the qualifying period has been satisfied, premiums falling due during a period when benefits are payable, will be waived.
EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS
Benefits will not be payable for the following:
1.	a	disability	caused by self-inflicted injuries	or illness.
2.	a	disability	resulting from insurrection, war,	service in
the armed forces or any country, or participation in a riot.
3.	a disability resulting from alcoholism, drug addiction, or the use of any hallucinogen unless you are participating in a therapeutic program recognised by Confederation Life and are under the continuous care of a medical specialist in this field.
4«	a	disability which is the result of engaging in	a criminal act.
5.	a	disability	which arises while engaged in employment for
remuneration or profit with any other employer, including strikes and holidays.
- 18
Complications due to pregnancy (are covered.	However, any
disability due to any cause will npt be eligible for benefits at any time when you are on pregnancy leave of absence or could be placed on such leave by your employer in accordance with relevant government legislation or the leave agreed upon by you and your employer.
CLAIM PROCEDURES
You should contact the fringe benefit section of the Industrial Relations' Department of Abitibi-Pbice Inc., in Grand Falls.
A claim form will be sent to you, and you in turn will take that form to you doctor. He completes the portion headed "Attending Physician's Statement". If he does not answer all questions, the form will be returned and this could result in a delay of your payments. You must complete the section concerning you which is headed "Insured's Statement". You must return the form to the Industrial Relations' Department. You may from time to time be requested to have your doctor complete supplementary forms as required by the insurance company.
When the completed claim form is received at the Industrial Relations' Department, it will be forwarded to the insurance company. They will make all decisions concerning approval or rejection of the claim. If approved, the first and last cheque will be sent to the claimant through the Industrial Relations' Department - all other cheques will come directly from Confederation Life. It is very important that the Industrial Relations' Department has your correct address to ensure that your cheques will not be delayed.
Claims must be submitted no later than 6 months following the qualifying period.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
/
1.	when'you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3. on the date the group policy terminates.
4. on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
6.	on the first of the month coincident with or immediately following the date you reach age 65 or retire.
19
When your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claims must be given to Confederation Life within 90 days of the date of termination of insurance.
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS
Long Term Disability benefits will extend beyond your termination date, subject to the maximum benefit period, provided you become disabled while you are still insured. Benefits will continue to be paid according to the contract provisions, regardless of the subsequent termination of the group policy, Confederation Life reserves the right to require that while you are in receipt of L.T.D. income, you furnish proof of the continuance of total disability, and submit to an examination by Confederation Life's medical advisors when requested.
MEDICAL INSURANCE PLAN
ELIGIBILITY
■ I
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division under age 65 will be covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 90 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Eligible dependents are your spouse and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are under 21 years of age, unmarried children to age 25 if full-time student. If a child is mentally or physically infirm. wholly dependent on you for support, and was insured prior to attaining the maximum age. they will continue to be insured.
All your dependents must be registered (by name, relationship and date of birth) with the employer before claims are accepted for payment. If you are initially insured for employee benefits only, and later acquire a dependent, you should notify your employer accordingly in writing. Your dependent will then be enrolled in the plan. If one of your dependents is hospitalized on the date coverage would normally become effective, coverage will commence on the day following discharge from the hospital.
20
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
This plan includes a Co-ordination of Benefits Provision. This provision operates in the event that you are covered under more than one health plan and insures I that payments made by all plans do not exceed the actual expenses, incurred.
HOSPITAL[BENEFIT
If you, or a covered dependent^, are confined in a licensed hospital, you will be reimbursed for room and board charges in excess of ward accommodation ujo to the level of semi-private accommodation.	If confined in a private room, payment will be
based on the hospital average charge for semi-private room and board.
MAJOR MEDICAL BENEFIT
PAYMENT OF BENEFITS

1:

This benefit pays 100% of all eligible expenses under item 1 and 80% of all other benefits which are in excess of a deductible of $25 up to a maximum per calendar year of $10,000 less any major medical payments made during the (immediately preceding 2 calendar years for each covered individual.
DEDUCTIBLE
The $25 deductible is applied once each calendar year to the eligible expenses incurred that year per family.
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES
The following is a list of items currently eligible for payment under this group plan. However, should your provincial medicare plan alter to include any of these items, coverage under this plan will automatically adjust in accordance with the approved legislation.
Eligible expenses must be reasonable, customary and recommended as necessary by a physician. Hospital or physician's charges incurred on an emergency basis outside Canada will be treated as specified under points 11 and 12.
1
Drugs, medicines, sera and injectables, available only on a written prescription by a physician or dentist and dispensed by a pharmacist, dentist or physician.
2.	Diagnostic procedures, radiology, oxygen and blood transfusion.
3.	Fees of a private nurse (R.N.) who is not related to you or ordinarily a resident in your home and whose continuous attendance is for justifiable medical reasons recommended and requested by the attending physician.
4.	Necessary licensed ground ambulance service to and from a local hospital.
5.	One return trip per calendar year for emergency transportation by air ambulance or regular scheduled airline or railroad to the nearest hospital qualified to provide treatment.
Licensed ground ambulance service to and from the point of departure is also an eligible expense.
6.	Dental treatment required as a direct result of an accidental injury to natural teeth provided such treatment is rendered within 6 months of the accident and the claimant's insurance as well as this policy are still in force, the eligible expenses for such dental treatment shall be limited to the expenses incurred only to repair the damage resulting directly from the accident, and to an amount for the least expensive procedure which will provide a professionally adequate result.
7.	Purchase of	a truss, brace or	crutches	or purchase	of
artificial limb or eye when loss of the limb or eye occurred while insured under this plan.
8.	Purchase of	a wheelchair.
9.	Rental of a	hospital bed, iron	lung or	wheelchair.
10.	Room and board and normal nursing care in a licensed nursing home, under the supervision of a physician, up to $20 per day.
11.	Physiotherapy treatments rendered by a licensed physiotherapist except any such treatment provided by
an individual who is related to you.
22 -
12.	Professional services of a physician (where this coverage is permitted by law) with the following conditions:
(a)	In the case of treatment for mental and nervous disorders while not confined to hospital, payment will be at 50% and is subject to a maximum payment
of $10 for each treatment and $500 for all treatments during any one calendar year.
(b)	For emergency treatment outside Canada, reasonable and customary charges in the area in which the service is given will be considered as an eligible expense less the amount payable under your provincial medicare plan.
13.	Hospital charges incurred fqr emergency treatment outside Canada, including room and board (for the difference between the benefit payable by the provincial hospital plan and the actual cost of ward accommodation) and charges for special hospital services for a maximum of 31 days per period of disability.
VISION CARE - EMPLOYEE AND DEPENDENTS
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses, including prescription sun glasses and contact lenses, up to a maximum payment of $75 in any two consecutive calendar years. Payment will be exempt from the plan deductibije.
The vision care benefit will be $75 once every twenty-four (24) months for employees and dependents age eighteen (18) and over, and once every twelve (12) months for dependents under age eighteen (18). An optometric benefit (eye examination), of $20 once every twenty-four (24) months will be extended to employees and dependents over age eighteen (18) and once every twelve (12) months for dependents under age eighteen (18).
MATERNITY EXPENSES
Charged incurred due to pregnancy will be treated in the same manner as charges incurred due to any other condition.
- 23
EXPENSES NOT COVERED
1.	Vitamins, periodic check-ups, travel for health and examinations required for the use of a third party.
2.	Cosmetic surgery or treatment when so classified by Confederation Life, unless such surgery or treatment is for accidental injuries and commenced within 90 days of an accident.
3.	Charges levied by a physician for his/her time spent travelling, broken appointments, his/her transportation costs, room rental charges, for advice given by him/her by telephone or other means of telecommunications.
4.	Any services, treatments or supplies payable under, or insurable only by, a government plan.
5.	Intentionally self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
6* Any disability for which you are entitled to indemnity or compensation under any Workers' Compensation Act.
7» Bodily injury resulting directly or indirectly from
insurrection, war, service in the armed forces of any country or participation in a riot.
PERIODS OF LAY-OFF
Should you be laid-off, your medical benefit will remain in force for 90 days from the first day of lay-off.
24
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Coverage under this plan will terminate on the earliest of the following dates:
1.	when you terminate your employment.
2.	on the date you enter the armed forces of any country on a full-time basis.
3. on the date the group policy terminates.
4. on the date you are no longer eligible.
5.	on the date you die.
When your insurance terminates for any reason, written proof of claims must be given to Confederation Life within 90 days of the date of termination of insurance.
CLAIM PROCEDURE - HOSPITAL & MAJOR MEDICAL BENEFIT
Claim forms are obtainable from the supervisor in the area in which you work or from the Fringe Benefit Section of the Industrial Relations' Department of Abitibi-Price Inc. in Grand Falls. When hospitalized, a claim form should be completed by the hospital. The claim form can then be submitted to Abitibi-Price Inc.
When making a claim, you must obtain the necessary form as outlined above, complete and return it, along with any iterni2ed bills to:
Abitibi-Price Inc.
Woodlands Division P.O. Box 500 Grand Falls, Nfld.
A2A 2K1
To be eligible for payment, claims must be submitted not later than the calendar year following the year in which the claim occurred.
Itemized bills in support of claims will not be returned but will be retained by Confederation Life.
Note :	It is your responsibility to pay for your medical bills and
submit same to Confederation Life for reimbursement.
- 25 -
DENTAL CARE PLAN
ELIGIBILITY
:Y)
r''■	/
I
All full-time Union employees of the Woodlands Division under age 65 will he covered by this plan on the first of the month following the completion of a waiting period of 200 accumulated seniority days. If you are not actively at work on the date your coverage would normally become effective, it will become effective on your return to regular employment on a full-time basis.
Eligible dependents are your spouse and your unmarried children (including adopted, foster and step-children) who are under 21 years of age, unmarried children to age 25 if a full-time student. Any mentally or physically handicapped child may remain insured past the maximum age provided the child is incapable of selfsustaining employment and is wholly dependent on you for support and maintenance.
All your dependents must be registered (by name, relationship and date of birth) with the employer before claims are accepted for payment. If you are initially insured for employee benefits only, and later acquire a dependent, you should notify your employer accordingly in writing. Your dependent will then be enrolled in the plan.
CO-ORDINATION OF BENEFITS
This plan included a Co-ordination of Benefits Provision. This provision operates in the event that you are covered under more than one health or dental plan and ensures that payments made by all plans do not exceed the actual expenses incurred.
CONTRIBUTIONS
Effective August 15, 1965, contributions will be paid in full by
the employer.
I
26
COVERED EXPENSES
The maximum benefit per calendar year is $500 per insured family member and covers extractions, partial and full dentures and denture repairs.
dental x-rays.
oral surgery, including excision of impacted teeth. amalgam, silicate and plastic composite fillings. anaesthetics administered in connection with oral surgery or other covered dental services.
injections of antibiotic drugs by the attending dentist. oral examination, scaling and cleaning of teeth once every six (6) months.
Reimbursements will be based on the suggested fee for general practitioners or denturists in the 1988 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide. Effective January 1, 1990, reimbursement will be based on the suggested fees in the 1989 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide. Effective January 1, 1991, reimbursement will be based on the suggested fees in the 1990 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide. Effective January 1, 1992, reimbursement will be based on the suggested fees in the 1991 Newfoundland Dental Association Fee Guide.
PRE-DETERMINATION OF BENEFITS
If the cost of a course of treatment planned is expected to exceed $200, the course of treatment must be filed with, and approved by, the insurance company prior to the commencement of treatment. The forms are available from your employer. After reviewing the proposed treatment, the insurance'company will notify both you and your dentist of the estimated payment under the plan. Failure to file and obtain approval may result in benefits of a lesser amount than would otherwise have been payable. When optional procedures are available, reimbursement will be based on the least expensive procedure which, as determined by the insurance company, will produce a professionally adequate result.
- 27 -
EXCLUSIONS
The plan does not cover:
-	dental services not listed under "Covered Expenses".
-	services not performed by a licensed dentist of denturist.
-	any eligible expenses for which coverage is provided or available (or would be if the plan was not in effect) under any insurance or other contract, plan or law.
-	treatments received before the effective date of your benefits.
-	dental services performed primarily for cosmetic purposes.
-	travel expenses to and from the place of treatment.
-	treatment brought about by conditions arising from war. riot or insurrection, or while serving in the armed forces of any country.
-	self-inflicted injuries or illness while sane or insane.
-	fixed bridgework.
-	charges levied by a physician or dentist for his/her time spent travelling, broken appointments, his/her transportation costs. room rental charges, or for advice given by him/her by telephone or other means of telecommunication.
-	dental treatment received from a dental or medical department maintained by an employer, an association, or a labour union.
-	services and supplies rendered for full mouth reconstruction,, for a vertical dimension correction, or for a correction to temporal mandibular joint dysfunction.
- 28 -
TERMINATION OF BENEFITS
Insurance for you and your dependents will cease on the earlies of the following events:
1. termination of employment or retirement.
2.	if you should die.
3.	if you enter the armed forces on a full-time basis.
4. termination of the policy.
EXTENSION jOF BENEFITS
In most cases, no dental benefits are payable for expenses incurred after the date your insurance terminates, even if a treatment plar has been filed and benefits have been determined by Confederatior Life prior to the date your insurance terminates. However benefits are payable under the following circumstances:
1.	Where an impression for a dejnture was taken prior to the date your insurance terminated an'd the denture is installed after the insurance terminates, dejntal expenses in connection with this procedure and incurred within 30 days after the termination of insurance are! eligible.
2.	If your insurance terminates due to your death, dental expenses incurred on behalf of your dependents will be eligible for payment provided:
a)	the services are rendered within 90 days following your
death, and	i
b)	they are part of a serie^ of planned dental services
started prior to your death or rendered at definite dental appointments made prior to your death.
3.	If your insurance terminates due to lay-off, benefits will continue for up to 90 days. There is no specific time limit for dentures, provided the work was started within the 90-day period.
29
WORKERS1 COMPENSATION
Disabled employees on Workers' Compensation will be eligible for benefits for up to twelve (12) months after the date of disability.
HOW TO CLAIM
After you or one of your dependents have made an appointment with the dentist, obtain a claim form from your employer, The completed claim form should be returned to your employer for processing.
In the event that the dentist demands payment from the claimant upon completion of treatment, it will be the claimant's responsibility to pay the dentist and then claim reimbursement from the insurance company. It will be necessary for the claimant to secure a completed claim form from the dentist.
f To be eligible for payment, claims must be submitted no later than
/ the calendar year following the year in which the claim occurred.
- 30 -
EXTENSION OF BENEFITS AFTER 90 DAYS
Fringe benefit coverage is maintained by the company during regular operating'seasons and for ninety <90) days after lay-off. After ninety (90) days, employees who wish to maintain their fringe benefit coverage may pay the premium cost and continue their benefits.