AGREEMEIN1
between
ABITIBI CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION
(Hereinafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995
(Hereinafter referred to as the "Union”)
September I”, 1998 to August 31“, 2001
00083 (05)
Our Values
RESULTS DRIVEN WITH A SENSE OF URGENCY We will focus on doing the Tight things right’. Bringing all of onr priorities, experience, creativity and knowledge to bear, we will evaluate our options and implement our decisions more quickly Ilian thecompetition.
CUSTOMER FOCUSED
Ourgoal is to meet and exceed our customers' expectations. We will understand our customers' needs, manufacture top-quality goods which reflect the skill and dedication of our employees, and deliver our products on time.
INTEGRITY AND OPEN COMMUNICATION Our reputation matters to us, so we will hold ourselves to the highest standard of ethical behaviour. The integrity of our organization will be built bycreating an atmosphere of trust and mutual respect among employees and between the company and its other stakeholders. All of our stakeholders have a right to expect honest, two-way communication in al t conversations.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT THROUGH INNOVATION, LEARNING AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
We will continually strive to improveour company, our people, our products and our services to deliver greater value to our stakeholders. We will build our competence and broaden our capabilities by developing effective ways to measure progress, pushing decisions down to the lowest level, and developing employees to their full potential as business people.
WISE SPENDING
We will obtain acompetitive advantage by making every dollar count. We will exercise effective cost-control, while employing innovative approaches to gain maximum value in all areas ofspending from the purchasing ofproducts and services to capital investments.
Porcupine Advance Printers - Timmins (705) 264-4377 D1054/Z8
TOPIC
INDEX
PAGE NUMBER
Annual Review of Helpers and Tradesmen
Apprenticeship Program
Arbitration
Bargaining Unit
Bereavement Pay
Bulletin Boards
Camp Living Conditions
Commuters
Contractors
Cookery-Manning Schedule Dental Plan Grievance Procedure Holidays -Floating Holidays -Statutory Hours of Work
Hours of Work - Camp Service Personnel Job Descriptions - Mechanics and Welders Jury Duty
Leave of Absence - Union Business
Life Insurance
Long Term Disability Plan
Mechanics - Working Outside
Medical, Surgical Benefits
Notice of Lay-off
Pay Days
Pension Plan
Period of Agreement
Power Saw Rental
Probationary Period
Promotions Outside Bargaining Unit
Protective Clothing Subsidy
Rates and Classifications
Seniority
Shift Differential
Silviculture Workers
85
78
12
2
43
40 16 76
2
74
44 12
9
9
26
12
80/82
44
35
41 113
26
40
37
21
46
I
51
35
39
24
49
35
28
123
INDEX
TOPIC	PACENUMBER
Technological Change Travel Allowance Travelling 'Time Union membership Vacations with Pay Weekly Indemnity Working and Living Conditions Letter of Understanding
RecognitionIJurisdiction Equipment Cabs and Climatic Controls Article XIV, Medical Plans License, Truck and Bus Drivers Woodlands Early Retirement Payment Commuters Allowance Life Insurance Plan Appendix A Weekly Indemnity Plan Appendix B Long Term Disability Plan Appendix C Addendum to the Agreement
40
74
72
4
105
16
91
88
94
93
87
89
101
105
113
123
The official Agreement is the original mimeographed document signed by the Company and your Union officials.
This booklet is for use as a ready reference only.
ARTICLE I - PURPOSE
1.01	The purpose of this Agreement is to secure for the Company and the Union the full benefits of orderly and legal collective bargaining in respect to hours, wages, working conditions, and living conditions as specified in Article X of this Agreement, and to ensure to the utmost extent possible, the safety and physical welfare of the employees, economy of operation, quality and quantity of output and protection of property. This Agreement, moreover, seeks to provide for fair and peaceful adjustments of all disputes that may arise between the parties. It is recognized as a duty of the parties hereto and of all employees to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of the conditions set forth herein.
1.02	Use of the masculine gender in this Agreement shall be considered also to include the feminine.
ARTICLE II- PERIOD
2.01	The Company and the Union agree one with the other that they will abide by the Articles of this Agreement from September I", 1998 to August 31st, 2001, inclusive, and from year to year thereafter. If either party desires to change or terminate the Agreement, that party desiring the change or termination shall notify the other party, in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to September I' of the particular year that such is its desire. Either party opening the Agreement in the manner provided above shall notify the other party in writing as to the changes desired.
1
ARTICLE III
RECOGNITION/JURISDICTION
3.01 (a)
3.01 (b)
3.01 (c)
3.02
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency for all of its employees who are engaged in woods operations on the limits, and on the work sites, of the Company. For purposes of this Article, Company employees shall be all those employed in the job classifications set out in the wage schedule attached to and forming a part of this Agreement, including those who are employed on job classifications which may be established and become part of the attached wage schedule during the term of this Agreement.
The employees of contractors engaged by the Company on the limits and work sites of the Company shall be considered employees within the term of this Agreement; save and except the employees of contractors and/or the contractor who are engaged to perform occasional special services not commonly performed by employees covered by the terms of this Agreement, employees of contractors where such contractors are engaged for the purpose of erecting structures and where such a contractor is bound by an agreement with a union or unions affiliated with a central labour body covering such work.
The Company and the Union agree that an operator who enters into a third party agreement with the Company and the Ministry of Natural Resources and produces forest products for the Company or any of the negotiating companies, shall have an agreement with the Union covering such operations.
Supervisory personnel, which includes contractors whose employees are considered to be employees
2
under this Agreement, shall not perform work which would normally be a function of an employee in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, except when instructing employees and in cases of emergency which involve physical danger to employees or danger to property.
3.03	It is agreed that Company operations shall not be interrupted as a result of any jurisdictional dispute that may arise between the Union and any other Union. Questions of jurisdiction shall conform to the regulations covering such matters in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of Ontario.
ARTICLE IV - RATES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
4.01	The wage schedule is attached hereto and forms a part of this Agreement.
4.02	If during the life of this Agreement, a significant change in job content occurs in any job classification listed in the attached wage schedule, the rate thereto shall be adjusted by negotiations between the parties. Upon failure to reach agreement, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
4.03	When changes are to be made in operating methods including major alterations in established work patterns requiring the establishment of new job classifications, the Company will give the Union at least 30 days advance notice in writing. During the 30-day period prior to the implementation of such changes, upon request by the Union, the Company will meet with the Union and discuss such changes. For the new job classifications, the Company shall set temporary rates. Any such rates will be based on comparison with prevailing rates for similar and/or related occupations in the wage schedules of the negotiating companies.
3
Following the implementation of such changes, negotiations for rates covering the new job classifications resulting from such changes, shall commence without delay. After agreement is reached, such rates shall become part of the attached wage schedule. In the event that the parties do not reach agreement on the rates for the new classifications within 30 days of the effective date of the change or alteration, the matter may be referred to Stage 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The 30-day period may be extended by mutual consent of the parties. New rates when established shall be retro-active to the date of establishment of the new classification.
4.04	The Company agrees that when a rate for a job classification is or becomes part of the attached wage schedule, the Company will not change the method of payment for such job classification from daywork to piecework or vice versa, if such a change adversely affects the average earnings of the employees concerned.
ARTICLE V - UNION MEMBERSHIP
5.01	The Company agrees that it is in favour of its employees covered by this Agreement becoming members of the Union and will facilitate Union membership solicitation as hereinafter provided.
5.02	(a)
Any employee who is now a member in good standing or who becomes or is reinstated as a member of the Union shall, as a condition of continued employment, maintain such membership in good standing throughout the term of this Agreement. In the event of the Union intending to suspend a member, the Company shall be notified by the Union in writing at least seven (7) days before such suspension.
4
5.02 (b)
5.02 (c)
5.02 (d)
5.03
'The Company shall, after complying with Article XII -Seniority, advise the Union from time to time of the Company's labour requirements. When hiring additional employees, the Company will give preference to Union members who apply and who are capable of doing the work required of them.
New employees shall make application to join the Union when first approached to do so, by a duly authorized Union Steward, Official or Representative. The Company shall, upon hiring, advise all new employees by letter with a copy to the Union Steward, lo report to the Union Steward within ten (IO) days of commencing work. Failure of an employee to comply with the conditions herein shall be cause for immediate termination of employment.
The Union Steward will be allowed '/; hour on Company time to indoctrinate each new employee. The scheduling of the Vi hour will be at the discretion of the Company and will normally be done during the new employee's indoctrination.
The Company shall put employees on check-off at the time of hire or return to work and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them.
The Company agrees for an individual employee who is a member of the Union or becomes a member, to deduct, upon his written request, Union initiation fees and/or monthly membership dues from monies due him. The deduction authorization shall be transferred from camp to camp during the course of his employment.
5
5.04
5.05
5.06
5.07
Remittances of all deductions shall be sent to the Local Union; said remittance to be accompanied by itemized lists in alphabetical order, in duplicate, of names, with Christian names and amounts by camps. The Company will endeavour to deliver these lists as soon as possible, but no later than the end of the following month.
The Company agrees to include the social insurance number on the list of Union dues deductions as soon as the Union has provided the Company with the necessary authorizations to do so.
Representatives carrying proper credentials shall have the right to visit all operations in connection with Union business as it pertains to the Company's operations. Credentials carried by the Union representatives shall consist of a Certificate of Authority signed by the President and Secretary of the Local Union. Said representatives to be provided board and lodging, if available, on the Company premises at the prevailing contract rate.
The Local Union shall furnish the Company with a list of Local Officers and the Representatives and shall amend these lists as changes occur.
The Company will furnish a list of supervisory personnel to the Union office at the start of the contract year and amend it, if required, at the end of each month. The amended list will show the effective date of the changes. Failure to advise the Union of such changes will not in any way affect the authority of Company supervisors.
6
ARTICLE VI - VACATIONS WITH PAY
6.01	(a)
Vacation pay shall be paid to each employee by separate bank deposit, to be issued at the time of termination of employment or, at the employee's option, at the time of layoff, or when vacation is taken.
6.01	(b)
Each 2% increment of Vacation Pay entitles an employee to one (I) week of time-off.
An employee who has worked continuously for one (1) year, must take his full entitlement to time-off, at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor. An employee has the right to take his full entitlement to time-off whether or not he has worked continuously for one (1) year at a time or times satisfactory to himself and his Supervisor.
6.01	(c)
Effective August 6th, 1999 pmployees will receive an additional $20.00 for each week of vacation taken. Effective September Is', 1999, employees will receive $40.00 for each week of vacation taken. Effective September lsl, 2000, employees will receive $60.00 for each week of vacation taken. The full amount owing will be paid during the last pay period of each year.
6.02	Vacation with pay credits shall be paid on the following basis:
(a)	4% of gross earnings for employees who have
worked less than 800 days.
(b)	6% of gross earnings for employees who have
worked 800 days or more but less than 2,000 days.
7
(c)	8% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 2,000 days or more but less than 4,000 days.
(d)	10% of gross earnings for employees who have worked 4,000 days or more but less than 5,400 days.
(e)	12% of gross earnings for employees who have worked more than 5,400 days.
(f)	Supplementary Vacation with Pay.
Employees who have worked more than 5,000 days for the Company shall receive the following additional vacation in the calendar year in which they attain:
(a)	Age	60 - 1	week (	2%	of	gross	earnings)
(b)	Age	61-2	weeks	(	4%	of	gross	earnings)
(c)	Age	62 - 3	weeks	(	6%	of	gross	earnings)
(d)	Age	63-4	weeks	(	8%	of	gross	earnings)
(e)	Age 64-5 weeks (10% of gross earnings)
6.03	Days worked for the purposes of this Article shall mean all days worked, plus working days which normally would have been worked but were lost as a result of sickness or injury certified by a licensed physician, dentist, or chiropractor, and all days on temporary leave of absence on Union business, off-the-job training, vacation, holidays with pay, jury duty, subpoenaed witness and bereavement leave. An employee who has established seniority in accordance with section 12.02 of Article XII shall retain his accumulation of days for his rate of vacation pay for as long as he retains seniority rights with the Company.
8
ARTICLE VII HOLIDAYS WITH PAY
7.01	Employees who qualify under Section 12.02 shall be paid without the performance of work for the following holidays: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.
When any of the above holidays falls on Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday and if the holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
Employees who have accumulated one hundred and twenty (120) days seniority, as specified In Section 6.03, will be granted two (2) floating holidays per year. Such holidays will be taken at a time satisfactory to the employee and his supervisor.
An employee who, by reason of layoff, is prevented from taking his floating holidays, shall receive pay in lieu of such holidays.
7.02	(a)
An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday and does not leave work sooner than two (2) days before the holiday and Is ready for work on the morning of the second (2n<1) day after the holiday, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control, shall receive pay for the holiday unless he quits during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday.
An employee, who desires to leave prior to the holiday and is ready for work for the second day following the holiday, shall make reasonable arrangements with the
9
Company prior to leaving, unless other arrangements have been agreed to between the Company and Union either at camp level or at management level.
7.02	(b)
If an employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, and works any of the available work days within the thirty (30) days immediately prior to the holiday, is on authorized leave of absence other than as provided in
7.03	when the holiday occurs, he shall receive holiday pay for the first holiday that occurs during his absence, provided he returns to work on time, unless his return to work on time is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
7.02	(c)
An employee, who qualifies under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to a layoff during the thirty (30) day period immediately prior to the holiday, shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such thirty (30) day period.
7.02	(d)
An employee, who qualities under Section 12.02, who is obliged to cease work due to sickness or accident certified by a licensed practitioner during the twenty-one (21) day period immediately prior to the holiday shall receive holiday pay for the holiday(s) within such twenty-one (21) day period.
7.02	(e)
If an employee who qualities under Section 12.02 is recalled and works any time during the fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately following the holiday, he shall receive holiday pay for the preceding holiday.
7.02	(f)
An employee who qualifies under Section 12.02 and is
10
on vacation shall be entitled to holiday pay and additional time off for any holidays occurring within such vacation period.
7.03	A special leave of absence shall be granted to a qualified employee who must travel a long distance to be home for Christmas, in which event such an employee will receive pay for the holidays provided he returns on time. Any request for such leave of absence must be made to the Camp Foreman no later than December 1st. Where an employee is prevented by circumstances beyond his control from returning to work on time, he shall be paid for the holidays.
7.04	(a)
For a pieceworker, holiday pay shall be calculated at eight (8) times the feller-limber tree length skidding hourly rate, and for a day worker, be calculated at eight (8) times his regular straight time hourly rate.
7.04	(b)
A day worker who is requested to work on any holiday shall be paid for all time worked at the rate of time and one-half his regular rate, and if qualified, in addition, shall receive eight (8) times his regular straight time hourly rate in lieu of the holiday. Double time will be paid after eight (8) hours of work on a holiday.
7.04	(c)
Pieceworkers shall not work on holidays.
ARTICLE VIII - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01
8.02 (a)
8.02(b)
8.03
8.04
It Is the mutual desire of the parties hereto, that complaints of employees be adjusted as quickly as possible and it is generally understood that an employee has no grievance until he has given to his foreman, an opportunity to adjust his complaint.
The Union shall arrange for the election from its working membership at each camp, by the members therein, of a Union Grievance Committee of three (3), headed by a Union Steward who shall act as spokesman for that Committee. In the absence of the Steward, the Company will recognize a delegated member of the Grievance Committee as spokesman. Immediately after an election, the Union Grievance Committee in the camp will notify the foreman in writing as to the names of the Union Steward and the members of the Union Grievance Committee elected and the foreman will acknowledge in writing, the receipt of such notice. The Company Foreman shall not be required to recognize either the Union Steward or the Union Grievance Committee until such time as this procedure is carried out.
It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination exercised in any manner towards the Stewards or Union Grievance Committee members.
A grievance under the provisions of this Agreement is defined to be any difference between the parties or between the Company and employees covered by this Agreement involving the interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Grievances as defined above may be taken by the
12
employee, by the Union Steward or the Union Representative having jurisdiction directly to the employee's immediate supervisor for adjustment outside of working hours. No grievance shall be recognized unless this procedure is followed. The grievance shall be presented without undue delay. Any grievance submitted to the foreman, in accordance with his procedure, in writing, will be disposed of by the Foreman, in writing. Where a grievance has been submitted in writing, it will be dealt with in writing at all stages thereafter. Failing a satisfactory adjustment within forty-eight (48) hours, then,
Stage - the matter shall be taken up by the Union Grievance Committee and/or Union Representative within the Logging Superintendent within ninety-six (96) hours in writing on forms to be supplied by the Union. The Logging Superintendent shall make a reply in writing within a further ninety-six (96) hours. Failing a satisfactory adjustment, then,
Stage 3 - The matter shall be taken up by the Officers of the Local Union and/or their representatives with the Woods Manager of the Company or his representatives. Failing a settlement within seven (7) days, then,
Stage 4 - The matter shall be referred to the General Manager of the Company or his representative and a Union Committee accompanied by the Union's President or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (I 5) days, then,
Stage 5 - Either party may, within the following fifteen (15) days, refer the matter to Arbitration. This notice to refer the matter to arbitration shall be accompanied by the name of that party's nominee.
Where mutually agreed and prior to arbitration, the 13
parties will share equally in the cost of a mediator, whose decision shall be binding. The parties will mutually agree to a list of mediators. If the parties cannot agree to the mediation process, the terms of the Collective Agreement shall apply.
Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to a single arbitrator.
8.05	A grievance arising from a claim by an employee that his discharge or suspension by the Company was unjust or contrary to the terms of this Agreement, must be dealt with in writing by both parties, and must be presented to the Company not later than ten (10) days after the discharge or suspension becomes effective. Where such an employee's grievance is not processed from the first stage before he leaves the camp, it must be processed starting at the third stage of the grievance procedure. In case of discharge, or suspension by the Company, the Company will immediately notify the employee in writing of the reason for such discharge or suspension. A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Union Steward within twenty-four (24) hours. In the event that an employee is found by an Arbitration Board to have been unfairly discharged, or suspended by the Company, the Company agrees that the employee will be reinstated on his job under terms and conditions decided by the Arbitration Board.
8.06	Grievances which involve Company policy in respect to interpretation, application, administration, or alleged violation of the Agreement, may be processed commencing at Stage 3 of this Grievance Procedure.
8.07	If the Company has a grievance as defined in Section
8.03	it shall commence at Stage 3 of this Grievance Procedure by the Woods Manager or his representative presenting the matter in writing to the Officers of the Union. Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7)
14
days, the matter shall be referred to the President of the Union or his representative by the General Manager of the Company or his representative. Failing a settlement within fifteen (15) days, then either party may within the following fifteen (15) days refer the matter to Arbitration. This notice to refer the matter to arbitration shall be accompanied by the name of that party's nominee.
8.08	In arbitration, the Company and the Union shall each select one man; these two shall select a third party who shall act as Chairman. Either party shall appoint its nominee not later than five (5) days after receipt of written notice of the other party's nomination. The Arbitration Board's decision shall be final and binding on both parties to this Agreement. In the event of the failure of the two (2) men selected by the respective parties to select a third party as provided above, they shall ask the Provincial Minister of Labour to appoint a third party.
8.09	It is understood that the function of the Arbitration Board shall be to interpret and apply this Agreement and that it shall deal only with the specific questions as submitted and shall have no power to alter, add to, or amend this Agreement. However, the function of the Arbitration Board shall include the power to consider adjustments to individual job classifications under Section 4.02 and rates for job classifications under Section 4.03 and to revise the rates therefore. The Arbitration Board shall have no power to decide questions involving general wage adjustments.
8.10	Each party to this Agreement shall pay all expenses of the member of the Arbitration Board selected by it or by the Minister of Labour, and shall share equally in the fees and expenses of the third member of the Board.
15
Saturdays, Sundays, Statutory and Legal Holidays shall
not be included in any time limits in this Article of the
Agreement.
8.1 I
ARTICLE IX - NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT
9.01	There shall be no strikes caused, called or supported by the Union or its members, nor lockouts by the Company during the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE X -WORKING AND LIVING CONDITIONS
10.01	It is agreed that the Company and the Union shall cooperate collectively in improving safety and first-aid practices. The Company and the Union agree to set up and maintain a joint Safety Committee in each camp to promote safe working conditions and practices. There will be at least two (2) meetings of the Safety Committee each calendar quarter. The position of Chairman shall alternate between a Company CoChairman and a Union Co-Chairman. The Chairman of each meeting shall make a report in triplicate -copies going to the Company Office, the Union Office and the Camp Bulletin Board. The Union Co-Chair shall receive the required Certified Worker Training.
A member of the Committee is entitled to such time from his work as is necessary to attend meetings of the Committee, and the time so spent shall be deemed to be work time, for which he shall be paid by the Company at his regular or premium rate as may be proper.
The Company agrees that it will maintain good work trails, and will also maintain good and safe transportation practices, and further agrees that there shall be a qualified First Aid Man in each camp, such
16
First Aid Man to have proper visible identification.
It is the intention of the Company to maintain its camp access roads in good condition when in use.
10.02	It is agreed that there shall be emergency first aid kits and two-way radios at or near work sites and in all vehicles and boats regularly used for the transportation of men.
10.03	(a)
All camps shall have one tier single beds at least 36 inches in width, spaced at least 38 inches apart. All mattresses shall be either airfoam, plastifoam or spring tilled matlresses.
Where these conditions require changes in present camps, such changes shall be effected within the term of this Agreement. In construction of new camps, the Company agrees to construct all living quarters into suitable rooms housing not more than one (I) employee per room. It is agreed that the relocation of Camp 34 will not require the modifications to a single room.
The Company agrees to supply two (2) clean sheets and one (I) clean pillow case per week and to supply a bed cover for each bed. Clean bedding will be supplied to employees newly arrived in camp. Bed covers will be changed at least once each month, and blankets as conditions warrant. All beds and bed clothing shall be of a good quality and in a serviceable condition at all times.
The Company agrees to continue to provide separate quarters for shift workers.
10.03	(b)
It is agreed that the Company will maintain good 17
conditions in respect to cleanliness, sanitation and health. Employees' living and service quarters will be washed and disinfected at least once each week. The Company will continue to provide improved camp facilities, including recreational rooms with a TV set where TV programs are receivable and will provide separate drying rooms, washrooms, inside toilets and showers, laundry and washing and drying machines. As TV sets require replacement, colour sets will be purchased. A lock-up storage type locker will be provided for each man in his bunkhouse. Separate sanitation facilities will be provided for catering staffs.
Air conditioning will be maintained in cookeries, and humidifiers in all bunkhouses. These will be inspected on a regular basis.
In cold weather, the Company will provide facilities to assist in starting employees' cars parked in the camp lots. Car plug-ins and electricity shall be provided for employees in all camps.
A TV Satellite Disc will be installed at all year round live-in camps which are not presently equipped with a Satellite Disc.
10.03	(c)
All bunkhouses will be supplied with water coolers and paper drinking cups, except where drinking fountains are provided in the bunkhouse.
10.03	(d)
The Company agrees that fly control measures shall be carried out regularly during the summer operating season, and camp pest control as required.
10.04	(a)
Refrigeration will be provided for all perishable foods, as required, in all operating camps. All perishable
18
foods shall be handled In a sanitary manner during transportation at all times.
10.04	(b)
There shall be no substitute for butter supplied to employees.
10.04(c)
Fruit juices shall be supplied at all meals, served in containers, allowing self-service for consumption at the table. Fresh milk shall be supplied at all meals and coffee times in the cookery.
10.04	(d)
Each man shall pack his own lunch, unless other mutual arrangements have been made. The preparation of lunches shall be supervised. Waxed paper shall be supplied for the wrapping of lunches. The lunch table shall include a variety of cooked meats and fresh fruits.
10.04(e)
At the request of the Camp Grievance Committee, suitable lunch shacks will be provided where there are concentrations of men. Such shacks to be heated during the period October lsl to April 30"' and during the Summer months shall have protective screens. The Company will provide each cut and skid crew with a suitable lunch shack for year-round use.
10.04	(f)
There shall be coffee breaks in the morning, afternoon and in the evening; coffee, cakes and lunch to be provided by the Company and served in the cookery. During work hours, coffee breaks shall be on Company time.
10.04	(g)
The charge for board and lodging shall be $5.30 per calendar day.
19
10.05 (a)
It is agreed that present standards of service will be maintained with respect to transportation, medical service, laundry and recreation. The Company agrees to provide adequate facilities for the transportation of injured or sick employees. Any charges for such services shall not be increased unless mutually agreed to.
10.05	(b)
The Company agrees to supply kitchen personnel with white aprons and smocks, on loan and other suitable uniform apparel at cost, and provide for the laundering of such exterior clothing without charge. Washing machine facilities and dryers will be supplied for the use of cookery personnel.
10.05	(c)
The Company will provide free insurance coverage against loss by fire of employees' personal belongings and loss by fire or theft of employee-owned power saws to a maximum of Two Thousand, Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500) and will provide additional free insurance coverage against loss by tire or theft of tradesmen's tools normally required by tradesmen to the full value of such tools, while on Company property or work sites. It is understood that coverage for theft of power saws and tools shall only apply where they are stored in a designated place of safety within the control of the Company. Damage to employee-owned power saws due to Company negligence will be compensated for by the Company at their replacement value. An employee who causes a tire wilfully or through gross negligence will not be reimbursed for any resultant loss. Suitable arrangements for protection against theft of employee owned power saws will be made at camp level between the Company and the Union.
20
10.06 (a)
Employees shall be paid every second Tuesday.
All pay cheques shall be remitted by direct bank deposit to a bank of the employee's choice.
10.06	(b)
Interim advances will be made only in instances of evident emergency. Should a Paid Holiday occur on a Thursday pay day or Friday, payment will be made on Wednesday of that week.
10.06(c)
In Instances of authorized extended leave of absence, cash advances will be issued to the extent of the employee's payroll credit.
10.06	(d)
A Time and Earnings statement will be provided to each employee for each pay period. This statement will carry complete detail of rates of pay, hours worked, earnings, deductions, and accrued vacation pay credits covering the period. Explanations of payroll codes will be posted in each camp.
10.06(e)
Where twenty-four (24) hours notice of termination of employment by the Company or the employee is rendered, the Company agrees that every reasonable effort will be made to make a full settlement within twenty-four (24) hours after such termination, Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
10.06(f)
The Company will provide each pieceworker with a minimum of one (1) scale per week, and will provide each pieceworker with a scale slip after each scale. Scale slips shall be given to each pieceworker at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the wood being moved.
21
Scale slips will provide the following information, where applicable: Number of cubic metres or Number of pieces (treelength), Riding and/or Walking Bonus, Footage of Strip or Main Road Cut and Poor Bush Bonus.
10.07	All hand tools and equipment required on the job will be made available to pieceworkers and others on loan. When an operator of equipment is required by the Company to do a minor mechanical repair job, he will be furnished such tools as are required on loan. All tools and equipment not returned will be charged for in full. Worn out or broken tools will be replaced with serviceable tools free of charge, provided that the worn out or broken tools are returned. No person shall be required to own or rent any tools or equipment as a condition of employment, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement.
No employee shall operate a tractor or like equipment owned or leased by himself or by another employee in the cut and skid operations of the Company.
10.08	Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free chainsaw tiles in
addition to other hand tools and equipment required on the job, and will be issued, on loan, the following:
1.	Light metal or plastic power saw wedges, same to be replaced when returned in a worn out or broken condition.
2.	One (1) safety type gasoline container.
3.	One (I) fire extinguisher (chemical type).
The Company agrees to stock two types of power saw chains and chain repair kits, consisting of spare links
22
and rivets, in the camps and sell them to the employees at invoiced cost to the Company.
10.09
10.10
10.12
10.13
10.14
Pieceworkers and others using power saws will be provided with free power saw gas and oils.
At each operating camp, a separate building will be provided for the storage of power saws. Said building shall contain sufficient lockers for storage. In addition, a suitable, separate heated building, with workbench and vice, will be provided for the repair of power saws. No power saws shall be repaired or stored in living and/or service quarters. Compressed air will be provided in the power saw repair building.
Only factory built buses shall be used for the road transportation of men. Same to have adequate seating accommodation, emergency exit doors and equipped with racks for the safe carrying of tools and gasoline containers. Shelters shall be provided for employees at designated waiting places, such shelters to have heating facilities. The Company will, for the safety of its employees, have either communication or transportation available at designated waiting places. All. buses transporting men shall be equipped with Uvo-way radios.
The Company agrees to discuss with the Union in each particular operation, ways and means of improving conditions for all employees covered by this Agreement, and also the interpretation of this Agreement.
Food served to the employees in the camps shall, at all times, be of high quality and of sufficient quantity and shall include fresh fruits, vegetables and greens.
The Company, consistent with its policy to promote and ensure the safety of its employees, will not require
23
an employee to work alone In an Isolated area unless such operation Is deemed safe, and frequent communication with such employee will be maintained by hIs SupervIsor on a scheduled basIs.
10.15	Employees are responsible to supply all required safety equIpment and apparel, except hard hats and nonprescription safety glasses, as specified in the Company's Basic Work Standards. To subsidize the cost of the required equipment and apparel, the Company will make a one-time annual payment of $125.00 effective date of ratification to each active employee with a minimum of six (6) months seniority, and who has worked in the current year, payable in September of each year.
The wearing of safety equipment and apparel will not become a condition of employment unless it has been agreed to by the Company and the Union, or is mandatory under Government legislation.
The Company agrees to replace pitted prescription safety glasses for mechanics and welders to a maximum of one pair per calendar year. Replacement will be claimed through the Company.
10.16	The Company agrees that there shall be no shacking or batching in the producing and delivering operations on its limits and work sites.
10.17	The Company agrees to provide free transportation to all employees who are transferred from camp to camp at the Company's request or in the exercise of seniority under the terms of Article XII - Seniority.
Employees shall have the option of using their own vehicle for transportation, In such cases, the employee shall first notify the Company of his intentions to do so and shall be paid twenty-nine cents ($0.29) per
24
10.18
10.19
10.20
10.21
kilometer, effective date of ratification and thirty-two cents ($0.32) per kilometre effective September Is1, 2000.
Scheduled working time lost as a result of such transfers shall be paid for at the regular straight time rates for dayworkers and the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding rate per day for pieceworkers, and normal travel time, outside an employee's scheduled working hours, will be paid for up to a maximum of eight (8) hours at the regular straight time rate for dayworkers and the above rate for pieceworkers.
Lunch boxes and thermos bottles shall be issued on loan, to all employees and shall have been sterilized before issue.
a)	Separate sleeping quarters, apart from other shift workers, shall be provided for the night shift when requested by the majority.
b)	The Company shall provide the Union Steward in each operating camp with a room in the bunkhouse in which to conduct Union business.
The Company agrees that for the purpose of safety, not less than two (2) men shall be on each work boat when such work boat is used in towing, rafting, river driving and rearing.
a)	The Company will supply mechanics, welders, machinists and electricians suitable coveralls and provide for the laundering of same, two per week, free of charge.
b)	The Company agrees to supply a maximum of one (1) pair of insulated coveralls per year to mechanics, welders and electricians.
25
10.22	a) Effective date of ratification, Tradesmen and
helpers assigned to a bush garage, shall receive sixty cents ($0.60) per hour, in addition to the applicable hourly rate.
b)	Effective date of ratification, Tradesmen and
helpers assigned to a main camp or central garage required to perform work of their trade away from a main camp or central garage, will be paid sixty cents ($0.60) per hour, in addition to the applicable hourly rate, for all such hours worked away from the main camp or central gajage.
c)	Effective date of ratification, Tradesmen and helpers assigned to work in the yard of the main camp or central garage for one (1) full shift or more, will be paid sixty cents ($0.60) per hour in addition to the applicable hourly rate for such hours worked in the yard.
10.23	Chemical type toilets will be installed in bush garages.
10.24	The Company agrees to the importance of Union support in the Return to Work Program for members. The Union Steward will be contacted and input sought in the Return to Work programs involving Union members.
ARTICLE XI - HOURS _0F_W0RK 11.01 (a)
The week for operations shall be six (6) days per week Monday to Saturday inclusive.
The work week for day or shift workers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive or Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
26
The work week for pieceworkers shall be forty (40) hours, eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive. Pieceworkers may be scheduled to work in day work jobs on the day shift Monday to Friday inclusive.
It is agreed that day work or shift work employees may be required to work in excess of their regular work day or shift or work week and will be paid in accordance with Section 11.05 (a) for such time worked. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably Withheld.
11.01 (b)
For the purpose of this Agreement, Sunday, a paid holiday and the 'sixth day' (Saturday or Monday) shall begin at 7:00 a.m. that day and end at 7:00 a.m. the day following.
1 1.01 (c)
It is agreed that the hours of operations at mini-camp(s) may be scheduled on the following weekly basis:
Ten (10) hours x four (4) days x two (2) shifts
Agreement on specific operating procedures to be included in the Letter of Understanding that forms part of this Agreement.
I	1.02 (a)
The work day or shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. mealtime excepted.
II	.02(b)
The night shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., mealtime excepted. However, it is agreed that on
27
Fridays, the night shift may at the request of the employees or the Company and by mutual agreement, be scheduled to commence prior to 7:00 p.m., in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 1 .03 (b).
11.03	(a)
A night shift differential of fifty-six cents ($0.56) per hour shall be paid in addition to the regular rates for all night shift work.
11.03	(b)
On other two-shift operations, the first shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted, and shall commence at 7:00 a.m. or after. The second shift shall consist of eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m. and shall carry a shift differential of fitly-six cents ($0.56) per hour.
11.03(c)
On a three-shift operation, the shifts shall be eight (8) consecutive hours. The starting and stopping times for the three (3) shifts and the shift differentials to be paid, shall be as follows:
Shift Differential fperhourl
Starting)Timep i n a Time 09/01/98
to
08/31/01
Is'shift	7am - 8am	3pm - 4pm	Nil
2nd shift 3pm- 4pm	11pm-12pm	$0.56
3rd shift 1 lptn- 12pm 7am - 8am $0.68
11.03	(d)
The hours of work and the "sixth day" for day workers 28
and shift workers shall be posted on Thursday of the previous week. The starting and stopping times shall remain constant and fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
1)	An employee may not change shifts during the week except when his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half (l'/i) times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When the employee reverts to his original shift, he shall be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
2)	Where starting times must be staggered due to operational requirements, such starting times for employees within any given job classification shall be confined to a one (1) hour period. For the log haul only, the first shift shall start between the hours of 6:00 am and 8:00 am. The second shift shall start between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m.
11 .03 (e)
If an employee, who has completed his scheduled work week is required for work on his 'sixth day' or Sunday, such overtime shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. If he is available for the posted overtime work at the regular starting time and is unable to commence work for reasons beyond his control, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable overtime rate as specified in Section I 1.0S (a) provided he remains available for the four (4) hour period, if so requested by the Company.
11.04	(a)
A day or shift worker, who is unable to work the full 29
day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half (l/2)a day if he works less than four (4) hours, and for a full day, if he works more than four (4) hours.
A pieceworker who will lose more than one (I) hour of work for reason of failure of the Company to supply a skidder, shall be paid for all hours lost in excess of one (1) hour at the rate for Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding, provided he reports to the supervisor, remains available, and accepts alternate daywork, if so requested by the Company.
In the case of time lost in excess of one (I) hour for reason of lack of assignment to a cutting area, and/or time required in excess of one (1) hour to travel from one assigned cutting area to another, payment shall be made for all hours lost.
11.04	(b)
A day or shift worker who reports for work at his scheduled starting time and is unable to commence work due to reasons beyond his control, shall receive four (4) hours pay at his regular rate provided he remains available for two (2) hours from his scheduled starting time, accepts alternate work if so assigned and commences regular work when conditions permit.
If regular or alternate work commences in the first half of the shift on the first or subsequent days, the above payment shall not be made and the provisions of Section 11.04 (a) will apply. Should the employee work any of the hours in the second half of the shift, he shall receive four (4) hours pay for such hours. The Company will commence regular work as soon as conditions permit.
When the providing of alternate work necessitates a change in shift; the time and one-half provisions of
30
Section 11.03 (d) shall not apply, providing there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts.
Notwithstanding the provisions above governing payment of four (4) hours, such payment shall not be made for the second and subsequent consecutive days in the event the Company gives notice that no work is available, a minimum of eight (8) hours in advance of the scheduled starting time on each occasion.
Should such notice be given to an employee, he may exercise his seniority within the camp unit. If such employee does not have sufficient seniority to displace another employee in the camp unit, he shall be laid off and given eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two (2) days notice. If he does exercise his seniority within the camp unit and displaces another employee, the displaced employee shall be laid off and paid eight (8) hours pay in lieu of two days notice. In neither case may any such employee be permitted to exercise seniority outside the camp unit until the third consecutive day following the day notice is given.
Should an employee elect to take leave of absence in lieu of exercising seniority under this Article, he shall be permitted to exercise his seniority on his return to work.
Notification and repotting procedures shall be established locally.
11 .05 (a)
Time worked by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift or outside his regular shift, and the first eight (8) hours worked by an employee on Sunday, or his designated 'sixth day' (Saturday or Monday) shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-hall:
31
Time worked by an employee in excess of eight (8) hours on Sunday or his designated 'sixth day' (Saturday or Monday) shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
Overtime work required in a camp unit will be distributed on as equal a basis as possible among the employees in the camp unit who normally perform the work in the classifications requiring the overtime.
For calculating overtime pay, shift differentials shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
I 1.05(b)
Employees in the classifications specified below may be required to work in excess of eight (8) hours per day or shift and forty (40) hours per week, Monday to Sunday inclusive, and are not subject to the other provisions of Article XI:
(a) Cook	(d) Cookee
(b) Baker	(e) Choreboy
(c)	Second Cook (f) Watchman
For employees in the job classifications listed above, the hours of work per day or shift and per week will be scheduled as follows:
1) The regular work day or shift shall be eight (8) consecutive hours, mealtime excepted. However, the work day or shit? of eight (8) hours may be scheduled in any twelve (12) hour period divided into not more than two (2) parts, provided there is a break of at least eight (8) hours between shifts worked.
The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive shifts Monday to Friday inclusive or
32
Tuesday to Saturday inclusive.
2) Time	worked in excess or outside of the
scheduled eight (8) hours per day or shift, all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week, and all hours worked on the 'sixth day' (Saturday or Monday) and on Sunday, shall be paid for at the rate of double time. If an employee requests to be excused from working overtime, permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
3)	An employee in the above listed classifications who is unable to work the full day or shift for reasons beyond his control, shall be paid for one-half day if he is available at the start of his scheduled shift, and for one full day, if he remains available for the start of the second half of his scheduled shift.
4)	The scheduled hours per day or shift shall be 'posted on Friday of the previous week.
Scheduled overtime day or shift for the 'sixth day' or Sunday shall be posted on the preceding Thursday. The starting and stopping times shall remain fixed during the weekly period subject to the following:
An employee may not change shifts during the week except when. his shift schedule is changed by the Company. When an employee's shift schedule is changed by the Company, he will be paid at one and one-half times his regular rate for the first shift worked after the change. When an employee reverts to his original shift, he will be paid at his regular straight time rate provided that there is a break of at least eight (3) hours between shifts worked.
33
5)	If an employee who has completed his scheduled work week is called back for his 'sixth day' or Sunday, he shall be provided a minimum of eight (8) hours work and be paid at time and one-half provided he remains available if so requested by the Company.
6)	When a second shift Is scheduled for employees in the above listed classifications, they shall be paid a shift differential of fifty-six cents ($0.56) per hour for each second shift worked.
7)	The present standard of service by choreboys
shall be maintained.
11.06	Travelling Time shall not be considered as time worked. Travelling time shall be paid for as stipulated in the Travelling Time Section of the Wage Schedule of this Agreement.
11.07	An employee, who is called out for work after completing his day or shift, or more than one (1) hour before the start of his day or shift, shall receive time and one-half for the hours worked, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at straight time. When the call-out for work is within the one (I) hour period prior to the start of his day or shift, he will be paid time and one-half from the starting time of the call-out to the scheduled starting time of his day or shift. Where the employee continues to work into his day or shift, the provisions of Section 11.05 (a) shall apply after he has completed eight (8) hours of work exclusive of the time worked prior to his starting time.
An employee who is called out for work on his 'sixth day' (Saturday or Monday) or Sunday, shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate as set out in 11.05 (a) from the starting time of the call-out, but in no case shall he receive less than four (4) hours pay at the rate of time and one-half.
34
ARTICLE XII - SENIORITY
12.01	The Company recognizes the principle of seniority. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability, in promotions, transfers, lay-offs and recalls after layoffs.
An employee who has established seniority and is then employed on a full-time basis by the Union shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months.
12.02	Employment of any new employee shall be considered as probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period. Thereafter Article 12.01 shall apply, and the employee shall be credited with thirty (30) days of accrued seniority.
12.03	(a)
Seniority will be applied on a Company wide basis in recalls, promotions, transfers from camp to camp and lay-offs.
When lay-offs are required due to the completion of seasonal operations, or a part thereof, each of the employees so affected will be permitted to exercise his seniority and transfer to a job for which he is qualified, provided that, having received advance notice in accordance with Section 12.04, he advises the Company, prior to the effective date of the advance notice and in writing on forms to be supplied by the Company, of his desire to transfer or to be laid off.
The Company will provide the Union Grievance Committee, prior to the intended lay-off, with a list of jobs filled by employees with less seniority than those employees given notice.
35
12.03	(b)
In transfers from one job classification to another, senior employees shall receive first consideration. In such cases, an employee shall receive the rate for the job to which he is transferred. In case of a temporary change to a lower job classification, the employee shall retain the rate for his previous job classification. For determining the rate of pay for pieceworkers transferred to day work jobs, the rate specified for Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding shall apply, or the rate of the job classification, whichever is the higher.
12.03	(c)
The Company, when tilling vacancies, will do so from within the bargaining unit in accordance with Article XII. Notice of impending vacancies will be posted on the camp bulletin board for at least five (3) working days.
It is agreed however, that temporary appointments may be made without posting for tilling vacancies of less than two (2) calendar weeks duration.
Newly created jobs will be posted on the bulletin boards by the Company for a period of five (3) working days prior to any appointment to such jobs, stating the normal job requirements, Employees shall not be considered for such jobs unless they apply in writing within this five (3) day period.
In the filling of vacancies, the Company will award the posted jobs to the most senior qualified applicant. Qualified shall mean having the ability, knowledge, training and skill to perform the normal requirements of the job. Employees who had been previously considered qualified to perform the work in question but over time, have become unfamiliar with it thereby affecting their ability to perform to an acceptable
36
standard, will be allowed five (5) working days to requalify (or a further time as may be mutually agreed, if further training time is required). Failure of an employee to re-qualify shall entitle him to return to his former job without loss of seniority or benefits'.
The Company shall post notices in Camps showing the names of successful applicants for all posted vacancies and newly created jobs.
12.03	(d)
A job that becomes vacant because the incumbent has had to vacate it due to sickness or injury, vacation, bereavement leave, jury duty, and/or a leave of absence not exceeding thirty (30) work days, shall be classified as a temporary vacancy and shall be filled according to the provisions of Section 12.03 (c) and the job posting will note that it is of a temporary nature. The unit of application of seniority on temporary vacancies is the camp. In the event that a vacancy is not filled from within the camp unit, it shall be tilled on a Division basis.
The employee who had occupied the job upon his return to work shall once again occupy the job that he had filled prior to vacating for any of the reasons set forth above provided however, that the job is still in effect and it is not filled by a senior employee who for reasons of notice of lay-off from his former job, has exercised his seniority on this particular job.
12.03	(e)
Successful applicants will be required to fill vacancy for which they have applied.
12.04	In case of lay-off which is to exceed two (2) working days, the Company will notify, in writing, the men intended to be laid off, at least two (2) working days in advance, with a copy of such said notice to the Union Grievance Committee. The Company agrees that all
37
reasonable effort will be made to give employees as much advance notice of lay-off as possible.
12.05	When the approximate time of recall is known at the time of lay-off, employees leaving camp will be informed of such approximate date at that time. But in all cases, notice in writing will be sent to an employee at his given address at least fourteen (14) days before he is required to report for work. Employees will be required to acknowledge receipt of such notice and report for work on the date specified, unless other arrangements have been made in writing.
12.06	The Company agrees to submit to the Union Office by January 31s' of each year a list, in duplicate, of employees covered by this Agreement.
This list will show each employee's occupation, address, and Company service in days as specified in Section 6,03 as at December 31st of the previous year.
12.07	A list shall be prepared and posted monthly in each camp, showing the seniority order of the employees.
12.08	An employee's seniority shall be broken and his name removed from the Seniority list if he:
1)	Quits voluntarily.
2)	Is discharged and not reinstated.
3)	Fails to report to work following recall, as provided in Section 12.05 of this Article.
4)	Fails to return from a leave of absence on the date specified, unless his return to work is prevented by circumstances beyond his control.
5)	Retires.
6)	Is laid off for thirty-six (36) months or more.
38
12.09	Any employee promoted or transferred to a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit shall retain his seniority for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date of promotion or transfer and shall have the right to exercise his seniority in accordance with all the provisions of this Article upon proof of Union Membership in good standing. Supervisory personnel who are generally employed on seasonal operations and who have not acquired seniority, in accordance with this Article, may be placed on jobs listed in the bargaining unit during the off-season, provided that this does not interfere with the application of seniority of any employee. Such personnel shall apply for Union membership prior to being placed on the job and maintain their Union membership in good standing.
12.10	When jobs are discontinued, affected employees shall be offered alternate employment on remaining jobs, in accordance with Article XII, to meet the Company's labour requirements and if such employees require training to perform the alternate employment effectively, they shall be trained by the Company.
It is understood and agreed that senior employees who are provided with notice of layoff due to a curtailment of operations and who are not qualified to operate any of the remaining equipment will be entitled to displace a junior employee in the position of their choice and will be provided with reasonable training to perform the work to an acceptable standard. Senior employees so affected will not be allowed to displace junior employees whose occupation requires a provincial or federal certificate ie; trades people, truck drivers, etc...
The rights of a senior unqualified employee to displace to a position of choice will not apply for temporary layoffs the duration of which is two weeks or less. In these circumstances, the senior employee will be assigned alternate work of the Company's choosing.
39
Severance Allowance
12.11	An employee with one (1) year or more of employment for whom no job is available because of mechanization, technological changes or automation can, upon termination, elect to receive a severance allowance of one week's pay for each year of employment during his last period of employment (up to the date of termination) computed on the basis of 40 straight time hours at the employee's regular rate.
It is understood that an employee who chooses to receive his severance allowance shall be terminated from his employment waiving his recall rights pursuant to this agreement.
ARTICLE XIII - BULLETIN BOARDS
13.01	The Union shall have the right to post notices dealing with Union affairs on the bulletin boards of the Company, such notices to have approval of the Camp Foreman before such posting.
ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL. SURGICAL. DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
14.01	(a)
Effective first of the month following date of ratification, for each employee on the payroll who has established seniority in accordance with Article XII, the Company will provide an extended Health Care Plan (major medical insurance benefits) paid in full by the Company. The plan will cover students to age 25.
14.01	(b)
The Company will maintain coverage for employees who are off work due to a Worker's Compensation
40
claim or a Short Term Disability claim for up to a period of 12 months. Notwithstanding the above, the employees may maintain coverage at their own cost, during periods of layoff or when absent from work and in receipt of W.S.I.B. or L.T.D. benefits.
It is understood that the election of the option must be made at the time of layoff or when the initial 12 month period is elapsed on forms provided by the Company.
14.01	(c)
The Company will continue coverage for a laid off employee to the end of the month in which he was laid off. Coverage will resume on the date the employee returns to work from layoff.
14.01	(d)
The Company will compensate an employee when a fee is charged by a physician for a completion of a medical certificate required to support a claim for benefits pursuant to the Weekly or Long Term Disability Plans. Such payment shall be to a maximum amount of Twenty-five Dollars ($25.00) per certificate effective date of ratification, and will be initiated upon presentation of a receipt from the attending physician.
ARTICLE XV - LIFE INSURANCE
15.01	Effective first of the month following the date of ratification, the Company will provide Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000) of Life Insurance for each employee while actively employed. The Company will pay 50% of the premium cost and the cost to the employee will not exceed Thirty Cents ($0.30) per Thousand Dollars ($1 ,000) per month. The Plan forms part of this Agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix 'A'.
For an employee who is not actively at work on that date, the increase in insurance will become effective on the date he returns to active employment.
41
ARTICLE XVI - WEEKLY INDEMNITY
16.01	The Company will maintain and pay the premium cost of a Weekly Indemnify Insurance Plan. The Plan will provide seventy percent (70%) of weekly earnings [forty (40) hours times an employee's regular rate and pieceworkers forty (40) hours times the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding hourly rate] up to a maximum of Five Flundred and Forty Dollars ($540) weekly, to commence on the first day in case of a noncompensable accident and after three (3) continuous days from the commencement of a disability due to sickness or on the date when admitted to a hospital within the first three (3) days of illness. In the case of day surgery, the employee will be covered from the first day. In all cases, the period of disability will continue up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks. The Plan forms part of this Agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix "B". In case of day surgery, the employee will be covered from the first day.
Effective the first of the month following date of ratification, the Plan will provide a maximum weekly disability benefit of Five Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($550.00) for all new claims for employees actively at work on that date. Effective September 1st, 1999, the Plan will provide a maximum weekly disability benefit of Five Hundred and Sixty Dollars ($560.00) for employees actively at work on that date. Effective September 1st, 2000, the Plan will provide a maximum weekly disability benefit of Five Hundred and Seventy Dollars ($570.00) for employees actively at work on that date.
For an employee who is not actively at work on the effective date or dates of the changes, the increase in benefit will become effective on the date he returns to active employment.
42
If an employee covered by the Weekly Indemnity Plan suffers a disability for which payment is in dispute with the W.S.I.B., Weekly Indemnity payment will be made retro-actively if requested by the employee and provided he has been off work for at least one (1) month due to the disability without W.S.I.B. having accepted the claim and providing the employee is subject to the rules and regulations covering the Weekly Indemnity Plan. If the W.S.I.B. claim is subsequently established, the employee will then repay the Weekly Indemnity payment(s) received to the appropriate fund or insurance Company.
ARTICLE XVII ■ BEREAVEMENT PAY
17.01	When death occurs to a member of an employee's immediate family, that is an employee's mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-inlaw, grand-father, grand-mother, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grand-child, the employee will be granted leave to attend the funeral and shall be paid for eight (8) h o u r s at his regular straight time rate [Pieceworkers, eight (8) times the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding hourly rate] for time lost up to a maximum of three (3) days or up to a maximum of five (5) days, on the death of an employee's spouse, children, father or mother. The intent of this clause is to allow the employee to attend the funeral without loss of earnings. Pay will be granted for the scheduled work days lost during this period.
Any claims for bereavement pay must be submitted by the employee to the Company in writing, along with proof of bereavement in the employee's immediate family.
It is understood that for purposes of this Article step-relatives will be considered the same as blood relatives.
43
ARTICLE XVIII ALLOWANCE
JURY DUTY/SUBPOENAED WITNESS
18.01	In the case of an employee who Is called for jury service or subpoenaed to act as a witness In any criminal or civil matter in a recognized court of law, the Company shall pay, for each day of such service, an allowance equal to the difference between eight (8) hours of pay based on his regular straight time hourly rate [Pieceworkers eight (8) hours pay based on the Feller, Limber, Tree Length Skidding hourly rate] and the payment he received for such service. The employee will present proof of seivice and of pay received therefore, when making his claim for such allowance.
ARTICLE XIX - DENTAL CARE PLAN
19.01	The Company will provide a dental plan, with participation compulsory for all employees, on the following basis:
JJ Eligibility
Participation in this plan is limited to employees who have accumulated sixty-five (65) days of seniority with the Company.
2) Plan Design
a)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross No. 7 Basic Plan and Rider No. 1.
b)	Services and benefits as provided in Blue Cross Rider No. 2 (50%).
Effective September I", 2000, the maximum for Class 1 and Class 2 expenses will be increased to $1,500.00
44
per family member, per year.
Effective on the first of the month following ratification, the Plan will be amended to provide for the 1998 schedule of fees.
Effective September I", 2000, the Plan will be amended to provide for the 1999 schedule of fees.
It is understood and agreed that the Plan will provide for the continuation of coverage for the period an employee is off work due to lay-off or Leave of Absence, but in no case beyond the end of the month following the month in which such absence commenced.
3) Administration
The Plan will be administered in accordance with an appropriate contract or set of procedures reflecting the plan design outlined in Item 2 above. The Decision as to the choice of administrative vehicle from among service carriers, insurance companies or sc I f-adminislration will be made by the Company on the basis of appropriate study of these alternatives.
4j Premiums
The premium cost of this plan shall be paid by the Company.
5} Integration
The Plan will not provide like benefits where such are currently being provided by Federal or Provincial Legislation.
If during the life of this Agreement, Federal or Provincial Government shall introduce legislation to
provide benefits already covered by this plan, the plan shall be amended so as to eliminate said benefits.
ARTICLE XX - LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
20.01	The Company will provide and pay the premium cost of a Long Term Disability Plan. The Plan forms part of this Agreement and is attached hereto as Appendix
Ill'll
ARTICLE XXI - PENSION PLAN
21.01	The Defined Contribution Pension Plan will continue during the term of this Agreement as amended by the Memorandum of Agreement signed on August 6"’, 1999.
Effective first of the month following date of ratification, each unit will be increased to Seventy dollars ($70.00) per month. Effective September 1st, 2000, each unit will be increased to Eighty dollars ($80.00) per month.
The pension plan text forms part of this Agreement.
46
ARTICLE XXII - VISION CARE
22.01	The Company will provide a Vision Care Plan which will provide for expenses incurred by an employee and/or his covered dependants when recommended by a physician or optometrist as follows:
Frames, lenses and the fitting of prescription glasses, including (contact lenses.
Effective first day of the month following ratification, $125.00 will be increased to $140.00 per family member in any two consecutive calendar years.
Effective September lsl, 2000, increase $140.00 will be increased to $150.00 per family member in any two consecutive calendar years.
ARTICLE XXIII - PAID EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
23.00 Effective the first of the month following date of ratification, provide for one cent ($0.01) per regular hour worked to the Educational Fund.
Effective September 1“, 1999, increase to two cents ($0.02) per regular hour worked.
Effective September I", 2000, increase to three cents ($0.03) per regular hour worked.
47
SIGNED AT COCHRANE, ONTARIO, THIS 6"’ DAY OF AUGUST, 1999
For the Company	For the Union
Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.	I.W.A, Canada
Iroquois Falls Division	Local 2995
R. David Chown	Damien Roy
Gordon Dawkins	Roland Laurin
Denis Lacasse
Gdrald East
Gilles Thdriault
Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
48
A) WAGE SCHEDULE POSITION NUMBERS IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION SEPTEMBER 1", 1998 to AUGUST 31", 2001
DAYWORK CLASSIFICATIONS
RATE PER HOUR
HOURLY RATES
Sep!. 1/98 Sept. 1/99 to	to
Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00
Sept.1/00
to
Aug.31/01
Classification
125 Bull Cook or Choreboy
130 Bus Driver
145 Carpenter (Qualified)
160 Cook 0 - 20 men)
165 Cook (over 20 men)
170 Cook (Second)
175	Cookee
176	Electrician "A" Class
177	Electrician "B" Class
178	Electrician Helper "A"
180 Feller, Limber, Treelenglh Skidding
185 Fire Patrol Man
190 Han dy Man
205 Labourer (General)
255 Mechanic Helper
260 Mechanic Helper Class "A"
265 Mechanic II 270 Mechanic I 275 Mechanic Class "A"
280 Mechanic Class "A"-l 285 Mechanic Lead 290 Bulldozer Operator "A"
2.95 Bulldozer Operator "B"
310 Operator, Crane (with certificate)
315 Operator, Crane (without certificate)
320 Operator, Front End and Overhead Loader 330 Operator, Hough PO - 70 340 Operator, Hydraulic Treelength Loader 49
21.98
22.05
25.96 23.41
23.77
23.07 21.68
25.96
24.14 22.16 22.53
21.50
22.08
21.50 21.68 22.16 23.08
24.14
25.96 26.32
26.45 23.76 23.04 24.00
23.46 22.79
22.78
23.46
22.53
22.60
26.61
24.00 24.36
23.65 22.22 26.61
24.74
22.71 23.09
22.04 22.63
22.04 22.22
22.71
23.66
24.74 26.61 26.98
27.1	I
24.35 23.62 24.60
24.05
23.36 23.35
24.05
23.21
23.28
27.41 24.72 25.09
24.36
22.89
27.41
25.48
23.39
23.79
22.70 23.31
22.70
22.89
23.39
24.37
25.48
27.41
27.79 27.92 25.08
24.33
25.34
24.77 24.06 24.05
24.77
343 Operator, Hydraulic Back Hoe	23.46	24.05
348 Operator, Feller Buncher	23.30	23.88
358 Operator, Grapple Skidder	22.69	23.26
360 Operator, Mechanical Skidder,
Wheeled Type	22.53	23.09
365 Operator, Mechanical Slasher	22.79	23.36
378 Operator, One Man Slasher, Tracked 23.30	23.88
380 Operator, Outboard Motor	21.94	22.49
387 Operator, One Man Slasher, Wheeled 22.79	23.36
405 Operator, Power Grader	22.79	23.36
4 10 Operator, Power Saw, Non Productive 21.98	22.53
4 15 Operator, Pump	21.68	22.22
425 Operator, Treelength Forwarder	22.95	23.52
446 Operator, Rail Delimber	23.30	23.88
475 Snowmobile Driver	21.94	22.49
495 Tree Planter (trans. or recalled to
this olassifioation)	22.53	23.09
800Truck Driver, Float	22.74	23.31
805 Truck Driver
(hauling butt and top loads)	22.85	23.42
8 15 Truck Driver
(hauling multiple trailers)	23.07	23.65
820 Truck Driver,
Single Axle Hauling on body	22.05	22.60
825 Truck Driver, Tandem Axle	22.42	22.98
830Truck Driver, Tandem Axle
(hauling trailer)	22.67	23.24
835 Truck Driver, Tandem Axle
(haulingtrailer over 102"in width)	22.74	23.31
840 Truck Driver, Snow Plowing	22.43	22.99
865 Watchman, Camp &Night	21.75	22.29
900 Welder Helper	21.68	22.22
905 Welder Helper, Class 'A'	22.16	22.71
910 Welder	II	23.08	23.66
915 Welder	I	24.14	24.74
920 Welder	Class 'A'	25.96	26.61
925 Welder	Lead	26.45	27.11
950 Operator Winch Boats	22.57	23.13
958 Deckhand	21.75	22.29
24.77
24.60
23.96
23.78
24.06
24.60
23.16
24.06
24.06 23.21
22.89 24.23
24.60
23.16
23.79
24.01
24.12
24.36
23.28
23.67
23.94
24.01
23.68
22.96
22.89 23.39
24.37 25.48 27.41 27.92 23.82
22.96
50
B)	POWER SAW RENTAL
A day worker using his power saw at Company request, will be paid a power saw rental of:
09/01/98
to
08/31/01
Per l-hour day or shift when felling and limbing $15.00
Per 8-hour day or shift when bucking at a
landing, on a skidding operation	$12.00
If he is unable to work the full day or shift for reason beyond his control, he will be paid one-half day's rental when he works less than four hours and a full day's rental when he works more than four hours.
C)	EMPLOYEE TRAINING
An employee who is assigned to train another employee or employees, shall be paid his regular rate plus thirty cents ($0.30) per hour during the training assignment. Pieceworkers shall be paid at the Feller, Limber rate, plus thirty cents ($0.30) per hour.
1) SILVICULTURAL WAGE SCHEDULE
a)
09/01/98
to
08/31/99
Hourly e s
Classification Tree Planter (Pos’n 500) Labourer (Pos’n 505) Crew Leader
09/01/99
to
08/31/00
09/01/00
to
08/31/01
$21.50	$22.04	$22.70
$21.50	$22.04	$22.70
$0.35 in addition to regular hourly rate
Piecework Rates
Manual Planting - Site Prepared
Bare Root Stock	$.10
Tubed Seedlings (Paper Pots)	$.08
51
Manual Planting - Site Unprepared
Bare Root Stock	$.11
Tubed Seedlings (Paper Pots)	$.09
(Employees on the regular seniority listing will not be
signed to Manual Planting on Piecework Rates)
A) CUTTING AND SKIDDING TREE LENGTH
WHEELED SKIPPERS
See item (I) for Supplement to Pieceworkers.
i)	Skidding Distance 600 feet
-	Crew will consist of a maximum of three (3) men. The maximum distance will be 600 feet.
ii)	Skidding Distance 900 feet
-	Crew will consist of a maximum of two (2) men. The maximum skidding distance will be 900 feet.
iii)	Skidding Distance 1,200 feet
-	Crew will consist of a maximum of two (2) men. The maximum skidding distance will be one thousand, two hundred (1,200) feet to gravel or brushmat road.
iv)	Skidding Distance 600, 900 to 1,200 feet
-	Crew will be paid per full tree piece, cut, skidded, and piled at skidway, based on butt diameter measure.
-	Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be clearly marked on each butt by the Scaler.
-	The Company will supply each crew with a skidder with winch, fuel, and skidding equipment.
52
-	No cutting bonus to be paid in addition to the scheduled rates.
-	No poor bush bonus to be paid on pulpwood or byproducts.
-	Cutting and Skidding full tree piecework to be
implemented at the discretion of the Company.
Sorting Bonus:	When, at Company request, the crew
is required to sort wood, 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
Skidway Preparation:. Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 5% of base earnings will be paid.
Travelling Time:	Will be paid in accordance with items
(I), (3) and (5) of Section III of the Wage Schedule.
53
CUTTING AND SKIDDING TREE LENGTH
(WHEELED SKIDDER)
METRIC RATES PER TREE Spruce & Balsam
Butt Diameter	Sept.1/98 Sept.1/99	Sept.1/00
Centimeters	Aug.31/99	Aug.31/00 Aug.31/01
12
14
16
18
0.620
0.941
1.233
1.693
0.636
0.965
1.264
1.735
0.655
0.994
1.302
1.787
20
22
24
26
28
2.138
2.628
3.199
3.850
4.540
2.191
2.694
3.279
3.946
4.654
2.257
2.775
3.377
4.064
4.794
30
32
34
36
38
5.127
5.561
5.950
6.820
7.694
5.255
5.700
6.099
6.991
7.886
5.413
5.871
6.282
7.201
8.123
40
42
44
46
48
8.699
9.756
10.802
12.217
13.870
8.916
10.000
11.072
12.522
14.217
9.183
10.300
11.404
12.898
14.644
50
52
54
15.334
16.621
17.983
15.717
17.037
18.433
16.189
17.548
18.986
Butt Diameter Centimeters
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
'DO
102
Sept.1/98
Aug.31/99
20.988
22.842
24.220
25.574
27.131
28.688
30.246
31.745
33.153
34.571
35.517
36.643
37.937
39.203
40.420
41.748
43.041
44.283
45.561
46.840
48.122
49.405
50.686
51.969
Sept. 1/99 Aug.31/00
21.513
23.413
24.826
26.213
27.809
29.405 31.002
32.539
33.982
35.435
36.405 37.559
38.885
40.183
41.431
42.792
44.117
45.390
46.700
48.011
49.325
50.640
51.953
53.268
Sept.1/00 Aug.31/01
22.158 24.115
25.571
26.999
28.643
30.287
31.932
33.515
35.001
36.498
37.497
38.686
40.052 41.388 . 42.674 44.076 45.441
46.752
48.101
49.451
50.805
52.159
53.512
54.866
55
CUTTING AND SKIDDING TREE LENGTH
(WHEELED SKIDDER)
METRIC RATES PER TREE Jackpine
Elutt Diameter Centimeters 12 14 1(5 113
Sept.1/98 Aug.31/99
0.470
0.812
1.172
1.644
Sept. 1/99 Aug.31/00 0.482 0.832 1.201 1.685
Sept. 1/00 Aug.31/01
0.49(5
0.857
1.237
1.736
20
22
24
26
28
2.088
2.560
3.081
3.661
4.344
2.140
2.624
3.158
3.753
4.453
2.204
2.703
3.253
3.866
4.587
30
32
34
36
38
4.852
5.174
5.423
6.045
6.725
4.973
5.303
5.559
6.196
6.893
5.122
5.462
5.726
6.382
7.100
40
42
44
46
48
7.410
8.094
8.785
9.516
10.262
7.595
8.296
9.005
9.754
10.519
7.823
8.545
9.275
10.047
10.835
50
52
54
56
58
11.015
11.782
12.543
13.300
14.054
11.290
12.077
12.857
13.633
14.405
11.629
12.439
13.243
14.042
14.837
56
Butt Diametei Sept.1/98 Sept.1/99 Sept.1/00 Centimeters Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00 Aug.31/01 60	14.812	15.182	15.637
62
64
66
68
15.575
16.335
17.129
17.895
15.964
16.743
17.557
18.342
16.443
17.245
18.084
18.892
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
18.653
19.418
20.211
20.980
21.739
22.504
23.332
19.119
19.903
20.716
21.505
22.282
23.067
23.915
19.693
20.500
21.337
22.150
22.950
23.759
24.632
B1	CUTTING & SKIDDING - FULL TREE
HEELED SKIPPER) (Metric Measure)
i)	Crew to consist of a maximum of two (2) men, maximum skidding distance 600 feet.
ii)	Crew to consist of a maximum of two (2) men, maximum skidding distance 900 feet.
iii)	Skidding Distance 1,200 feet
-	Crew to consist of a maximum of two (2) men, maximum skidding distance 1,200 feet to gravel or brushmat road.
iv)	Skidding Distance 600, 900 or 1,200 feet
-	Rates per tree length piece, cut, limbed, topped and piled, butt diameter measure as per the following schedule.
Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with 57
Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be marked on each butt by the Scaler.
The Company will supply skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
No cutting bonus in addition to the scheduled rates
No poor bush bonus to be paid on pulpwood or byproducts.
No increase to be applied to the following schedule during the term of this Agreement.
Sorting u s :
When, at Company request, the crew is required to sort wood, 2,!!6% of base earnings will be paid.
Skidwav Preparation:
Where skidway sites are prepared by the crew, 5% of base earnings will be paid,
Travelling Time:
Will be paid in accordance with items (I), (3) and (3) of'Section III ofthe Wage Schedule.
58
CUTTING AND SKIDDING FULL TREE
(WHEELED SKIDDER)
Butt Diameter Centimeters
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
METRIC RATES PER TREE Spruce & Balsam
Sept.1/98	Sept.1/99
Aug.31/99	Aug.31/00
0.465	0.477
0.707	0.725
0.923	0.946
1.273	1.305
1.601	1.641
1.974	2.023
2.397	2.457
2.892	2.964
3.408	3.493
3.847	3.943
4.172	4.276
4.464	4.576
5.116	5.244
5.769	5.913
6.521	6.684
7.316	7.499
8.101	8.304
9.159	9.388
10.406	10.666
11.501	11.789
12.464	12.776
13.490	13.827
15.740	16.134
17.129	17.557
59
Sept.1/00 Aug.31/01
0.491
0.747
0.974
1.344
1.690
2.084
2.531
3.053
3.598
4.061
4.404
4.713
5.401
6.090
6.885
7.724
8.553
9.670
10.986
12.143
13.159
14.242
16.618
18.084
Butt Diameter Centimeters
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100
102
Sept.1/98 Aug.31/99
18.162
19.181
20.343
21.516
22.685
23.810
24.865
25.927
26.637
27.484
28.453
29.405
30.312
31.308
32.283
33.212
34.172
35.132
36.091
37.053
38.014
38.975
Sept.1/99 Aug. 31/00
18.616
19.661
20.852
22.054
23.252
24.405
25.487
26.575
27.303
28.171
29.164
30.140
31.070
32.091
33.090
34.042
35.026
36.010
36.993
37.979
38.964
39.949
Sept.1/00 Aug.31/01
19.174
20.251 21.478 22.716 23.950
25.137
26.252 27.372 28.122
29.016
30.039
31.044
32.002
33.054
34.083
35.063
36.077
37.090
38.103
39.118
40.133
41.147
60
CUTTING AND SKIDDING FULL TREE
(WHEELED SKIDDER)
METRIC RATES PER TREE Jackpine
Butt Diameter	Sopt.1/98 Sept.1/99
Centimeters	Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00
Sept.1/00
Aug.31/01
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
0.358
0.607
0.879
1.233
1.568
1.919
2.313
2.746
3.260
3.641
3.879
4.068
4.535
5.043
5.556
6.072
6.588
7.134
7.698
8.262
8.834
9.407
9.972
10.541
11.108
61
0.367
0.622
0.901
1.264
1.607 1.967 2.371 2.815 3.342 3.732 3.976 4.170 4.648 5.169
5.695
6.224
6.753
7.312
7.890
8.469
9.055
9.642
10.221
10.805
11.386
0.378
0.641
0.928
1.302
1.655
2.026
2.442 2.899
3.442 3.844 4.095 4.295 4.787 5.324
5.866
6.411
6.956
7.531
8.127
8.723
9.327
9.931
10.528
11.129
11.728
Butt Diameter	Sept.1/98 Sept.1/99	Sept.1/00
Centimeters	Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00 Aug.31/01
62
64
66
68
11.682
12.249
12.848
13.423
11.974
12.555
13.169
13.759
12.333
12.932
13.564
14.172
70
72
74
76
78
13.989
14.563
15.160
15.737
16.304
14.339
14.927
15.539
16.130
16.712
14.769
15.375
16.005
16.614
17.213
80
82
16.880	17.302	17.821
17.496	17.933	18.471
62
FULL TREE SKIDDING
(FELLER BUNCHER)
METRIC RATES PER TREE Spruce & Balsam
Butt Diameter Centimeters
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
Sept.1/98	Sept.1/99	Sept.1/00
Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00 Aug.31/01
0.157	0.161	0.166
0.241	0.247	0.254
0.344	0.353	0.364
0.475	0.487	0.502
0.598	0.613	0.631
0.735	0.753	0.776
0.896	0.918	0.946
1.079	1.106	1.139
1.272	1.304	1.343
1.436	1.472	1.516
1.558	1.597	1.645
1.664	1.706	1.757
1.913	1.961	2.020
2.155	2.209	2.275
2.435	2.496	2.571
2.730	2.798	2.882
3.026	3.102	3.195
3.421	3.507	3.612
3.885	3.982	4.101
4.295	4.402	4.534
4.654	4.770	4.913
5.037	5.163	5.318
5.877	6.024	6.205
6.394	6.554	6.751
63
Butt Diameter	Sept.1/98 Sept.1/S9 Sept.1/00
Centimeters	Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00 Aug.31/01
60
62
64
66
68
6.780
7.161
7.598
8.082
8.468
6.950
7.340
7.788
8.233
8.680
7.159
7.560
8.022
8.480
8.940
70
72
74
76
78
8.889
9.283
9.679
9.946
10.259
9.111
9.515
9.921
10.195
10.515
9.384
9.800
10.219
10.501
10.830
80
82
84
86
88
10.621
10.977
11.316
11.689
12.052
10.887
11.251
11.599
11.981
12.353
11.214
U.589
11.947
12.340
12.724
90
92
94
96
98
12.398
12.759
13.117
13.476
13.833
12.708
13.078
13.445
13.813
14.179
13.089
13.470
13.848
14.227
14.604
100
102
14.193	14.548	14.984
14.551	14.915	15.362
64
Butt Diameter Centimeters
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
FULL TREE SKIDDING
(FELLER BUNCHER)
METRIC RATES PER TREE Jackpine
Sept.1/98	Sept.1/99	Sept.1/00
Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00	Aug.31/01
0.130	0.133	0.137
0.229	0.235	0.242
0.328	0.336	0.346
0.458	0.469	0.483
0.583	0.598	0.616
0.715	0.733	0.755
0.863	0.885	0.912
1.027	1.053	1.085
1.216	1.246	1.283
1.361	1.395	1.437
1.449	1.485	1.530
1.517	1.555	1.602
1.691	1.733	1.785
1.884	1.931	1.989
2.074	2.126	2.190
2.265	2.322	2.392
2.460	2.522	2.598
2.664	2.731	2.813
2.874	2.946	3.034
3.082	3.159	3.254
3.296	3.378	3.479
3.513	3.601	3.709
3.726	3.819	3.934
3.935	4.033	4.154
4.148	4.252	4.380
65
Butt Diameter Centimeters 62
Sept.1/98 Sept. 1/99	Sept.1/00
Aug.31/99 Aug.31/00 Aug.31/01
4.361	4.470	4.604
64
66
68
70
72
74
76
78
4.575
4.798
5.010
5.222
5.437
5.658
5.874
6.085
4.689
4.918
5.135
5.353
5.573
5.799
6.021
6.237
4.830
5.066
5.289
5.514
5.740
5.973
6.202
6.424
80
82
6.304	6.462	6.656
6.533	6.696	6.897
C)	SCALING
All wood to be scaled In accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations.
Where rough pulpwood over IO feet in length is cube scaled, 85 cubic feet of solid wood shall constitute a cord without allowance for over-lengths.
A stacked cord of 8 ft. rough pulpwood shall be 50" x 100" x 4'.
D)	METRIC CONVERSION
Metric rates for products paid for on a butt diameter basis and on a stacked cubic meter basis are included in this Agreement.
E)	BRUSH MATTING
From September 1!|, 1998 to August 31s1, 1999, seventy-eight ($0.78) cents per lineal foot; from
66
September Is', 1999 to August 31st, 2000, eighty ($0.80) cents per lineal foot; and from September 1, 2000 t o Augusl 31s', 2001, ($0.82) o f brushmat 161 wide, constructed from a clearing of a maximum width of 45'. Merchantable timber to be bunched in 8' lengths at the rate of $13.61 per cubic metre from September Is', 1998 to August 31s1, 1999, at the rate of $13.95 per cubic metre from September Is', 1999 to August 31s', 2000 and $14.37 from September Is', 2000 to August 3 Is', 2001. The above rates are all inclusive and no cutting bonus or poor bush bonus will be paid.
Brushmat to be constructed from a maximum width clearing of 45' to produce a mat with a minimum thickness of I' and a width of 16'. Brush to be laid in a general crossways pattern and stumps under the brushmat to be out at ground level. Any trees up to 12" at the stump may be used to construct the mat. Width of the clearing may be reduced depending on the amount of material required to produce a suitable mat.
F)	CUTTING MAIN ROADS
Effective September Is', 1998, Pieceworkers will be paid ($0,136) cents per lineal foot in addition to piecework rates for wood produced, when they are required to cut any main road right-of-way less than 600 feet in width. Effective September 1st, 1999 ($0,139) per lineal foot will be paid. Effective September Is1, 2000 ($0,143) per lineal foot will be paid.
67
G)	CUTTING AND SKIDDING VENEER BOLTS
AND SAWLOGS
(Wheeled Skidders)
(Cutting and sorting bonuses included in rates)
09/01/98 09/01/99 09/01/00 to	to	to
Rate per Cubic Metre 08/31/99 08/31/00 08/31/01
264 cm (8'8") Rough Spruce
264 cm (8'8") Jackpine
$19.32	$19.80	$20.39
$17.19	$17.62	$18.15
264 cm {8'8")
Rough Poplar & Birch $15.78	$16.17	$16.66
-	Crew will clear skidway or piling site.
-	Company will supply skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
-	Wood to be piled in separate skidways.
-	Skidding distances not to exceed 600 ft. Crew to consist of a maximum of five (5) men.
It is agreed that poor bush bonus applies when combined total of forest products cut is less than forty-three (43) cubic metres per acre.
68
H)
CUTTING AND SKIDDING - 100" PULPWOOD
(Wheeled Skldders)
09/01/98	09/01/99	09/01/00
Rate per Cubic	to	to	to
Metre (Stacked).	08/31/99	08/31/00	08/31/01
100" (254 cm) Rough
Spruce & Balsam	$12.59	$12.90	$13.29
100" (254 cm) Rough
Jackpine	$11.23	$11.51	$11.86
Crew will clear skidway or piling site.
Company will supply skidder with winch, fuel and skidding equipment.
Bucking to be done either at stump or skidway at option of crew.
Skidding distance not to exceed 600 ft.
Crew to consist of a maximum of five (5) men.
Poor Bush Bonus: For cutting and skidding rough pulpwood, the following bonus will be paid on the pulpwood produced on each skidding chance or block in accordance with the following:
09/01/98 09/01/99 09/01/00 Rate per Cubic	to	to	to
Metreed)	08/31/99 08/31/00 08/31/01
1 .Averaging less than 43 cubic metre (Stacked) per acre $0.36	$0.37	$0.38
2.	Averaging less than 23 cubic metre (stacked) per acre
$0.58	$0.59	$0.61
3.	Averaging less than 16 cubic metre (stacked) per acre
$0.97	$0.99	$1.02
69
I)	SUPPLEMENT TO PIECEWORKERS
A supplement of seventy-three cents ($0.73) per hour will be paid to pieceworkers from September 1st, 1998 to August 3 1st, 200 1.
J)	FULL TREE SKIDDING OF A FELLER BUNCHER CUT WOOD
Wheeled Skidder
1)	Maximum skidding distance 700 feet when
skidway placement not adjacent to gravel or brushmat road.
2)	Maximum skidding distance 900 feet when
skidway placement adjacent to gravel or brushmat road.
3)	Skidder Operator will be paid per full tree piece, skidded and piled at skidway, based on butt diameter measure.
4)	Butt diameter measure to be made in accordance with Ontario Government Scaling Regulations. Butt diameter to be marked on each butt by the Scaler. There will be no cull for defects.
5)	The Feller Buncher Operator will perform the bunching in such a manner as to facilitate choking.
6)	The Company will supply each operator with a skidder with winch, fuel, and skidding equipment.
7)	Full Tree Skidding Piecework Metric Rate Schedule attached.
70
Sorting Bonus:
When, at Company request, the Skidder Operator is required to sort wood, 2.86% of base earnings will be paid.
Skidvray Preparation:
Where skidway sites are prepared by the Skidder Operator, 5% of base earnings will be paid.
Traviellima e :
Will be paid in accordance with items (I), (3) and (S) of Section III of the Wage Schedule.
ToStm e :
Will be administered in accordance with Article 11.04(a) and Article 11.04(b) of the Collective Agreement.
71
Ill) TRAVELLING TIME
1.	Travelling time from camp to the working place may consist of riding time, walking time, or any combination of the two.
When calculating travelling time, walking time shall be based on the rate of one quarter of a mile equal to five (5) minutes and shall be added to applicable riding time.
2.	Pieceworkers, paid at a rate per cubic metre, whose travelling time from the camp to the work site exceeds one-half hour each way, shall be paid for such travelling time for pulpwood cut at the work site as follows:
Rate per Cubic Metre
Over 30 but not in excess of 40
Over 40 but not in excess of 50
Over 50 but not in excess of 60
Over 60 but not in excess of 70
09/01/98 09/01/99 09/01/00 to	to	to
08/31/99 08/31/00 08/31/01
$0.14
$0.36
$0.60
$0.80
$0.14	$0.14
$0.37	$0.38
$0.62	$0.64
$0.82	$0.85
When, upon arrival at the debarkation point, a pieceworker, paid on a rate per cubic metre is unable to commence work due to weather conditions, travelling time will be paid in accordance with Section 3.
72
3.	A pieceworker, paid on any other basis other than a rate per cubic meter, shall be paid for travelling time, from the camp to the work site, in excess of one-half ('A) hour each way, at feller limber rate of pay.
4.	A day worker shall be paid for travelling time, from the camp to the work site, in excess of one-half (A) hour each way, at his regular rate of pay.
5.	Travelling time computed as per Items 3 and 4 above, shall be credited not less than once per pay period.
6.	The Company will limit the actual walking distance to 1 miles as much as possible.
73
ARIAVLEIO W A N C E
Travel time to live-in camps -Detour Lake and Tomlinson
Date of Ratification
0 -	80 km	$8.00	per	week
81 -	160km	$12.00	per	week
161+	km	$16.00	per	week
V	SOOKHEREYD U L E S
It is agreed that where cafeteria style kitchens are established in a camp with the following equipment: Steam Tables, Propane, Oil or Electric Stoves; Mechanical Dishwashers; Bread Slicer; Meat Slicer and Meat Grinder; Bread and Pastry Mixer; Potato Peeler and other necessary equipment for the operation of a cafeteria style cookery, the schedule shall be as follows:
No. of Persons Eating	Naw f j.'.vsofftf|n
I - 10	I Cook/Clioreboy
11-30	1 Cook/Choreboy
1 2nd Cook/Choreboy
31-45	1 Cook/Choreboy
1 2nd Cook/Choreboy I Cookee/Choreboy
As per the Agreement to operate the mini-camp(s) on a four (4) day week basis, kitchens will be closed Friday to Sunday inclusive.
It is agreed that two (2) meals per operating day will be 74
served from 6:00 am to 8:00 am and 5:00 pm to 8:00
pm.
It is further agreed that the above camp force may be varied to the half-way point, up or down, for short periods.
VI THREE SHIFT OPERATION
In addition to the provisions of Article XI - Hours of Work, the following shall apply:
The Company will endeavour to change shifts as quickly as possible and provide suitable shelter for men changing shift.
A minimum of 20 minutes for lunch will be allowed during each shift.
The Company will endeavour to serve meals as follows when operating a three shit? basis:
(a)	The regular breakfast will be served at 6:00 a.m. for the regular day crew and shift workers working the day and afternoon shifts.
(b)	Breakfast will be served at 8:00 a.m. for men
coming off night shit? at 7:00 am. and at this meal, meats and vegetables will be served.
(c) The regular dinner will be served at 12:00 noon.
(d) The regular supper will be served at 6:00 p.m.
(e)	For men coming off afternoon shift at 1 1:00 p.m., a meal will be served at 12 midnight.
The Company will continue past practices with respect to serving food to men going on 1 1:00 p.m. shift.
75
Where more than 10 men and less than 20 men are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned.
Where 20 or more men are fed in the cookery at night, a cookee will be assigned and a second cook will be added to the cookery schedule, and assigned with the cookee at night.
Lunch Time for Truck Drivers
VII
The Company agrees that lunch time, on two shift haul, will be reduced to Zi hour, except where prevented by mill unloading schedules.
COMMUTERS
1)	Employees who work on will be paid as follows:
Distance TravelDatcoane wav)
0 - 45 km 46 - 90 k m 91 - 135km 136+ km
commuter operations
f____________ Ratification
$0
$8.00 per day $20.00 per day $25.00 per day
2)	In lieu of being provided board and lodging in a camp for each day that he is available for work as per his scheduled work week (including overtime days), he shall continue to receive the commuter allowance for the term of the Agreement or until such time that:
i)	He returns in accordance with the provisions of Article XII - Seniority, to employment in a camp where board and lodging is made available to him.
76
ii)	He has established himself as a resident of that particular commuting area of operations.
iii)	He is laid off in accordance with the provisions of Article XII - Seniority.
3)	The Company will arrange to provide free
transportation from a designated marshalling point or points, to and from the parking site or sites in the operating areas.
4)	The Company agrees to provide car plug-ins at each marshalling point.
5)	Vacancies on commuter operations will be tilled in accordance with Article XII - Seniority.
6)	An employee who has successfully applied for a job on commuter operations may return to camp living operations in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement, only when there is a vacancy or when he is subject to be laid Off.
7)	Day work classifications on commuter operations (Iroquois Falls) will be open to camp employees and commuters alike in accordance with seniority.
8)	The Company will provide adequate waiting
shacks for all commuters at debarkation points. Such shacks to be heated as required. Adequate toilet and washroom facilities will also be provided for all day workers.
9)	Time spent by pieceworkers or day workers
travelling on the Company transportation vehicle from a marshalling point to a parking site plus
77
time spent walking from the parking site to place of work, in excess of one-half hour each way shall be paid for on the following basis:
a)	Day workers at their regular rate of pay.
b)	Pieceworkers at Feller Limber rate.
c)	Piece cutters shall be paid in accordance with subsections 2 and 3 of III - Travelling Time.
IO)
Walking time based on the rate of one quarter of a mile equals five (5) minutes shall be added to the riding time. Travelling time so computed shall be credited not less than once per pay period.
Employees' residence will be considered as being the town where his/her mail is received. Distances will be measured from the Town Hall to either the Marshalling Point, where Company transportation is provided, or where work begins.
TRADE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
Apprenticeship openings will be tilled in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.03(c) (job postings). Employees who meet the educational level specified by the Apprenticeship Act will qualify.
There will be a probationary period of up to thirty (30) working days prior to entering into an pprenticeship agreement, during which time the employee may return, or, failing to display the necessary mechanical aptitude, be returned to his former job without loss of seniority.
Any apprentice who fails to satisfactorily complete the Ontario Apprentice program may be retained in this
713
classification and allowed to progress to Mechanic I without prejudice.
4.	Once an employee enters an apprenticeship contract, it is expected he will continue to fulfil the obligations of the contract, including necessary training periods in a vocational school.
5.	The apprentice may receive a weekly training
allowance from the government while attending a Trade School Course. The Company will supplement this allowance to provide the apprentice with a total weekly income equal to forty (40) times his regular hourly rate of pay. Calculation of the Company's portion will be based on the government allowance for an apprentice who is able to live at home while attending the Trade School.
If the apprentice is required to live away from home in order to attend a Trade School, he will receive the Company pay supplement referred to above in addition to any increased allowance paid by the government to an apprentice living away from home while attending school.
An apprentice's entitlement to Vacation with Pay, Paid Holiday pay, Weekly Indemnity, Funeral and Bereavement Leave will not be affected by his attendance at a Trade School, nor will his participation in any employee welfare plans in which he is enrolled.
6.	Providing a Tradesman has completed the time in the trade necessary to write for a Provincial Trade Certificate, he may write for such certificate and receive the 'A' rate immediately following his course of studies and notification that a Trade Certificate will be issued.
79
7.	If an apprentice is entitled to a reduction in the term of his apprenticeship because of academic achievement, he shall enter his apprenticeship at the proper category as per the Job Description.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS - MECHANICS
HELPER
Required to work as an assistant to other mechanics as assigned. Shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class 'A'. A helper will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period, be placed in other suitable employment.
HELPER CLASS 'A'
He shall, under the direction of mechanics of a higher classification, work on all types of equipment used on woods operations: shall be capable of performing the following jobs independently: tire repair, wash jobs, greasing and oiling service.
A helper entering the trade at this level will commence to accumulate common mechanical tools.
He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Mechanic II.
In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period, be placed in other suitable employment.
MECHANIC II
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations. It is expected that eligible personnel shall put forth every effort to obtain a Provincial Trade Certificate.
80
MECHANIC I
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
Where a present mechanic or a person subsequently hired has no certificate but has had special training and/or is assigned on only one type of equipment, he will automatically be rated as a Mechanic I.
MECHANIC CLASS “A”
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner on gasoline and/or diesel powered equipment generally used in woods operations.
He will be required to direct assistants working under him and must assume full responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate recommended by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
Mechanics presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Certificate.
MECHANIC CLASS 'A-l'
In addition to fulfilling all of the qualifications of a Mechanic Class 'A' and being in possession of a Provincial Trade Certificate, he shall have had
81
advanced theoretical and practical training in equipment sub-systems or be in possession of both a motor vehicle mechanic certificate and a heavy duty equipment mechanic certificate recognized by the Ministry of Labour of Ontario.
MECHANIC LEAD
A Mechanic Lead is appointed as the need arises, must possess the qualification set out under Mechanic Class “A” and in addition, shall be capable of leading other mechanics.
Mechanics presently employed in this category are not required to have a Provincial Trade Certificate.
JOB DESCRIPTIONS - WELDERS
HELPER
Required to work as an assistant to welders as assigned. He shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Helper Class 'A'. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period be placed in other suitable employment.
HELPER CLASS 'A'
He shall be capable under direction of performing the following:
1)	Oxyacetylene and electrical welding in flat
positions with opportunity of working in other positions.
2)	Cutting, soldering and brazing.
82
Hi: shall be upgraded prior to or at the end of a one year period to Welder II. In the event that he fails to display the necessary aptitude for further training, he may at any time during this period, be placed in other suitable employment.
WELDER II
He shall be capable under direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall also have an understanding of types of flames, oxydizinj’ and carbonizing.
WELDER I
Shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position.
He shall be capable of performing both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himselfor his assistants.
WELDER CLASS “A”
He shall be capable without direction of performing all jobs assigned to him in an efficient manner in both oxyacetylene and electrical welding in any position. He shall have an understanding of types of flames, oxidizing and carbonizing.
He shall be proficient in both types of welding in all positions with all metals used on woods operations.
He must be able to fabricate from a blueprint. 83
He must assume responsibility for all work performed by himself or his assistants.
He must be in possession of the necessary Trade Certificate.
Welders presently employed in this classification will not be required to have a Trade Certificate.
WELDER LEAD
A Welder Lead is appointed as the need arises and must possess the qualifications set out under Welder Class 'A' and in addition, shall be capable of leading other welders.
Welders presently employed in this category are not required to have a Trade Certificate.
TRADESMEN’S TOOLS
Tradesmen will furnish all hand tools common to the trade. Mechanics will furnish spanners up to 1 'A” opening, sockets up to and including 'A” drive and I Z" opening, adjustable wrenches up to 18” in length, hammers, chisels, punches and screw drivers. The Company agrees to replace any personal tools broken in service provided that such broken tools are returned. The Company agrees to provide tools to tradesmen at cost. The Company will provide on loan, any special tools including power driven tools, testing and measuring instruments and gauges, pullers, sockets over V2" drive, spanners over 1 Va” opening.
In the event that the common tools of tradesmen are required to be in metric measurement, such tools shall be provided on loan by the Company.
84
ANNUAL REVIEW OF HELPERS AND TRADESMEN
Once each year during the month of November, a group, which is comprised of the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent, Mechanical Foreman and 2 qualified representatives of the Union, will determine by review whether helpers and tradesmen qualify for upgrading. If, in the interim, upgrading is necessary, it will be done by the Divisional Mechanical Superintendent and Mechanical Foreman.
85
APPENDIX I
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
VACATION WITH PAY
Employees who have not taken or scheduled their full entitlement of vacation by October 1st, will be scheduled by the Company, and employees who do not work the full year will be required to take their vacation on a pro rata basis of time worked during the year as follows:
12% =	2.5 days per month at work
10%	=	2.0	days	per	month	at	work
8%	=	1.6	days	per	month	at	work
6%	=	1 .25	days	per	month	at	work
4%	=	0.8	days	per	month	at	work
The above will also apply to Supplementary Vacations with pay.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union I.W.A. Canada Local 2995
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6th day of August, 1999 86
APPENDIX II
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
RETIREMENT SUPPLEMENTS
Effective September I", 1998, the Company agrees to provide an early retirement payment to employees who retire prior to the attainment of age 65. This opportunity will apply only to employees who reach 60 years of age before August 31s1, 2001 and have accumulated 4000 days of seniority. Employees electing early retirement will be required to advise the Company in writing of their desire to retire at least 30 calendar days prior to their actual retirement date.
Employees making this choice will receive $500 per month in addition to the continuation of Drug, Supplementary Health Care and Group Life Insurance coverage at Company cost. The above payment and benefits will commence the first of the month following the month in which the employee retires and will continue until the attainment of age 65 or the death of the retiree whichever occurs first.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
For the Union IAV.A. Canada Local 2995 Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this O'11 day of August, 1999. 87
APPENDIX III
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
EQUIPMENT CABS AND CLIMATIC CONTROLS
Consistent with the Company's policy to ensure to the utmost extent the safety and physical welfare of employees, the Company will, on the purchase of new bulldozers, loaders, graders and harvesters, provide for suitable cabs with climatic controls. This will include the installation of air conditioning in new buses.
It is further proposed that a committee representing machine operators and management assess the operation of the new cabs and controls and make recommendations as to their application to other new equipment.
Unit(s) for tree planter transportation will be inspected by Company personnel (one Mechanic and Garage Supervisor) prior to acceptance.
For the Company	For the Union
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6"' day of August, 1999
and
I.W.A. Canada Local 2995
88
APPENDIX IV
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING between
ABIITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
COMMUTERS
The Company and the Union agree to the following:
For cutting operations on the Tomlinson Road, the sole marshalling Point will be St. Lambert. The Terminal Point will be La Stirre.
When wood is being transported to the Quebec border, the sole Marshalling Point will be St. Lambert.
For cutting operations at Camp Detour Lake (when commuting), the sole Marshalling Point will be the Main Garage. The Terminal Points will be Cochrane and Iroquois Falls.
When wood is being transported to Ontario mills, the sole Marshalling Point will be the Main Garage.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union I.W.A. Canada E88SI_____
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Thbriault
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East
Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6"' day of August, 1999.
89
APPENDIX V
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the 'Company')
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the 'Union')
Appendix VI contains the Letters of Understanding as per attached:
1.	RECOGNITION - JURISDICTION
2.	ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN - SECTION 7 (a) LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN - SECTION 5 (d)
3.	LICENCE ■ TRUCK DRIVERS AND BUS DRIVERS
4.	ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL, DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
5.	PURCHASE AND SALE OF WOOD AT SKIDWAY
6.	FOUR DAY LANGUAGE
7.	SURGE HIRING
90
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ’Union")
RECOGNITION -JURISDICTI 0N
This will confirm our understanding that during the term of the Collective Agreement dated September I", 1998 to August 31s1, 2001, the Company will produce a minimum of 300,000 m3 of wood products annually from limit operations.
However, if circumstances should arise which arc beyond the control of the Company, resulting in the Company altering this 300,000 ni3 volume and which would affect the employment opportunities of our employees, we will undertake to advise the Union as early as possible and discuss ways and means of providing job opportunities for our employees in accordance with Article XII.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union IAV.A. Canada Local 2995
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East
Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6th day of August, 1999
91
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED IND.
IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
ONTARIO WOODSWORKERS DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN SECTION 7(A) - LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN - SECTION 5(D)
It is understood that an employee receiving benefits under this Plan will make an application for Disability Benefits under the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan when eligible to do so, and when the employee's disability has been determined as being severe and prolonged by the employee's physician. If the application is approved, benefits under this Plan will then be offset by the amount of CPP/QPP primary benefit received by the employee, retroactive to the date of eligibility as approved by the Canada or Quebec Pension Plan.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union I.W.A. Canada 288SI
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Thdrianlt
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6lh day of August, 1999.
92
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED IND. IIROQUOIS FALLS IROQUOIS FALLS (Hereinafter referred to as the ’Company")
and
IffA DANADA - LODAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
LICENSE - TRUDK DRIVERS AND BUS DRIVERS
The Company will reimburse Truck or Bus Drivers for time lost, if necessary, when summoned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to renew their license, where such renewal is required in order to continue theirjobs as a Truck or Bus Driver.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union IAV.A. Canada Local 2995
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gdrald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this b^day of August, 1999,
93
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INO. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
ARTICLE XIV - MEDICAL, SURGICAL. DRUG AND HOSPITAL CARE PLANS
If, due to legislative action, any type of corporate assessment is levied to fund any of the above plans, the agreed to amounts will be used first to offset direct costs to the Company and in no case will the Company's contributions exceed the agreed to amounts.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidafed Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union I.W.A. Canada Local 2995
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
Damien Roy Roland Lanrin Gerald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6lh day of August, 1999
94
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED IND. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Company’)
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’)
PURCHASE AND SALE OF WOOD AT SKIDWAY
It is agreed that softwoods produced by Third Party Operations on the Limits, may be purchased by the Company, in accordance with the following guidelines:
I) Softwoods may be purchased at skidway and will be loaded and hauled by bargaining unit employees.
It is agreed that hardwoods produced by the bargaining unit may be made available for sale at skidway in treelength form and that the purchaser will assume responsibility for all processing and handling from that point onward. It is further agreed that the Company will pay the equivalent amount of union dues at the following rate:
a) for softwoods purchased - 7.5 cents per m3 In consideration of the above, the Company agrees to expand its current volume agreement with the Union by 10,000 m3. This Letter of Understanding will renew itself on each anniversary date (September 1st of each year) of the Collective Agreement unless either party notifies the other in writing of its desire to renegotiate or cancel this understanding.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
For the Union I.W.A. Canada Local 2995 Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated al Cochrane, Ontario, this 6"' day of August, 1999.
95
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC.
IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION
and
1WA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 4 PAY LANGUAGE
It is understood that this Agreement is supplementary to the Collective Agreement between the parties and is intended to cover the special conditions arising from the re-arrangement of work week and work day schedules.
11.01
Hours of Work
It is understood that the work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, ten (10) hours per day, Monday to Thursday.
Shift Schedule
It is understood that the first shift or day shift shall consist of ten consecutive hours, mealtime excepted and shall commence at 7:00 a.rrr. or after. The night shift or second shift shall consist of ten (10) consecutive hours mealtime excepted and shall commence prior to 7:00 p.m.
11.03
Shift Differential
Shift Differentia! shall be paid in accordance with the Agreement on second shift.
11.04
Reporting Day
For employees scheduled on regular ten (10) hour shifts, one half day shall be interpreted as five (5) hours and a full day shall be interpreted as ten (10) hours.
1 I .05 (a)
Overtime
For employees scheduled on ten (10) hour shifts, time and one half shall apply for all time worked in excess often (10) hours per 96
shift, and for all hours outside of his regular scheduled hours of
work. Double time will be paid after (10) hours of work on an
employee's designated day off or Sunday.
Article XII Seniority Days
For purposes of this Article, an employee who is working on the modified shift schedule, shall be credited with five (5) days in any week in which the four (4) regular shifts are 'worked' in accordance with the provisions of Article VI and Article XII.
Article VII Holidays with Pay
(a)	Qualified employees not working on a holiday shall be paid for eight (8) hours at their regular rate of pay, if the holiday falls on their scheduled day off, or ten (1 0) hours at their regular rate of pay, if the holiday falls on their scheduled work day.
(b)	An employee requested to work on any holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for his regularly scheduled hours of work, at the rate of double time after his regularly scheduled hours of work. In addition and if qualified, he shall receive ten (10) hours pay in lieu of the holiday.
(c ) Notwithstanding the scheduled shift hours, an
employee granted a floating holiday shall receive eight (8) hours pay.
Article XVII Bereavement Pay
For employees on modified shift scheduling, this clause will be administered on the basis of payment for each regular shift missed, ten (10) hours, but in no event shall the total paid exceed forty (40) hours pay, in the case of death of spouse, children or parents, nor exceed twenty-four (24) hours pay, in the case of death of other specified family members.
97
Article XVIII
Jury Duty or Witness
Employees will be paid the difference between payment received for such duties and their regular pay that they would have received for each scheduled shirt lost, ten (10) hours.
For the Company Abilibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union I.W.A. Canada Local 2995
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Thdriault
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gdrald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6lh day of August, 1999,
98
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
ABITIBJ-CONSOLIDATED INC. IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION
and
IWA CANADA -LOCAL 2995
&URGE HIRING
The parties agree that, In recognition of the need during the peak work period of January-March, to temporarily increase the work force, the Company can hire log haul truck drivers with or without equipment (truck and trailer), without posting the jobs, and, provided no qualified employees are on lay-off. Employment of any new employee in this category shall be considered probationary until he has worked 60 days within a 12 month period. A separate list will be established and maintained for the aforementioned employees and shall be referred to as the Surge Hiring Seniority List. An employee subsequently hired on regular production operations shall be required to complete a further 30 day probationary period. Such employees will be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement, including schedule, save and except the following:
Article	XIV	Medical, Surgical, Drug	and Hospital
Care Plans
Article	XV	Life Insurance
Article	XVI	Weekly Indemnity
Article	XVII	Bereavement Pay
Article XVIII Jury Duty/Subpoenaed Witness Allowance
Article	XIX	Dental Care Plan
Article	XX	Long Term Disability	Plan
Article	XXI	Pension Plan
Article	XXII	Vision Care Plan
Letter of Understanding - Commuter Allowance
Upon completion of the work required, surge employees will be laid off, and will have no rights to recall or to the job posting 99
procedure. It is nut the intent to utilize surge hiring to cause an
extended layoff.
For the Company Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. Iroquois Falls Division
For the Union I.W.A. Canada Local 2995
R. David Chown Gordon Dawkins Denis Lacasse Gilles Theriault
Damien Roy Roland Laurin Gerald East Etienne Gagnon Alain Grenier
Dated at Cochrane, Ontario, this 6,h day of August, 1999,
100
APPENDIX 'A'
0 N T A RI 0. WOODS WORKERS GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
AS AMENDED DECEMBER 1“, 1990
1.	DEFINITIONS
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	'Employee' means a person in the active employment of the Company.
(b)	'Insurer' means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the Company for the purpose of this Plan.
(c)	'Plan' means the Ontario Woodsworkers Group Life Insurance Plan.
(d)	'Company' means Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.
(e)	'Insurance' means the amount of life insurance payable upon the death of the employee.
(f)	Totally Disabled' means wholly and continuously disabled by sickness or an accidental bodily injury which prevents one from engaging in any occupation and from performing any work for remuneration or profit.
2.	ELIGIBILITY
(a)	All employees of the Company, who are members or are eligible to become members of Union Local 2995, IWA-Canada shall be eligible to participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
101
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to eligible
employees who have accumulated 30 days of seniority with the Company.
(c)	Participation in this Plan is compulsory.
3.	APPLICATION TO COMPANY
Eligible employees must submit a signed application card to the Company authorizing deduction of the required premium. This signed application card must be returned to the Company before 30 days of seniority have been accumulated.
4.	REQUIRED PREMIUM
Each participating employee will contribute 50% of the premium cost of $.30 per thousand per month, whichever is the lesser.
5.	AMOUNT OF INSURANCE
$60,000 per employee, or as may be amended.
6.	COMMENCEMENT OF INSURANCE
(a)	Insurance commences on the Is' day of the month
following accumulation of 30 days of seniority. Employees must be actively at work on this date, otherwise the insurance will commence on the date of return to work.
(b)	For a previously participating employee returning from lay-off or an authorized leave of absence, insurance commences on the 1st day of full time work.
7.	TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
The insurance under this Plan shall terminate:
102
(a)	When the employee's employment terminates.
(b)	Up to the end of the month following the month in which the employee Is laid off.
(c)	Up to the end of the month following the month in which the employee commences an authorized leave of absence.
(d)	The employee is no longer in receipt of disability
benefits under the terms of the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan, subject to Section 8.
(e)	The employee retires
8.	CONTINUATION FOR TOTAL DISABILITY
The insurer of this Plan will be required to provide for the continuation of insurance for any 'totally disabled' employee whose disability commenced prior to his 65lh birthday. This continuation of insurance will not require any premium payments by the employee. Proof of disability satisfactory to the insurer, must be provided at the request of the insurer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, insurance under this provision will terminate on date of retirement, or age 65 whichever first occurs,
9.	CONTINUATION DURING SHORT TERM DISABILITY
While an employee is in receipt of benefits under the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan he tits under the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan, he may continue his group life insurance provided he continues to contribute his share of the premium as set out In Section 4.
103
10.	CLAIMS
At an employee's death from any cause while Insured, the amount of insurance shall be paid promptly to his beneficiary. The payment and the adjudication of claims are the responsibility of the insurer.
11.	BENEFICIARY
Any employee covered by this Plan may, subject to the provisions of any applicable law from time to time in force, designate a beneficiary to receive any benefits payable under this Plan on his death and may alter or revoke such designation from time to time.
12.	ASSIGNMENT
No assignment by any employee of any insurance to which he may be entitled under this Plan shall be valid.
13.	INSURANCE CERTIFICATE
The insurer shall issue to the Company for delivery to each employee covered under the Plan a certificate evidencing the coverage to which he is entitled under the Plan.
104
APPENDIX "B"
ONTARIO VVOODSWORKEHS PISA BILIT Y BENEFIT PLAN
AS AMENDED ON DECEMBER 1st, 1980 1. DEFINITIONS
In this Plan, unless otherwise specifically provided:
(a)	‘Accident’ Is a bodily Injury caused by external violent means.
(b)	‘Disability’ is a disability preventing an employee from pursuing any gainful occupation arising from any mental infirmity, bodily disorder, or bodily injury, verified to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer, and not otherwise excluded by this Plan.
(c)	‘Employee’ means an employee in the active employment of the Company, who comes under the jurisdiction of the Labour Agreement by and between Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Local 2995, IWA-
Canada.
(d)	‘Insurer’ means the insurance company or carrier appointed by the companies.
(e)	‘Plan’ means the Ontario Woodsworkers Disability Benefit Plan.
(f)	‘Company’ means Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.
(g)	‘Weekly Earnings’ means, in the case of a day worker, 40 hours x his regular rate; for a pieceworker ‘weekly earnings' means 40 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
(h)	''Medical Practitioner’ means registered physician or surgeon, registered dentist, or registered chiropractor.
105
2.	PARTICIPATION
(a)	All employees of the Company shall be eligible to
participate in this Plan, in accordance with the provisions listed herein.
(b)	Participation in this Plan is limited to employees who have accumulated 45 days of seniority with the Company.
3.	AMOUNT OF DISABILITY BENEFITS
The amount of disability benefit shall be 70% of an employee's weekly earnings, as defined in Section I(g) immediately preceding the date of disability, subject to a maximum weekly disability benefit of $540 effective the first of the month following date of ratification, $550 effective September lsl, 1999 and $560 effective September lsl, 2000 and $570 effective September la, 2001.
The weekly maximum will not be less than the amount payable for such week under the Unemployment Insurance Act 1971 and its Regulations as amended.
4.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENT
(a) I) Except in the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one illness, beginning after 3 continuous days from the commencement of the disability due to sickness or on the date when admitted to a hospital within the first (3) days of illness.
ii)	In the case of a disability arising out of an accident, an employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of disability benefit in accordance
106
with Section 3 hereof, for a period not exceeding 52 weeks for any one accident, commencing from the date of the accident.
(b)	An employee absent from work and in receipt of an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, shall continue to receive such benefit, even though a work shortage develops which would have resulted in his being laid off had he been at work, provided that the employee remains disabled and continues to furnish evidence satisfactory to the Company and/or insurer, and verifies the continuance of disability.
(c)	An employee shall not be eligible for an amount of
disability benefit under this Plan unless he is actively employed by the Company at the date that he becomes eligible or until he subsequently returns to active employment.
(d)	An employee making a claim for an amount of
disability benefit after lay-off or termination of employment, for disability established to the satisfaction of the Company and/or insurer as having occurred prior to his lay-off or termination, shall be eligible for an amount of disability benefit provided such disability was accompanied by a continuance of absence that commenced prior to actual lay-off or termination.
(e)	An employee shall be considered as eligible to submit a claim for benefit if he is requested to return to work within seven calendar days after the date of lay-off and is unable to return to work because of disability. Disability will be considered as starting from the date he is required to return to work.
(f)	Successive periods of disability separated by less than four consecutive weeks shall be considered one period of disability, unless the subsequent disability is due to
107
an accident or illness entirely unrelated to the previous
disability and commences after return to active
employment on full time.
(g)	An amount of disability benefit under this Plan shall not be paid in the event the absence is a result of:
i)	Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
ii)	Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on or could be placed on pregnancy/maternity leave, or (2) if an employee fails to qualify for pregnancy/maternity leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of pregnancy/maternity leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with the Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statues, or
iii)	Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under Workers' Compensation or similar legislation, or
iv)	Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
v)	Any injury or illness resulting from insurrection or war, whether war be declared or not, or from participation in a riot, or civil commotion, or
vi)	Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a medical practitioner, or
vii)	For a period of disability in excess of four weeks where treatment is rendered solely by a chiropractor. In the case of chiropractors, certification of disability will only be accepted
108
for payment of benefit for up to a maximum of four weeks per insured person per calendar year, or
viii)	Alcoholism or Drug Addiction unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and/or drug addiction, or unless the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment approved by the insurer and a physician.
h)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable for those days for which the employee receives holiday pay, vacation pay, or more than one half day's regular pay, from the Company.
i)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the normal retirement date of an employee, other than retirement under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Plan.
j)	An amount of disability benefit will not be payable following the early retirement date of an employee, if early retirement was approved prior to the onset of disability.
k)	The amount of disability benefit under this Plan will be reduced by the amount of pension for which the employee is eligible under the total and permanent disability provision of the Company Pension Plan.
5.	PAYMENT OF BENEFITS
a)	In computing the amount of disability benefits, disability will be considered as starting from the first day of disability; however, an employee must be certified by a medical practitioner for the disability within the first three days of disability. In the event
109
that the employee is not certified within the first three days, disability will be considered as starting two complete days prior to the day that the employee is actually certified by a medical practitioner.
b)	A daily rate of payment for each calendar day of absence that qualifies for payment shall be one-seventh the weekly amount of disability benefit under Section 3 hereof.
c)	The amount of disability payment will be paid every week. Such benefits on account of short periods of disability will be paid as soon as the amount is ascertained.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
a)	An employee absent on an authorized leave of absence on the date he was to become eligible under this Plan, as: set out in Section 4, shall, upon the date of his return to active employment be eligible to participate in this Plan.
b)	If an employee, who has been covered under the terms of this Plan, is granted an authorized leave of absence, such employee shall be considered as still covered under the terms of this plan up to a maximum of 31 days, or up to the date he would have been laid off should lay-off occur during this period.
c)	The 5/12 of the E.I. premium reduction will continue to be retained by the Company.
7.	GOVERNMENT DISABILITY PLANS
a)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plans, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for 110
disability for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and W.S.I.B. disability pensions.
b)	The Company and/or insurer may require certification or verification of the amount of income from the Canada/Quebec Pension Plan or such other Government Plans.
c)	The amount of disability benefit in excess of the amount which should have been paid may be deducted from the amount of any future disability benefit, or repaid by the employee to the Company and/or insurer, as the case may be, through some other mutually satisfactory arrangement.
8.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a medical practitioner, designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of the physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the insurer.
9.	ADMINISTRATION
a)	It shall be the obligation of the employee to notify immediately the Company of his absence due to disability, following which the Company will issue the necessary initial claim forms to him.
b)	Completed claim forms will be checked by the
Company to determine whether or not an employee is a participant in the Plan and the Company may then
111
forward the claim forms to the insurer as its agent for
further processing.
c)	The Company will meet with representatives of the participating Unions from time to time, for purposes of discussing the administration of the Plan and any problems which may arise.
d)	Should an employee or the Union have any complaint concerning entitlements to benefits under the Plan, the matter may be taken up as a grievance and processed to arbitration as provided for under Article VIII of the Collective Agreement, commencing at Stage 3. The arbitration board shall have powers to adjudicate on the merits of the grievance.
10.	INTERPRET ATI ON
It is our understanding and interpretation that an employee is entitled to benefits, for which he may be eligible under the provisions of the Plan as a result of non-occupational injury or illness when unable to perform his regular duties and the Company is unable to offer him alternative suitable employment. It is understood the employee will be expected to accept the alternative employment, if it is available. If an employee voluntarily accepts employment with another employer, the employee will not be eligible for benefits under this Plan.
112
APPENDIX "C"
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC.
LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN FOR WOODLANDS EMPLOYEES
The Company shall pay the monthly premium cost of the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan. The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be administered in accordance with the terms of an Insurance policy.
1.	ELIGIBILITY
The Long Term Disability Benefit Plan shall be compulsory for all employees who have accumulated 45 days seniority with the Company.
2.	EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVERAGE
An eligible employee is entitled to benefits provided he is actively at work on the first day the Long Term Disability Benefit Plan becomes effective. An eligible employee absent from work due to sickness or accident at the effective date of the Plan, shall only be eligible for Long Term Disability Plan benefits upon the return to continuous active full-time employment for a period of more than four consecutive weeks.
The Company shall have the right to give medical examinations to employees returning from such lay-off to determine their eligibility under the Plan.
3.	QUALIFYING PERIOD
The insured employee shall be eligible to receive an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit after fifty-two weeks of
113
benefit entitlement for the same disability under the Weekly
Indemnity Plan. Benefit payment shall not commence
during a strike until the termination of the strike.
4.	DEFINITION OF DISABILITY
'Disability' shall mean an insured employee who has received fifty-two (52) weeks of benefits for the same disability under the Weekly Indemnity Plan and is thereafter unable because of disease or injuiy to work at any occupation in the Company for which he is reasonably fitted by education, training or experience.
5.	AMOUNT OF BENEFIT
a)	The disability benefit shall be 55% of monthly earnings as defined in 5(b).
b)	'Monthly Earnings' means, in the case of a day or shift worker, 173 x his regular hourly rate; in the case of a pieceworker, 173 x the Feller-Limber hourly rate.
c)	'Hourly Rate' means the regular rate of the employee effective immediately prior to the date on which the disability occurred, excluding overtime or shift bonus. The date on which the disability occurred, is the date of commencement of disability for weekly indemnity benefits.
d)	The amount of disability benefit under this plan will be reduced by the amount for which the employee is eligible and receives under the disability benefit provision of the Canada or Quebec Pension Plans, or similar provisions in any other Government Plans for disability for which the employee is receiving an amount of disability benefit under this Plan, except for war disability pensions and Workers' Compensation disability pensions.
114
e)	While receiving benefits under this Plan, Pension Plan members will continue to accrue pension benefits at no cost to them. The pension accrued will be 4% of benefits paid under the Plan. Death benefits will not accrue during this period, except with respect to interest on the employee's contributions made prior to commencement of Long Term Disability Benefits.
6.	DURATION OF BENEFITS
a)	Benefits will be paid for one month, for each completed month of service prior to commencement of the Long Term Disability Benefits, while the employee is disabled.
b)	200 days of accrued seniority will be considered as 12 months of service.
c)	Disability benefits will be paid one month in arrears
7.	TERMINATION OF BENEFITS
Benefits shall cease upon the occurrence of any one of the
following:
a)	On the date the employee ceases to be disabled. (If there is a recurrence of the same disability within six (6) months of return to work, a new qualifying period will not be required, and the disabled employee will be eligible for any balance of Long Term Disability Benefit payment. This provision shall take precedence over any recurrent disability provision under the Weekly Indemnity Plan), or
b)	On exhaustion of the benefit period or,
c)	On retirement or attainment of age 65 or,
(!) On death.
115
8,	CONTINUATION OF GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
DURING DISABILITY
a) An Insured employee receiving Long Term Disability Plan Benefits, who was a participant in the Company Group Life Insurance Plan at the commencement of his disability, will continue to enjoy the Group Life Insurance coverage in effect on the date of his disability at no premium cost to him subject to the Termination ofBenefits (Clause 7).
9.	EXCLUSIONS
a)	An employee receiving Long Term Disability Benefits will not be eligible for vacation or statutory holiday pay.
b)	Benefits under the Long Term Disability Plan will not be payable for claims resulting from:
Any injury arising out of or sustained while doing any act or thing pertaining to any occupation or employment for remuneration or profit, or
Any injury or illness entitling the employee to compensation under any Workers' Compensation or similar legislation, or
Self-destruction or any self-inflicted injury, while sane or insane, or
Disability for which the employee is not under the treatment of a physician, or
Alcoholism or drug addiction, unless the employee is undergoing a recognized course of treatment by a specialist in the care and treatment of alcoholism and drug addiction or the employee is undergoing regular rehabilitative treatment
116
i)
ii)
iii)
iv)
v)
approved by the insurer and a licensed physician.
vi) Disability or loss (1) while the employee is on or could be placed on pregnancy/maternity leave, or (2) if an employee fails to qualify for pregnancy/maternity leave because of failure to meet the length of service requirements, during the period of pregnancy/maternity leave that the employee could be on if she qualified for such leave, in accordance with Ihe Employment Standards Act 1974, Ontario or any other relevant provincial statutes.
10.	REHABILITATION
An employee receiving an amount of Long Term Disability Benefit may be asked to undergo reasonable rehabilitation measures which have been the subject of prior consultation with the employee's doctor, at no cost to the employee. If such employee refuses to undertake such rehabilitation, he may be declared not eligible for an amount of disability benefits.
11.	P H YS I C A L EXAMINATIONS
'The Company and/or insurer reserves the right to require periodic physical examinations throughout the duration of the employee's absence due to disability. Such examinations shall be conducted by a physician or physicians designated by the Company and/or insurer.
Cost of physical examinations, transportation and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses related thereto will be paid by the
117
insurer.
APPENDIX “D"
SUPPLEMENTARY HEALTH CARE PLAN
This description outlines the principal features of the Supplementary Health Care Group Insurance Plan.
The Deductible applies only once in any calendar year. The amount of your annual deductible is $10.00 per insured individual with a maximum family deductible of $20.00.
COVEREDEXPENSES
Covered Expenses included under the plan are the charges which you are required to pay for the following services and supplies received while you are insured, for the treatment of nonoccupational injuries, diseases or for pregnancy.
HOSPITAL, BOARD AND R 0 0 M AND OTHER NECESSARY SERVICES AND SUPPLIES up to the difference between the hospital's daily charge for ward and average semiprivate accommodations.
DRUGS AND MEDICINES obtainable only upon a physician's prescription and dispensed through a registered pharmacist.
PROFESSIONAL AMBULANCE SERVICE when used to transport the individual from the place where he is injured by an accident or stricken by a disease to the first hospital where treatment is given, or from a hospital to a convalescent hospital. No other expenses in connection with travel are included.
OUT PATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES AND SUPPLIES in connection with:
-	use of examination or operating room,
-	drugs, dressings or casts
-	anaesthesia in connection with the performance of a surgical procedure but not charges made by a resident physician or intern of a hospital.
118
REGISTERED GRADUATE NURSE (R.N.) other than a nurse who ordinarily resides in your home, or who is a member of your or your spouse's family, provided such services have been ordered by a physician.
CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL BOARD AND ROOM AND OTHER NECESSARY SERVICES AND SUPPLIES up to the difference between the hospital's daily charge for ward and average semi-private accommodations for as many as 120 days during any one period of disability provided the individual is admitted to the convalescent hospital within 14 days following confinement in a hospital. All confinements in a convalescent hospital will be considered as one period of disability unless confinements are separated by at least 90 days.
TREATMENT BY A. PROVINCIALLY LICENSED OSTEOPATH, NATUROPATH, PODIATRIST 0 R CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PRACTITIONER u p to $7.00 per treatment and up to $25 per disability for x-rays but not more than 30 visits in any calendar year for each type of practitioner. However, no benefit will be paid for any charges in excess of $7.00 per treatment and no benefit will be paid while the individual is entitled to similar benefits under any provincial health plan.
TREATMENT BY A PROVINCIALLY LICENSED CHIROPRACTOR up to $15 per visit and up to $25 per disability for x-rays, subject to a maximum of $300 per calendar year. No benefits will be paid while the individual is entitled to similar benefits under any provincial health plan.
PHYSIOTHERAPY by a person duly qualified and registered and legally engaged in the practice of physiotherapy, provided such services, by duration and type, have been prescribed by a physician.
TREATMENT BY A PERSON DULY QUALIFIED AND REGISTERED AND LEGALLY ENGAGED IN THE PRACTICE OF PSYCHOLOGY on the written recommendation of a physician up to $25 for the first visit and
119
$10 for each additional visit but not more than 30 visits in any calendar year.
TREATMENT BY A PERSON DULY QUALIFIED AND REGISTERED AND LEGALLY ENGAGED IN THE PRADTIDE OF ADUPUNDTURE for not more than $7 per visit, and not more than 30 visits per year.
TREATMENTS BY A MASSEUR who is duly qualified and registered and legally engaged in the practice of massage provided such services, by duration and type, have been prescribed by a physician but not more than $7 per visit, and not more than 30 visits in any calendar year.
SPEEDH THERAPY by a person duly qualified and registered and legally engaged in the practice of speech therapy provided such services, by duration and type, have been prescribed by a physician but not more than 30 visits in any calendar year.
PSYDHOANALYSIS - Physician charges in connection with psychoanalysis treatment are a covered expense where permitted by law.
OUT-OF-PROVINDE EMERGENDY TREATMENT as described in (1) and (2) below incurred in connection with emergency treatment while the individual is outside the province in which he normally resides or outside the country.
(1)	Charges by a general practitioner or specialist in excess of the amount allowed under the Provincial Hospital and Medical Plans in the individual's normal province of residence, provided such charges are reasonable and customary in the area in which they were incurred.
(2)	Up to $50 per day for charges for hospital confinement in excess of the allowance forward accommodation payable by the Provincial Hospital Plan in the individual's normal province of residence. No charges will be considered unless all or part of the daily charge
120
is payable under such Provincial Hospital Plan, nor for any type of accommodation for which the individual would not have been covered under this Plan had he been hospitalized in his normal province of residence.
RENTAL OF IRON L U N G , VVHEE'.LCHAIR 0 R OTHER DURABLE MEDICAL OR SURGICAL EQUIPMENT.
ARTIFICIAL LIMBS AND EYES, CRUTCHES, SPLINTS, CASTS, TRUSSES AND BRACES when prescribed or ordered by the attending physician.
ORTHOPAEDIC SHOES when prescribed by the attending physician, one pair per year subject to maximum payment of $50.00.
EMERGENCY DENTAL WORK OR COSMETIC SURGERY performed by a physician or dentist for the prompt repair of natural teeth or other body tissue and required as a result of a non-occupational accident.
ANAESTHESIA, OXYGEN, BLOOD AND BLOOD PRODUCTS.
ILEOSTOMY, COLOSTOMY AND DIABETIC SUPPLIES. DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORY AND X-RAY EXPENSES. EXCLUSIONS
Your Supplementary Health Care Plan does not cover:
(1)	Medical or other expenses in connection with periodic health check-ups or examinations, travel for health or cosmetic surgery.
(2)	Dental services unless treatment is the result of a nonoccupational accident. Service for accidental dental claim must be rendered within 6 months of the accident.
121
(3)	Any expenses for which a covered individual is not required to pay.
(4)	Any charges which are not permitted to be insured under legislation.
(5)	Any injury or sickness for which the insured is entitled to indemnity or compensation under any Workers' Compensation legislation.
(6)	Charges which are not recommended and approved by the attending physician.
(7)	Any injury or disease which results from an act of war or hostilities of any kind.
122
ADDENDUM TO THE AGREEMENT
between
ABITIBI-CONSOLIDATED INC.
IROQUOIS FALLS DIVISION (Hereinafter referred to as "The Company")
and
IWA CANADA - LOCAL 2995 (Hereinafter referred to as "The Union")
The Company and the Union agree that where it is necessary for the Company to increase its work force of employees listed on the seniority list for the sole purpose of carrying out seasonal silviculture work, (reforestation), the Company may hire additional employees to perform seasonal silviculture work under the provisions of the Collective Agreement and as amended by this Addendum for such seasonal employees.
1.	Re: Article V - Union Membership
a)	The employees hired to perform seasonal silviculture work shall not be required to make an application to become a member of the Union while they remain employed at such work.
b)	The Company shall put these employees on check-off at the time of hire and deduct the Union's monthly membership dues from monies due them and remit same to the Union Office monthly, accompanied with the list of said employees.
2.	Re: Article VI -Vacations with Pay
For such aforesaid employees, vacation with pay credits shall be paid at the rate of 4% of his gross earnings and the total accrued amount of credits shall be paid by cheque to
123
each employee at the time of termination or lay-off from such seasonal employment.
3.	Rc: Article VII - Holidays with Pay
a)	Such aforesaid employees who qualify under Section
12.02	shall be paid without the performance of work for the holidays listed in 7.01 excluding floating holidays.
The employee must have worked the last scheduled shift before, and the first scheduled shift after the holiday, except when the employee is absent due to a confirmed illness or accident, in which case the employee shall be paid.
Employees absent due to a confirmed illness or accident shall only be entitled to one holiday after the start of such absence.
b)	The provisions set out in Sections 7.02 (b), 7.02 (c),
7.02	(d), 7.02 (e), 7.02 (f) and 7.03 are not applicable.
4.	Re: Article X -Working and Living Conditions
a)	Where silvicultural work is to be carried out in isolated areas from Camps and such areas are not accessible from communities on a daily commuter basis, the Company may set up suitable temporary camps to accommodate such said employees while so engaged.
b)	Employees who have established seniority in
accordance with Article XII, are eligible to receive a subsidy of up to $40.00 towards the purchase of I pair of safety boots, per planting season. Original receipts must be presented to Camp Clerk before payment will be made.
124-
5.	Re: Article XII -Seniority
a)	The Company recognizes the principles of seniority for the aforesaid employees. Seniority will govern, subject to reasonable consideration of skill, efficiency and ability in promotions, transfers, lay-off and re-hires. Seniority will govern on a camp basis.
b)	Employment of any new employee shall be considered probationary until he has worked thirty (30) days within a six month period.
e) A separate list shall be established and maintained of the aforesaid employees, which will show the accumulated work days plus paid holidays of each employee while so employed. This shall be referred to as the silvicultural seniority list.
d) An employee, on the silvicultural seniority list hired on other production operations, will be required to complete a further thirty (30) day probationary period in accordance with Section 12.02.
Upon completion, his silvicultural seniority from the last date of hire shall be transferred to the seniority list as established and maintained under Article XII of the Collective Agreement.
6.	The provisions set out under:
Article	XIV	- Medical, Surgical, Drug Plans,
Article	XV	- Life Insurance,
Article	XVI	- Weekly Indemnity,
Article	XVII	- Bereavement Pay,
Article	XVIII	- Jury Duty Allowance,
125
Article XIX	- Dental Care Plan
Article XX	-Long Term Disability Plan
Article XXI	- Pension Plan
Article XXIII	- Vision Care Plan
are not applicable for the aforesaid employees
7.	Re: Commuters
When marshalling points are not established in the Collective Agreement which are suitable to a particular silviculture Commuter operation, they shall be established by negotiations between the Company and the Union prior to commencement of such operations.
126