COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
between
RICHMOND TRAWLERS LIMITED
PETIT DE GRAT, NOVA SCOTIA
hereinafter referred to as the “Company"
and
NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS UNION OF CANADA (CAW — CANADA) LOCAL 1970
hereinafter referred to as the “Union”
00088 (03)
INDEX
ARTICLE	PAGE
ARTICLE I	PURPOSE..................... 5
ARTICLE II	RECOGNITION................. 5
ARTICLE III	MEMBERSHIP.................. 6
ARTICLE IV	CHECK-OFF................... 6
ARTICLE V	WATCHES..................... 7
ARTICLE VI	SAFETY AND HEALTH .......... 7
ARTICLE VII	DISCIPLINE AND/OR
DISCHARGE .................. 9
ARTICLE VIII	SHORETIME...................11
ARTICLE IX	SENIORITY...................15
ARTICLE X	WORK-IN-PORT RATES..........18
ARTICLE XI	COMPANY RIGHTS..............20
ARTICLE XII	GENERAL.....................20
ARTICLE XIII	WEIGHING AND GRADING.	... 24
ARTICLE XIV	PURCHASE OF PROVISIONS	24
ARTICLE XV	PAYMENT OF CREW.............25
ARTICLE XVI	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.	. .	.26
ARTICLE XVII	ARBITRATION ................26
ARTICLE XVIII	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS.	. .	.28
ARTICLE XIX	INSURANCE ................^28-
ARTICLE XX	DURATION OF AGREEMENT	{2?
LAY ARRANGEMENT.............30
FISH PRICES.................32
ARTICLE I — PURPOSE
1:01 The general purpose of this Agreement is, in ■the mutual interest of the Company and crew members, to provide for the most reasonable operation of the vessels covered by this Agreement under methods which will further to the fullest extent possible the safety and welfare of the crew members, together with efficiency and economy of operation, it is recognized by this Agreement to be the duty of the Union, the Company and the crew members to co-operate fully, individually and collectively, for the advancement of these conditions.
ARTICLE II — RECOGNITION 2:01 The Company hereby agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the purpose of entering into a Collective Bargaining relationship with the Company on behalf of all the crew members, excluding Captains, of the ships owned and/or bare boat chartered by the company, and normally operating out of. the port of Petit De Grab Nova Scotia and engaged in fishing, hereinafter called the “Bargaining Unit".
2.02 The Company shall not make any individual agreement with the crew directly or indirectly in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
2:03 The Company shall allow officials of the Union access to the wharves and offices and vessels of the Company for the transaction of Union business. Union officials will be allowed access to the Company vessels only with the permission of the Shore Captain, Plant Manager or Designated Manager. It is understood that the presence of Union officials at the offices or wharves or on the vessels of the Company must not interfere with the normal Company operation.
2:04 The crew of each vessel may elect a steward to represent them in dealing with matters concerning the administration of this Agreement. However, failure
4
of a crew member to act as steward shall not delay sailing. There shall also be a fleet steward representing the entire fleet.
ARTICLE III — MEMBERSHIP 3:01 The Company agrees that all crew members, other than the Captains, will become Union members before starting a trip on a Company vessel and must remain members in good standing as a condition of continuing as a crewman on a Company vessel.
3:02 Upon hiring, the Boat Captain or Shore Captain shall inform the new crewman of the existence of the Union and the name of his boat steward. The Company will supply the Union with sufficient copies of this Agreement, and the boat steward will then supply the new crewman with a copy of this Agreement The Union will supply the Company with updated lists containing the names of its officers.
3:03 In hiring new crew members, first consideration will be given to locally situated members of the Union, provided qualifications are sufficient.
ARTICLE IV — CHECK-OFF
4:01 Upon receipt of a written authorization signed by a crewman, the Company agrees to deduct initiation fees, rejoining fees, monthly dues and special assessments from his share of the first settlement of each month and the Company will transmit the same to the Secretary-Treasurer of the National Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural implement Workers Union of Canada (CAW -CANADA), Local 1970, within the calendar month together with a list of names from whom the deduction was made. The Company will submit to the Union in addition to the name of the crewman, the address, telephone number and Social Insurance number. The T-4 slips issued to the crewmen at the end of the year will contain a statement of the Union dues deducted during the year.
4:02 The Secretary-Treasurer of the Union shall
notify, in writing, the amount of deductions to be made from time to time. A crew member shall not be permitted to revoke a signed authorization for such deductions during the term of this Agreement
ARTICLE V —WATCHES
5:01 Watches shall be run on an eight (8) hours on, four (4) hours off basis while fishing and four (4) hours on, eight (8) hours off basis while steaming, laying or jogging.
5:02 Watches for captain, mates and engineers shall be on a six (6) hours on and six (6) hours off basis. 5:03 No crewman will be required to remain on deck for more than twelve (12) hours except as provided in clause 6:01.
5:04 Watches shall not be broken without just cause. It is agreed that the Captain can break watches at his discretion. Unwarranted breaking of watches may be subject to grievance procedure.
ARTICLE VI — SAFETY AND HEALTH 6:01 Any work necessary for the saving of the crew, ship or equipment or saving of other crews shall be performed on immediate call by all crewmen. The Captain shall be the sole judge.
6:02 There shall be a Safety Committee comprised of a representative of the Company and the Fleet Steward. The Safety Committee shall make an inspection of each trawler every six (6) months. The report of the Safety Committee will be available to the Union. The Company recognizes the safety and health of the crew as its first and most important duty and will, during the course of the operation, take all steps necessary to effectuate such duty. No crewman will be required to endanger his personal safety in order to save equipment A major safety drill will be carried out at the time of the annual refit of each trawler.
6:03 Two (2) men shall be in the pilot house at all
6
times while the vessel is steaming, jogging and laying. 6:04 The Company agrees that all trawlers shall at all times be equipped with adequate lifeboats and launching derricks and adequate lifesaving equipment including lamps, flares, food and water containers, oil, compass, first aid kits, inflatable lifebelts and any other necessary provisions in accordance''with Canadian Steamship Inspection requirements.
6:05 The Company agrees to put the ship in neat sanitary condition before the start of the trip. The crew will bring the ship back in a neat sanitary condition at the completion of the trip.
6:06 A medicine chest and first aid kit shall be furnished on each vessel, stocked in accordance with the recommendations of the Department of Transport. The medicine chest shall be in the Captain’s room; the first aid kit shall be in the galley. The Boat Steward shall be allowed to check the medicine chest at any time in the interest of the crew.
6:07 Where possible, two (2) qualified first-aiders shall be aboard each trawler. The Company will ensure that there are sufficient personnel trained on a continuing basis to meet the requirements of this clause. The Crew members will suffer no loss in benefits and will be selected initially from the ship’s officers.
6:08 (A) If a crew member, while on board, gets hurt or sick to the extent that he cannot complete a trip, he shall be compensated in the following manner: on a sea day basis or on his crew share on the estimated trip value at that time, whatever is the greater. A doctor's certificate must be supplied by the crew member in all cases. If the crew member is not replaced, the remainder of the crew will complete the trip and the Company will compensate them for the portion of the trip that he did not complete.
(B)	In the event of an illness or injury at sea, the Company will choose and pay the transportation costs of the crewman if he is landed outside his home port to his home port.
6:09 One (1} shower will be provided aboard each vessel.
6:10 Any safety regulation which the Company may now have in force for the safety of the vessel or crew members and any further regulation or amendments to existing regulations which the Company may put into effect during the term of this Agreement and which are brought to the attention of the crew members shall be strictly adhered to by all crew members. Such further regulations or amendments to existing regulations shall be discussed with the Union representative.
6:11 Drills in safety will be carried out at least quarterly.
6:12 SAFETY AND EDUCATION
The Company agrees to increase the Health and Safety Education Program:
1 st year	$15,000
2nd year	$ 2,500 per	vessel
3rd year	$ 1,250 per	vessel
Also, flotation vests and hard hats to be
placed on all vessels. Scot Air Packs to
be placed on all vessels.
ARTICLE VII — DISCIPLINE AND/OR DISCHARGE
7:01 When a Captain and/or Company intends to discipline, suspend or discharge any crew member, the Company shall give a written signed reason for such discipline, suspension or discharge to the crew member with a copy to the Union within the forty-eight (48) hour landing period. The crewman’s records will be reviewed and each offence will be removed
from his record after one (1) year from date of such offence.
7:02 A crew member may be refused permission to take a trip off, unless he has given twenty-four (24) hours notice, in writing, prior to the scheduled reporting.time. The number of trips off may be limited to three (3) per year which will include-his annual vacation time. Permission to take a trip off may be limited to one (1) crew member per vessel.
7:03 When a man is discharged away from the vessels home port, he shall receive his share of fish on board at the time of the incident and the Company shall choose and provide his transportation and lodging back to the vessels home port. When a man quits away from home port the Company assumes no responsibility for his transportation and lodging.
7:04 Any crew members who quit at sea or leave a vessel before the completion of a trip will not receive any share for that trip.
7:05 The Company will provide employment records for all crew members upon being signed on to any vessel in the fleet, which shall contain length of service kept up to date, rank or job performed with dates of promotions and records of conduct.
7:06 A crew member may be subject to disciplinary action, including discharge. Some of the reasons for disciplinary action are as follows:
(A)	Failure to promptly comply with all lawful orders of the Captain while on board the ship:
(B)	Failure to be present at scheduled
reporting time without just cause. The Company will not be responsible for paying any transportation or any other costs incurred by the crew member.
(C)	The bringing or using of alcohol or illegal drugs on board the ship. Reporting to a vessel while under the influence of alcohol
or illegal drugs to the extent that the crew member is offensive to other crew members or to the extent that he is incapable of performing his work.
(D)	The theft or damage of Company property.
(E)	Fighting or using physical force against
the Captain or any other crew members.
(F)	Serious neglect of duty.
(G)	Failure to comply with Company rules.
(H)	The selling of or the removal of more than 20 pounds of fish per trip for personal use.
(I)	Deliberate interference with the sailing of a vessel.
7:07 The Company shall not discriminate against any Union member because of his past union activities.
7:08 Matters of a disciplinary nature or expressions of dissatisfaction with the performance of a crew member shall be recorded in writing and placed in the personnel file of the crew member with a copy to the Union. Such matters, if not recorded, shall not be considered as part of a crewman’s record.
ARTICLE VIII — SHORE TIME 8:0t (A) All crew members shall have forty-eight (48) hours ashore between completed trips unless a shorter period is agreed upon between the crew and the Captain.
(B)	A vessel shall not be scheduled to sail
on a fishing voyage after 1:00 p.m. on a Saturday, au.'j time on a Sunday or after 4:00 p.m. on any day unless otherwise agreed upon between the crew and the Captain.
(C)	When a vessel sails on Labour Day,
Dominion Day, Thanksgiving Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day and Remembrance Day, the crew will receive $39.00 each in addition to their earnings.
10
8:02 When at the request of the Company, a vessel lands a regular trip at any port in Nova Scotia or. Prince Edward Island, the Company shall choose and pay transportation for the crew members from the port of landing to Petit De Grat and return, so as to allow crew members forty-eight (48) hours in home port
8:03 When at the request of the Company a vessel, lands a regular trip at any port outside Nova Scotia or Prince Edward Island, and all crew members remain with the vessel, the Company shall grant each crew member seventy-two (72) hours shore time on the completion of his next trip.
8:04 (A) The normal scheduled repotting time for a fishing voyage shall be set not earlier than 8:00 a.m. on any day. Notice of this reporting time shall be posted on the Company bulletin board no later than 4:00 p.m. on the previous day. Crew members must be on board and available for duty at the scheduled reporting time. If the sailing of a vessel is delayed for mechanical problems, notice of rescheduled reporting time will not be less than three (3) hours in advance. Crew members must be on board and available for duty at the rescheduled reporting time.
(B) Crew members who report for scheduled sailing and the sailing is cancelled or rescheduled because of excess fish and trawler landings, such crew members shall be paid four (4) hours at work-in-port rates.
8:05 (A)‘ When the scheduled sailing of a vessel is delayed for mechanical problems, crew members may be requested to stand-by for four (4) hours and the Company shall pay each crew member at work-in-port rates. Waiting time will begin at posted
11
(B)
reporting time and in all circumstances crew members must remain on board until released or until the four (4) hours have expired; otherwise, they shall be considered to have quit such vessel.
When a vessel does not sail on its scheduled sailing day because of mechanical problems, the above four (4) hours will not apply, but the Company will pay the crew members who were available at
the scheduled reporting time a lay day as follows:
Mate and	Other Crew
Chief
1990	—$36.20
1991	— 37.65
1992	— 38.40
Members
1990	— 30.70
1991	— 31.95
1992	— 32.60
(C) In the event that a trawler is delayed in port for more than sixty (60) hours for reasons other than unloading, repairing nets, bad weather, waiting for crewmen and failure of the electronic equipment, the Company agrees to pay each crew member to a maximum of five (5) lay days at the following rates:
Mate and	Other Crew
Chief	Members
1990	—$36.20
1991	— 37.65
1992	— 38.40
1990	— 30.70
1991	— 31.95
1992	— 32.60
Crew members must sail on such delayed trips to qualify for compensation above.
(D) When the sailing of a vessel is delayed for any reason other than mechanical trouble, the Company shall not pay crew members for standing by. However, it is required that crew members stand by for one (D hour after notification to the Shore Captain of such trouble by the Boat
12
Captain and Boat Steward. A vessel delayed for these reasons will be rescheduled for sailing at the earliest possible hour but no later than 4:00 p.m.
8:06 Sailing time for vessels coming in and Out for bad weather, landing a crewman, minor repairs or other minor delays, shall be the earliest possible hour after landing, regardless of the day or hour of the day.
8:07 When a vessel must sail to another port while not on a fishing trip, the crew shall consist of the required crewmen to meet Canadian Steamship Inspection regulations but with no less than seven (7) men. The seven crewmen will consist of the Captain, Mate, Chief, Second and Cook and two other crew members based on seniority. When in the opinion of the Captain and/or Shore Captain icing conditions appear to be a hazard to the voyage, two
(2)	additional crew members will be assigned to the vessels. Compensation for time involved shall be paid at work-in-port rates.
8:08 (A) All vessels shall be in port by December 23, before noon, and no vessels shall be scheduled to sail before January 2.
(B)	Crewmen who agree to sail on December 28, 29, 30, and 31 shall be compensated in accordance with the following:
1.	Basic bonus for each crew member sailing December 28, 29,30, and 31 is one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125.00)
2.	Bonus on vessels sailing on the seventh day or less after landing, including the $125.00 above is as follows:
LANDING DATE SAILING DATE
December 21 December 22 December 22 December 23 December 23
December 28 December 28 December 29 December 28 December 29
BONUS
$155.00
$185.00
$155.00
$215.00
$185.00
13
December 23	December 30	$155.00
December 24	December 28	$245.00
December 24	December 29	$215.00
December 24	December 30	$185.00
December 24	December 31	$155.00
3.	Crewmen who choose to sail on trawlers sailing on December 28, 29, 30 and 31 shall be reinstated in their regular positions without loss of rights or seniority at the earliest possible date.
8:09 (A) All new gear shall be made up by the crew but will not delay boat sailings beyond the regular forty-eight (48) hours.
(B) During annual refit, new gear may be made up with all crewmen involved being compensated at work-in-port rates.
8:10 (A) A trawler will sail if at the scheduled reporting time winds of thirty-one (31) knots or less are present as reported by the coast guard station in Louisbourg. This report will be the only accepted report. A decision on whether or not the vessel
w'!! taiUn MfinriQ ii)./ixnfisa.of .tW<$'-£VJS (31) knots shall be made by the following personnel: Shore Captain, Boat Captain, Mate, Bo’sun and Third Hand.
(B)	A trawler delayed for the foregoing may be rescheduled at any time during that same day up to 4:00 p.m. if conditions are predicted to improve. The above will not applv:
(1)	if any Company vessel is actively fishing in the areas to which that scheduled vessel is sailing.
(2)	if a Company vessel has previously sailed on that same day and under the same conditions.
This clause is to apply only between December 1 and March 31, and only to the existing side trawler
14
fleet. Any crew members refusing to sail in accordance with the foregoing shall be considered to have quit the Company.
ARTICLE IX — SENIORITY 9:01 Seniority shall mean the length of continuous service with the Company from the latest date of hire, which shall be the first day the employee reports for sailing. Continuous service shall include leave of absence, vacations, union business, compensation and layoff.
9:02 New employees will be regarded a% probationary employees for the first three (3) trips, but upon successful completion of such probationary period the employee’s seniority shall be dated as of the latest date of hire. At any time during the probationary period the Company shall have the right to discharge such employee if the employee is unsatisfactory in the judgement of the Company. The grievance procedure provided in this Agreement shall net be available to such probationary employee for such discharge.
9:03 A fleet seniority list showing the length of service for all crew members will be posted in the plant and aboard each boat, with a copy supplied to the Fleet Steward, and updated every three (3) months. Relievers will be on a separate list.
9:04 In all matters concerning layoff and recall of crew members, the Company shall select individuals on the basis of seniority and ability. Ability shall be defined as the crewman's capability of performing the work at hand.
It being understood that bumping is only permitted in a layoff situation, which will include the retiring of a vessel.
9:05 (A) Promotions and vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be filled on the basis of seniority, conduct and ability, and when ability is sufficient to perform the
15
requested duties, subject to the qualification standards of the Canada Steamship Inspection regulations, seniority shall govern. To avoid disruption of sailing schedules, temporary replacements may be used.
(B)	Temporary promotions and vacancies shall be filled firstly on a boat basis; secondly on a reliever basis; and thirdly on a fleet basis.
(C)	Permanent promotions and vacancies shall be filled firstly on a boat basis, for the position of Cook, Bo’sun, Deckhands, Engineer and Mate; secondly on a fleet basis; and thirdly on a reliever basis. The above noted positions shall be posted by the Company in the Guard-house and aboard each vessel, and the posting period shall be fifteen (15) days. Applications must be made in writing and within the posting period.
(D)	When the Company is notified in writing by a crewmember that he will be off for 3 trips or longer, the Company will offer his position to available qualified regular trawlermen based on seniority before going to the relievers list.
r.row momhors whn wish tn transtar In the
same position on another trawler in the fleet shall advise the Company in writing. Should a permanent vacancy occur in the position requested, the crewmen will be considered on the basis of ability and seniority within the fleet. To accommodate such transfers, sailing schedules are not to be disrupted; any loss of time at sea or earnings as a result of the transfer are to be borne by the crew member.
9:07 Crew members who have attained seniority and whose trawlers are out of service for periods in excess
16
of two (2) weeks as a result of mechanical breakdown or refit who wish to sail as temporary replacements on other vessels shall advise the Company in writing. Such crew members shall be given preference in filling temporary vacancies on other trawlers in that port, where the Company is aware of the vacancy at least six (6) hours prior to the scheduled sailing time.
9:08 Crew members shall retain and accrue seniority while:
(1)	on leave of absence authorized by the
Company including leave of absence for union business;
(2)	normal tie-up;
(3)	on sick leave or Worker’s Compensation
(subject to 9:10);
(4)	if promoted outside the bargaining unit for a period of up to one year;
(5)	where the crew member is waiting
approved transfer to another trawler in the fleet;
(6)	while on layoff up to twelve (12) months. 9:09 Crew members shall lose seniority when:
(1)	discharged for just cause;
(2)	quit;
(3)	on sick leave or Worker’s Compensation (subject to 9:10);
(4)	fail to return to work following a leave of absence without just cause;
(5)	fail to return to work following recall from layoff;
(6)	layoff in excess of twelve (12) months;
(7)	if promoted outside the bargaining unit for a period in excess of twelve (12) months.
9:10 The status of a crewman on sick leave or Worker’s Compensation will be reviewed by the parties at least bi-annually; and where the union request or there is mutual agreement, crew members will be removed from the seniority list.
17
ARTICLE X — WORK-IN-PORT RATES
10:01 Work-in-port rates shall be as follows:
Mate &	Bos’n,	Other
Chief	Second	Crew
& Cook	Members
1990	- 10.80 1990 - 10.10	1990	- 9.35
1991	- 11.25 1991 - 10.50 1991 - 9.70
1992	- 11.45	1992 - 10.70	1992 - 9.90
10:02 When it is required to move a trawler while in port, it shall be done by shore personnel except in cases of emergency, inclement weather or other circumstances when it is deemed necessary by the Company that crew members move the trawler. Crew members shall be paid for such work at work-in-port rates.
10:03 (A) T'tfb'Curnpany tJtftilrpay the Coofc up to a maximum of ten (10) hours at work-in-port rates to prepare meals while in port other than home port. Payment shall apply only during the hours 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and only if the period involved is in excess of four (4) hours.
(B)	The Company agrees to allow the
following amour,*, for groceries while in other than home port for reasons other than bad weather Food Allowance
1990	9.70
1991	10.10
1992	10.30
(C)	Engineers requested to stand-by while
in port shall be compensated at work-in-port rates. Payment will not apply when in port other than home port if the time involved is less than four (4) hours.
18
(D)	If engineers are requested to work while in port they will be compensated at work-in-port rates for the time involved, but will not be eligible for stand-by pay.
10:04 Crew members required to work or stand-by while in port will not be eligible for lay day payment, but will be compensated at work-in-port rates for a minimum of four (4) hours.
10:05 (A) For changing ends on warps, the Company will pay a mate and/or bo'sun and/or engineer and the necessary additional crew members up to a combined maximum of sixty-four (64) man hours at the appropriate rates. No boats shall be delayed beyond the seventy-two (72) hours permitted between trips for changing ends on warps.
(B) When it is agreed that a vessel should take new marked warps it shall be the practice that the old warps shall be removed from the winch before landing the regular fishing trip. The Company will pay the necessary crew members a combined maximum of twenty (20) man hours at the appropriate rates to take a new set of marked warps.
10:06 It is understood and agreed that crew members will not be paid to perform those duties normally carried out by crew members.
10:07 (A) If a vessel develops mechanical trouble during the trip, other than with electronic equipment, and directed to return to port for repairs, crewmen shall be compensated on a sea day basis provided that the time involved is greater than eight
(8)	hours. Should the vessel be delayed beyond the first day, normal lay day payment will apply.
19
(B) If a vessel returns to home port and the trip is terminated the payment in 10:07 (A) shall not apply.
ARTICLE XI — COMPANY RIGHTS
11:01 It is the exclusive function of the Company to maintain order, discipline, and efficiency; hire, classify, terminate, transfer, promote, demote, and discipline crew members; provided that a claim of discriminatory promotion, demotion, and transfer, or a claim that a crew member has been disciplined or terminated without just cause, may be the subject of a grievance and dealt with as hereinafter provided. 11:02 It is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and location of vessels, the species to be fished, the methods of operating, sailing and work schedules, kinds and locations of equipment to be used, processing methods and to establish standards of performance for all operations and crewmen.
11:03 The Company may establish from time to time rules and regulations governing crew members covered by this Agreement providing that such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE XII — GENERAL
12:01 The Company shall deduct income tax from the settlement of each crew member in accordance with the Bi-Weekly Tax Schedule. The Company, however, does not ensure that the crew members pay the proper amount of income tax.
12:02 The Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay to any crew member for the purpose of attending school in order to improve his skills as a crewman provided the Company shall not
20
be bound to grant such leave to more than one crewman per vessel at any one time.
12:03 (A) If a trawler is required to make a tow of a vessel other than a Richmond/Usen vessel, fifty five percent (55%) of the insurance received as a result of making the tow shall be divided equally among the crew members of the towing vessel.
(B) If a trawler is required to make a tow of, stand-by, or assist another Richmond/ Usen vessel, the crew of that trawler shall be compensated at work-in-port rates to a maximum of $96.00 per day per crewman. This rate is to apply from the time the trawler stops fishing until it returns to fishing.
12:04 (A) The crew of a side trawler shall be thirteen (13) men including the Captain, but a trawler may sail with less than that number. The shortage of one crew member at reporting time may not delay the vessel sailing. When a vessel is on redfish, the standard crew shall be reduced to twelve (12); however, if the thirteenth man is readily available and is a member of the bargaining unit he will be allowed to sail, provided the majority of the crew agrees.
(B)	When a vessel makes a trip with less than thirteen (13) men, or twelve (12) men in the case of redfish, the Captain shall obtain from the Boat Steward a signed crew list, excluding the mate, first and second engineer; and the cook, stating whether the majority of the crew will make the nexttrip with that same number.
(C)	The crew will be 13 men but when dressing fish, it will increase to 14.
12:05 New conditions or systems arising during the life of this Agreement will, before being implemented, be the topic of discussion between the Company and the Union.
12:06 It is understood and agreed that the Company shall fulfill all its obligations relative to crew members required under the Worker’s Compensation Act of Nova Scotia and the Unemployment Insurance Act. 12:07 The Company will pay fifty percent (50%) of the crew members Canada Pension Plan annual premium.
12:08 Any customs or conditions not covered by the Agreement presently enjoyed by the crew members will not be altered or changed during the term of this Agreement.
12:09 Upon landing, each crewman will be advanced approximately seventy-five percent (75%) of the expected net settlement with the remainder being paid as soon as possible, but in no case less than six (6) hours before sailing time. With final settlement, each crewman will receive a copy of the settlement sheet with a copy of same to be forwarded to the Union.
12:10 Engineers will not be expected to paintengine room at sea but will keep it neat and clean.
12:11 The Company agrees to grant a clothing allowance to each crew member, payable at the end of the calendar year, at the rate of $7.30 per trip completed.
Clothing Allowance
12:12 If a trawler is lost or a fire causes loss of personal clothing and gear, each crew member shall be compensated for his loss, but compensation will
1990
1991
1992
$7.30
$7.60
$7.75
22
not exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per man.
12:13 Throughout this Agreement, the masculine includes the feminine and the plural includes the singular, and vice versa as the context may require.
12:14 (A) Should a crewman suffer a bereavement and have to be brought ashore before the completion of a trip, he shall receive his full share and earnings as though he had completed the trip. Such payment shall originate from the crew’s share. The remainder of the crew shall be required to complete the trip.
(B)	Bereavement shall apply to the crew-
man's spouse, child, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, or father-in-law.
(C)	Should the Company decide a replacement is needed, it shall compensate the replacement for his portion of the trip.
(D)	Should a crew member suffer a bereavement and have to be brought ashore before the completion of the trip, the Company shall choose and provide transportation to his home.
12:15 If a crewman wants to transfer to another vessel, he shall submit a written request for such transfer to the Shore Captain who will make the transfer at the first opportunity of a vacancy.
12:16 The Quality Control supervisor shall examine the ice remaining on every vessel after discharge, and if, in his opinion, any ice is unsuitable for the next trip, he shall instruct that the unsuitable ice be removed before re-icing the vessel.
12:17 To ensure prompt departures the Company agrees to have a vessels icing completed before the scheduled sailing time.
23
ARTICLE XIII -WEIGHING AND GRADING 13:01 The crew of each vessel shall be allowed to appoint a person to represent them in checking the weighing and grading of fish landed and the disposal of fish graded as scrap. In any dispute which arises regarding weighing, grading of fish landed and the disposal. Qf. fish graded as scrap, the Boat Steward shall act on behalf of the crew. Wages of any person appointed by the crew to check the weighing, grading and disposal of fish shall be paid by the crew. The final decision on quality shall be made by a Federal Fisheries Officer acceptable by both parties.
13:02 The Company boats will have priority in unloading and icing over boats to be unloaded at the plant.
13:03 The crew is responsible for the proper handling, storage, and icing of fish aboard the vessel. However, the crew shall not be penalized for fish rejected for poor quality which is over 240 hours old at the time of discharge.
13:04 The Company will endeavor to ensure that quality does not suffer as a result of any of its actions. 13:05 All fish will be unloaded directly from the trawler and weighed over scales approved and stamped by the Department of Consumer & Corporate Affairs and monitored regularly by the Union. The scales will be checked before the beginning of each shift.
13:08 Deductions for reject fish which amount to five percent (5%) or more of the gross weight will be certified in writing by a Federal Fisheries Officer provided one is available and willing to do so.
ARTICLE XIV — PURCHASE OF PROVISIONS
14:01 It is agreed that the cook shall be entitled to shop for provisions in order to obtain the best value for the crew, subject only to the right of the Boat’ Steward, on behalf of the crew, to give further direction
24
if necessary to protect their interest. Cooks will post grocery lists on the bulletin board.
14:02 Crews shall receive adequate hot meals and regular mug-ups regardless of time of sailing on departure days or the estimated time of arrival in port and throughout the trip. Any disputes regarding food not quickly settled with the cook shall be taken up with the Captain by the Boat Steward. Fresh water shall be available aboard the vessel at all times.
14:03 Clean mattresses and mattress covers will be provided once per year at the beginning of the year. Galley and accommodation utensils and equipment will be surveyed once per year at the beginning of the year and replaced if necessary. During the course of the year, these items will only be replaced by the Company if the defective items are returned to the Company. Otherwise, their replacement will be the crews responsibility. All crew members shall be supplied with two complete sets of sheets, blankets and pillow slips, and one pillow supplied by the Company. Crew members will be required to deposit with the Company seventy-five percent (75%) of the cost of these items. The Company agrees to replace these articles without cost provided the worn out items are turned in. The Company further agrees to refund the deposit of seventy-five percent (75%) of the cost of all articles when such articles are returned in good condition *j..jJ.wkffriBqutRntRi,iSy<r crew member who has terminated his employment. The Company will not be responsible for loss of these items at any time.
ARTICLE XV — PAYMENTS TO CREW 15:01 The Lay arrangement for determining the amount of each crew member’s earnings is set forth in a separate Schedule “A” which shall be attached to and form part of the Agreement.
15:02 The settlement sheet used by the Company to show the value of the catch and the gross earnings
25
of each crew member, shall not show the deductions of each crew member. Personal deductions shall be shown on the cheque stub of the crew member.
ARTICLE XVI — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 16:01 If a crewman or the Union alleges a breach or violation of this Agreement, the respect or respects in which it is alleged that the Agreement has been violated shall be indicated promptly to the Captain who shall log the grievance and meet with the aggrieved crewman and the Boat Steward and shall deal with the grievance and advise the complainant of his disposition of the issue within twelve (12) to twenty-four (24) hours.
16:02 If the response of the Captain does not settle the matter to the satisfaction off the complainant and the Union, the Union may refer the issue, in writing, to the Company at the first opportunity. The Company shall respond, in writing, as to its disposition of the issue within one to two days, if at all possible, of receipt of the written complaint. The Fleet Steward and/or Union President, or such other officials of the Union as he may designate, may be brought in at this stage if so desired.
16:03 If the response from the Company does not settle the matter to the satisfaction of the Union, the Union may then refer the issue to arbitration for a final decision.
16:04 An official of the Union is empowered to act on behalf of the crewman, even in his absence.
ARTICLE XVII — ARBITRATION
17:01 A matter in dispute between the Company and
Union involving the interpretation, application,
operation or alleged violation of any article of this
Agreement may, in the event of failure to reach
agreement thereon, be referred by either party to
arbitration.
17:02 The party desiring to submit a matter to
26
arbitration shall, within thirty (30) days, deliver to the other party a notice of intention to arbitrate. This notice shall state the matter at issue and state in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted. The notice shall also stipulate the nature of the relief or remedy sought.
17:03 Within ten (10) days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, both parties shall meet to agree on the selection of the Arbitrator.
17:04 If the parties cannot reach agreement in the selection of an Arbitrator within two (2) days, then either party may request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Nova Scotia to appoint the Arbitrator.
17:05 After the Arbitrator has been appointed by the foregoing procedure, he shall convene a meeting within five (5) days, if possible, with both parties present. After hearing the evidence of both parties, the Arbitrator shall render a decision within five (5) days.
17:06 Whenever the incident causing the grievance includes loss in earnings or a loss in benefits, the Arbitrator is empowered to order that such loss or part of such loss shall be reimbursed or restored to the employee if the Arbitrator determines that such mitigation of loss is warranted based upon the evidence submitted. In a disciplinary case, the Arbitrator is empowered to order a reduced penalty.
17:07 The decision of the Arbitrator on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to add.tr', subtract .tanm, aifsi, or amend *his Agreement in any respect.
17:08 Each party shall pay its own cost and the fees and expenses of its witnesses. The fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties.
27
ARTICLE XVIII — STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
t8:01 The Union agrees that it will not cause, authorize or sanction nor permit its members to cause to take part in any sit-down or any strike or stoppage of any of the Company’s operations or any curtailment of work, restriction of or interference with production, or any picketing on the Company’s property during the term of this Agreement.
18:02 The Company agrees that it will not cause, sanction or encourage any form of lockout during the term of this Agreement and will use one hundred percent of its efforts to this end.
ARTICLE XIX — INSURANCE
19:01 The Company agrees to participate in an Insurance Plan for crew members, such plan will be the Fishermen’s Benefit Trust Plan.
19:02 The Company will agree to pay the full cost of $50,000 life insurance and $50,000 accidental death and dismembermentfor each crew member. Extended health care benefits will be on a fifty-fifty basis on all benefits. The weekly indemnity will be $250.00 per week. The Company agrees to provide coverage for vision care up to a maximum of $125.00.
ARTICLE XX — DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT
20:01 This Agreement shall become effective January T ,'fi£3lrard shall remain in effect until June nn, -mop and thereafter shall be automatically renewed from year to year, unless in any year within ninety (90) days preceding the date of this Agreement, a written notice is given by either party informing the latter that it wishes to terminate or amend this Agreement or to negotiate a new one.
28
20:02 In any event, negotiations for a new Agreement or amendments to the existing Agreement shall take place between the parties within fifteen (15) days after receipt of such notice.
Signed on behalf of the parties, this 31st day of August, 1990.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOH THE UNION:
29
SCHEDULE“A"
LAY ARRANGEMENT
1.	The gross stock of each fishing trip is shared 37% to the crew members, 63% to the Company.
2.	From the crew’s share of 37%, the cost of food, provisions and authorized deductions for the trip are the only deductions, and no other deductions will be made.
3.	The resulting amount of the crew’s share is divided equally among all the crew members, including the Captain.
4.	In addition to the foregoing share, the Company will pay the following amounts to the specified
occupations:		
(a)	Mate	-214% of the gross stock
(b)	Chief	-214% of the gross stock
(c)	Second	-114% of the gross stock
(d)	Cook	- %% of the gross stock
(e)	Bo’sun	- %% of the gross stock
(0	Third Hand	- 14% of the gross stock
(g)	Winch Hand	-14% of the gross stock
(h)	Deck Hand	- %% of the gross stock
(i)	leer	- %% of the gross stock
0)	In addition	-the Third Hand and leer will
receive $6.50 for each 10,000 pounds of good fish landed, however, this payment will only apply if at least 90% of the fish landed is acceptable for processing.
5.	In any case where the Gross Stock of a scheduled trip is not sufficient to produce $43.15 minimum settlement per tnp day (dock to dock) for each crew member, the Company agrees to add sufficient funds to make up the difference.
30
Lay Arrangement Sea Days
1990
1991
1992
$43.15
$44.90
$45.80
6.	A vacation allowance of four percent (4%) will be added to the value of each vessel’s settlement and will be paid quarterly to crew members. Crewmen with three (3) years seniority shall receive six percent (6%) vacation pay. Crew members with sixteen (16) years seniority shall receive eight (8%) per cent vacation pay. Crew members will receive 8% vacation pay after 14 years service on January 1,1992.
7.	Crew members on Side Trawlers shall receive a 10% premium paid on the crew member’s total share. This premium is locked in for Side Trawlers for the life of this Agreement.
8.	The minimum size for Perch acceptable from Stern Trawlers will be 9" from nose to end of flesh.
9.	It is compulsory to dress fish from April 1st to November 30th.
10.	A pension plan has been negotiated and is to take effect January 1,1992.
31
SCHEDULE “B'
Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust #2 Group Insurance Plan
INTRODUCTION
The Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust #2, is a joint trusteeship between participating employers and the Fishermen, Food and Allied Workers’ Union and Canadian Auto Workers’ Union. This Board of Trustees, which controls the Plan, consists of three participating employer representatives and three Union representatives.
Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust Plan Schedule of Benefits
For members of tine Fishermen, Food and Allied Workers’ and Canadian Auto Workers’ Union who are full-time employees of
RICHMOND TRAWLERS LTD.
. Petit De Grat, Nov Scotia
Trawlermen
Term Life	$50,000
Accidental Death and
Dismemberment	$50,000
“Weekly Indemnity	$250.00
Semi Private Hospital Major Medical Prescribed Drugs Vision Care
“‘Weekly Indemnity" coverage is not available to “Seasonal” Plant Workers.
LIFE INSURANCE
Life Aisuraric^lS'pay&toi^Toyuoi'inSteL^ucirBiroiary upon your death from any cause. In the event there is no such appointment, the benefit will be payable to the estate of the member. Payment may be taken in a lump sum, in a series of monthly installments,, or in a combination of both.
32
Within 31 days of leaving your employment, you may convert the life insurance to any individual whole life or convertible one-year term or term to age 65 plan.
If, while insured, you become totally disabled for at least 6 consecutive months before attaining age 65, the Insurer will waive the payment of Life Insurance premiums. This “Waiver of Premium” benefit is not automatic. In order to qualify, you must notify your Plant Administrator within 12 months from the day you last worked. The Plant Administrator will then give you two forms for completion and return. One form is an application to be completed by you, the other is a form for completion by your doctor. Both forms, together with a copy of your birth certificate, should then be returned to your Plant Administrator as soon as possible, as they must be received by the Insurance Company not later than 18 months from the day you last worked.
Benefits reduce by 50% on the first day of the month conicident or next following attaininment of age 65. Benefits cease on the first day of the month conicident or next following attainment of age 70 or prior retirement.
BENEFICIARY
The Member’s Loss of Life Benefit is payable to the beneficiary (ies) appointed under his/her Group Life Insurance Program. In the event there is no such appointment, the Loss of Life Benefit will be payable to the Estate of the Member. All other benefits are payable to the Member.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Coverage
All accidents resulting in Death, Dismemberment, Loss of Speech, Loss of Hearing, Loss of Use of Limbs, Loss of Eyesight, Paralysis, are covered — anywhere
33
in the world — anytime — 24 hours a day, subject to the “limitations” shown.
Eligibility
All members insured under the basis Group Life Insurance Plan of the Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust #2.
Amount of Insurance
The amount of insurance (Principal Sum) with respect to each insured person shall be an amount equal to the coverage under the Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust #2 Basic Group Life Insurance Program.
Schedule of Benefits
When injury shall result in any of the following losses within three hundred and sixty-five (365) days after the date of the accident, the insurer will pay:
Percentage of
For	Principal Sum
Loss of Life................................100%
LOSS oi Doth hands, both feet Or
sight of both eyes..................... • 100%
Loss of one hand and one foot...............100%
Loss of one hand and one eye................100%
Loss of one foot and one eye................100%
Loss of speech and hearing....................100%
Loss of use of both hands or both feet........100%
Loss of use of one hand and one foot..........100%
Quadriplegia (total patatysva -“f both
upper and lower limbs).....................100%
Paraplegia (total paralysis of both
lowerlimbs)................................100%
Hemiplegia (total paralysis of upper
and lower limbs of one side of body......100%
Loss one one arm or one leg....................75%
Loss of use of one arm or one leg..............75%
Loss of one hand, one foot, or sight
of one eye..................................67%
Loss of use of one hand or one foot.........67%
Loss of speech, or hearing in both ears........50%
34
Loss of hearing in one ear.......................50%
Loss of thumb and index finger on one hand . . .33%
Only one benefit, the largest to which you are entitled, is payable for all losses resulting from any one accident.
WHAT IS AN INJURY?
“Injury”, wherever used herein means bodily injury caused by an accident occurring while Insurance is in force as to the Insured Person whose injury is the basis of claim and resulting directly and independently of all other causes in loss covered herein, 24 hours a day, anywhere in the world.
BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION
Indemnity payable in the event of the Loss of Life of an Insured Person shall be payable to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated on his/her Group Life Insurance application on file with the Holder, or if there is no such beneficiary designation with respect to the Insured Person, such indemnity shall be payable to the estate of the Insured Person. All other indemnities payable shall be payable to the Insured Person.
LIMITATIONS
No coverage will apply:
a)	While on active full-service in the armed forces of any country;
b)	As the result of declared or undeclared war or act thereof;
c)	As the result of air travel, except as a passenger in any aircraft having a current and valid certificate of .airworthiness;
d)	In the case of suicide or any attempt thereat while sane or self destruction or any attempt thereat while insane.
e)	As the result of flying in any aircraft owned, or operated by your employer.
35
WAIVER OF PREMIUM
If, due to disability, an Insured Member’s Basic Group Life premiums are waived, his/her premiums under this Plan will automatically be waived until the earlier of his/her return to work, his/her attainment of age seventy (70) or policy termination.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Termination of Membership or Employment, nonpayment of premium, cancellation of master policy or attainment of age 70 automatically terminates your Insurance at the end of the period of which premium was paid.
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Written notice of claim must be given to THE CITADEL GENERAL ASSURANCE COMPANY, within 30 days after the occurrence of the accident or as soon thereafter as it is reasonably possible.
WEEKLY INDEMNITY:
The "Weekly Indemnity” benefit is payable for total disability due to non-occupational accident or sickness starting with the first day of absence due to an accident or the eighth day due to sickness, and is payable for up to 26 weeks. However, no benefits are payable from the third through to the seventeenth week when similar benefits are payable by the Unemployment Insurance Commission, unless you provide proof that you are not eligible for U.I.C.
In the case of disabling complications of pregnancy, benefits are not payable during the period beginning with the tenth week prior to the week of expected delivery and ending with thesixth week aftertheactual delivery date;'f any tongerpvflYiTj'i'Atseirs'Jt'jiisavc# that you have agreed to with your Employer.
If you become disabled from the same or related causes within two weeks after the return to active work, it will be considered one continuous period of disability.
36
To be eligible for benefits, you have to be under a medical Doctor’s care.
“Weekly Indemnity” benefits are not taxable in cases where the employee has been paying 100% of the "Weekly indemnity” premiums.
No premium payments are required for periods of disability lasting longer than one month.
EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
Provided that they are not eligible as employees, your dependents are eligible for this coverage the same as yourself. Dependents include your wife or husband and unmarried, unemployed children from birth to 21 years. Coverage will extend to unmarried children in full-time attendance at school until age 25 and to children who, through permanent disability, remain dependent.
Provisions of Extended Health Care Benefits:
This section provides payment for hospital and major medical expenses incurred by you and your eligible dependents, which are not paid under the Provincial Hospital or Medicare Program.
Only reasonable and customary charges are covered. This means charges for services of the level usually furnished for cases of the nature and severity of the case being treated, and which are in accordance with representative fees and prices in the area.
Outside Province of Residence Expenses (100% benefit)
If, while travelling outside your province of residence, hospitalization or medical treatment is required due to emergency and nonelective reasons, the following expenses are covered subject to lifetime maximum eligible expense of $500,000 per individual for outside Canada expenses:
1) reasonable and customary hospital charges in excess of any provincial government plan allowance,
37
whether such allowance is payable or not, but only to a maximum benefit equal to the semi-private charge differential for each day of such hospital confinement;
2)	reasonable and customary charges m excess of any government plan allowance, whether such allowance is payable or not, for the services of a physician:
3)	reasonable and customary charges in excess of any provincial government allowance, whether such allowance is payable or not for auxiliary hospital services;
4)	charges for economy airfare to the insured individual’s province of residence.
If an insured is referred by a physician to a hospital outside the province of residence for medically necessary treatment which is unavailable in the province of residence and for which there is no medically sufficient alternate treatment available in the province of residence, and which is eligible for reimbursement in whole or in part by an provincial medical plan, the following expenses are covered. Such expenses are not subject to the Lifetime Maximum specified in the first paragraphy of this section.
1)	reasonable and customary charges for auxiliary hospital services and hospital charges in excess of any provincial government plan allowance, whether such allowance is payable or not, but only up to a maximum benefit equal to semi-private charge differential for each day of such hospital confinement;
2)	reasonable and customary charges in excess to any government plan allowance, whether such allowance is payable or not, for the services of a physician.
MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSES (80% Benefit)
1.	Charges for rental (or, at the Insurer’s option, purchase) of braces, crutches, wheel chair,
38
hospital bed or similar equipment required for the therapeutic purposes as a result of bodily injury or disease.
2.	Charges for prothetic devices required as a result of bodily injury or disease;
3.	Charges for professional ambulance service or other emergency transportation, to and from the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment, and from one hospital to another. Such emergency transportation includes attendent if medically necessary.
4.	Charges for necessary dental treatment required as a result of an accidental injury by external means, to natural teeth, provided the accident occurred while insured under this coverage. Replacement of natural teeth. As determined by the Insurer, only such charges directly related to such an accidental injury are considered a covered medical expense. The dental work must be completed within 3 years of the accident to be covered medical expense.
5.	Charges for orthopedic shoes and special foot appliances which have been specially designed and molded for the insured individual and are required to correct a diagnosed physical impairment. Such charges are subject to a maximum benefit of $150.00 for a shoe without a brace and $200.00 for a shoe with a brace in any period of 12 consecutive months.
6.	Charges for hearing aids, repairs to hearing aids, and batteries, subject to a maximum of $500.00 during the 5 year period ending on the date an eligible expense is incurred. This limitation shall not apply in the event of an accidental injury to the ear.
7.	Charges for oxygen and blood serum.
8.	Charges for support hose when prescribed by the attending physician.
39
9.	Charges for the electronic transcutaneous nerve stimulating device.
10.	Hostel — if you or one of your dependents, requires treatment at a hospital located more than 100 kilometres from your home, and if such person or the attendant requires hostel accommodations during the period of treatment, the reasonable and customary per diem charge for such hostel accommodations will be considered an eligible expense.
If the patient is over the age of 18 years, the hostel charge for the attendent will only be considered if the attendent was medically required.
The maximum payment per day is $25.00.
11.	Charges for drugs, medicines, serums and vaccines prescribed by a physician, surgeon or dentist legally licensed to practice, but excluding charges for the administration of serums, vaccines and injectible drugs.
12.	Charges for a convalescent care facility. Charges for convalescent care service and supplies shall be subject to a maximum benefit of $20.00 per day for not more than 120 days of confinement for each period of disability. Confinement must be for the continued care of the same condition for which the insured was hospitalized and must begin prior to the insured’s 65th birthday.
13.	Charges for the services of a licensed speech therapist, and clinic psychologist, up to a maximum benefit of $250.00 in excess of the provincial plan, per specialty for any calendar year for each individual.
14.	Charges for the services of a licensed chiropractor, naturopath, osteopath, chiropodist, podiatrist or Christian Science Practitioner listed in the Christian Science Journal, subject
40
to a maximum benefit per specialty of $250.00 per calendar year for each individual. Included in this benefit is the expense of one x-ray per calendar year for each of a chiropractor, osteopath and podiatrist.
15.	Services of a massage therapist, limited to 20 treatments per year.
16.	Charges for the services of a physiotherapist, and an occupational therapist when not covered by a provincial government plan:
17.	(a) Charges for the services of a Registered Nurse
(R.N.) provided such nurse is not ordinarily a resident in the employee’s home and is not a relative of the employee or the employee’s spouse, up to a maximum benefit of $25,000.00 during a calendar year.
(b) Charges for the services of a registered Nursing Assistant (R.N.A.), provided such assistant is not ordinarily a resident of the employee’s home. If convalescent care is required, up to a maximum benefit of $10.00 per day for not more than 120 days per disability.
Vision Care (100%)
i)	lenses and frames for eyeglasses and repairs to them or contact lenses not covered in iii subject to a maximum benefit of $125.00 per person in any period of 24 consecutive months;
ii)	eye examinations when not covered by any provincial government plan, limited to one such examination in any 24 consecutive months, or one such examination in any 12 consecutive months if the insured individual is under 21 years of age.
iii)	eye glasses and contact lenses certified by an opthalmologist as necessary due to a surgical procedure or the treatment of keratoconus,
41
limited to $200 in any period of 24 consecutive months.
The above limitations shall not apply in the event 9f jysidental. injyrrv to the eye.
Waiver of Premium
The Insurer will waive the "Health” insurance premiums for each employee who is receiving Weekly Disability Income benefits under this policy, Unemployment Insurance Disability Income, or Workers’ Compensation. Premiums will be waived beginning with the premium for the policy month immediately following the first full policy month for which benefits become payable, and continuing for each full policy months for which benefits are payable, up to a maximum of 12 consecutive months. After this 12 month period, premiums will be continued to be waived for employees who have applied and been approved for waiver of the Group Life premiums.
EXCLUSION — EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
The aforementioned coverage does not include coverage for
1.	Intentionally self-inflicted injuries while sane;
2.	Cosmetic surgery;
3.	An examination by or the services of a physician or a surgeon if required solely for the use of a third
party, or;
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Complete a “Claim Authorization" form and attach it to tbs inyninfi(s\ There should be a completed “Claim Authorization” form for each member of the family for whom expenses are being claimed.
Have the claim verified by the Plant Administrator at your place of work. Send the claim to the Plan Administrator, Johnson Insurance Limited.
42
NOTICE OF CLAIM
To be eligible for payment, claims must be received by the Plan Administrator not later than 12 months from the date the expenses were incurred.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE Termination of employment, retirement, attainment of age 70, or non-payment of premium, automatically terminates all benefits on the date the event occurs.
The Group insurance program is underwritten by
THE MARITIME LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY
AND
THE CITADEL
GENERAL ASSURANCE COMPANY
ARRANGED AND ADMINISTERED BY
JOHNSON INSURANCE LIMITED TV? BOX 12049 ST. JOHN'S, NEWFOUNDLAND A1B1R7
This booklet is not a contract but explains the benefits provided if you become and remain insured in accordance with the terms of the group policies issued by The Maritime Life Insurance Company and The Citadel General Assurance Company. The terms of the group policies govern. The master policies are maintained by the Administrator, Johnson Insurance Limited.
ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS
All inquiries, correspondence and claims should be sent to your employer.
43
APPENDIX
SPECIES	SIZE	PRICE	1990
Cod, Dressed		..20"/over		. .19.000			20.000
Cod, Round		. .20"/over		. .15.750			16.750
Cod, Dressed		,. 15'7over		..16.750		
Cod, Round		,.15''/over		. .13.500			14.500
Haddock, Dressed....	..15"/over		. .25.250			26.25*
Haddock, Round		. ,15'7over		. .21.250			22.250
Pollock, Dressed		..l5"/over		.. 12.500			13.500
Pollock, Round		. .l5”/over		. .10.500			11.500
Catfish, Dressed		.. 15'7over		. .12.000			13.000
Catfish, Round			. ,l5"/over		.. 9.750			10.750
Cusk, Dressed 	,	. .l5'7over		. .10.500			11.500
Cusk, Round			.. 8.250			 9.250
Hake, Dressed 	,	. .15"/over		. .10.000			11.000
Hake, Round	,	.. 15"/over		... 7.750			 8.750
Greysole, Round		. .12"/over		..17.750			18.750
Flounder, Dressed....		. .17.750			18.750
Flounder, Round		. .12"/over		. .16.000			17.00&
Yellow-tails, Dressed.	,..12'7over		. .13.500			14.500
Yellow-tails, Round...	..12'7over		. .12.000			13.000
Turbot, Dressed		.. 10'7over		..11.000			12.000
Turbot, Round		. .10"/over		.. 9.250			10.250
Perch		..Up to 140 ct...			14.250
Perch 			. .141 to 160 ct..			13.250
Perch 	,	..161 to 180 ct.			 9.250
Halibut..................................75% of Selling Price
Scrap......................................................... 1.000
NOTE: THE ABOVE MEASUREMENTS ARE TO BE
TAKEN FROM TIP OF NOSE TO BASE OF TAIL, AND SIZES ARE SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS.
44
1991
1992
	21.00$			22.00$
	17.75$			18.25$
		18.75$			19.75$
	15.50$......		16.00$
HEALTH AND SAFETY LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOCAL 1970 CAW/RICHMOND FISHERIES LIMITED
During recent negotiations, the parties discussed the need to maintain the highest possible standard of occupational health and safety within the Richmond Trawlers fishing fleet.
To this end, it was agreed that upon ratification of the Agreement, both parties would at an early date:
1.	Review legislation pertinent to present operations and refine and/or develop procedures and programs to ensure compliance.
2.	Develop and implement appropriate communication procedures to deal with occupational health and safety matters.
3.	Review and, if necessary, revise present inspection/audit procedures.
4.	Develop and implement occupational health and safety training programs for all crew members.
5.	Develop and implement appropriate occupational health and safety training for ships’ delegates.
6.	Develop and implement Marine Emergency Duties training for all crew members.
7.	Implement a meeting schedule for ongoing discussions on health and safety matters.
45