COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT Between
FISHERMEN FOOD AND ALLIED WORKERS
(Chartered by - Canadian Auto Workers)
And
FISHERY PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
nflmiBhfir 8 tt), , 199 3
Kxi 31 199*
00086 (04)
ARTICLE l • Recognition
1 i 01 • The Company recognizes the Fishermen Food and Allied Workers - (Chartered By ■ Canadian Auto Worker6 • CAW), as the collective bargaining agent for all crewmembers, excluding Captains, on Trawlers owned and/or bare boat chartered by the Company operating out of Newfoundland Ports, The Company shall not make any individual agreements with the crew directly or indirectly in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
1:02 • Where any fisheries, other than groundfish are entered into, involving new species, methods of catching or, requiring a differing method of settlement, either party on notice to the other may request appropriate amendments or additions to the contract. Failing settlement, matters in dispute shall be referred to arbitration upon fifteen (15) days' notice by either party.
1:02:01 • It is recognized by the Union and its members that mates and chiefs, while members of the bargaining unit, are in fact ship's officers and responsible for the exercise of certain management functions, which functions do not include the final authority to hire, fire, suspend, promote or demote. They vlll exercise these duties and responsibilities as established by the Company and maintain discipline and efficiency. Membership in the bargaining unit is not to restrict mates and chiefs in the proper performance of their duties.
1:03102 • Without limiting the generality of 1:03:01 It is agreed that the prime responsibilities of the mates are :
1,	Pilotage, safety and navigation of the trawler.
2,	supervision, as required, of the crew.
3 , Responsible to the captain for the overall cost efficient operation of the trawler.
4.	Direction of the crew in handling raw material at sea to ensure the highest standards of quality.
5.	Direction of and responsibility for the bosun who shall report to the mate in the carrying out of his duties respecting quality of raw material and the efficient maintenance of gear on board the trawlers.
1:03:03 * Without limiting the generality of 1:03:01 the prime responsibility of an engineer is to efficiently operate and maintain the engine room and engine room equipment, to maintain other mechanical and electrical equipment on board the trawlers, and to promote the highest level of maintenance and safety. Engineers shall be directly responsible to the captain, while at sea, for the efficient operation and maintenance of those areas of the trawl«r which are the responsibility of the erpnasr..
1;04 - Throughout this Agreement, the masculine shall include the feminine and singular shall include the plural as the context may require.
ARTICLE 3 - Discrimination
3s 01 - No discrimination vi.ll be exercised in hiring, transferring, filling vacancies or other terms of employment or working conditions of the crewmembers because of membership in the Union or for accepting positions, serving on committees or representing the crewmembers covered by this Agreement on any grounds including race, creed, color, sex, age, religious or political affiliation.
ARTICLE 4 - Safety
4:01 - The Company and the Union recognize the importance of ensuring the health and safety of crewmembers while at sea. It is the intention of both parties to achieve and maintain, through mutual co-operation, the highest standards in all areas affecting the health and safety of crewmembers.
4:02 • Legislation - The parties recognize all provisions in existing legislation having jurisdiction over matters related to the operation of trawlers and related to occupational health and safety. The parties accept the principle embodied in sections 43 to 46 inclusive of the Occupational Health and Safety Act Stats, Nfld. C.23,	1578 in relation to the activity of fishing.
Related issues will be dealt with through the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
4:03 * Committees - The parties are agreed to the continuance and establishment of the following Committees which will provide an overall framework to deal with all issues related to occupational health and safety, accident prevention and loss control:
:01 - There shall be, in each Port, a Health and Safety Committee comprised of the Boat Delegate representing the Union and the Port Safety Officer representing the Company. These Health and Safety Committees shall make a quarterly inspection of each trawler and shall file a written report with the Company and the Union following that inspection. The Union Delegate will receive his Work-In-Port rate with a minimum of four (4) hours for each inspection.
:0J - The parties agree to the establishment of a corporate Health and Safety Committee comprised of three (3) members from ■ana^eient and three (3) members selected by the Union. This Committee will assess, review, and advise on all matters related to Health and Safety involving the operation of the trawlers within the fleet.
The Health and Safety Committee shall meet quarterly to:
{01 • Review and analyze health and safety data for all trawlers in the fleet;
;02 • Review all matters referred to it by the Health and Safety Committees;
! 03 * Review and analyze standards and regulations affecting Health and Safety Programs within the Company:
; 04 - Review and recoasend guidelines for crew training and education;
105 - Make recommendations to achieve the highest	standards and )>e*t possible
results	in safety, health,	accident
prevention, and loss control.
4 i 03:04 • It is agreed that a Union representative has the right t o be involved in any fatality investigation.
4:04 - Any work necessary for the safety of the trawler, crew, cargo or tow, for the saving of other ships, lives or cargo shall be performed at any time on immediate call by all crewmembers notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement which might be construed to be contrary. The captain shall be the sole judge. No crewmember shall be required to endanger his personal safety in order to save equipment, gear, cargo, hull and machinery.
4:05 - Any safety regulations which the Company may nov have in force for the safety of the trawlers or crevseab-ers and any further regulations or amendments to existing regulations, which the Company may put into effect following discussion with Union representatives, during the tern of this Agreement, and which are brought to the attention of crewmembers, shall be strictly adhered toby all crewmembers,
4:06 - It is agreed that tackle regulations will conform with Canadian Coast Guard Standards €or fishing vessels and apply to all trawlers coming within the scope of this Agreement. The Company will provide rigging drawings of its trawlers. Inspection of tackle will be conducted by CSI.
4:07:01 - A medicine chest and first aid kit, as defined by the Large Fishing Vessel Safety Committee, shall be maintained on each trawler. The medicine chest shall be kept in the Captain's cabin and the first aid kit shall be kept in a readily accessible location.
4:07:02 - The boat delegate shall be allowed to check the medicine chest and prior to docking at the end of each trip shall report any shortages. In the event of shortages, the trawler will not sail Oil the next scheduled sailing without a medicine chest and first aid kit stocked in accordance with the specifications,
4:08:01 - It shall be a requirement that two (2) qualified
(standard training) first aiders, where possible, will be on each trawler.
4:08:02 - The Company Will ensure, on a continuous basis, that there are sufficient personnel trained to meet the requirements of clause 4 :08 :01. The crewmembas selected through joint consultation between the Company and the Union will suffer no loss in benefits and will be selected initially from ships' officers: the Captain, Mates, and the Chief Engineer. In the event that an individual in these classifications is not inclined to take such training, the parties shall choose another crewmember,
4:08:03 - Company seniority lists when posted shall indicate which crewmembers have completed first aid training.
4:09:01 - A major safety drill will be carried out at the time of the annual inspection of each trawler. Each crewmember, as a condition of employment, shall be required to participate, for which he shall be compensated at work-in-port rates.
4:09:02 - Drills recommended by the Large Fishing Vessel Safety Committee will be carried out in accordance with the recommendations.
4:10 - The Company shall designate an individual in each port as the Company Port Safety Officer.
4:11 - It shall be a condition of employment for all new crewmembers sailing on trawlers within the fleet that they shall have first completed a medical satisfactory to the Company. This medical examination is as prescribed and agreed to by the Company and the Union under the Large Fishing Vessel Safety Committee.
4:12 - In the event of the development of a chronic condition such as repetitive illness or disability, the Company reserves the right to have a aewmemba' have a aedicsl examination. The medical report shall be reviewed by the Company and the Union to assess the capability of the crewmember to continue employment on trawlers at sea. The medical report will be directed only to the issue of fitness to go to sea in a working capacity.
ARTICLE 5 • Co-operative Programs
5:01 - It is the objective of the Company and the Union, during the term of this Collective Agreement, to work co-operatively to achieve significant improvements within the fleet on issues related to occupational health and safety as outlined in Article 4, and the orderly administration of matters arising under the Collective Agreerent involving fleet operations. The parties intend to achieve the best possible results in tenus of a safe and productive operating environment for crewmembers and the efficient utilization of the Company trawlers.
5:02 • To assist in the achievement of stated 9«il» and objectives, the Company will contribute during the term of the Collective Agreement the am of Thirty-Si:: Thousand Dollars ($36,000) to the Union to defray expenses incurred on safety-related issues. The Company will also contribute a further sum of Fifty-Seven Thousand Dollars ($57,000)related to the orderly administration of the Collective Agreement, to assist in providing the opportunity for Company and Union representatives to meet and address, in a timely manner, those issues which directly affect fleet operations and crewmembers, relative to the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
5:03 - The Company will contribute, in each year of the Collective Agreement, the sum of Seven Thousand Dollars ($7, 000) to the C, A , W , Paid Education Leave Program.
■ 10 -
ARTICLE 6 • Transfers and Relocations
6:01:01 - Tho company rill give preference of uiplofieot to aeniorlty crevseabera who viab to *;r*-n»f• r from ono operating division to another within tho Province an a result of having to relooate their permanent reaidenae,
Subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Collective Agreement and the conditions prescribed in this Article, the Company will recognize a crewmember’s length of service for the purposes of calculating:	vacation entitlement; pension; and
profit sharing within a year if the crewmember is otherwise eligible.
6:01(02 - Transfers:
Crevaeabera visiting to bo transforrod from ono operating division to another (travler to plant), shall apply in writing to tho appropriate lanager vith a aopy to their current manager, Such tranafera or# subject to tho requlreaents of Xrtiole 12 and to tho following conditional
1.	Seniority aoouxulatsd in ono division it not transferable to mother division,
2.	Transfers are intended to bo peneanent and crevrnambers have no right of transfer back to their foraer poeition,
J. Crevaeabera transforrod from ono operating division to another would have to couplets tho probationary reopil reasanta under the appropriate Collective Agreement.
11
ARTICLE 7 - Classification of Crsv*eab«rg
7i01 - The Company and the Union agree to classify the regular seniority crewmembers on PPI trawlers and remunerate those crewmembers according to their skills and competence. This agreement on the classification of crewmembers shall be incorporated into this Collective Agreement as Schedule "F".
12
ARTICLE 3 - Definition of Collective Agreement
3:01 • This Collective Agreement represents the entire understanding between the parties. There are no other terms, conditions, obligations, or understandings either expressed or implied which are binding or enforceable other than those specifically set forth in this Collective Agreement or a Schedule thereto, or a concurrent letter of understanding executed in conjunction with the execution of this Collective Agreement, or • Xaao tAadus of Understanding ixioutid by the pIr t 1 # » hereto concurrent Y1 t b or during tho tin of till Collective Agnuiot Alluding or modifying tho tana or conditions of this Collective Agreement.
13
ARTICLE 9 * Job Security and Joint Venture
9:01 - It is agreed that the parties will use their best efforts to ensure that one of the primary objectives of National and Provincial fisheries policies shall be the catching of all Canadian fish stocks in Canadian owned, operated and crewed vessels. It is further agreed that the parties will view any venture to process any foreign caught fish in Canadian plants in the perspective of an overall fisheries policy that incorporates and promotes the above policy. Therefore, the parties agree that any joint venture involving foreign landings will require full disclosure between the parties of all relevant financial and technical information and the implementation of the venture shall be the subject of negotiations between the parties.
9:02 - The Company will not use shore personnel to replace crevneaberK except where no other alternative is readily available.
14
ARTICLE 10 • Union Representative
10i01 • A Union staff member, or other official representative employed full time or part time by the Union, will be allowed access to the wharves, offices, and trawlers of the Company for the transaction of Union business. The Union representative shall first notify management of his presence and indicate the nature of his business and he shall not disrupt normal Company
operations.
10:02 • One member of the crew shall act as Union Delegate representing the crewmembers of his trawler in dealing with matters concerning the administration of this Agreement. There shall also be a Port Delegate representing a port and a Fleet Delegate representing the fleet.
10:03 - Mail may be forwarded to Union Officers in care of a specific plant address for pick-up.
15
ARTICLE 11 • Information Exchange
11:01 ■ The Union shall supply the Company in writing with the names, addresses, and positions of all Union officials responsible for the administration of this Agreement. The Union will notify the Company of any changes. Only those persons designated by the Union as officials shall be recognized by the Company as acting officially on behalf of the Union.
11:02 • The Company will submit to the Union, in addition to the name of the crewmember, the address, phone number, and social insurance number. Such information will be updated each month. The Company further	to
notify the Port Delegate and the designated Union Representative of all job p-sstings, transfers, retirements, resignations, and deaths. Copies of answers to grievances and any written discipline including dismissals will be forwarded to the Port Delegate.
11:02 - The T-t slips issued to the crevaaabsrs at the end of the year will contain a statement of the amount of Union dues deducted during the year.
11:04 • The Company will issue and maintain service records in the form of service record books to all crsvaaabers who have not previously been issued with same upon their joining a trawler in the fleet. Such service record shall contain length of service to date, classification, rank, or job performed, with dates of promotion and record of conduct. These books will be made available for inspection at the request of a crewmember during office hours.
ARTICLE 12 - Seniority
12:01 - No crewmember shall attain seniority with the Company without having first completed a probationary period, involving not less than forty (40) sea days, as a probationary crewmember on Company trawlers in a port, within a three month period, having had not less than two trips on the same trawler. Upon the successful completion of the probationary period, a crevaeah*r's seniority shall be dated as of his initial date of hire within the three month period of becoming a probationary crewmember in that port. At any time during the probationary period, a Captain shall have the right to discharge a crewmember who, in the Captain's judgement, is unsatisfactory. The probationary period will end twenty-four (24) hours after docking on the trip in which the probationary crewmember has completed forty (40) sea days within the prescribed period.
12:02:01- The Company shall recognize, for crewmembers serving on Company trawlers, two types of seniority which shall be defined as follows:
Boat Seniority - Shall mean the length of continuous service as a seniority crewmember on a particular trawler and, any seniority previously accumulated on other Company trawlers to which a crewmember is entitled and brings with him to the trawler to which he is currently assigned;
?l««t Seniority • Length of continuou* **rvlo« t* a
seniority employee on Company trsvl»r» within tho fleet.
-	17
12:02:02- A fleet seniority list showing the length of service for all crewmembers with the Company will be posted at each location. A Boat seniority list will be posted aboard each trawler, with copies of all lists being supplied to the Union. A first list shall be posted within two (2) months of the signing of this Agreement and updated thereafter at six (6) month intervals.
12:03 - When a permanent vacancy occurs on a trawler, the Company shall post the vacancy in the galley of all trawlers and a copy to be faxed to the Newfoundland Otter so that members of the fleet may apply in writing and within the posting period for the position. The posting period shall run for thirty (30) days from the date of the posting.
12:04 -	Any promotion or	permanent	vacancy within the
bargaining unit shall be filled on the basis of seniority and ability; and where ability is sufficient to perforin the required duties, seniority shall govern. Promotions and permanent vacancies shall be filled on • fleet	basis. To	avoid disruption in
sailing schedules, temporary replacements may be used.
12:05 -	Whenever the Company finds it	necessary to make a
selection for any of the above ratters on any basis other than seniority, the Company agrees to review, when the selection	is made, with the proper Union
officials or representatives, its reasons therefore.
12:06:01- The Company will hire additional crewmembers to fill
temporary vacancies, resulting from the absence of
crewmembers who have Boat Seniority, due to scheduled trips off and other authorized leaves of absence. The crewmembers used in relief will attain float Seniority if they successfully complete the probationary period as prescribed in Article 12:01. An appropriate number of additional hirings, beyond the number of berths available, will be established for the Fleet.
•	13	-
02* A temporary vacancy shall be filled in the first instance from the crew of the trawler on which the vacancy occurs by	Boat Seniority provided the
crewmember has sufficient ability to perform the required duties. When a temporary vacancy is not filled from the crew of the trawler it shall be filled from the 71*«t Seniority List as provided in 12:06:03,
;03- Relieving crewmembers will be called, in order of seniority, to fill temporary vacancies on the principle that the most senior crewmember ashore and available for a trip will be the crewmember assigned to the trip. Relieving crewmembers must take forty-eight (48) hours between trips, unless it is mutually agreed between the Company and the crewmember in instances where no other seniority crewmember is readily available to fill a temporary vacancy.
i04- Relieving crewmembers who have 71**t Seniority vill check, on docking at the end of a trip, to be advised of the next possible sailing for which they may be required after their turn-around period.
05- Relieving crewmembers who have 71 * * 6 Seniority must accept a permanent vacancy in their classification on a trawler to which their seniority entitles them and for which they are qualified. Failure to do sc will result in loss of all seniority and release from employment with the Company.
:Q6- When a relieving crewmember with 71 Mt seniority acquires a permanent position on a trawler, his Boat Seniority and Fleet Seniority will be recognized as being equivalent.
07- Where a crewmember having Boat Seniority is ashore as a result of illness or injury beyond three (3) trips, the temporary vacancy shall be filled by the most senior relieving crewmember until the permanent crewmember returns or until the relieving crewmember is replaced by a crewmember who has Boat and Fleet seniority.
19
12:07 - Crewmembers who have attained Boat seniority and whose trawlers are out-of-service, as a result of mechanical breakdown or refit, for periods known to be in excess of five (5) days, and who wish to fill temporary vacancies on other trawlers in the fleet, shall advise the Company in writing. Such crewmembers shall fill temporary vacancies to which they are entitled, by reason of their seniority, until the out-of-service trawler is assigned a sailing date. Should the crewmember elect to sail after that time to fill a temporary vacancy on another trawler he must, following that trip, rejoin his trawler on its next scheduled sailing.
12:08 - Crewmembers shall retain and accrue seniority while:
1(a) on leave of absence authorized by the Company including leave of absence for Union business:
(to) on normal tie-up:
(c)	on sick leave or Workers' Compensation for a period of up to twenty-four (24) months;
(d)	promoted outside the bargaining unit for a period of up to one year:
(®) awaiting transfer to another trawler in the fleet:
<f) on lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months:
20
12:09 - Crewmembers shall lose seniority whens
(a)	discharged for just cause:
(b)	quit:
(c)	on sick leave or Workers' Compensation in excess of twenty-four (24) months (subject to 12:10)!
(d)	having failed to return to work without just cause following a leave of absence:
(e)	having failed to return to work following recall from lay-off:
<f) on lay-off in excess of twenty-four (24) months;
(9) promoted outside the bargaining unit for a period in excess of twelve (12) months:
12:10:01- The status of a crewmember on sick leave or Workers'
Compensation will be reviewed at the end of one (1) year and at the end of twenty-three (23) months. Where the parties mutually agree, a crewmember may retain	seniority for a defined period	beyond
twenty-four (24) months.
12:10:02- Where, on the advice of a physician, a crewmember with Boat Seniority is no longer capable of performing his regular duties but does have the ability to perform the duties of a deckhand or trawlerman, he may exercise his Fleet Seniority to displace the most junior deckhand/trawlerman who has Boat and f iMt seniority.
12:11 - The Company will notify crewmembers of recall from lay-off by contacting the last	address given.
Crewmembers will advise the Company immediately if they accept the recall and will return to work within a reasonable time, except when just cause exists. Crewmembers who have just cause preventing their return to work may be temporarily replaced.
21
12:12 - In all matters concerning lay-off and recall of crewmembers, the Company shall select individuals on the basis of seniority and ability. Ability shall be defined as the crewmembers' capability of performing the work at hand.
12:13 - When a crewmember is promoted to another position, he shall have the right to return to his former position prior to the commencement of the fourth trip of the trawler on which he was promoted. Any other crewmembers affected shall be returned to hls/their former position(s) without loss of seniority.
12)14 - The selection of crewmembers for replacement and new trawlers shall be on the basis of seniority and ability; and where ability i» sufficient to perform the required duties, seniority shall govern. However, in selecting	mates and	chief engineers,	selection
shall	be on	the basis	of seniority and	ability.
Seniority shall apply only when two or more candidates are relatively equal to each other in terms of ability.
HilS - Where the number of trawlers has been reduced and lay-offa/termlnatlons occur, the Company agrees to rank crewmembers on the basis of their fleet seniority and lay-off the equivalent number of the most junior crewmembers within each classification or lower classification, to ensure the placement of the crewmembers of the displaced trawler who have sufficient seniority. Crewmembers laid-off will be placed	in a position on	the fleet Seniority	List to
which	their	seniority	entitles them.	In the
application of this clause leers, trawlermen and deckhands will be considered as one (1) classification. Crewmembers must have the ability to perform the duties of the crewmembers which they replace.
ARTICLE 13 • Leave of Absence
13:01 • Crewmembers will be granted leave on compassionate grounds when notice is received. Leave of absence, without pay, for personal reasons will be considered on an individual basis and will not be arbitrarily denied.
13:02 ■ A crewmember desiring a trip off shall make a request as early as is possible but in no event less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to scheduled sailing time. The Company will grant such requests in the order received provided that it shall not be required to grant time off to more than four (4) crewmembers at any one time and provided that one of the four (4) is an engineer. Such leaves will be restricted to not more than one (1) deck officer, one (1) engineer and one (l)icer, in the regular crew at any one time.
13:03 * The Company agrees to grant leave of absence without pay to any crewmember for the purpose of attending a recognized Institution in order to improve his skills as a crewmember, provided that the Company shall not be bound to grant such leave to more than (2) crewmembers per trawler at any one time.
13:04 - The Company will grant, upon receipt of reasonable notice, leave of absence without pay for the purpose of attending to Union business. Such leaves will not involve any interruption of sailing schedules due to the numbers of classifications involved.
13:05 - Crewmembers on short term leave of absence approved by the Company will have insurance coverage maintained for not less than ninety (90) days:	premiums to be
paid as required by the crewmember. Where a crewmember is on an approved leave of absence for training under 13:03, the Company will continue to pay its portion of insurance premiums during the period of training.
23
When a crewmember is on short term lay-off lasting up to ninety (90) days, the Company shall continue to maintain his insurance premiums, the cost of which will be repaid by the crewmember on his return to work.
14101 -
14:02 -
14:03 -
-	24
ARTICLE 14 - Standard Crew
Standard crew with respect to existing trawlers, including Captain, shall be outlined in Schedule "B" attached to and forming part of this Agreement.
This Agreement permits the sailing of vessels with less than the standard number in the crew where a majority of the crewmembers agree.
The Company agrees that in the event that it charters out its trawlers, regularly engaged in fishing, to the Department of Fisheries and Oceans or engages in fishing experiments in conjunction with the said Department, it will maintain the standard crew for that particular class of trawler or whatever number of crewmembers are required to operate the trawler while on charter.
25
ARTICLE 15 • Sailing Schedules
15:01 - When a trawler lands a trip at any port, other than its home port, the	liull choose and pay
transportation 4rpiaa«« for the or»v to the home port and return.	Where road transportation ii not
available and subjeet to adverse travailing conditions, tho trawler shall rail as soon as possible.
15:02 - All scheduled sailings will ba in accordance with Schedule "BH attached to and foning part of this
Agreement.
15!0! id- The Company will contact the crewmembers on the scheduled sailing of the trawler within the turn-around period, between 8:00 £ ■ a, and 8:00 p.a., with not less than six (6) hour 31 notice of the sailing. All crewmembers shall report for sailing as advised.
15:03:02- The Company will request and each crewmember will provide a point of contact where the crewmember can be reached directly by phone, if possible, so that any notification in sailing schedules can be communicated, The Company shall have fulfilled its obligation with regard to notifying crewmembers by leaving a message at the point of contact for each individual crewmember. The Company shall have no responsibility to a crewmember who does not advise of any change in his point of contact.
15:03:03- As a convenience to crewmembers, information on the scheduling of trawlers will be available on code-a-phone by a "1-80011 number, the latest update to be at 5:00 p , m. daily.
15:04 -
15:05 •
- 26
The sailing time for trawlers landing after a trip hai commenced (a) coming out of bad weather, (b) landing a crewmember, (c) for minor repair, or (d) delays arising after landing, shall be the earliest possible hour after landing regardless of the day or hour of the day. Under these conditions the discharging of fish will only trigger 15:01 if the trawler has been at sea more than four (4) days. If fish is discharged the total time of the trip is not to exceed twelve (12) days from the time it commenced.
Trawlers required for discharge prior to 9:00 a.m. shall be in port by 12:00 midnight.
27
ARTICLE IS - Christmas Tie-Up
16:01 - All vetfish trawlers shall be in port for Christmas tie-up before Noon on December 24th. A freezer vessel shall not interrupt its fishing trip as a result of the Christmas period but in no event will a freezer trawler be scheduled to sail between December 21st. and December 27th. No trawler shall be scheduled to sail on Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or New Years Day.
16:02 - The Union and the crewmembers recognize the importance of the Company harvesting its available quotas within a calendar year. In the event that quotas are still available, the Company may sail trawlers on December 27th.,	28th.,	29th.,	30th., and 31st. Crewmembers
will not be required to sail but those who do sail on the dates specified will receive a bonus in addition to any other compensation provided by this Collective Agreement.
28 -
ARTICLE 17 - Watches
17:01 - Watches shall be run on either of:
(a)	eight (8) hours on, four (4) hours off basis while fishing, and four (4) hours on, eight (8) hours off while steaming, laying or jogging, or:
(b)	twelve (12) hours on, six (6) hours off basis while fishing, and six (8) hours on, twelve (12) hours off while steaming, laying or jogging.
The actual watch for the trawler shall be determined by a majority of the crewmembers including the Captain.
17i 02 * Watcher for the Captain and the Hate except where othervise mutually agreed, and watches in the engine room, shall be on a six (6) hours on and six (6) hours off basis.
17:03 - Watches shall not be broken unless it is determined by the Captain to be an emergency.
17:04 * No crewmember shall be required to remain on deck for more than his watch, subject to Article 4:04 hereof.
17:05 - Not more than two (2) crewmembers, excluding the officer of the watch, shall be required in the pilot house while the trawler is steaming, laying or jogging.
ARTICLE 18 • Weighing and Grading
18 s 01 - The crewmembers may appoint and pay tallymen to act on their behalf in checking, weighing and grading of fish landed and the disposal of fish graded as reject.
13:02 - The rules and procedures for weighing and grading fish are outlined in Schedule *C" attached to and forming part of this Agreement.
18:03 - Any irregularities or deviations from the rules and procedures shall be subject to grievance and arbitration procedure.
18:04 • The production manager or his designate shall be responsible for recorded weights and is the Company representative in the event of any question or dispute.
18:05 - Hails are intended to refer to the gross weight by species estimated to be on board the vessel at a given
time.
-	30
ARTICLE 19 - Trip Settlement / Advance
19:01 - Upon docking of a trawler at its home port, each c-r«v-member shall be advanced the per diem for each sea day to the nearest projected hour. The trip settlement shall be paid prior to sailing on the next trip at which time final adjustment on the balance due on the trip will be made. Each crsvneaber shall receive a copy of the final settlement sheet and fish receipt as per Schedule *C" 12,
19:02 - Cr#VBSBb«rs' classifications and method of compensation are set forth in Schedule "A" attached to and forming part of this Agreement.
19:03 * The Company agrees to make deductions for income tax purposes and shall remit the same to proper authorities. The Company does not undertake to assure that the crewmembers pay the proper amount of income tax.
19:04 • The Company agrees to pay fifty percent (50%) of the premiums due under the Canada Pension Plan for all crewmembers.
19:05 - Where the use of new technology in fishing gear may result in a significant deviation from normal fishing, the Company agrees to consult with, the Union prior to the commencement of the trip and will, if necessary, negotiate a method of compensation.
19:06 - Deductions in common to all crewmembers, as specified in Schedule "A" Item 2, Paragraph 1, will only be applied to the fish portion of the settlement and not taken from the crewmember's per diem earnings.
31	-
ARTICLE 20 - Reporting Pay
20: 01! 01- Crewmembers reporting for a scheduled sailing Which is delayed through no fault of any of them shall receive reporting pay under the following terms and conditions:
20:01:02- All crewmembers must be present and ready to sail;
20:01:03- Reporting pay, when applicable, will be computed from the time when all the crewmembers are ready to sail on or after the scheduled sailing time:
20:01:04- Provided the trawler sails within one (1)hour of the time referred to in 20:03 above, reporting pay shall not apply;
20:01:05- Should a trawler not sail within one (1)hour of the time referred to in 20:03 above, the crewmembers shall receive reporting pay at work-in-port rates starting at the time referred to in 20:02 above until the trawler actually sails or the crewmembers are released. In the event that the crewmembers are released, they shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours reporting pay or payment for the actual hours they were required to standby, whichever is greater.
20:02 - Where a trawler commences a trip but returns to port within twenty-four (24) hours for reasons unrelated to the crewing of the trawler, the crew shall not receive less than the equivalent of four (4) hours at work-in-port rates. The amount of compensation shall be as follows:
1.	If the crew are released on docking they shall receive the minimum payment or the per diem, whichever is the greater;
2.	If the crew are required to remain on board they shall receive work-in-port rates at the basic rate for each hour until released plus the per diem for sailing time:
3.	If the crew are required to remain on board until the trawler resalls, they shall receive in addition to the per diem €or sailing time, work-in-port rates at the basic rate for each hour they were required to stand by while docked.
20i03 - Provisions in this Clause requiring crewmembers to be ready to sail shall be effective notwithstanding the fact that one or more crewmembers have not reported provided the Company was notified as per Article 13 and Captain and crew have agreed to sail shorthanded at the scheduled sailing time.
33
ARTICLE 21 • Stand-by Pay
21:01:01- In accordance with the provisions of this Agreement the Company shall schedule the sailing of all trawlers which shall be the scheduled sailing time. Within the turnaround period the Company may:
1.	Set a scheduled sailing time for any scheduled sailing period;
2	i Advise that the trawler will not be scheduled to
sail within six days from the end of the turnaround period due to mechanical problems, in that event stand-by pay shall not apply unless the trawler is actually scheduled to sail within the six day period, at which time for the purpose of calculating stand-by-pay, the trawler will be deemed to have been scheduled to sail in the first scheduled sailing period following the turnaround period;
3	, Not schedule the trawler to sail due to
mechanical problems in which case, for the purpose of calculating stand-by-pay, the trawler will be deemed to have been scheduled to sail in the first scheduled sailing period following the turnaround.
When a trawler has been scheduled to sail or, deemed to have been scheduled to sail as provided in (2) and (3) above, Clause 21:01:02 shall apply. Stand-by-pay shall only apply once between trips.
3*	-
21:01;02- When a scheduled sailing of a v«ss«l i» delayed because of mechanical problem6 (problems related to hull and machinery, navigation and fish finding aids) , refit excepted,	the Company will pay,	at the
commencement of the next calendar day, the crewmembers who were available for the scheduled sailing, up to a maximum of three (3) days' stand-by pay at the rate of fifty-two dollars ($52.00) per day prorated to the nearest hour.
21:02 • When a vessel sails and returns to port within seventy-two	(72) hours due to mechanical problems
(problems related to hull and machinery, navigation and fish finding aids) and the crew i» released, the Company will pay at the coM«nceaent of the next calendar day up to a saxlsua of three (3) days at the rate of fifty-two dollars ($52.00) per day prorated to the nearest hour.
21:03 • In order to qualify for payment under 21:01 and 21:02 crewmembers must be available to sail and sail on the rescheduled sailing time, provided such rescheduling takes place within fourteen (14) days of the original tie-up.
21:04 • Crewmembers who accept alternate positions within the Company will not be disqualified for stand-by pay.
21:05 - Where a crewmember is transferred at the request of the Company, and has to valt to rejoin his trawler, he shall be compensated at the basic rate of work-in-port rates for eight (8) hours per day provided he is available for work as assigned by the Company and actually works when assigned. Where the crewmember actually works the rates of pay vill be in accordance with Article 22,
35
ARTICLE 2 2 * Work in Port Pay
22:01 - Rates for work-in-port shall be:
	1st Mates/		Eosun/Cook/	
	Chiefs	2nd Mates	2nd Eng./leer	Deckhands
NOV. 1/93	$12.40	$11.50	$11.15	$10.10
22:02 - When it is required to move a trawler while in port, Lt shall be done by shore personnel except in cases of emergency, inclement weather or other circumstances when it is deemed necessary by the Company that or 4V« members move the trawler. Crewmembers will be paid for such work at work-in-port rates.
22:03 - When a trawler lands during a fishing trip and res-slls to continue fishing without discharging fish, Crewmembers required to work while in port or crewmembers required to remain on board the trawler or on Company property shall be compensated at work-in-port rates. Where crewmembers are not put to work, or are not required to	remain	on Company	property, daily	per
diems will	continue, provided	all crewmembers	are
available at sailing time. The Cook shall be paid for eight (8) hours each calendar day. Engineers shall be paid for keeping watch. Crewmembers shall receive compensation under this Clause under either work-in-port	rates or per	diem whichever	is
applicable.	While	in port under this Clause	the
Company will pay Ten dollars ($10.00) per man day for groceries.
22 ; 04
22:05)01-
22:05:02-
22:05 -
36
Crewmembers on work-in-port rates shall be paid tine and one-half of the regular rate for all hours worked in e::cess of eight (8) hours in a day or forty (40) ours in a week, and for all hours worked on Saturday and plant holidays. Double the regular rate will be paid for all continuous hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours or on Sunday. No crewmember will be required to work more than twelve (12) hours in any twenty-€our (24) hour period. A day is defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period commencing at twelve (12)00) midnight for the purpose of this paragraph. There shall be no pyramiding of any overtime and/or premium pay under this Article.
when a trawler lands at an initial port of discharge and crewmembers are not released, crewmembers shall be paid at work-in-port rates at the basic rate for all hours they are required to stand-by while discharging is taking place. When the trawler sails following a partial landing of fish, the crew will be placed on per diem.
When a trawler lands at a port of discharge and crewmembers are not released, crewmembers shall be paid at work-in-port rates and the basic rate for all hours they are required to stand-by while discharging is taking place. Upon the completion of discharging when the trawler sails to its final port of destination, the crew will be placed on per diem.
Engineers working ashore on trawlers during refits shall be compensated at the rate of his equivalent shore classification or work-in-port rates whichever is the greater. Chief and 2nd engineer ashore will be defined as per trade classification in each port.
37
ARTICLE 2 3 ■ Sailing other than Fishing Tripe -Method of Compensation
23!01 • Crewmembers shall be compensated as follows:
1.	Crewmembers shall receive not less than four (4) hours pay for sailings under this Article.
2.	The rates of pay shall be:
(a)	Monday through Friday, for all hours
subject to payment, at the basic rate of work-in-port	rates	for	each
classification:
(b)	Saturday and plant holidays in their home port, time and one-half the basic rate for all hours subject to payment:
(c)	Sunday, double the basic rate for all hours subject to payment.
3.	All crewmembers on the trawlers shall be paid the applicable rate for up to the first eight
(8) hours of steaming time. Steaming time in e::cess of eight (8) hours shall be paid at the applicable rate while keeping watch. (Cat-Jllni • M-aryatovn this clause shall read as twelve
(12) hours. )
4i For related travel time, using ground or other transportation, er-awmainJoars shall be compensated at the basic rate, Monday through Sunday, to a maximum of eight (8)hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. (Raoea • Harystovn this clause shall read as twelve (12) hours in twenty-four (24) hours.)
38	-
5.	Where fish is being discharged or crewmembers are waiting to return with a trawler, thdy shall be compensated at the basic rate for eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For this clause the hours subject to pay shall be those between 8:00 a.n. and 5:00 p.m.
6.	Crewmembers called to work outside their regular hours shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours per call-out.
7.	Regular crewmembers, outside of their regular turn-around period, will be given the first option of sailing their vessels on other than fishing trips where it is practical for other than in-port movements and movements between Burin Refit and Marystovn Shipyard.
24:01 -
24:02 -
39
ARTICLE 24 - Tow Job and Divereion Pay
When	a trawler is required to:		
1.	make a tow of another vessel;		
2 .	stand by another vessel:		
3 .	assist in retrieving another vessel's		gear; or
4.	assist another vessel at direction;	the	Company's
the crewmembers shall be paid, in accordance with the following schedule, a daily rate prorated to the nearest hour, for the time the trawler is diverted from fishing:
Hoy. 1/93 ($)
First Mates/Chiefs Second Mates Bosuns/Cooks/
2nd. Eng./leer Deckhands
170.00
140.00
127.00 99.00
In addition to the above rates, the per diem of sixty seven dollars ($67.00), and the Trip Incentive of eighteen dollars ($18.00) is to be paid. Payment under this clause is the only entitlement to pay for any days crewmembers are engaged in duties outlined in 24:01	(1),	(2),	(3), and (4) and they shall not be
entitled to payment of per diem and/or Trip Incentive pay under other articles of this Agreement for the days so engaged.
24! 03 * Where a tow is made, payment under this clause shall apply from the time a trawler stops fishing, or is diverted by the Company, until it Is in the Sise or equivalent position to resume fishing during that trip or the trip is terminated and the crewmembers released.
24 :04 - When a trawler loses its fishing gear and attempts to retrieve it, crewmembers will be compensated at work-in-port rates for the time spent searching less four (4) hours. Should a trawler recover its own gear any time after abandoning an initial search, it will be dealt with as salvage under 25:01. Gear will be considered to have been abandoned if an attempt is not made to recover it prior to the completion of the trip during which it was lost.
-	41
ARTICLE 2 5 • Salvage Pay
25:01 ■ In the event that a trawler salvages gear or equipment, the fair market value of the gear or equipment will be established, at which time fifty percent (50%)of the fair market value will be divided equally among all cravaaabers provided the salvaged gear or equipment is salvaged under the principles of admiralty law. Any dispute over fair market value may be referred to arbitration.
25:02 - Rules of procedure under admiralty law shall apply in the case of salvage, except in no case shall a trawler be paid less than the provisions of 24:01 above.
42
ARTICLE 26 - Jury Duty
26;01 - The Company shall grant leave of absence without loss of seniority or accumulative benefits to a crewmember who serves as a juror.
43
ARTICLE 27 - Bereavement Leave Pay
27:01 • Should a crewmember suffer a bereavement and have to be brought ashore before the completion of a trip he shall receive his full share and earnings as though he completed the trip. The Company shall pay that portion of the earnings of the crewmember for the uncompleted sailing time in that trip.
27:02 • Bereavement leave shall apply in the event of death of a crevaeishsr's spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, grandchild, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparents and legal guardian. For the provisions of 27:01 to be operative in this respect the crewmember shall be put ashore in order to attend the funeral.
27:03 - Should the Company decide that a replacement is needed, the replacement shall share in the gross stock for his portion of the trip. Should the Company not replace the crewmember then it shall add the per diem and Trip Incentive Pay due the replacement to be shared equally among the remaining crewmembers.
27:04 - In the event of a bereavement at sea, the Company will chc*sn and pay the transportation costs of the crewmember, if he is landed outside his home port, to his home port.
27:05 - When a crewmember Is scheduled to sail and a bereavement occurs as defined in 27:02 resulting in the crewmember missing his trip due to the trawler's sailing before the funeral the crewmember shall be compensated for the trip.
44
ARTICLE 28 - illness or Injury
28:01 - Should a crewmember be injured or become ill and have to be brought ashore before the completion of a trip he shall receive his full share and earnings as though he had completed the trip. The Company shall pay that portion of the earnings of the crewmember for the uncompleted sailing time in the trip.
28:02 :01- Should the Company decide a replacement is needed, the replacement shall share in the gross stock for his portion of the trip. Should the Company not replace the crewmember then 11 shall add the per diem and Trip Incentive Pay due the replacement to be shared equally among the remaining crewmembers.
28:02 :02- If a crewmember earning bonus is injured during a trip and elects to	take a non-bonus position	for	the
duration of the trip, instead of being brought ashore, he shall receive his bonus for the trip.
28:03	-	In	the	event	of illness or injury a	doctor's
certificate must be supplied by the crewmember upon request.
28:04	-	In	the	event	a crewmember Is injured	in	the
performance of his duties after reporting for a scheduled sailing, and misses the trip as a result of such injury, he shall be compensated by the Company for the difference received from Workers' Compensation and the amount he would have earned for that trip.
28:05	-	In	the	event of an injury or illness at	sea	the
Company will choose and pay the transportation costs of the crewmember, if he Is landed outside his home port, to his home port.
45	-
ARTICLE 2 9 • Living Conditions
29 id • The Company will provide and maintain clean mattresses and pillows. In addition, the Company will supply two pillow cases, two sheets, and two blankets or the equivalent thereof.
29! 02 - At the beginning of each trip each crewmember will be issued laundered sheets, or equivalent, and pillow cases. At the end of each trip all soiled or worn out sheets, pillow cases, and mattress covers will be turned in to be replaced or laundered as the case may be. Blankets will be laundered as required but not less than twice in each year.
29! 03 • The Company, where applicable, will review with the Union representatives what is necessary to provide oilskin lockers, and will endeavour to have such lockers heated. The Company, where applicable, will also review with the Union representatives what is realistically possible on a trawler to ensure appropriate temperature controls for crew comfort. Fans will be installed in crew quarters where required on vessels identified at the time of signing of this Agreement.
29104 • Each trawler shall be eguipped with a radio for the use of crewmembers. The Company will locate the radio on each trawler in an appropriate place as determined by a majority of the crew in consultation with the Captain,
29! 05 • The Company agrees to install and maintain a television set, a VCR, and microwave oven, on each trawler subject to the following terms and conditions:
The Company will be responsible for normal maintenance only and the Union and the crsyisetbsrs agree that the television, VCR, and microwave oven shall in no way interfere with the sailing schedules of a trawler or its operations while at sea.
29 I 06 " 29107 -
29lOS ■
46
Water coolers will be provided on all trawlers.
The Company shall maintain the practice of responsibility for ship supplies at Company expense.
The Company shall provide a secure locked facility for crevmembers' personal fishing gear to be stowed between trips.
30:01 -
ARTICLE 30 - Purchasing of Provisions
It is agreed that the cook shall be entitled to shop for provisions in order to obtain the best values for the crew, subject only to the right of the Union Delegate, on behalf of the crew, to give further direction if necessary to protect their interests. Cooks will post grocery lists on the bulletin board.
	- 48 -
	ARTICLE 31 • Working Conditions
31;01 -	It is the responsibility of the Company to ensure all trawlers are made ready for the scheduled sailing times.
31:02 -	When the trawler is scheduled to sail and the crew are on board, the crew will be expected to do all assignments normally performed at sea in order to facilitate the sailing of the trawler.
31:03 -	The Company agrees to put the trawler in a clean condition before the start of the trip. The crew shall bring the trawler back in a clean condition at the completion of the trip.
31104 -	New set6 of main warps will be placed on board trawlers by shore personnel. The Company will pay for the marking of one (1) set of used warps in each calendar year.
3H05 •	Prior to the commencement of a trip gear will be placed on the deck by shore personnel. Crewmembers will be responsible for the stowage of gear on trawlers, or for placing gear on deck for gear changes by shore personnel on the completion of a trip. Crewmembers involved in the changing of gear while in port during a fishing trip which involves the movement of gear from deck to shore and the replacement of that gear from shore to deck will be compensated at work-in-port rates as per 22:03,
31:06 -	Splicing of wire, except in emergencies, will be done by shore personnel.
31107 •	The Captain will advise the crew prior to sailing of the expected date of return to port and any changes in expected return as soon as the Captain becomes aware of such changes.
-	49
31:08 - When, in the opinion of the leer, old ice should be removed from the trawler he shall advise the Captain prior to the end of a trip. The Captain will identity the ice in question and check its condition. The captain may consult with shore personnel on arrival at dock. If the ice is not removed the leer will be advised as to the reason prior to the start of the next trip. From June 1 to September 30, ice that has been on a trawler €or two trips will be removed on the request and advice of the senior leer on the trawler if, in his judgement, the ice would not be suitable for use. Should the ice in question not be able to ba removed during the turnaround period of the trawler it will be used only as a last alternative, to ice fish, on the subsequent trip, in which event the crew will not be held responsible should that ice result in a deterioration of the catch.
31:09 - The Company will supply submersible pumps on trawlers.
31:10 * The Chief Engineer shall submit a work order list on the completion of a trip. The work order list shall be reviewed with the Chief by the Marine Superintendent, or his delegate, prior to the next scheduled sailing to review the work performed during the turnaround period.
50	-
ARTICLE 3 2 • Vacation Allowance
32! 01 • Based on the number of sea days in continuous service since the date of last employment with the Company as a crewmember, crewmembers will receive vacation allowance as follows:
0*219 sea days	A* of earnings
220 sea days and over	4$ of earnings
14 40 sea days and over	3% of earnings
The allowance will be payable after March 31at. of each year on the earnings of the previous year subject to other clauses specifying time of payment in this Article.
32! 02 • Crewmembers will be permitted to take their vacation allowance, accumulated at the appropriate rate, plus their Trip Incentive Pay, computed under the terms and conditions as specified in Article 32!04, prior to a scheduled trip off, to a maximum of five (5) times in the calendar year. Crewmembers are required to give one trip's advance notice for each request for the payment to be available. The balance, if any, of those accounts should be paid with the final trip settlement for each calendar year.
32103	• Upon termination or quitting, crewmemberswill be paid
the vacation allowance accumulated at that date.
32104	• Crewmembers will be paid eighteen dollars ($18.00) per
sea day calculated to the nearest hour as Trip Incentive Pay.
ARTICLE 33 - Tool Allowance
33:01 - The Company will supply tools to the engine roOB in accordance with	a	specified	list.	Company
representatives may consult with engineers on the list of specified tools to ensure adequate provision is made related to the class of trawler and the requirements of the job.
52
ARTICLE 34 - Clothing Allowance
34;01 - The Company agrees to pay a clothing allowance of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per sea day.
53
ARTICLE 3 5 • Ship Loss Allowance
35:01 - When a trawler is lost or burned during a trip, all cr«'*'asabsr3 will receive a lump sun payment of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000,00) each, in full payment for loss of personal items.
35:02 - Crevaefflisars may claim for loss of personal items left on a trawler between fishing trips should the trawler be lost or burned, such compensation to be limited to the value of the items proven to have been on board at the time of loss up to the maiiimum allowed in 35 101.
-	54
ARTICLE 3 6 - Bonded Stock
36:01 ■ The Company will ensure that the allowed amount of bonded cigarettes are put on board each trawler before the beginning of each trip.
36:02 - The cost to the crewmembers will be for the cigarettes only and no additional fees or costs will be added for the Company's inconvenience in picking up and putting the bonded stock on board.
36 : 03 - The Company w i 11 ensure that each crewmember is issued his correct amount of bonded stock.
55
ARTICLE 37 - Insurance * Pensions
37:01:01- Tho Company will continua to participate in Tisheriaa Benefit Trust.
37:01:02- The Company will pay the full cost of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) life insurance including Accidental Death and Dismemberment on each crewmember. Vision care, 100V - maximum payment of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) will be added to the extended health care benefits. The contribution of crewmembers will be maintained at the amount effective October 31st, 1990.
37:01:03 - The Company agrees to maintain the level of benefits, major medical as of the date of this Agreement and weekly indemnity at Two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) per week. The contribution of crewmembers will be maintained at the amount effective October 31st, 1990.
37:01:04- A description of the benefit plan is set out in Schedule "E" for the benefit of the crewmembers. The description in Schedule "E" is not intended t o be part of the Collective Agreement as benefits are subject to the master policy.
37:02:01- Tho Company sstablished a flat rata benefit Pension Plan effective January 1,	19 6 9 for all orevaembsrs
in the bargaining unit. Taras and condition* with respect to ths Pension Plan are outlined in the Pension Plan document attached to this Agreement *S Sehadula "0". Tb» basic year of sarvica for orevmembers under tho provisions of the Plan will be one hundred and twenty (120) sea days. Effective January 1,	1952 crewmembers shall be credited service
at a benefit rate of Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per month per year of service.
56
37i 02:02- The parties will establish a Pension Board of Administration comprised of two (2) representatives each. The Board will have the folloving duties and responsibilities:
! 0 i - To provide information to members on the terms and conditions of the plan:
;02 • To verify the calculation of credited service and retirement benefits;
103 - To develop such forms and statements as are necessary for the proper administration of the plan.
The Board shall not be empowered to amend the plan. The plan shall only be amended by agreement between the Company and the Union.
38.01 -
38.02 -
38:03 -
57	-
ARTICLE 38 - Managenent'a Rights
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, it is the exclusive function of the Company to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, sign on, classify, discharge, transfer, promote, demote or discipline crewmembers.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, it is the exclusive function of the Company to manage the enterprise in which the Company is engaged and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to determine the number and locations of trawlers, the species to be fished, the methods of operation, sailing and working schedules, kinds and locations of equipment to be used, processing methods and to establish standards of performance for all operations and crewmembers.
The Company may establish from time to time rules and regulations governing crewmembers covered by this Agreement, provided that such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement.
58
ARTICLE 39 • Discharge or Suspension
39:01 • When a crewmember is suspended or discharged, written notice of such action stating the reasons therefore shall be forwarded to him, with a copy to the Union, within twenty-four (24) hours, if the action arises at sea, within twenty-four (24) hours after docking.
39:02 • Crevaeabers, who without just cause or without having received permission, fail to report for a scheduled sailing, shall be subject to discipline up to and including discharge.
39:03 • When a crewmember is discharged away from a trawler's home port, the Company shall choose and provide his transportation and lodging back to the home port. The Company has no responsibility for a crewmember who quits.
35:04 - Matters of a disciplinary nature or expressions of d i se b i.s feet Lon with the performance of a crewmember shall be recorded in vrlting and placed in the personnel file of the crewmember vith a copy to the Union. Such matters if not recorded, shall not be considered as part of a crsvaeaber ‘ s record. The record of disciplinary action will be removed from a crewmember1 s file after one hundred and twenty (120) seedey-s if no further disciplinary action has been taken.
-	59
ARTICLE 4 0 - Grievance Procedure
40! 01 • No crewmember shall be disciplined, suspended or discharged without just cause.
40! 02 • Both parties recognize the importance of processing grievances as quickly as possible and agree that any dispute concerning the administration, application or alleged violations of this Agreement shall be dealt with as follows:
STEP 1
Crevaskbar grievances arising out of matters relating to ship board conditions shall be raised with the Captain during the trip. Grievances arising from contract application or interpretation relating to benefits accruing under the contract shall be raised with designated shore personnel. The Captain or designated shore personnel shall reply within three (3) days of the matter being raised or twelve (12) hours prior to sailing- time whichever comes earlier.
STEP, 2
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the matter may be further discussed between the crewmember and/or boat delegate and other designated representatives of the Union and the designated shore personnel of the Company, together with the Trawler Manager and/or Personnel Manager, or the Union nay elect to proceed to Step 3 ,
STEP 3
- 60 -
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1 or Step 2 it shall be submitted to the Trawler Manager, in writing, stating the issue and remedy sought. Upon receipt of a grievance, in writing, the Manager shall, at the earliest possible date and in no case to exceed twelve (12) days, convene a Masting of such Company representatives as may be designated, together with the crewmember and/or boat delegate, a provincial representative of the Union, if available, and such other people as the Union may designate. The matter will be decided and the Company's written reply to the grievance will be submitted to the Union within seven (7) days of the Meeting with copies to all interested parties. If the grievance is not resolved through the foregoing procedure, either party may refer the matter to arbitration as herein provided.
40:03 * Group and policy grievances initiated by the Union and Company grievances shall be submitted, i n writing, specifying the Articles of the Collective Agreement allegedly violated by either party in accordance with Step 3 , The party in receipt of the grievance shall reply within fourteen (14) days. Failing settlement, the matter shall be referred to arbitration as herein provided.
40:04 - The time limits herein may be expanded or compressed by mutual consent and subject to the directive of <10:02 shall be considered directory as opposed to mandatory.
40:05 - No grievance shall be denied through error in form or technical irregularity.
- 61
ARTICLE 41 - Arbitration
41:01 - Any matter in dispute between a crewmember, the Company or the Union involving the interpretation, application or alleged violation of any Article of the Agreement, including any question as to whether or not a matter is arbitrable, may, in the event of failure to reach agreement under the grievance procedure and after exhausting that procedure, be referred to arbitration by a sole arbitrator.
41:00 • The party desiring to submit a matter to arbitration shall deliver to the other party a notice of intention to arbitrate. This notice shall state the matter at issue and shall state in what respect the Agreement has been violated or misinterpreted. The notice shall also stipulate the nature of the relief or remedy sought.
41:00 - Within five (5) days after the date of delivery of the foregoing notice, both parties shall meet to agree on the selection of the arbitrator.
41:04 - If the parties cannot reach agreement on the selection of an arbitrator within five (5) days, then either party may request the Minister of Labour £ Manpower of the Province of Newfoundland to appoint an arbitrator.
41:05 • After the arbitrator has been appointed by the foregoing procedure, the arbitrator shall convene a meeting at the earliest possible date with both parties present. After hearing the evidence of both parties the arbitrator shall render a decision as soon as possible, but in no event longer than thirty (30) days following the hearing.
41:06 - Whenever the subject matter of a grievance involves a loss of earnings or benefits the arbitrator shall have the authority to restore either partially or completely such loss in accordance with his decision. The arbitrator shall have the authority to vary a disciplinary penalty.
41:07 -
41:08 ■
41:09 •
41:10 *
41:11 -
41:12 -
62
In the case of an unjust dismissal or suspension there shall be no onus on a crewmember to mitigate losses.
The decision of the arbitrator on the matter at issue shall be final and binding on both parties, but in no event shall the arbitrator have the power to add to, subtract from, alter or amend this Agreement in any respect.
Either party shall be considered to have waived it8 right to raise preliminary objections to an arbitration proceeding unless it files with the other party written reasons for such preliminary objection at the Same time as the reply to step 3 of the grievance procedure.
The time limits, referred to in the arbitration procedure may be expanded or compressed by mutual consent, and shall be considered directory as opposed t o mandatory.
No grievance shall be lost through error in form or technical irregularity.
Each party shall pay its ovn costs and the fees and expenses of its witnesses. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the parties.
63
ARTICLE 4 2 • Strike and Lockouts
4 2:01 - During the life of this Agreement, the Union and its members agree individually and collectively that its terms and conditions are binding on them and further agree that there shall be no strike, sit down, slow down, stoppage, or suspension of work, either complete or partial, for any reason.
4 2:02 • The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement there shall be no lockout.
42:03 • No crewmember shall be forced as a condition of employment to cross a legal picket line.
64
ARTICLE 4 3 - Duration of Agreement
43:01 * This Agreement shall become effective the 1st. day of November, A.D.,	1993 and shall remain in effect until
the 31st, day of December, A.D. 1994 and thereafter shall be automatically renewed from year to year unless in any year, within ninety (90) days preceding the date of expiration of this Agreement, a written notice is given by either party to this Agreement to the other party, informing the latter that it wishes to terminate or mend this Agreement or to negotiate a new Agreement. In such event, negotiations for a new Agreement or amendment to the existing Agreement shall take place between the parties within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of such notice.
65	-
Dated at St. John's, Newfoundland this	day of Dsctabsr,
A.D., 1993.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto their hands and seals subscribed and set the day and year first before written.
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED in the presence of:
FISHERMEN FOOD AND ALLIED WORKERS (Fisheries Division, Canadian
Auto Workers) :
IN THE PRESENCE OF:	FISHERY PRODUCTS INTERNATIONAL
LIMITED
- 66
"SCHEDULE "A"
During the term of this Agreement, crevaeabers' incomes will be determined as follows:
1,	A per diem of sixty-seven dollars ($67.00)per sea day, all calculated to the nearest hour.
2,	A basic share calculated on fish prices, as set forth herein. The total pounds of acceptable fish landed each trip shall be paid for at these prices. The dollar amount arrived at shall be referred to as the crew's gross stock which shall be equally divided amongst the entire crew including Captain after deductions of the cost of provisions and cigarettes. In addition, the Company shall pay the following percentages and amounts to these special classifications:
(a) Mates 4 Chiefs
at 5,50% of the total crew's gross stock;
Second Mate
Bosuns, Second Engineers, Icsrs, and Cooks
at 3,00% of the total crew's gross stock:
at 2,00% of the total crew's gross stock:
Mates 4 Chiefs Second Mate
Boson, Second Engineers, leers, and Cooks
Crewmembers in the Learner Classification shall not receive Trip Incentive Pay under Clause 32:04,
$3 , 60 l, 96
1,30
67
Crewmembers in the Travlsrman's Classification shall receive the Trawlerman's Premium of Ten dollars ($10.00) per sea day.
3.	Cooks will receive a premium payment of Ten ($10.00) dollars per sea day Whan the trawler carries in excess of two (2) personnel beyond the standard crew.
4.	Crew fish prices in cents per pound for acceptable fish are as follows:
SPECIES
Effective
November 1. 1993
Cod, gutted Cod, gutted 25" and over (S.T.X. )
Cod gutted 16" • 25"
(M.X.T. t S.C.)
Flounder, gutted Greysole, round 11" i Over Yellowtail, gutted
Haddock, gutted 1 1/2 lbs.
4 over
Perch, large (over 10")
Perch, small (9" - 10")
Pollock, gutted
Catfish, gutted
Hake
Cusk
Turbot
Halibut, dressed 4 headless (large)
Halibut, dressed 4 headless (small)
Reject
6.6000
5.5000
6.5000
6.5000
6.5000
6.0217
4.2500
3.4000
3.3012
3.3491
2.6075
2.6075
6,0000
40.0000
33.0000
0.2871
5,	Cod Roe - Price per barrel one hundred and six dollars and sixty cents ($106.60) which shall be equally divided amongst the entire crew including the Captain.
- 68 -
SCHEDULE "B"
1,	Sunday Sailings:
No trawler shall be scheduled to sail before 2s00 p,® Sunday unless agreed to between Captain and crew.
No trawler will be required to make more than three Sunday sailings in each calendar year.
2.	Standard Cr e w
Standard Crew on Fishing Trips (A)
Trawler
Zandberg
Zandvoort
Pennysmart Newfoundland Hawk
Norwegian Class
Marystovn Vessels
Newfoundland Eagle Newfoundland Kestrel
Grand Vessels
Fortune Vessels
Newfoundland Arrow Newfoundland Alert
Ho. of Crew
15
15
14
15
14
14
15
15
14
14
12
12
14
on
(3)
Harbour Breton Vessels
69	-
When a vessel sails with less than the standard crew the missing crewmember's per diem will be shared equally among the crew.
(B) Standard Crew other than Fishing Trips
Trips other than fishing trips will have a minimum of seven (7) crewmembers. The Captain may decide that circumstances require a larger crew.
3,	Scheduled Sailing Periods.
Port
Monday to Saturday a.m.	p.H.
Sunday
p.n.
Catalina	10:00
Catalina (Dec, 1 -
April 30) Hi 00 Fortune	8:00
Marystown	9:00
Harbour Breton	9:00
10:00
11:00
8:00
9:00
9 : 00
2:00 - 10:00
2:00 - 10:00 2:00 - 8:00 2:00 -	9:00
2:00 -	9:00
Note :	The sailing period for all ports all days may be
extended one (1) hour, four (4) times per trawler each year. For scheduled sailings outside of the home port trawler crewmembers will remain with the trawler in the event of a delay and be paid at work-in-port rates until either the trawler sails as soon as it is ready or the crewmembers are released. In the event that crewmembers are released the Company will pay their return transportation to their home port.
70
SCHEDULE »C"
Fish Weighing and Receipt:
1.	All fish shall be unloaded directly from the trawler through existing unloading systems and weighed over scales approved and stamped by the Department of Weights and Measures and monitored regularly by the Union.
2.	Scales shall not be adjusted upward or downward to allow for any factors and shall balance at zero (0) all year round.
3.	The Weighmaster shall record the actual weight and species
contained in each lot of fish before tripping scales or allowing the removal of each lot of fish, and make available to the Union, if requested,	a copy of the
original record.
3,	Gross Weight shall be the total weight that passes over the scales or the total weight passing over scales plus anything culled out prior to tallying weight.
5. Deductions from gross weight may be made for the following
Ice, water and gut; undersize fish; inedible species:
fish unsuitable for processing into fillets at the time of discharge: sour fish as a result of poor icing: jellies; green spots; chalk :
congenital defects not including normal infestation by worms; discoloration.
reasons:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g>
<h)
(i)
(j)
-	71	-
6, Deductions to be made from the ros * weight shall be arrived at in the following manner:
(«)
<f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
for ice, water and gut ■ random samples, a minimum of ten (10) per shift, to determine appropriate percentages;
for undersize fish • random samples, minimum of ten (10) per shift to establish appropriate percentage to be deducted from gross weight. Where practical the foregoing percentage shall be checked against the actual weight of undersized fish culled out on the production line anywhere from trawler to cutting line, to ensure that the percentage is reasonably accurate. Where this comparison L$ made and carried out to completion, and the results do not coincide, the actual weight culled out will be used for making deductions from gross weight;
for inedible species -	(1) random samples,
minimum of ten (10) per shift, to establish the appropriate percentage to be deducted from gross weight, or (ii) the actual weight of such specie culled out on the production line:
for fish unsuitable for processing into fillets at the time of discharge * must be weighed out separately or weighed back from line;
for sour fish as a result of poor icing • must be weighed out separately:
for jellied fillets • these fillets shall be culled out, weighed and converted back to dressed fish on the basis of a standard twenty-sight percent (28%) yield:
for green spots • in the same manner as jellies;
for chalk - in the same manner as jellies:
for congenital defects not including normal infestation by worms ■ in the same manner as jellies;
-	72
(j)	for discoloration - in the same manner as
jellies.
7.	Deductions for reasons outlined in 5(d),	5(e),	5(g) and
5(i) herein, which amount to five percent (5%) or more of gross weight, will be certified in writing by a Federal Fisheries Inspection Officer provided one is readily available and is willing t o do so.
8.	In any dispute over quality at the time and point of discharge the opinion of the Federal Fisheries Inspection Officer shall prevail providing the Officer is available and willing to express his opinion subject to arbitration as herein provided.
9.	If all fish	are processed before the trawler is	settled	the
deduction w i	l l be the actual amounts found. If	the trawler
is settled before all fish are cut the deduction will be based on the percentage found up to the time of settlement.
10.	The Company will endeavour to ensure that quality does not suffer as a result of any of its actions. An allegation by the Union that the Company has failed in this regard may be dealt without disruption through grievance and arbitration.
H. Crews will be held responsible only for quality of fish less than 240 hours old at the time and point of discharge. The Crew is not responsible for deterioration in fish quality unrelated to the proper handling, stowage, and icing of fish on board the vessel.
12.	The receipt	shall show the net processable fish as	per
species and	size, the deductions from gross	weight	for
items 5(a) to 5(i), and the reasons for same. Each crewmember and the Union shall be given a copy of the receipt.
73
SCHEDULE "D"
1, The following understandings apply between the Company and the Union:
A:	When a trawler leaves port at the commencement of
a fishing trip and the intention is to stop at another port for minor servicing or supplies before proceeding to the fishing ground, crawmambars will fca compensated for the increased sailing time, at work-in-port rates plus payment at work-in-port rates for the time docked in port, to a maximum of twelve (12) hours in each twenty-four (24) hour period. Per diem shall not apply to docktime when work-in-port rates are in effect but	will apply	during dcbktiae when
work-in-port rates are not in effect.
B:	Deductions for ice, water, and gut shall be based
on actual samples in accordance with Schedule
»C".
Cs	Travel Allowance all Ports:
(1) Per fishing trip
If travelling within a radius of
50	to 150 miles	$13,00
151	to 200 miles	$25,00
201	miles and over	$30,00
-	74
All crewmembers on Company trawlers who, under the previous contract paid $12,00 for travel and those crewmembers who have relocated to new home ports as a result of the deactivation of side trawlers and the relocation of sterns prior to the resumption of operations, will have travel expenses paid for an amount in e::cess of $12,00 per crewmember by the Company. The Company reserves the right to have travel expenses charged on the basis of least cost. All other crewmembers will receive the travel allowance as per the Schedule described above.
D.	Credit Union:
The Company agrees to deduct Credit-Union fees on provision of notice and signed authorization from crewmembers. Deductions will be remitted to the Credit Union by Friday of the following week,
-	75
SCHSCHLE "S' • Health Plan
Description of Plan
The following is not part of the Collective Agreement. Benefits are subject to the master policy. Administration of claims, all enquiries, correspondence and claims should be sent to the Company.
Schedule of Benefits
Term l1f$/AD40 Weekly Indemnity Sami - Private Hospital Major Medical Expenses Direct Drug Expenses
$50,000.00
$250.00
A 11 costs Above H.C.P.
m Paid
Also, Vision Care ■
$ 0\	(Maximum
Payment of $120.00)
LIFE INSURANCE
Life Insurance is payable to your listed beneficiary upon your death from any cause. In the event there is no such appointment, the benefit will be payable to the estate of the member. Payment may be taken in a lump sum, in a series of monthly installments, or in a combination of both.
Within 31 days of leaving your employment, you may convert the life insurance to any individual whole life or convertible one-year term or term to age $5 plan.
If, while insured, you become totally disabled for at least 6 consecutive months before attaining age 65, the Insurer will waive the payment of Life Insurance premiums. This "Waiver of Premium" benefit is not automatic. In order to qualify, you must notify your Plant Administrator within 12 months from the
76	-
day you last worked. The Plant Administrator will then give you two forms for completion and return. One firm is an application to be completed by you, and the other is a form for completion by your doctor. Both forms, together with a copy of your birth certificate, should then be returned to your Plant Administrator as soon as possible, as they must be received by the Insurance Company not later than 18 months from the day you last worked.
Benefits reduce by 50} on the first day of the month coincident or ne::t following attainment of age 55. Benefits cease on the first day of the month coincident or next following attainment of age 70 or prior retirement.
BENEFICIARY
The tfeober's Loss of Life Benefit is payable to the bsnsfici-ary(iss) appointed under his/har Group Life Insurance Program. In the event there is no such appointment, the T rm of Life Benefit will be payable to the Estate of the Member. All other benefits are payable to the Member.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
Coverage
Subject to the limitations shown:	All accidents resulting
in Death, Dismemberment, Loss of Speech, Loss of Hearing, Inss of Use of Limbs, or Paralysis are covered - anywhere in the world • anytime - 2i hours per day.
Amount of Insurance
The amount of insurance (Principal Sum) with respect to each eligible person shall be an amount equal to coverage under the Atlantic Fisheries Benefit Trust 11 Group Life Insurance Program.
Schedule of Benefit*
77
If. within one year after the date of an accident. an Insured Person suffers a loss below. the Insurer will pay:
Percentage of
For Loss of:	Principal am
Lass of Life ............................
La* of Both hands, both feet or sight
of both eyes ........................... . .
I riss of one hand and one foot..........
Loss of one hand and sight of one eye ., Loss of one foot and sight of one eye ..
Loss of speech and hearing ..............
t r* of use of both hands or both feet . Lass of use of one hand and one foot . . . Quadriplegia (totalparalysis of both
upper and lower limbs) ................
Paraplegia (totalparalysis of both
lower limbs)...........................
Hemiplegia (totalparalysis of upper and lower limbs of one side of body) ,.
I of one arm or one leg..................
Loss of use of one arm or one leg........
I n* of one hand. one foot. or sight
of one eye ............................
T n* of use of one hand or one foot .. . . Loss of speech. or hearing in both ears
I rre of hearing in one ear .............
Loss of thumb and index finger of one hand ................................
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
1001
751
751
671
671
501
501
331
Only one benefit, the largest to which you are entitled, is payable for all losses resulting from any one accident,
Limitations
No coverage will apply:
a) While on active full-time service in the armed forces of any country;
1b)	As the result of declared or undeclared war or act thereof:
c) As the result of air travel, except as a passenger in any aircraft having a current and valid certificate of airworthiness;
d) In the case of suicide or any attempt thereat while sane or self destruction or any attempt thereat while insane;
e} As the result of flying in any aircraft owned, leased or operated by your employer,
If you become totally disabled, your Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance will be continued without payment of premiums as long as your Member Life Insurance premiums are waived and the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Policy is still in force.
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Written notice of claim must be given to THE CITADEL GENERAL ASSURANCE COMPANY, within 3 0 days after the Occurrence of the accident or as soon thereafter as it is reasonably possible.
EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
Provided that they are not eligible as employees, your dependents are eligible for this coverage the same as yourself. Dependents include your wife or husband and unmarried, unemployed children from birth to 2 1 years. Coverage will extend to unmarried children in full-time attendance at school until age 25, and to children who, through permanent disability, remain dependent.
Provisions of Extended Health Care Ea^it,;
This section provides payment for hospital and major medical expenses incurred by you and your eligible dependents, which are not paid under your Provincial Hospital or Medicare Program.
Only reasonable and customary charges are covered. This means charges for services of the level usually furnished for cases of the nature and severity of the case being treated, and which are in accordance with representative fees and prices in the area.
Hospital Benefits:
The plan will pay 100$ of the following charges:
1,	For expenses incurred in Canada, the plan will pay the difference between the cost of ward and semi-private hospital accommodation, as long as necessary.
Expenses also include reasonable and customary charges €or the following items of expense incurred outside the patient's
province of residence, if they are required for emergency treatment of an injury or disease which occurred while the person vas travelling outside his province of residence and are prescribed by a physician, equal to the charge made in the area where the expense was incurred, less the amount payable by a government plan:
1 ,	semi-private accommodation and auxiliary hospital services
in a general hospital.
0 i services of a physician.
3, economy air fare for the patient's return to his province of residence,
The maximum lifetime amount payable is $500,000 for the member and each insured dependent.
80
ELIGIBLE EXPENSES - OUT-OF-PROVINCE REFERRAL (100%)
Eligible expenses also mean reasonable and customary charges for the following items of expense incurred outside the patient's province of residence if they are not available in the patient's province of residence, are prescribed fcy a physician and are performed following written referral by the attending physician in the patient's province or residence:
1.	public ward accommodation and auxiliary hospital services in a general hospital limited to, after deducting the amount payable by a government plan, $75 a day for 60 days in a calendar year.
2.	services of a physician limited to, after deducting the amount payable by a government plan, the level of physicians' charges in the patient's province of residence.
MAJOR MEDICAL EXPENSES (80%Benefit)
1.	Charges for rental (or,at the Insurer's option, purchase) of braces, crutches, wheel chair, hospital bed or similar equipment required for the therapeutic purposes as a result of bodily injury or disease.
2.	Charges for prosthetic devices required as a result of bodily injury or disease.
3.	Charges for professional ambulance service or other emergency transportation, to and from the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment, and from one hospital to another. Emergency air ambulance service to the nearest hospital equipped to provide the required treatment when the physical condition of the patient prevents the use of another means of transportation, and, if the patient requires the services of a registered nurse during the flight, the services and return air fare for a registered nurse,
- 81 -
4.	Charges for necessary dental treatment required as a result of an accidental injury by external means, to natural teeth, provided the accident occurred while insured under this coverage. Replacement of natural teeth. As determined by the Insurer, only such charges directly related to such an accidental injury are considered a covered medical expense. The dental work must be completed within 3 years of the accident to be a covered medical expense.
5.	Charges for orthopedic shoes and special foot appliances which have been specially designed and molded for the insured individual and are required to correct a diagnosed physical impairment. Such charges are subject to a maximum benefit of $150.00 for a shoe without a brace and $200.00 for a shoe with a brace in any period af 12 consecutive months.
6.	Charges for hearing aids, repairs to hearing aids, and batteries, subject to a maximim of $500.00 during the 5 year period ending on the date an eligible expense is incurred. This limitation shall not apply in the event of an accidental injury to the ear.
7.	Charges for oxygen and blood serum,
8.	Charges for support hose when prescribed by the attending physician.
9.	Charges for a transcutaneous nerve stimulating device.
10.	Hostel • If you or one of your dependents, requires treatment at a hospital located more than 100 kilometres from your home, and if such person or the attendant requires hostel accommodations during the period of treatment, the reasonable and customary per diem charge for such hostel accommodations w ill be considered an eligible expense.
If the patient is over the age of 18 years, the hostel charge for the attendent will only be considered if the attendent was medically required.
The maximum payment per day Is $25.00.
82
11,	Charges for drugs, medicines, »srua« and vaccinee prescribed by a physician, surgeon or dentist legally licensed to practice, but excluding charger for the administration of serums, vaccines and injactifels drugs.
11,	Charges for a convalescent care facility. Charges for convalescent care service and supplies shall be subject to a maximum benefit of $20,00 per day for not more than 120 days of confinement for each period of disability. Confinement must be for the continued care of the same condition for vhich the insured was hospitalized and must begin prior to the insured's 65th. birthday.
12,	Charges for the services of a licensed speech therapist, and clinical psychologist, up to a maximum benefit of $250,00 in excess of the provincial plan, per specialty for any calendar year for each individual.
14,	Charges for the services of a licenced chiropractor, naturopath, osteopath, chiropodist, podiatrist or Christian Science Practitioner listed in the Christian Science Journal, subject to a maximum benefit per specialty of $250,00 per calendar year for each individual, Included in this benefit Is the expense of one x-ray per calendar year for each of a chiropractor, osteopath and podiatrist.
15,	Services of a massage therapist, llaitsd to 20 treatments per year.
16, Charges for the services of a physiotherapist, and an occupational therapist when not covered by a provincial government plan.
83
17.	(a)	Charges for the services of a Registered Nurse
(R,H.) provided such nurse is not ordinarily a residence in the &apl$ys«'» home and io not a relative of the employee or the employee's spouse, up to a maiiimum benefit of $25,000,00 during a calendar year:
(b)	Charges for the services of a registered Nursing
Assistant (R,K,A.) , provided such assistant is not ordinarily a resident in the aaployea's home. If convalescent care is required, up to a maximum benefit of $10,00 per day for not more than 120 days per disability.
Vision Care (100*)
i)	lenses and frames for	eye	glasses,	contact lenses	and
repairs to them, subject	to a	maiiimum benefit of $75,00	per
person in any period of 21 consecutive months:
ii)	eye examinations when	not	covered	by any provincial
government plan, limited to one such enamination in any 2 4 consecutive months, or one such enamination in any 12 consecutive months if the insured individual is under 21 years of age;
Ui)	eye glasses and contact	lenses certified by	an
opthslaologlst as necessary due to a surgical procedure of the treatment of keratoconus, limited to $20 0 in any period of 2 4 consecutive months.
The above limitations shall not apply in the event of
accidental injury to an eye.
waiver of Premium
84
The Insurer will waive the "Health" insurance premiums for each employee who is receiving Weekly Disability Income benefits under this policy, Unemployment Insurance Disability Income, or Workers' Compensation. Premiums will be waived beginning with the premium for the policy month immediately following the first full policy month for which benefits become payable, and continuing for each full policy month for which benefits become payable, up to a maximum period of 12 consecutive months, After this 12 month period, Premiums will continue to be waived for employees who have applied and been approved for waiver of the Group Life premiums.
EXCLUSION • EXTENDED HEALTH CARE BENEFITS The aforementioned coverages do not include coverage for:
1.	Intentionally self-inflicted injuries while sane:
2.	Cosmetic surgery:
3.	An examination by or the services of a physician or a surgeon If required solely for the use of a third party, or:
4.	Pregnancy existing at the time you or your dependent become eligible for insurance under this plan.
CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Complete a "Claim Authorization" form and attach it to the invoice(8), There should be a completed "Claim Authorisation" form for each member of the family for whom expenses are being claimed,
Have the claim verified by the Plant Administrator at your place of work. Send the claim to the Plant Administrator, Johnson Insurance Limited.
85
NOTICE OF CLAIM
To be eligible for payment, claims *ust be received by the Plan administration not later than 12 sonths from the date the expenses were incurred.
TERMINATION OF INSURANCE
Termination of employment, retirement, attainment of age 70, or non-payment of premium, automatically terminates all benefits on the date the event occurs.
86
SCHEDULE "E"
This Agreement represents the entire understanding between the parties. There are no other terms, conditions, obligations or understandings either expressed or implied which are binding or enforceable other than those specifically set forth in this Agreement or a Schedule thereto, or a concurrent letter of understanding executed in conjunction with the execution of this Agreement.
-	87
SCHEDULE " "
Standard Contents of the Medicine Chest and First Aid K i t
ITEM
QUANTITY
1.	Disinfectant Soap
2.	surgical Bowl
3.	Medical Thermometer
4.	Surgical Scissors
5.	Tvssssrs (bias point)
6.	safety Pins
7.	Eye Rinse Cup
8.	Eye Dropper
9.	Blunt Forceps 10 . Bed Pan
11.	Urinal Bottle (bed type)
12.	Air Splints
13.	Splints (Wooden)
14.	Triangular Bandage (for sling)
15.	Hernia Belt (adjustable elastic)
16.	Resuscitator Airway
17.	Gauze Bandages 1" to 4"
IS. Gauze Pads
19.	Absorbent Cotton
20.	Adhesive Medical Tape
21.	Band Aids
22.	Elastic Bandages 2 3 . Eye Shields
24.	Eye Dressings
25.	Tornlguet
26.	Antiphlogistine Ointment
27.	Boil Dressings
28.	A.S.A. Tablets
29.	222 Tablets
2
1
1
1 pr.
1 pr.
12
1
1
X pr. l 1
1 set complete (for a II limbs)
1	set complete (for a 11 limbs)
2 1 1
16	(4 of each
size)
25
5 oz. approx.
2 rolls 100
2 rolls
4
4
1 (34" X 3/41' approx. )
1	j ar
2	pkgs.
(assorted sizes) 100 tablets approx. 50 tablets approx.
- 8B
30.	Eye Wash Solution
31.	Gauze Burn Dressings (medicated)
32.	Liniment
33.	Antiseptic Ointment
34.	Tropical Ointment or Vaseline
3 5. Epsom Salts
36.	Bromo or Alfca Seltzer
37.	Kalpec or Xaopectate
38.	Cough Syrup
39.	Orodets tablets
40.	Castor O i l
41.	Ex-Lax or equivalent
42.	Anti-Acid Tablets
4	3. Aaphogel
44.	Iodine or Metaphen
45.	Mercurochrome
46.	Hydrogen Peroxide
47.	Fralrs Balsoa
48.	Toothache Drop6
49.	Earache Drops
50.	Opthalaic Ointment
51.	Finger Cotts
1 bottle
2	containers 1 bottle
3	tubes
3 tubs or equivalent in jars 1
1 package 1 bottle 6 bottles
1	package
2	bottles
1	bottle
2	packets
1	bottle
2	bottles 2 bottles 1 bottle 1 bottle
1 bottle 1 bottle 1 tube 25