SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT APRIL 16, 1998 - APRIL 15, 1999
BETWEEN
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
AND
UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERS’ UNION - C.A.W.
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
This Agreement made and entered into between each of the undersigned Companies severally as the Party of the First Part, hereinafter referred to as the Operator and the UFAWU - CAW, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
WHEREAS:	It is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto to set out hereunder the basic
Agreement covering prices and fishing conditions for the 1998 salmon seasons for purse seiners and gillnetters who are members of the Union.
WITNESSETH:
The Parties hereto mutually agree with each other as follows:
ARTICLE l
HONOURING VOUCHERS
The operators agree to honour Union vouchers for dues signed by fishers who are members of the Union or are desirous of joining the Union and who have monies due them from one of the Operators. It is understood that such vouchers, when honoured, shall be paid by cheque by the Operator concerned and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Union.
It is further agreed that each Company Head Office will issue instructions to the plant managers and book-keepers in accordance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding” on vouchers between the Operators and the Union.
ARTICLE 2	~
METHODS OF POUNDAGE BUYING
All the salmon purchased on the grounds or at the plants shall be weighed at the time oforiginal delivery and the weight so recorded shall constitute the basis for payment.
In the case of an exceptionally heavy run of any salmon species in any locality rendering it impossible or difficultto weigh fish as provided in Section 1 above, it shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement if some other arrangement, such as averaging, is arrived at, provided that in such instances the change arranged is concluded by mutual consent of the Union members and of the Operators in the given locality.
Section 1
Section 2
i
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 3 M INI IMUM PRICES
The Operators agree to pay the schedule of Minimum Prices detailed in Section 1 for No. I Quality Salmon, purchased throughout and to the end of the 1998 salmon season.
Alternatively, for sockeye and pinks, there are Minimum Price Market Formulas described in Section 2. Should the Market Formula calculation provide a price higher than the Minimum Prices for sockeye and/or pinks in Section 1, then an adjustment will be made to the Minimum Prices on an interim basis on or before December 15, 1998 and on a final basis on April 15,1999
On or before December 15, the operators will estimate the application of the Minimum Price Market Formula based on sales to date and projected sales to March 31. Any interim payment will increase the Minimum Price by 50% of the calculated difference between the Minimum Prices in Section 1 and the estimated adjusted prices, as calculated by the Minimum Price Market Formulas.
On or before April 15, the Minimum Price Market Formula calculations are to be done from actual sales from September 1 1998 to March 31, 1999. If the results of the Minimum Price Market Formula calculation are higher, the Minimum Prices for 1998 will be adjusted accordingly.
Having adjusted the minimum prices, the Operators will ascertain what payments, if any, are owing. Any payments resulting from interim or final adjustments to Minimum Prices for sockeye and pinks will be made on an interim basis on or before December 15, 1998 and on a final basis on or before April 15, 1999.
These dates may be altered by mutual consent of the parties.
Section 1: Schedule of Minimum Prices
i)	Sockeye
a)	All areas except Fraser River and Gulf	$ 1.20
b)	Fraser River and Gulf until Aug. 21	$1.10
c)	Fraser River and Gulf after Aug. 21	$ 1.00
ii)	Pink
$0.19
3
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
iii)	Chum
a)	Chums all areas (except as in i i i) b) and c))	SO. 20
b)	Bright Chums - areas 1 -10 - all season	SO.25
c)	Fall Johnstone Strait Chums-Brights	$0.35
iv)	Spring:
a)	Red Springs, 12 pounds and over, received in good condition, without mutilation, $1.00 per pound round.
b)	Red Springs, under 12 pounds and all cannery grade and white springs, $0.60 per round pound.
Gutting of Springs:
Spring Salmon shall be gutted by the boat crew if such instructions are issued by the management.
Payment for such gutted fish shall be made on the gutted weight and shall be based on the round prices being paid by the Company at that time in the area, plus 10% to compensate for loss of weight in gutting.
In addition, a payment of $0.01 per pound gutted weight shall be made to the crew as compensation for the work involved. Such payment for work done shall be made directly to the crew and not become part of the gross stock.
It is understood that should disputes arise in the area as to whether or not the Joss — in weight through gutting is greater or less than 10%, then at the request oreitner *
party a test or tests may be made to ascertain the actual percentage loss in gutting fish. The 10% may be increased or decreased according to the results of the test(s) for all fish taken in the area from the date of the test.
Section 2 - Minimum Price Market Formulas
a) Sockeye - All areas except Fraser River and Gulf
In accordance with the terms of Article 3 above, minimum prices for sockeye will be subject to a Minimum Price Market Formula. The formula is equal to 42% of the weighted average of the Operators’ average net export price for a 48-can carton of sockeye halves and the Operators’ average net export price for frozen sockeye (converted to round weight equivalent prices) sold during the period from Septemberl, 1998 to March 31, 1999. The average shall be weighted by the proportion of the Operators’ sockeye gillnet and seine catch purchases which is canned versus that which is frozen.
4
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
An example of the Minimum Price Market Formula for sockeye for all areas except Fraser River and Gulf is as follows: if the proportion of net caught sockeye purchased and canned by the Operators is 75%, the average net export price for a carton of canned sockeye is $108 and the average round weight equivalent price of frozen salmon is $3.42 /lb., the weighted average round weight equivalent price of sockeye would be $3.24 /lb., and the Minimum Price Market Formula calculation for sockeye would be $1.36 /lb.
.42 x [(.75 x {$108/carton 34 lbs./carton) )+(.25 x $3.42/lb.)]= $1.36
b) Sockeye - Fraser River and Gulf
The Minimum Price Market Formula for Fraser River and Gulf sockeye is the formula described in Section 2(a) minus 200.
An example of the formula for sockeye for Fraser River and Gulf is as follows: if the proportion of net caught sockeye purchased and canned by the Operators is 75%, the average net export price for a carton of canned sockeye is $ 108, and the average round weight equivalent price of frozen salmon is $3.42 /lb., the weighted average round weight equivalent price of sockeye would be $3.24 /lb., and the Minimum Price Market Formula calculation for sockeye would be $ 1.16 /lb.
(.42 x [(.75 x ($108/carton - 34 lbs./carton})+(.25 x $3.42/lb,)})-.20= $LLri_ _
c)	Pinks
In accordance with the terms of Article 3, above, minimum prices for pinks will be subject to a Minimum Price Market Formula for pinks. The formula is equal to 19% of the net export price of a carton of pink halves sold during the period from September 1, 1998 to March 31, 1999, and converted to a price per round pound on the basis of 39 pounds per carton.
An example of the formula minimum price for pinks is the following: if the net export price for a 48-can carton of pink halves is $45, the formula minimum price for pinks is $0.22 /lb.
. 19 x ($45/carton + 39 lbs./carton) = $0.22
5
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
ARTICLE 4 VERIFICATION
At the request ofthe Union, final calculations ofthe Minimum Price Market Formulas will be audited by a chartered accountant mutually acceptableto the FPBA and the UFAWU who will determine the average actual net market price based on weighted averages of the actual sales invoices of the FPBA companies for canned sockeye salmon halves, frozen sockeye and canned pink salmon halves sold duringthe period from September 1, 1998 to March 31, 1999,
The cost of the audit shall be borne equally by the FPBA and the UFAWU.
ARTICLE 5
COMPETITIVE PRICES
Should any individual company during the term of this Agreement pay a price higher than set out in Article 3 of this Agreement, then such Company shall make the higher price applicable to all vessels of the same gear operating in the area where the higher price is in effect and for the same period.
Where premium prices are being paid by a company for quality production according to accepted quality standards for markets other than canning, then the company shall make this premium price applicable to all vessels of the same gear operating in the area and supplying this quality production.
ARTICLE 6 BENEFIT FUND
Section 1:	It is agreed that the Operators shall pay to the order of the United Fishermen’s
Benefit Fund (Benefit Fund) a sum equivalentto 20 (two cents) per pound of net caught salmon purchased in British Columbia. The Union agrees to levy similar assessments on all non-member companies in B.C. with which the Union signs a Net Salmon Agreement. All payments to the Benefit Fund shall be made prior to January 15th of each year. Should these payments not be made by January 15'b of each year, the parties to the contract shall include in the next contract a penalty clause of 10% per annum which shall apply to future late payments.
Section 2:	It is agreed that any claim a Benefit Fund Member may have in connection with
payments to or benefits from the Fund shall be the responsibility of the Board of Trustees, in accordance with the Benefit Fund Rules and By-Laws.
Section 3:	The Board of Trustees shall include Trustees named by the Union, the Native
6
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
Brotherhood of B.C. and the Fishing Vessel Owners’ Association of B.C. The Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of B.C. shall be provided with a financial statement of the Fund, audited by a competent firm of chartered accountants, at least once yearly. Also the FPBA will be provided with the minutes of Board of Trustees and annual meetings of the Fund, regular monthly or other financial and statistical reports prepared by the Benefit Fund Director.
Section 4:	The Union will not alter the basic principles as stated in the Article - Membership
of the Rules and By-Laws of the Benefit Funds regarding eligibility for benefits. These principles shall be applied in any increase ofbenefits as a result of the increased contributions to the Benefit Fund. It is understood that the principles referred to herein are that Salmon Net Fishers who deliver salmon to companies party to this Agreement, shall remain equally eligible for death benefits established under the Fund, regardless of membership in the Union.
Section 5:	It is agreed that each member company shall deduct the equivalent of the annual
premium of the Medical/DentaL Services Plan established by the Union from the earnings of the fishers covered under this Agreement. The Union shall advise the member companies, in writing, of the exact amount to be deducted and shall provide each company with lists of fishers who have enrolled in the Medical/Dental Services Plan and who have authorized the necessary deductions. All monies so deducted shall be forwarded to the Benefit Fund.
Section 6:	Payments required under Section 5 above shall be remitted by each member
company by September 30111 of each year.
Section 7:	It is further agreed that each member Company shall notify the Benefit Fund not
later than September 30th of all individuals whose names have been forwarded on list provided by the Union, but on whose behalf the company will not forward an annual premium.
ARTICLE 7
Section 1:	Any dispute arising out of this Agreement which cannot be settled by the Union
and the Company shall be referred to a committee of one representative of the Union and one representative of the Operators and on disinterested party, satisfactory to both the Union and the Operators for settlement.
Section 2:	The effective date of this Agreement shall be April 16, 1998. This Agreement
shall terminate on April 15,1999 provided that one of the parties to the Agreement gives written notice of such termination to the other party not later
7
1998 SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT
than the 15lh day of February 1999. Any such notice of termination shall further require the other party to the Agreement to commence negotiations. If no notice of termination is given, the Agreement shall therealter remain in effect from year to year, provided that it may be terminated in any year after 1999 on its anniversary date (that is, on the 16'h day of April) by one party to the Agreement giving the other party to the Agreement, not later than the 15lh day of February in the year which the Agreement is to be terminated, written notice of such termination and a written requirement to the other party to commence negotiations.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER this
day of
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING ASSOCIATION OF B.C. as bargaining agent for and on behalf of each of the Compamesdlsted and appended heretiVseverally.,
Representing:
British Columbia Packers Ltd,
The Canadian Fishing Company Ltd., Ocean Fisheries Ltd.
BRITISH COLUMBIA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
UFAWU - CAW
8
SALMON SEINE VESSELS SHARE BASIS &
FISHING CONDITIONS
APRIL 16.1998 - APRIL 15.1999
BETWEEN
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING ASSOCIATION
AND
UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERS’ UNION - CAW
This Agreement made and entered into between the Fish Processors’ Bargaining Association of B C hereinafter ieferred to as the “Operators” and the United Fishermen and Allied Workers’ Union - CAW, hereinafter referred to the “Union '
Article 1 Division of catch
From the total revenue shall be deducted the common expenses for fuel and lubricating oil The resultant total income shall be divided between the crew income and owner’s (boat and net) income on the basis that the crew shall receive seven-elevenths (7/1 I) of the minimum down payment or adjusted minimum prices, or 45 per cent of the total landed value, whichever is greater and the balance shall go to the owner. Crew expenses for provisions shall be deducted from crew income to determine crew earnings The crew earnings shall be divided equally among the members of the crew
Article 2
VERIFICATION
At the determination of the union’s General Executive Board and Salmon Negotiating Committee, disputes regarding total landed values, total prices paid or division of catch, shall be referred to the Operator and Union for resolution. An audit with mutually agreed terms may be performed to verify the payments. In the event that a dispute arises about the terms of an audit, or other aspects of this article, such disputes will be referred to Article 6 of the Salmon Price Agreement.
The audit must be performed by the same chartered Accountant that audits the export market prices. If the settlement is confirmed or a downward adjustment to the crew is founded appropriate, then the cost of the audit will be borne 100% by the union. If an upward adjustment to the crew is found appropriate then 100% of the audit cost will be borne by the Operators. The results of the audit will be kept confidential and disclosures to the Union or Operator(s), may only provide the necessary adjustment amounts to the crew. The findings of the audit will be final and binding on all parties to the contract.
Article 3
condition of vessels
It is agreed that at the start of the season all boats shall be in a seaworthy condition in accordance with rules and regulations established by the Department of Transport.
Proper fire fighting and life saving equipment shall be provided on each vessel.
Crew quarters, galley and toilet accommodations shall be in first class sanitary condition and the crew shall extend 100 per cent co-operation in maintaining such cleanliness.
In vessels where there is no toilet accommodations, same shall be installed if convenient and practicable before the vessel leaves for the fishing grounds.
The crew shall keep the fish hold and deck in a sanitary and neat condition throughout the season.
It is agreed that at the beginning of each season vessels shall be fully equipped with adequate crockery dishes and proper cooking utensils. At the end of each season the crew shall be responsible for the replacement of broken crockery and damaged utensils.
Section 1:
Section 2: Section 3:
Section 4:
Section 5: Section 6:
1
Section 7: A first aid chest shall be furnished to each vessel in accordance with the requirements of the Workers' Compensation Board The Operators agree to maintain adequate replacement supplies at all fishing stations and the responsibility for the upkeep of a vessel's first aid chest shall be upon the Boat Delegate elected by the crew
ARTICLE 4 BOAT DELEGATE
Section I:
A Boat Delegate, duly elected by the crew, shall be recognized by the Captain and the owner as the Union representative.
Section 2: The duties of the Boat Delegate shall be as follows:
a) To ensure that correct tallies and records are kept;
bj To ensure that settlements made with all or any members of the crew are fairly and coiTectly made Each member of the crew shall receive a copy of the full settlement.
Section 3; The Boat Delegate, duly elected by the crew, shall be fully recognized by the Operators signatory to this Agreement as the representative of the crew and the Union on all matters connected with the weighing of fish. In order to facilitate the election of suitable representatives for this purpose, the operators shall, if requested by the Union, make available a list of crew members on boats fishing for them.
ARTICLE5 SETTLEMENTS
Section 1:	A crew member who quits before the end of a season, shall be entitled to a proportionate share of the catch.
Section 2: Settlements are to be made as quickly as possible at the conclusion of each season.
ARTICLE 6 CAPTAIN'S RIGHTS
Section 1:	The Operators agree that seine boat captains shall have the right to hire and discharge their crew members.
Section 2: In all matters pertaining to the operation of the boat, it is agreed and understood that the Captain's decision shall be final, subject only to instructions from the Operator or the Operator's representative.
7
Section 3: It is understood that the captain lias the right to apply the following conditions subject only to approval ol the crew if specifically .provided for: ....	.
a) When;) crew memberis engaged it is for the balance of the salmon season, unless an accident or illness is suffered or compassionate leave is granted by: agreement with the crew or has been specifically, engaged for a lesser period or has clearly informed the Captain and boat delegate, if any, that leave will be taken from the vessel at a specific date,
If a crew member is discharged, seven calendar days shall constitute proper notice to the crew member If the crew member obtains another position before the notice period is complete, the notice will be terminated at that time.
If a crew member quits, seven calendar days shall constitute proper notice to the captain ofthe vessel If the captain obtains a replacement crew member before the notice period is completed, the notice will be terminated at that time
When, in the opinion ofthe skipper and a majority ofthe crew, intoxication impairs a crew member’s ability to perform regular work, no notice of discharge need be given and sub-section (c) may be waived with respect to transportation to the port of hiring.
c)
d)
e)
f)
g)
When a crew member is discharged by any Operator or an agent thereof, the Company shall be responsible for fare to the port of hiring. The Operator agrees to pay steamer or scheduled airline transportation back to the port of hiring as well as the fare for a replacement when such fare (or fares) is actually used;
When a crew member quits, the crew member shall be responsible for fare to port of hiring. If his quitting is in violation of sub-section (a) above,the crewmember shall be responsible for the fare for a replacement when such fare is actually-usedy	-
A crew member failing to give proper notice for quitting shall be subject to a $500,00 penalty;
The penalty shall be paid to the remainder of the crew except that if every effort to obtain a replacement is not made the penalty will be paid to the Benefit Fund;
When a vessel is in port on weekends and there is no work being done by the crew such as is required on occasion under this Share Agreement and there are commercial eating places ashore available to the crew, the Captain may provide that on such days the cook not be required to prepare meals and that the cook be given sufficient time away from other duties to order provisions. Captains shall be advised of this provision in the Agreement by management. Cooks and boat delegates shall be advised of this condition by the Union and any grievances shall be settled under the grievance procedure.
Section 4:
It is understood that the Operators shall not be responsible for penalties and fares uncollected
J
ARTICLE 7 ILLEGAL FISHING
There shall be no illegal fishing and if any is done, the Captain and the crew shall be jointly responsible for any tines' or penalties imposed
ARTICLE 8 FUEL
Fuel tanks and lube-tanks will be filled by the Operator at the start of each season and will he returned by the crew in a similar condition at the close of each season.
ARTICLE 9 HOLE BILLS
Section 1:	It is agreed and understood that hole bills shall not be collectable under the following circumstances:
a) When crew members are discharged and it is definitely proven that such discharge was not due to any fault of their own;
bj When the vessel goes into some other trade or other type of fishing;
c)	When crew members are discharged by the Captain for reasons other than the regular reasons;
d)	Where vessel is a total wreck;
e)	When an accident has occurred and the crew is not required after repairs are completed.
Section2: Definition: It is understood that hole bills as referred to in this agreement shall denote a condition where the crew share of the landed catch at the time referred to in Section 1 (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), is not sufficient to ' cover the cost of fuel, lubricating oil and provisions as set out in Article 1 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10 LIMITING CATCH
The Operators agree, that should it be necessary to place a limit on fish deliveries, such limit will be set on a per person basis.
ARTICLE 11 CHARTER BOATS
It is agreed that all boats chartered by the Operators for the 1998 salmon season and operated by members of the Union shall come under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
4
ARTICLE 12
NETWORK	..
Section 1:	The Union recognizes the responsibility of the seine crews to: give, proper care to the seine throughout and to the
end of the fishing season, including necessary repairs, washing: and bluestoning, in accordance with , management's instructions.
It being understood and agreed that if it is not management’s intention to strip the seine, that it shall be returned in the same condition as received, reasonable wear expected. Crew shall not be required to alter the dimensions of the seine, or to effect major repairs, when the vessel concerned is terminating the season.
Any crew member who does not adequately participate in the maintenance ofthe seine on weekends during the fishing season, unless the absence is mutually agreed upon, shall be charged for each absence at regular net worker’s rates.
If there is no replacement, this sum shall be equally divided among the seine crew members who do the work The Captain must advise the company promptly of any such charge to be made.
SECTION 2: Loading or unloading of seines shall not be considered net work. On arrival in port at the end of any season or for a lay-up, or to change over to another type of fishing, it shall be the crew’s responsibility to bluestone, wash and unload the seine within a ten day period. In the event that the net is bluestoned on the day of arrival in port, the crew may be called out to wash and unload the seine on a day to be specified during the next ten days
Any crew member who fails to appear on the day specified unless such absence has been mutually agreed upon, shall be charged for eight hours’ work at the regular net worker’s rates which sum shall be paid to the replacement. If there is no replacement then the sum shall be equally divided amongst the seine, mew _ members who perform the work.
Section 3: The Union recognizes the responsibility of the seine crew to deepen, shallow or shorten the seine during the fishing season in accordance with the Captain’s instructions. It shall also be the crew’s responsibility to lengthen the seine provided that the extension which is to be added is made up beforehand. If the extension is not made up and the crew is called upon to do this work, then they shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the current agreement on net work.
Section 4: Work done by members ofthe crew in preparing nets for each season and in stripping, washing stripped web and storing nets at the end of each season, shall be paid for by the owner of the net in accordance with the terms of the current Union Agreement on net work.
SectionS: The owners agree that should a seine, or seines, be put out which has not been relaced or rehung since the previous season and it becomes necessary for the crew to relace or rehang the seine within two weeks of the commencement of the net being fished, members of the crew who work on the seine shall be paid for such net work at rates set out in the N etworkers’ Agreement.
b
Section 6:	The owners agree that if at the time of taking the seine u is necessary for the crew to make up purse lines or
brailers, payment shall bemade for such work at the straight time rates,set out in the Networkers' Agreement. It is understood that putting such gear aboard is part of the regular operation and no extra payments be made.
Section 7: ,The company shall .provide the seine crew members who are working on seines, including the loading, unloading, washing, biuestoning of same, or working on brailers, purse lines or other fishing gear, with Workers’ Compensation and Unemployment Insurance coverage for such work for which payment is made by the company under the foregoing sections
Section 8: In the perfonnance of such work arid responsibility for same under the foregoing sections, the Captain shall participate along with other crew members.
ARTICLE 13
CERTIFIED ENGINEERS’ BONUS
It is agreed that all engineers holding Department of Transport 1st, 2nd. 3rd, or 4th Class Marine Engineer's Certificates engaged as engineers on salmon seine boats shall receive a bonus of $25.00 per month dining the 1998 fishing season, said bonus to be paid by the Operators.
ARTICLE 14 RADIO TELEPHONE
a)	Where radio telephones are installed on seine boats, it	is agreed that the crew will not be required to
pay for any installation or rental charge. Where crew	members use the radio telephone for personal
calls, excepting emergency calls, the Operators shall have the right to impose and collect a surcharge of 15 percent over and above the actual cost of such calls.
b)	It is further understood and agreed that the Operators	shall have the right when settlements are being
made to withhold the sum of $1.00 per person as a deposit for a period not to exceed six weeks to cover each crew member's personal calls.
ARTICLE 15 FAIR PRACTICES
During the term of this Agreement, no crew member shall be asked to make written or verbal agreements with the Operator covering rental of boat equipment or charges to gross stock unless such written or verbal agreement is approved by the General Executive Board of the Union.
6
ARTICLE 16
NEW CREW MEMBERS	.	.
A crew member going seining for the.first time may, at the discretion of the Captain and the crew, receive half the normal share
for the first fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days, the half share remaining shall be divided among the balance of the crew.
This condition shall be drawn to the attention of the individual at the time ofjoining the vessel.
ARTICLE 17
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1:	In all disputes regarding allocation of crew share the Company agrees, upon notification and followed up by
written authorization from the Union, to hold any disputed funds in an interest bearing trust account pending agreement by all parties to the dispute that settlement lias been reached.
Section 2: All disputes that cannot be settled on board the vessel, except those described in Section 1 above, must be referred to the Operator or Operators concerned and the Union for adjustment.
THIS SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT IS SIGNED IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT AND IS RECOGNIZED AS PART OF SAME.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER this
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING	BRITISH COLUMBIA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
ASSOCIATION OF B C	UNITED FI SHERMEN & ALLIED WORKERS’ UNION - CAW
as bargaining agent for and on behalf of each of the
REPRESENTING:
British Columbia Packers Limited The Canadian Fishing Company Limited, Ocean Fisheries Limited
7