HERRING FISHING AGREEMENT FOR
KID AND BAIT PURPOSES
	
j:e \0<\To\Ji\	
isiin. fjt 				
No. OF	
employees	■ ~c '» - *
NOMEkE	—„
P'EMPLOYES	
This agreement entered into between the Native Brotherhood of British Co. the member companies of the Fisheries Association of British Columbia signatory to this Agreement, covers prices, wages and working conditions for herring, seine and trawl fishing for food and bait purposes, but does not cover herring fishing for any production for the herring roe market.
IT IS HEREIN MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:-
1)	The operators party to this agreement agree to recognize the Brotherhood as the representative of all crews on vessels engaged in the food and bait herring operation who are members of the Brotherhood and who have designated the Brotherhood as their authorized representative.
2)	It is agreed that none of the herring produced under this agreement shall be used in the herring roe industry. All fishing under this agreement shall cease at 2:00 p.m. on Friday, January 22, 1982 and shall not begin again until the completion of the 1982 roe herring season. If this agreement is in force in subsequent years, herring fishing for food and bait nurposes shall terminate at the end of January and shall not begin until the completion of the roe herring season.
3)	It is agreed that fishing operations are to cease at 2:00 p.m. Friday, December U, 1981 in all areas for Christmas lay-up. Fishing operations shall recommence at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday, January 10, 1982 and crews shall not be required to leave port before 8:00 a.m. on Saturday, January 9, 1982.
4)	It is agreed that at the conclusion of each food and bait season, each Company will pay by cheque to the order of the United Fishermen’s Welfare Fund established by the Union, Three Dollars S^ent'y^P-ivii Gents\$3, 75) oer green ton of herring
produced under this agreement. The Company shall furnish to the Brotherhood a list of fishermen employed during each season under this agreement. All Day-
oents and lists from the start of the food and bait season to the end of this food and bait season shall be forwarded to the United Fishermen and Allied Workers’ Union, not later than 90 days following the cessation of fishing operations under this agreement. The Brotherhood agrees that the Company has no responsibility with regard to any claim any person may Have in connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund.
5)	Medical Plan Premiums
a)	It is agreed that each Company shall pay to each fisherman an amount equal to 50% of the monthly premium of the B.C, Medical Plan for each month, or Part month, each fisherman is employed in the operation.
b)	In addition, upon termination of the operation each Company shall pay to each fisherman an amount equal to 50% of the B.C. Medical Premium for one additional month for each month or oart month the crew member was employed in the operation.
6)	a) The minimum price to be oaid to seine fishermen for catching and delivering
herring for food and bait purposes shall be One Hundred and Fifteen Dollars
'TUWS	u i ( ^ t. f f tr < \
N DANA (MG fV irvUU T>	•
CtllHEvBA. • o
./ 2
2
($115.00) per green ton. The fishermen's share shall not be less than Fourteen Dollars and Thirty-eight Cents ($14.38) per ton where eight (8) men are employed on the seiner or less than Nineteen Dollars and Seventeen Cents ($19.17) per ton where six (6) men are employed on the seiner. The minimum price to be paid ,to trawl fishermen for catching and delivering herring for food and bait purposes shall be One Hundred and Fifteen Dollars ($1.15.00) per green ton and this sum shall be divided equally amongst the men employed on the trawler, provided that in no instance shall the fishermen's share be less than Fourteen Dollars and Thirty-Eight Cents ($14 .38) per ton.
b)	i) Where the percentage of herring of a length of 20 centimetres or longer
in each load is 60% or greater the minimum price to be paid to seine and trawl fishermen for catching and delivering herring shall be One Hundred and Fifty-.tfive Dollars ($15 5.00) per ton.
ii)	Sampling and measuring - Sampling of each load must be attended by a representative of the crew. Length of herring shall be determined by measuring the distance from the tip of the nose to the end of the, body (not, including the tail). A minimum of three samples of approximately v forty pounds each shall be taken from each fish hold. Samples shall be approved and signed by the crew representative and the Company representative.
c)	It is understood that each company shall assume the risk on behalf of the ' crew for all herring loaded aboard seiners and trawlers which deliver to that Company or other vessels used by that Company in transportation to the plants. In the event a seiner, or trawler or other vessel sinks and the herring is lost the Company shall be responsible for payment of the crew share.
d)	If in any working unit or pool there are not more than eight (8) fishermen’s shares for each seine boat or trawler, then the value of each fisherman's share shall be determined by dividing One Hundred and Fifteen Dollars ($115.00) by the number of fishermen in the pool, or if the herring is valued in accordance with Section 6(b) above each fishernen's share shall be determined
by dividing One Hundred and Fifty-five Dollars ($155.00) by the number of fishermen in the pool.
e)	A fisherman's share shall not be less than Fourteen Dollars and Thirty-eight Cents (14.38) (i.e. the equivalent of One Hundred and Fifteen Dollars ($115.90) divided by eight (8) '.sharesi If the herring is valued'in accordance with. Section-6(b) above a fisherman's share shall not be less than Nineteen Dollars and Thirty-eight Centfe ($19; 38), (i.e. the equivalent of One Hundred
and Fifty-five Dollars ($155.00) divided by Eight (8) shares.)
If the number of shares per seine boat or trawler in any working unit exceeds eight (8), payment of additional shares in the unit shall be to the account of the Company provided such additional shares have been authorized by the Company.
f)	The following rules shall govern the payment of shares to vessels working shorthanded. It is understood that these rules shall not alter the provisions of Section 16 of this Agreement.
1
./3
3
i)	Where one or more men are off a vessel on account of accident, illness or compassionate grounds, the share or shares shall continue to be paid to such persons for a period of seven (7) days provided both the Captain and the crew are satisfied the leave is necessary. Where a replacement must be made prior to the exoiration of the seven (7) dav period (notwithstand-ing)willingness of the crew concerned to perform extraordinary work) to ensure proper safety and efficient performance of the work involved, the share shall be paid to the person off the vessel only up to the date of replacement.
ii)	% mutual agreement, the Captain and the crew shall have the right to extend compassionate leave beyond the period of seven (7) days. When compassionate leave is terminated, the Captain shall-request a replacement from the Company and the Boat Delegate shall immediately notify the Brotherhood. Where a replacement is not immediately available, the share shall
be paid to the crew of the vessel concerned. Failure of the Captain to request a replacement or to renew such request, every week or failure of the Boat Delegate to notify the Brotherhood shall result in the share being paid into the United Fishermen's Welfare Fund.
iii)	Where one or more men are of€ a vessel for reasons other than accident, illness, or compassionate leave, the Captain shall request a replacement from the Company and the Boat Delegate shall immediately notify the Brotherhood, Failure of the Captain to request a replacement and to rerenew such request weekly or failure of the Boat Delegate to notify the Brotherhood shall result in the share being paid into the United Fishermen's Welfare Fund. Where a replacement has not been made despite requests for same, the share shall be paid to t-he crew of the vessel concerned.
iv)	The reports referred to in Section (12) of chis Agreement shall carry, notations where men are off vessels and the period when this applied.
v)	Any abuses or grievances under this clause shall be reported to the Brotherhood or the Company and shall be referred to a committee representing an equal number of Company and Brotherhood representatives and majority decisions or' this committee will be final iu all cases.
g)	Each Company will advise the Brotherhood in writing of the names of herring vessels and the names of herring seine and trawler skinners to be employed by the Company prior to their departure for the grounds and shall supply the foregoing Information in writing to the Brotherhood prior to November 7, 19P-1, or prior to the commencement of any further herring onerations under this Agreement., In the event any seine or trawler boats are replaced during the season, the skipper and crew shall be transferred to the replacement vessel.
The Company will advise the Brotherhood in writing of all replacements or other changes during the season.
7)	It is mutually agreed that the operators shall give full priority rights in unloading and processing at their various plants to fish caught by the Company's own gear.
Where the Companies are pooling their production through a minimum number of
.. ./A
4
plants, the unloading shall be on the basis of first come first served. Proper advance notice shall be given when a pooling arrangement is made and prior to its termination.
8)	On all table seine boats manned by members of the Brotherhood, eight (8) men shall be employed. Ch all drum seine boats using a cower skiff, a minimum of six (6) men shall be employed. Whoi power skiffs are not used with drum seine boats, the crew may be reduced by one.
Exceptions to the foregoing may be made by the Brotherhood whae accommodation aboard a^selne vessel prevents use of a full crew comolement, in which case the Brotherhood shall notify the Company (s) of such exception in writing.
9)	Engineers on herring seine boats are to receive a bonus of Twenty Dollars ($20.00) per month during the fishing season.
10)	Under this agreement, a ton shall be 2,000 lbs. of green herring. All herring shall be weighed at the time of unloading from the seiners and trawlers except that in the event the Company provides packers or barges to transport herring from the boats on the grounds to the plants for any units or pools then the weighing shall take place at the time of unloading the packers or barges at the plant, In the event packers or barges are used to receive herring at one plant to be transported to another plant, the herring shall be weighed at time of delivery to such packers or barges. It shall he the responsibility of the Company to provide unloading crews except where herring is transferred fromr. the fishing vessel to a packer or barge on the grounds,
11) It is mutually agreed that the use of packers or barges or any other vessel for the transportation of herring from the vessel to the plant is at the sole discretion of the Companies. Except for herring vessels which the company has provided written notice to the Brotherhood in accordance with Clause 6(f) all vessels authorized by the Company for transnortation of herring shall be classified as packers or barges and the cost of these vessels and payment of crews shall be to the cost of the Company, There shall be no other arrangements regarding division of catch or use of packers between the Company and the owners or Captains of seiners or trawlers or other vessels unless such arrangements	. have been approved by the Brotherhood and the Company has been notified of such approval in writing by the Brotherhood. This shall not apply to pooling arrangements between fishing boats on the grounds.
12)	Each Company will do everything possible to furnish regular reports weekly and undertakes to supply such reports at least once monthly to the crews of all vessels, These reports shall list the names of all vessels engaged in the Company's herring operations. Where possible, these reports shall list the number of men employed on each vessel and shall indicate any pooling arrangements which are in existence. These reports shall list the daily deliveries of herring showing where the herring was caught, where it was delivered, the name of the vessel making the delivery and the tonnage landed. These reports shall also list the tonnage of herring lost at sea. These reports shall indicate the number of
tons used for reduction and the number of tons used, for other Purposes. A copy of each report shall also be forwarded to the Brotherhood,
/5
- 5 ~
13)	It is mutually agreed that should any dispute occur involving Brotherhood members that cannot be settled on the spot, such disputes shall be referred to the Brotherhood and the Company concerned for final adjustment. In no case shall members of the Brotherhood involved in a dispute take any action without consultation with Brotherhood headquarters.
14)	It is agreed that all vessels shall be supplied with pronor receipts when herring deliveries are made. This receipt shall show the number of tons landed by the vessel and shall be given to the skipper of the vessel following each delivery.
In the event a seiner or trawler or herring vessel sinks and the herring cargo is lost, the receipt shall be issued on the basis of the tonnage hailed by the Captain or crew member acting in his place.
15)	It is agreed that the Companies shall supply all fuel and operating equipment and expenses in accordance with past practice on all vessels engaged in the herring operation, Nb crew members shall be asked by the Company to make written or verbal agreements cbvering rental or purchase of boat equipment on the crew's settlement.
16)	a) The Company shall be solely responsible for the choosing of skippers fox all
vessels.
b)	The Company shall be solely responsible for the selection of engineers and may hire engineers directly or delegate such hiring to the skipper subject to Compan approval.
c)	Skippers shall have the right to hire and discharge crew members. Whenever possible, such men are to be selected from men who have been employed on boat8 owned or operated by the Company or who have fished for the Company. Preferential consideration shall be given to the Brotherhood members, where ability, experience and comparability for the particular job are equal.
d)	Companies agree that Captains will be instructed to inform their crew members in advance of any proposed pooling arrangements. Nb vessel shall be required to enter a pool without consent of the majority in a secret ballot vote of the Captain and crews.
e)	Any grievances by the Brotherhood or the Company under this clause shall be referred to a standing Fair Employment Practices Committee representing an equal number of operators and Brotherhood representatives and majority decisions of this Committee will be final in all cases.
17)	The Companies agree to pay the expenses of fishermen for transportation back to
the port of hiring when discharged at airother port by the companies or their agents.
18)	A medicine chest shall be furnished on all vessels in accordance with the requirements of the Workers' Compensation Board. Each Company shall provide all seine crew members with Workers' Compensation coverage in accordance with Workers' Compensation Board regulations while employed under the terms of this Agreement, inclusive of fishing, loading and unloading, washing, repairing and making up seines or other fishing gear.
19)	The Companies agree to maintain at all times adequate. lifeboat equipment on all
/ 6
- 6 -
vessels, lifeboat equipment to contain lamps, flares, food and water containers, oil compass, first aid kit, collapsible rubber rafts as obtainable, lifebeits, and other necessary provisions.
20)	The Captain of the vessel shall use hi5 discretion to decide load limits and to judge tides or other relevant factors when travelling. Should extraordinary conditions arise which result in a difference of opinion between the Captain and the Company representatives as to whether or not the vessel should proceed as instructed, the Captain's decision shall be final.
21)	The operators agree to honour Brotherhood vouchers signed by herring purse-seine and trawler fishermen who are members of the Brotherhood and who have monies due to them from the operators.
22)	It is mutually agreed that from the date of this Agreement, all Brotherhood members who are engaged in herring or mixed fishing, shall observe a 48-hour weekend closed period, beginning 2:00 p.m. Friday and ending 2:00 p.m. Sunday.
23)	It is agreed by the Companies that there shall be provided at all plants adequate facilities for bathing and washing clothes and that such bathrooms shall be kept clean at all times.
24)	a) Insofar as possible, the Companies undertake to have all herring seines pre-
pared and ready for the crews of seine vessels. Should any crew be required to make up its own seine, the vessel concerned shall be included in the Company pool nor the time only they are engaged in making up the seines.
All payments due the crew for such work shall be paid to the Company pool concerned.
Any dispute arising from this arrangement between any crew and the Company as to the length of the time spent in making up the seine shall be turned over to officials of the Brotherhood to settle. The Company not being involved in the internal Brotherhood arrangen: >nt with respect to the individual participants in the pool.
It is further agreed that in the event of any boat breaking down for a period not to exceed seven (7) day.; due to mechanical or other difficulties beyond the control of the crew, the vessel shall be included in the Company pool for this length of time. Likewise, should there be any dispute arising from this arrangement between the Crew and the Company the matter shall be referred to the officials of the brotherhood to settle.
b) i) The Company agrees that should a seine or seines be put out which have /- not been relaced or rehung since the previous season, it becomes necessary fox the crew to relace or rehang the the seine within three (3) weeks of the commencement of that net being fished, the members of the '	crew that work on the seine shall be paid for such network at rates set
out in the Networkers' Agreement. It is further understood that monies ' for such network shall be paid into the seine pool to which the crew '
:	belongs.
ii) The Company agrees that if at the time of taking the seine it is necessary for the crew to make up purse lines or brailers, payment shall be
- 7 -
made for such work at straight time rates set out in the Networksra' agreement. Monies for such work shall be divided equally among the crew of the'vessel concerned} it being understood that putting such gear aboard is part of the regular oneration and no extra payments be made.
iii)	The Brotherhood recognizes >the responsibility of the seine crew to give proper care to the seine, including necessary repairs, washing and blue-stoning of the seine during the season, in accordance with management's instructions. On arrival in port at the end of any season or for a layup or to change over to another type of fishing, it shall be the crew's responsibility to bluestone, wash and unload the seine within a ten (10) day period. In the event the net is bluestoned on the day of arrival in port, the crew may be called out to wash and unload the seine on a day to be specified during the next ten (10) days.
Any crew member who fails to appear on a day specified shall be charged for eight (8) hours work at the regular netman's rates which sum shall be paid to the man taking his place. If there is no replacement, then the sum shall be equally divided amongst the seine crew members who perform the work.
iv)	Changes in the depth of herring seines between the end of the winter season and the summer season shall be done at the Company (s') expense.
-The Companies will bear the expense of one change in depth of herring seines during the season. Wherever possible the Companies shall provide netmen to assist in repairing snagged seines. When the Company provides netmen to assist in repairing snagged seines, such labour shall, not be charged to crew members.
25)	In the case of machinery breakdown or any other conditions, interfering with
the operations of a plant, this Agreement shall immediately be held in abeyance insofar as it pertains to the individual plant so non-onerating., • WitJathe plant again resuming operation, all terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be Immediately reinstated.	i>
26)	If, in the opinion of the fishermen, spawning conditions in any area make it undesirable in the interest of conservation to continue operations, Brotherhood headquarters and the operators shall be informed, and if mutually agreed, joint representations shall be made to the Department of Fisheries & Oceans, or if mutual agreement is not reached, the fishermen shall have the right to make their own individual representations to the Department of Fisheries & Oceans.
27)	This Agreement is subject to the reservation that the Operators reserve the right individually to cease operations at any time when deemed necessary and thereby are released from their obligations herein while closed down, except that not less than forty-eight (48) hours' notice be given to the Brotherhood at its headquarters in Vancouver, B. C.
28)	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from October 1> 1981 until October 1. 1982 and shall be continued thereafter from year to year unless notiTicatlTm irf writing is given by October 1, 1982, or prior to October 1st of any subsequent year thereafter by either party desiring to re-open, modify
. / 8
8
or terminate the entire Agreement. Negotiations shall commence as quickly as possible following such written notice to re-open, modify or terminate the entire Agreement. The terms of this Agreement shall remain effective subject to the right of either party to terminate or suspend fishing operations on or after October 1st of the year in which written notice is received,
This Agreement is hereby mutually signed by
day of
(
{
198 U
the parties hereto this
FISHERIES ASSOCIATION CF BRITISH COLUMBIA NATIVE BROTHERHOOD CF BRITISH COLUMBIA
Representing;
British Columbia Packers Limited The Canadian Fishing Company Limited J. S. McMillan Fisheries Ltd.
Francis Millerd & Company Limited The Cassiar Packing Company Limited Nelson Bros. Fisheries Limited Ocean Fisheries Limited
Royal Fisheries Ltd.
Trans-Pacific Fish Ltd.