UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERS’ UNION SALMON PRICE AGREEMENT 1989 - 1990 • 1991
This Agreement made and entered into between each of the undersigned Companies severally as the Party of the First Part, hereinafter referred to as the Operator and the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
WHEREAS:	It is the intent and purpose of the Parties hereto to set out here-
under the basic Agreement covering prices and fishing conditions for the 1989, 1990 and 1991 salmon seasons for purse seine and gillnet fishermen who are members of the Union.
WITNESSETH: The Parties hereto mutually agree with each other as follows:
ARTICLE I • HONOURING VOUCHERS
The Operators agree to honour Union vouchers for dues signed by fishermen who are members of the Union or are desirous of joining the Union and who have monies due them from one of the Operators. It is understood that such voucher, when honoured, shall be paid by cheque by the Operator concerned and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Union.
It is further agreed that each Company Head Office will issue instructions to the plant managers and bookkeepers in accordance with the terms of the "Memorandum of Understanding" on vouchers between the Operators and the Union.
ARTICLE 11 - METHODS OF POUNDAGE BUYING
Section 1:	All the salmon purchased on the grounds or at the plants shall be
weighed at the time of original delivery and the weight so recorded shall constitute the basis for payment.
Section 2':	In the case of an exceptionally heavy run of any salmon species in
any locality rendering it impossible or difficult to weigh fish as provided in Section 1 above, it shall not be considered a violation of this Agreement if some other arrangement, such as averaging is arrived at, provided that in such instances the change arranged is concluded by mutual consent of the Union fishermen and of the Operators in the given locality.
ARTICLE III- SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM PRICE
Section 1: The Operators agree to pay the following schedule of minimum prices for No. 1 Quality Salmon, caught and delivered throughout and to the end of the 1991 salmon seasons:
-b
1989
Sockeye	$1.28
Coho, Steelheads	.65
Pinks	.36
Chums - Dark chums a 11 areas
A 11 Season	.30
-	Areas 1-10 - Guarantee for
Brights A 11	Season	.50
-	All Other	Areas - Guarantee	for
Brights A 11	Season	.60
1990	1991
$rrtv	srrn
.65	.65
.37	.38
30	.30
50	.50
60	.60
Section 2:	a) Red Springs, 12 pounds and over, received in good condition,
without mutilation $1.35 per pound round during 1989, 1990 and 1991.
b)	If Red Springs are canned, the minimum prices payable to fishermen shall not be less than that set forth for Cohos.
c)	If White Springs are canned, the minimum prices payable to fishermen shall not be less than 600 per round pound.
d)	If Jack Springs are accepted, the minimum price payable to the fishermen shall be not less than 750 per fish during 1989, 1990 and 1991.
Section 3: Gutting of Springs and Cohos - Cohos and Spring Salmon shall be gutted by the boat crew if such instructions are issued by the management.
Payment for such gutted fish shall be made on the dressed weight and shall be based on the round prices being paid by the Company at that time in the area, plus 10% to compensate for loss of weight in gutting.
In addition, a payment of 10 per pound gutted weight shall be made to the crew as compensation for the work involved. Such payment for work done shall be made directly to the crew and not become part of the gross stock.
It is understood that should disputes arise in the area as to whether or not the loss in weight through gutting is greater or less than 10%, then at the request of either party a test or tests may be made to ascertain the actual percentage loss in gutting fish. The surcharge of 10% may be increased or decreased according to the results of the test(s) for all fish taken in the area from the date of the test.
ARTICLE IV - COMPETITIVE PRICES
Should any individual Company during the term of this Agreement pay a price to fishermen higher than set out in Article III of this Agreement, then such Company shall make the higher price applicable to all types of gear operating in the area where the higher price is in effect and for the same period.
Where premium prices are being paid by a Company for quality production according to accepted quality standards for markets other than canning, then the Company shall make this premium price applicable to all types of gear operating in the area and supplying this quality production.
ARTICLE V - EXPORT RESTRICTIONS
It is mutually agreed and understood that the minimum prices contained in this Agreement are contingent upon there being no restriction on the export of Chums in any form throughout the season.
ARTICLE VI - LATE RUN COHO (FRASER RIVER & INLETS)
Under this Agreement, the operators have the right, if quality seriously deteriorates, to request re-opening of the price for Cohos on the Fraser River after November 1 and for Cohos in the Inlets after October 1. Notice of such intention shall be given to the Union in such case not less than seven (7) days prior to the date specified above. If no mutually agreeable price is established after such notice has been given, the Operators have the right to cease acceptance of Coho at the minimum price specified in Article III, after October 1 for fish from the Inlets and after November 1 on the Fraser River.
ARTICLE VII • BENEFIT FUND
Section 1: It is agreed that at the conclusion of the 1989 and 1990 Salmon seasons, the Operators shall pay to the order of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund a sum equivalent to 1.8? (one and eighth tenths cents) per pound of net caught salmon purchased in British Columbia. At the conclusion of the 1991 Salmon season, the operators shall pay to the order of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund a sum equivalent to 2.-0? (two cents) per pound of net caught salmon purchased in British Columbia. The Union agrees to levy similar assessments on all non-member Companies in 8.C. with which the Union signs a Net Salmon Agreement.
All payments to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund shall be made prior to January 15th of each year. Should these payments not be made by January 15th of each year, the parties to the contract shall include in the next contract a penalty clause of 10S per annum which shall apply to future late payments.
Section 2:	It is agreed that any claim a fisherman or a tenderman may have in
connection with payments to or benefits from the Fund shall be the responsibility of the Board of Trustees, in accordance with the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund Rules and By-Laws.
Section 3: The Board of Trustees shall include Trustees named by the Union, the Native Brotherhood of 8.C. and the Fishing Vessel Owners' Association of 8.C. The Fish Processors' Bargaining Association of 8.C. shall be provided with a financial statement of the Fund, audited by a competent firm of chartered accountants, at least once yearly. Also provided will be the minutes of Board of Trustees and annual meetings of the Fund, regular monthly or other financial and statistical reports prepared by the Benefit Fund Director.
-3-
Section 4:
Section 5:
Section 6: Section 7:
Section 1: Section 2:
Section 1:
:	The Union will not alter the basic principles as stated in the
Article • Membership of the Rules and By-Laws of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund regarding eligibility for benefits. These principles shall be applied in any increase of benefits as a result of the increased contributions to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund. It is understood that the principles referred to herein are that Salmon Net Fishermen who deliver salmon to Companies party to this Agreement, shall remain equally eligible for death benefits established under the Fund, regardless of membership in the Union.
It is agreed that each member Company shall deduct the equivalent of the annual premium of the Med leal/Dental Services Plan established by the Union from the earnings of the fishermen covered under this Agreement. The Union shall advise the member Companies, in writing, of the exact amount to be deducted and shall provide each Company with lists of fishermen who have enrolled in the Medical/Dental Services Plan and who have authorized the necessary deductions. Ml monies so deducted shall be forwarded to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund.
Payments required under Section 5 above shall be remitted by each member Company by September 30th of each year.
It is further agreed that each member Company shall notify the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund not later than September 30th of all individuals whose names have been forwarded on lists provided by the Union but on whose behalf the Company will not forward an annual premium.
ARTICLE VIII - INTERRUPTION OR CESSATION CF OPERATIONS
In case of machinery breakdown, or any other conditions interfering with operations of a cannery, this Agreement shall immediately be held in abeyance insofar as it pertains to the individual cannery so non-operating. With the cannery again resuming operations, all terms and conditions of the Agreement shall be immediately reinstated.
This Agreement is subject, however, to the reservation that the Operators reserve the right individually to cease operations at any time when deemed necessary and are thereby released from their obligations hereunder while closed down, except that not less than forty-eight (48) hours' notice in writing shall be given to the Union at their headquarters in Vancouver, 8.C. and the same notice shall be posted at each cannery and camp of the intention to close down and all fish offered by the fishermen, members of the Union, within the forty-eight (48) hour period must be taken and paid for at not less than the agreed prices.
ARTICLE IX
Any dispute arising out of this Agreement which cannot be settled by the Union and the Company shall be referred to a committee of one representative of the Union and one representative of the Operators
-4-
and one disinterested party, satisfactory to both the Union and the Operators for settlement.
Section 2:	This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from the beginning
of the 1989 salmon season, until April Iffth, 1992 and shall be con' tinuedl thereafter from year to year unless notification in writing is given at least thirty (30) days prior to April 15th, 1992, or prior to April 15th of any subsequent year thereafter by either party desiring to change or modify any portion of this Agreement or to terminate the entire Agreement. Negotiations shall commence as quickly as possible following such written notice of modification or change or termination of said Agreement and the terms of this Agreement shall remain effective subject to the right of either party to terminate or suspend fishing operations on or after April 15th of the year in which written notice is received. Provided the terms and conditions of the Agreement are adhered to by both parties, it is mutually agreed and understood that fishing shall continue uninterrupted during the term of the Agreement for all salmon referred to in the Agreement, subject to force majeure, strikes, fires, riots, war, Act of God and any other factor beyond the control of the Operators and the Union.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER thisJ’/ day of August, 1989,
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATION OF B.C. as bargaining agent for and on behalf of each of the Companies listed and appended hereto severally.
BRITISH COLUMBIA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL UNITED FISHERMEN & ALLIED WORKERS' UNION
British Columbia Packers Limited /
The Canadian Fishing Company Limited </ J.S. McMillan Fisheries Limrtedj/
Nelson Bros. Fisheries Limited Ocean Fisheries Limited w
5