IT IS HEREIN MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1.	The Company(ies) party to	this Agreement agree to recognize the United
Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union, hereinafter referred to as "the Union", as the representative of all gillnet herring fishermen who are members of the Union and who have designated the Union as their authorized representati ve.
2.	)	The Company(ies) agree to	honour	Union vouchers covering initiation fees
and dues signed by fishermen who are members of the Union or are desirous of joining the Union and who have monies due from the Company. It is understood that such vouchers, when honoured, shall be paid by cheque by the Company and forwarded to the Headquarters of the Union. The Company shall forward payment to the Union of all such vouchers not later than May 31 for the 1990 roe season or May 31, for the 1991 roe season.
3.	)	It is agreed	that at	the	conclusion of each herring season each	Company
will pay by cheque to the order of the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund established by the Union, four dollars and seventy-five cents ($4.75) per green ton of herring produced under this Agreement. The Company (ies) shall furnish to the Union a list of fishermen employed under this Agreement along with the payment to the Fund. All payments and lists from the start of the roe herring season to June 30th shall be forwarded to the Union no later than August	15th.	The Union agrees that the Company has no
responsibility with regard	to any	claim any person may have in connection
with payments to or benefits from the Fund.
4.	)	The minimum	price to	be	paid to gillnet fishermen for gillnet	herring
caught and delivered to collectors or packers on the fishing grounds shall be Six Hundred Dollars ($600) per green ton.
5.	)	It. is mutually agreed	that	from the date of this Agreement, all Union mem-
bers who are	engaged	in herring or mixed fishing shall observe a	48-hour
weekend closed period beginning 2:00 p.m. Friday and ending 2:00 p.m. Sunday, except where the Department, of Fisheries & Oceans determines that there is evidence of suitable roe herring in an area and that the herring in that area will be largely spawned out at the end of the weekend.
6. )	It is mutually agreed that should any dispute occur involving Union members
that, cannot be settled on the spot., such disputes shall be referred to the Union and the Company concerned for final adjustment. In no case shall members of the Union involved in a dispute take any action without consultation with the Union Fleadquarters.
7. )	It is agreed that. gillnet herring fishermen working under this Agreement
will not be required to transport herring to the Company plant and that the
-1-
00094(04)
.	/ I
Company will supply adequate collector or packer service. In the event the Company, for unavoidable reasons is temporarily unable to supply such service and provided the Company instruct the fisherman to deliver his production to the plant, the Company will provide additional payment to the fisherman for such transportation. The minimum additional payment shall be sixty dollars ($60.00) per ton for packing the fish to the plant or point of unloading. The Company shall pay for the unloading and any other transportation costs involved.
8.) Each Company will advise the Union in writing of the names of herring vessels and the names of herring boat, operators to be employed by the Company one week prior to the commencement of the opening of Gillnet. Herring Roe Fishing. The Company will advise the Union in writing of all replacements or other changes during the season.
9.) Workers' Compensation Independent. Coverage
Each Company shall provide all gillnet fishermen with Workers' Compensation Coverage in accordance with Workers' Compensation Board regulations while operating under the terms of this Agreement, inclusive of fishing, loading and unloading, washing, repairing and making up of fishing gear.
This clause does not remove other statutory or contractual obligations which the Company may have with regard to Workers' Compensation.
10.) This Agreement is effective from January 1. l-QQfl and will remain in full farce and e.ff.e_c.t u_n t i I December-31, 1991 and will remain in effect from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to reopen is given by either party prior to December 31, 1991 or December 31 of any subsequent year. l-fsuch notice to reopen is given, negotiations shall commence immediately and either party shall be free to terminate or suspend herring fishery operations effective on or after December 31, 1991 or December 31 of any subsequent year in which notice is given.
This Agreement Jjs hereby mutually signed by the Parties hereto this
1990.
J.S. McMillan Fisheries Ltd.
Nelson Bros. Fisheries Limited Ocean Fisheries Ltd.
ot.eu-15
-2