UN1TF.P.FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERS' .UNION .
....... TENDERMEN'S AGREEMENT
.	^ "	1998
(NOT INCLUDING PILCHARD & HERRING TENDERMEN)
SOURCE			
	7%	OH	/C
JjpA.			
		0 V	
1 No. Or :
This Agreement is entered into between the undersigned companies severally as the Party of the First Part, hereinafter referred to as "The Company" and the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union - CAW, the Party of the Second Part, hereinafter referred to as the "Union" and shall set out hereunder the wage rates and working conditions of Tendermen who are employed by the Company on fish packers, cannery tenders or on barges or scows used for packing, tending and collecting fish and for subsidiary work customarily done by such vessels, such wages and working conditions to cover the year-round operations of the said Vessels. This Agreement does not include pilchard and/or herring Tenderman.
ARTICLE 1 - UNION RECOGNITION
1.01
2.02
2.03
Ju 301
The Companies agrees to recognize the Union as the collective bargaining representative for all tendermen who are employed on tender vessels or on barges or scows engaged in collecting, packing and transportation of fish and subsidiary work customarily performed by such vessels, for who the Union is certified and all tendermen of those Companies for whom the Union is not certified and in respect of whom a collective agreement between those individual Companies signatory to this Agreement and the Union is in force.
ARTICLE 2 - UNION MEMBERSHIP
Membership in the Union shall be on a voluntary basis.
Any employee who is not a member of the Union may be admitted into the Union on application and payment to the Union of such initiation fee as is provided by the Constitution of the Union.
Any employee shall have the right of withdrawing from the Union during the thirty day period, April 30 to May 30 in any year, providing notification of intention to withdraw is given to the Union in writing during this period.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION DUES
All employees classified in this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment sign an authorization to have deducted from their pay in each
1
3.02
3.03
3,04
3.05
3.06
4.01
4.02
bi-weekly pay period on the payroll, an amount equal to the "per day worked" dues of the Union or the membership dues of the Native Brotherhood as the case may be, in accordance with Section 3.02. Such membership dues shall not include initiation fees or special assessments of any description. If any person seeking employment under the terms of this Agreement refuses to accept this condition of employment then such person shall not be hired.
The amount of the monies deducted under Section 3,01 shall be remitted to Union Headquarters by the end of the month following each quarter of the year, with the exception that in the case of any Native employees who have signed authorization to pay dues to the Native Brotherhood such deductions shall be remitted to Headquarters of the Native Brotherhood of B.C.
The Company remittance to the Headquarters of each organization shall be accompanied with two (2) copies of the full list showing names of all employees for whom deductions have been made whether to the Union or Brotherhood and the individual amount of the deductions.
Any employee may, by written individual authorization to the Company, have the initiation fee and up to a maximum of one year's arrears of Union dues deducted by the Company and forwarded to the Union. Assessments or fees of any description (other than initiation fees) will not be deducted by the Company, whether such are included on a dues voucher or submitted separately.
The employer may rely upon a certificate signed by the President or Secretary-Treasurer of the organization concerned as to the amount of membership dues, according to the Constitution of such organization.
A Native employee who assigns dues to the Union shall not revoke that assignment except by notification in writing to the Union within the 30 day period April 30th to May 30th in any year.
ARTICLE 4 - CREW COMPLEMENTS
The number of crew members to be employed on vessels covered by this Agreement shall be as hereinafter provided. Any dispute that should arise pertaining to the number of crew members employed on a vessel shall be referred to the Union and the Company concerned for final settlement.
The minimum number of crew members regularly carried on vessels covered by this Agreement shall be as follows:
2
Under 25 gross tons	2 men
25 gross tons to 39.9 gross tons	3 men
40 gross tons to 99.9 gross tons	4 men
100 gross tons to 149.9 gross tons	5 men
150 gross tons to 199.9 gross tons	6 men
200 gross tons to 250.0 gross tons	7 men
4.03	a) Vessels engaged on a regular run exceeding 150 miles on a direct route -point to point - shall carry a minimum crew of four (4) men.
b)	Vessels under 25 gross tons engaged on a regular run exceeding 100 miles on a direct route - point to point - shall carry a minimum crew of three (3) men.
c)	Vessels 25 gross tons and over engaged on a regular run exceeding 150 miles on a direct route - point to point - to the West Coast and/or Queen Charlotte Islands, tending troll and/or halibut camps shall carry a minimum crew of five (5) men. On regular troll andor halibut camp runs other than the Coast and Queen Charlotte Islands, any additional crew complement required beyond the minimum schedule set out in Section4.02 shall be determined in accordance with Section4.04 below. On troll camp runs where six or more men have been provided in past years, there shall be no reduction of crew complement during the terms of this Agreement. This shall not apply during periods when in past years, less than six men were employed on a particular run..
d)	Trips arising out of unexpected or emergency conditions shall not be .. considered a regular run under sub-section (a), (b), or (c) of this Section provided, however, three (3) trips in a season - not all consecutive- shall be the maximum number of trips permitted to meet such emergency conditions.
4.04	The crew complements set out in Section 4.02 above are the minimum
requirements for vessels within the gross tonnage ranges described. Special provision, however, is hereby made that in the event of conditions arising when it is considered additional crew personnel is required to ensure. adequately proper safety, the efficient performance of the work involved, and the operation of the vessel, the Captain, at the request of the crew, or of the boat delegate representing the crew, will ask for additional personnel. The Company concerned shall act upon such request without delay. If the crew concerned is dissatisfied with the decision, they shall refer the matter to the Union to be handled as a grievance under Article 19 of this Agreement.
4.09	One man shall be employed on chilled sea water barges to, among other things, maintain the pumping equipment and be responsible for the maintenance of minimum temperatures during the loading and transportation of salmon. This man shall be paid at the same rate as that contained in the Agreement for Class "C" Engineers.
4.10	It shall not be a violation of this Agreement for any employee to refuse to be left alone and unattended aboard any barge operated by the company away from port.
4.11	Where vessels sail shorthanded in violation of the contract, any wages owing by the Company for the missing crew member shall not be distributed amongst the remaining crew, but shall be remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union to be forwarded to the Bill Rigby Memorial Housing Society.
It is understood that the preceding paragraph does not apply to short term emergency situations of up to seven (7) days, where a crewman has failed to show up at the appointed sailing time, or where a charter vessel has just converted from a fishing type operation, to packing prior to returning to port, or where there are no available personnel to replace missing crew. In each such emergency situation the Union shall be notified immediately, and will attempt to provide replacement or additional crew.
ARTICLE 5 - HIRING CREWS
5.01	^	The Company hires the Captain and Engineer on all packer boats. If, for any
.fV' reason, a Captain or Engineer is not re-employed the following season, the '	Company will, on request, meet with representatives of the Union and state
>	the reasons for not re-employing said Captain or Engineer. The Company
representative and the Captain shall mutually agree upon the hiring of the balance of the crew. In the hiring of the balance of the crew, the principle of seniority shall be applied wherever practical providing said crew members are ready, available and qualified.
5.02	Union members including Captains and Engineers (where possible) shall be given preferential consideration where ability and experience for the particular job are equal. Before hiring non-Union men who have not previously been employed by the Company concerned as tendermen, the Company representative or the Captain shall contact the Union to ascertain whether or not competent Union members satisfactory to the Company and the Captain are available within the time required. To facilitate application
5
of this condition the Union shall from time to time submit to the Company a list of unemployed Union members with details of their experience.
5.03	To facilitate application of the intent of Section 5.02, the Company agree to
submit to the Union, a tentative crew list of all their packers by February 15 and June 15 of each year along with the anticipated order of dispatch.
5.04	If a vessel is laid up for repairs or lack of work during the Agreement year,
the Captain will be notified if the crew will be required at a later date.
The Captain and Company, by mutual consent, may discharge crew members for cause, and crew members are at liberty to leave the employ of the Company.
5.06	When necessary, the Company may engage vessels on a commission basis
provided that in no instance shall a regular tender or collector be replaced by a "Commission" vessel.
Crew complements and total earnings of crew members on such vessels shall not be less than if the crew was employed under the terms of the Tendermen’s Agreement.
ARTICLE 6 - SENIORITY
6.01
6.02
6.03
The Company shall draw up one list of tendermen employed for a period longer than three months during the previous season. This list shall show the original date of hiring of each tendermen and his job classification. Employees with the longest service with the Company shall head the list with the others following in their proper order according to length of service. New employees shall be added to the list on completion of three consecutive months of employment. If a man is re-employed for a second consecutive season, he shall be placed on the Seniority List regardless of his length of service the previous year. If for any reason a tendermen leaves the employ of the Company, his name shall be removed from the List.
All employees shall be required to contact the Company on or before February 28th of each year for herring and on or before June 30th of each year for salmon, to advise the Company of their current phone number and whether they will be available for work for the upcoming season.
Lists shall be revised not later than February 1st of each year and copies of the list shall be available in the Company Head Office to tendermen
6
employed by that Company. The Company shall forward a copy of such List to the Headquarters of the Union.
6.04	The Seniority List shall clearly show the classifications under which each
tendermen worked in the five years immediately preceding the compilation of the List. This shall not have the effect of excluding consideration of other classifications prior to the five years.
6.05
A tenderman shall not lose seniority because of inability to accept employment on account of sickness or when forced for any good reason, acceptable to the Company, to obtain leave of absence. When leave of absence is granted for reasons other than sickness, the Union shall be advised of the reasons upon request.
6.06
If a tenderman chooses to accept other employment when he could be working as a tenderman he shall not receive a leave of absence.
However, when a Company cannot employ a tenderman during a particular season and the tenderman accepts alternative employment, his seniority rights shall be regained upon being re-employed as a tenderman.
6.07
Leave of absence shall be given any Union tendermen who are elected or appointed as full time Union Representatives. Upon expiration of one year’s leave of absence, the employee must apply for renewal or his seniority rights will be canceled.
6.08	Employment of tendermen at the commencement of operations shall be on
the basis of preference to those employees who have the greatest length of service and who have the necessary ability and experience for the particular job.
6.09
9
| jO/ V-'' p»*
The principle of seniority shall be applied throughout the salmon fishing season. If a vessel is tied up for the season, crewmen on such vessel shall replace, those crewmen on other vessels with lesser seniority, if those crew members being transferred are ready, available and qualified. Short-term lay-ups of four days or less during the season shall not involve transfer of personnel. The above four day flexibility period shall not be employed to dispatch a vessel from its home port with crew members with less seniority.
6.10	The Company shall arrange for the transfer of tendermen from one vessel to
another during the season in order to carry out the intent of Section 6,08. The Company shall be responsible for flying or shipping personnel to or from out-lying areas to effect the transfer.
7
6.11
7.01
/3 Fl.I
a)
b)
c)
7.02 8.01
Crews of vessels used in collecting operations shall not be covered under he terms of Article 6, except that in the employment of the Captain and crew at the start of the season seniority shall be applied wherever practicable and where ability and experience are equal.
ARTICLE 7 - SRVRRANCR PAY
Severance pay shall be paid to any tenderman employee who is compelled to retire because of ill health or attainment of retirement age. Similarly, severance pay shall be paid to any tenderman employee whose employment is terminated through corporate merger, consolidations, dissolution or bankruptcy. Tendermen employed by companies that do not have a compulsory retirement age must take their severance pay upon attaining the Canada Pension retirement age. This does not affect the seniority status of any Tendermen.
For the purpose of this Tendermen's Agreement, Article 7.01 Canada pension Age shall be from 60 to 70 years old.
Employees with seven (7) years or more of consecutive service with a company shall be entitled to 1.25 days' pay for each year of service with the Company.
The Company seniority list will be used as the service standard in calculating pay.
Severance pay, under this Article, can only be exercised once.
In the event that a Tenderman who has earned severance pay with the company dies prior to the retirement age set forth under Article 7.01 of this agreement, his/her severance pay entitlement shall be paid to his/her designated beneficiary.
ARTICLE 8 - WORKING CONDITIONS
A First Aid Medicine Chest shall be furnished on each vessel in accordance with the requirements of the Workers' Compensation Board. Adequate replacement supplies shall be maintained at all fishing stations and the boat delegate elected by the crew shall be responsible for the upkeep of the vessel's First Aid Chest.
8
8.02	All vessels classified in this Agreement shall be equipped with life-saving equipment and supplies in accordance with the Department of Transport Steamship Inspection Regulations, such equipment to include lamps, flares, food and water containers, oil compass, First Aid Kit, suitable liferafts, lifejackets and sufficient number of survival suits for all members of the crew and any other necessary provisions. The boat delegate shall assume full responsibility for this equipment until such time as the vessel is tied up at the end of the season.
8.03	When tendermen are discharged or laid off at any port other than the port of hiring, the Company shall supply transportation to such men to the hiring port. If any crew member through personal negligence fails to appear when the vessel is due to sail and is left behind, the Company may deduct the cost of transportation to hiring port from monies owing to such crew member when final settlement is made.
8.04	The Captain of the vessel shall use his discretion to decide load limits and tojudge tides or other relevant factors when traveling. Should extraordinary conditions arise which result in a difference of opinion between the Captain and the Company Representative as to whether or not the vessel should proceed as instructed, the Captain's decision shall be final.
8.05	The Company agrees to supply all tendermen wfh. sufficientblankets, sheets, pillows, and pillow cases. Tendermen who receive bedding must sign a voucher covering receipt of all bedding; this bedding to be returned in good order upon termination of employment as a salmon tenderman. Any bedding which is lost or destroyed or not returned shall be charged to the tenderman at cost. Clean linen will be supplied weekly upon receipt of soiled linen.
8.06	The Company agree to pay a daily allowance of one dollar ($1.00) to all Tendermen for the purchase of rubber boots and rain gear.
a) The cost of gloves for all Tendermen employees is to be the cost of the Company.
b) The Company agrees to supply one pair of hip waders to each vessel equipped with a fish pump.
8.07	Unloading of packers and collectors shall be at the discretion of
Management. The company will endeavour to give prior unloading rights to gillnet collectors under circumstances where a gillnet collector is required to run back to the fishing grounds on the same day as it is unloaded.
9
8,08	Where one or more tendermen are left alone and unattended aboard barges
;	: used for receiving, collecting, and/or transporting fish, and whether or not
■■■■'••	overnight accommodation is provided aboard the barge, such barges shall be
equipped with radio equipment, life-saving equipment, and first aid equipment, as specified in Article 8.02.
ARTICl.F. 9 - HOURS OF WORK
9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04
The Parties to this Agreement subscribe to the principle that there should be a limitation of the number of hours worked per day and the number of days worked per week. Both parties recognize however, the practical difficulty of establishing such limitation and control on the vessels covered by this Agreement, and agree that a system of shore leave as established hereunder or as altered hereafter shall be in effect to compensate employees for the absence of daily and weekly control of working hours, except as is provided by Article 11.6 of this Agreement.
Each vessel shall have a designated "Home Port" and all time off shall be given in "HomePort." All days away from Home Port are days worked.
No period of time off less than 24 hours shall be recognized. A minimum of six hours notice must be given in the usual manner preceding each period of time off and all periods of time off shall be considered to be on a midnight to midnight basis.
Home Port shall be defined as the port from which the majority of the crew was engaged. The term "port" includes any point of debarkation in the area within easy access of the port. "Home Port" for Class A vessels shall be the port of hiring of the Captain.
When, under emergency conditions, an individual crew member is dispatched by the Company to join a crew whose home port is different than his own home port, then such individual crew member shall receive his time off at his own home port. Dispatches made under emergency conditions shall be entered as such in the vessel's log.
9.05
Differences may arise over the definition of home port for some crews which cannot readily be resolved by reference to the foregoing. Therefore, a Committee shall be established consisting of two members of the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association ofB.C. and two members of the Union whose duty will be to settle any differences. Based on their experience during the season, the Committee shall be empowered to bring in
10
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04
10.05
10.06
recommendations for amendments to this Agreement provided such amendments are not inconsistent with the general terms set out above.
ARTICLE 10 - CREW DUTIES
The crew shall operate the vessel in its charge and shall perform such other functions as are required by the type and nature of the work that the boat and crew are performing. These functions include, but are not restricted to, loading and unloading of ice, properly icing fish to ensure proper transit, tallying and weighing fish, taking or making delivery of fish from boats and from camps, handling iced boxed fish and drums, performing all necessary deck-work such as washing down, washing holds of vessels and pen-boards, keeping the boat in a clean and sanitary condition, loading and unloading supplies, freight, fish and livers. Tendermen shall not be required to dress fish. The Company undertakes to see that camp men give full cooperation to boat crews in loading vessels.
A shore crew will unload fish from the packers at all processing plants and unload the ice that remains in the hold after the fish is unloaded. The Captain shall be responsible to see that sufficient crew members remain on board to wash down and to move the boat if necessary. In the event of emergency conditions such as the necessity for a quick turn around, boat crews shall cooperate by unloading the ice.
Upon arrival in any port or at a Company plant or station, the Captain and crew shall not leave the vessel without the Captain first reporting to the Company Head Office dispatcher or the local manager to obtain instructions.
The Captain of a vessel must report in writing any accident to the ship and/or crew within twenty-four (24) hours of arrival in port or at the plant. This report is to be given to the plant manager under whom the vessel is working at the time of the accident.
Log Books - The Captains of vessels classified in this Agreement shall keep accurate, full time Pilot House Logs, giving full details as to departure time, running times, arrivals, etc., and all information which will enable the Company to record the monthly leave.
For the purpose of Supplementary Wage Rates as defined in Article 11, the Captain shall also maintain in his Pilot House Log, or by other means an accurate record of hours worked handling cargo or of tonnage, loaded and unloaded. The delegate shall have the right to check for all such entries to
11
ensure accuracy. It is essential that this record be approved by the Manager or other responsible official of the Company at the operation where such hours are worked, with the boat delegate present.
10.07	Engineers shall keep accurate Engine Room Logs setting out such
information as may be required by the individual companies.
ARTICLE 11 -WAGES
11.01	The wage rates set out hereunder shall be the minimum scale for crew members employed on packers and tenders which are used by the Companies and manned by members of the Union.
11.02	Wages shall be paid on the basis of a calendar day. Any prior commitments to individuals for rates in excess of those shown below shall be honoured.
11.03	Tendermen shall be provided each bi-weekly or semi-monthly pay period with statements showing basic earnings together with such information as to supplementary earnings as is available from the most recent Log Book entries submitted by the Captain of the vessel concerned and as approved by the Company.
11.04	Vessels covered by this Agreement are divided into six groups and the tonnage referred to is gross tonnage.
Effective Apr. 16/98 DAY
CLASS A VESSELS -UNDER 25 GROSS TONS
Captain/Engineer	$ 232.11
Cook/Deckhand	204.53
CLASS B VESSELS -
25 TO 39,9 GROSS TONS
Captain
Engineer
Cook/Deckhand
$ 235.65 226.22 212.19
CLASS C VESSELS-40 TO 99.9 GROSS TONS
Captain	$ 239.22
12
Engineer
Mate
Cook/Deckhand
229.63
219.30
215.40
CLASS D VESSELS -
100 to 149.99 GROSS TONS
Captain
Engineer
Mate/Second
Cook/Deckhand
$ 242.84 233.11 222.62 218.67
CLASS E VESSELS -
150 TO 199.99 GROSS TONS
Captain
Engineer
Mate/Second
Cook/Deckhand
$ 246.50 236.63 225.99 221.97
CLASS F VESSELS -
OVER 200 GROSS TONS
Captain
Engineer
Mate/Second
Cook/Deckhand
$ 250.22 240.20 229.41 225.33
11.05 a) Where the Master, Mate or Engineer or any of the classified vessels is certified by the Department of Transport the following amount for such certificates shall be added to the wage rates set out in Article 11.04,
PER DAY - Effective	Apr. 16/98
CAPTAIN
ENGINEER
MATE
$36.50
29.50
29.50
b)	In addition to wages provided in this agreement, Tendermen holding a valid Workers' Compensation Board approved First Aid Certificate shall receive $3.63 per day.
c)	The Companies agree to pay the cost required to obtain a level one first aid certificate for those employees designated by the Companies.
13
Board shall be to the account of the employees. At the end of each calendar year, employees shall be provided with a receipt covering any deductions made in this respect. In addition to the rates of pay set out above, effective f jf, April 16,1998, employees shall be paid $ 15.36 per man per day, for all days D' that the crew are away from Home Port and all days the crew are in Home Port except such time off as is granted in Home Port. Where provisions are purchased north of Seymour Narrows or on the West Coast of Vancouver Island in Areas 23-27 excluding Port Albemi and where receipt of these purchases are submitted by the cook on the vessel, the employees will be reimbursed twenty percent (20%) of such expenses.
11.07
When settlement is made for wages due to any crew member under this Agreement, all time shall be on the basis of a full day and no half days. When the Companies or their agents desire to lay off a vessel after 10:00 p.m., the crew shall be paid for the following day when making settlement.
Supplementary Wage Rates
1.08
In addition to wages provided in this agreement, tendermen who are specifically engaged in tending troll camps and/or halibut camps shall receive $7.31 per day effective April 16,1998.
11.09
Each member of the crew shall be paid for the total time loading and unloading groceries and/or general supplies, not including ice at the rate of $8.69 per hour effective April 16, 1998.
11.10
Should any Company utilize their packing vessels or tenders in freighting, the crew members of such vessels shall receive $8.69 per hour effective April 16, 1998, for all hours spent loading and discharging cargo.
Freighting shall be defined as the transporting of such materials as box shooks, cooler trays, cans, nets, large quantities of salt or other materials which are considered as general cannery or fishing station supplies.
In instances where packers bring fish to any Company plant and return with a load of general freight as defined above, or where packers are called upon to make one or two freight trips when fishing is slack, then such crew members are to receive $8.69 per hour for all hours spent loading and discharging cargo, effective April 16,1998.
The unloading of fish at processing plants shall not be considered as part of the regular work of tendermen but should a packer or tender crew, while at
14
a processing plant, be called upon to unload salmon, dressed or round, and/or halibut, the crew shall receive $11.31 per ton effective April 16, 1998, for unloading such cargo, the total amount to be divided equally amongst the crew.
1.12 a) When gillnetter collector crews are required to pitch fish at large packers, non-operating plants or camps, they shall be paid at the rate of $11.31 effective April 16, 1998 for every ton of fish pitched, divided equally amongst the crew engaged. This clause only applies when fish is pitched at the normal destination of the collector and not when transferring on the grounds in order to save the collector a run to its normal destination.
b)	Where any tender crew of a Class B (except regular Gillnet Collector) or Class C vessel is required to unload fish other than at a processing plant, all fish so unloaded shall be paid for at the rate of $ 11.31 per ton effective April 16, 1998, for unloading such cargo, the total amount to be divided equally amongst the crew engaged.
c)	Where any tender crew is required to employ pumps to unload or transfer fish from a packer, brine barge or other fish buying station into a vessel other than their own, on any given calendar day and this work is performed in addition to the work of loading fish aboard their own vessel on that calendar day, the crew shall be paid $3.86 per ton to be divided equally amongst that crew effective April 16,1998.
d)	Where any tender crew is employed on a vessel equipped with cross conveying equipment and is required to cross convey, effective April 16, 1998, the crew shall be paid $7.50 per ton to be divided equally amongst that crew for all fish cross conveyed.
11.13
11.14
11.15
Where a tender crew is required to unload ice, the crew shall receive $ 10,54 per ton effective April 16, 1998 for each ton of ice so unloaded.
When tendermen are required to load or pitch fish from brine barges used for conveying fish or as stationary fish buying stations on any given calendar day and this work is performed in addition to the work of loading the fish aboard their own vessel on that calendar day, each crew member shall be paid $8.69 per hour effective April 16, 1998, for each hour so employed in addition to his/her regular rate of pay.
When tendermen are required to tow fishing boats, barges, camps, or scows, each crew member shall be paid a supplementary rate of $15.26 effective April 16, 1998 for each day so employed towing. For the purposes of this
15
11.16 a)
b)
c)
d)
12.01
12.02
clause, a fishing boat is defined as a vessel which is registered with the Department of Fisheries and Oceans as having a C.F.V. license.
Vessels engaged solely in towing during the pre-season or post-season or during the season on any trip home port to home port, shall be paid the normal classification rates. It is recognized that seasons vary from fishing area to fish area.
In the event that a difficulty arises as to the definition of pre-season and/or post-season towing, such difficulty shall be referred to the Union and the Company for final disposition.
In every calendar day each crew member of a packer or tender shall get at least six (6) hours ofconsecutive and unbroken rest. Not more than eighteen (18) hours nor less than six (6) hours shall elapse between such six (6) hour rest period.
It is the intent of the Union and the Companies signatory to this Agreement to ensure that Article 11.16(a) is carried out. However, in the event an emergency arises where the Captain and Dispatcher, if available, mutually agree that conditions require mandatory rest period to be broken then that crew member (or members) shall be paid a time and one half day, based on that crew member’s minimum day rate for each 24 hour period that a proper rest period is not given.
It is imperative that the log sheet shows the detail and the name or names of qualifying crew member or members and is signed by the Captain (and Dispatcher if available),
Notwithstanding anything in previous Articles, under no circumstances shall a vessel be underway with a watch that has had less than six (6) hours of consecutive and unbroken rest.
ARTICLE 12 - VACATIONS
Except as hereinafter provided, all employees shall receive vacation pay as provided in the “Annual and General Holidays Act”.
Gross earnings shall include all wages, payment for certificates, board allowances, supplementary earnings and statutory holidays received from the employer during the calendar year.
Employees shall receive vacation pay calculated on the following basis:
16
a) Four (4) percent of all gross earnings up to the fourth anniversary date of consecutive years of employment.
rcent of all gross earnings from the Fourth anniversary date of i years of employment and with a minimum of fifteen (15) months with one Company.
percent of all gross earnings from the ninth anniversary date of iq years of service.
d)	Ten (10) percent of all gross earnings from the sixteenth anniversary date of consecutive years of employment.
e)	Ten point four (10.4) percent of all gross earnings from the twenty-first anniversary date of consecutive years of employment.
f)	From the twenty-fourth anniversary date of consecutive years of employment and from every anniversary date of consecutive years of employment thereafter, an additional 0.4% shall be added to the rate of vacation pay payable to a maximum of 13.2%.
g)	Service shall include any and all wage employment with the Fish Processors' Bargaining Association Companies signatory to this Agreement and notwithstanding that the individual tendermen may have been laid off by an individual signatory company because of merger, absorption, or rationalization of the tender fleet. In other words, service time will be fully portable from company to company signatory to this Agreement. It is understood that such portability does not apply to seniority or any other Article of this Agreement.
h)	A form shall be provided for each crew member upon first recall in a new calendar year. The crew member will indicate payment preference. The
crew member shall have until payroll cut-off to indicate their preference or they will automatically fall into category (1) below.
(})	That crew members shall have the option of receiving their vacation
pay on each pay cheque calculated as the appropriate percentage of the earnings for the pay period for which the cheque is issued.
(2) Crew members who decline option (1) above shall have their
vacation pay paid in the usual manner. Vacation pay may be drawn
no more than twice in any year.
17
ARTICLE 13 - STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
13.01
IX ft,
If an employee works on one of the following Statutory Holidays and/or any other days that may be proclaimed British Columbia Statutory Holidays and/or Federal Statutory Holidays, during the terms of this Agreement, said employee shall receive an additional day's pay,
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day
Canada Day B.C. Day Labour Day Thanksgiving Day
Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
13.02	a) To qualify for pay for a Statutory Holiday not worked, an employee must work the last day work is available within seven (7) days immediately prior to the statutory holiday, or must work the first day that work is available within seven (7) days immediately after the Statutory Holiday.
b) A new employee who starts work in the first week after a statutory holiday is not eligible for that particular holiday if not worked.
ARTICLE 14 - M.S.P
14.01
14.02
14.03
14.04
The contract currently held by the company signatory to this Agreement and the B.C. Medical Services Plan, to provide medical care to employees classified herein who qualify and who indicate their desire to be covered by the plan, shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
The Contract currently held by the company signatory to this Agreement and the Medical Services Association to provide Extended Health Benefits to employees classified herein who qualify and who indicate their desire to be covered by the plan, shall remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
Premium rates of the B.C. Medical Services Plan and the Extended Health Benefits Plan of M.S.A. may be adjusted at anytime as may be required to reflect changes in the coverage of either plan, or changes in the experience of the group.
Eligibility: To qualify for coverage, an employee must have been on the payroll of a Company signatory to this Agreement for a minimum of five (5) calendar months during the two (2) year period immediately preceding his date of enrollment and state his intention of maintaining coverage under the
18
B.C. Medical Service Plan and the Extended Health Benefits of M.S.A. for a full twelve month period after enrollment.
14.05	Application forms: To ensure enrolment in both Medical Services Pian and
the Extended Health Benefits Plan, an employee must complete and sign the required application forms of both plans.
Payment of Premiums: Subject to the conditions set forth herein for prepaid premiums, the Company shall pay the initiation fee and 80% of the premium for each month the employee is on the payroll.
Prepaid Premiums: To assist employees who are temporarily laid off to maintain their coverage for a full twelve (12) month period after their date of enrollment, the Company shall make the following contributions:
a)	If an employee is laid off after four (4) months from his date of enrollment, or in subsequent years if the employee is laid off after four (4) months on the payroll in the twelve (12) month period immediately following the date of rehire, the Company will pay 80% of the next two monthly premiums. Thereafter, the full premiums must be paid in advance by the employee to maintain his coverage to the anticipated date of rehire.
b)	If an employee is laid off after five (5) months from his date of enrollment, or in subsequent years if the employee is laid off after five (5) months on the payroll in the twelve (12) month period immediately following the date of rehire, the Company will pay 80% of the next three monthly premiums and 50% of the monthly premiums for the fourth to sixth months of layoff. Thereafter, the full premium must be paid in advance by the employee to maintain his coverage to the anticipated date of rehire.
ARTICLE 15 - DENTAL PLAN
15.01	The Company signatory hereto agree to have a Medical Services Association Dental Care Plan in effect by January 1, 1976 for employees classified herein who qualify in accordance with the requirements of the Plan and who indicate their desire to be covered by the Plan.
15.02	The Plan shall provide a maximum 80% of Plan A - Basic Services and 60% of Plan B - Prosthetic Appliances and Procedures. Employees, their spouses and registered dependents shall be eligible for services under the provisions of the Plan. Effective February 1, 1988, Part C will be added to the Plan. This will cover dependent children to a lifetime maximum of $850.00 (50 percent reimbursement).
19
15.03	Premium rate may be adjusted at any time as may be required to reflect change in the experience of the group, and/or changes in dental service rates.
15.04	Eligibility: To qualify for coverage under the Dental Plan an employee must have accumulated:
15.05
15.06
15.06.1
15.06.2
1	year of 75 days' service, or
2	consecutiveyears of at least 55 days' service, or
3	consecutiveyears of at least 40 days' service.
Pavment of Premiums: Subject to the conditions set forth herein, for prepaid premiums the Company agrees to pay 80% of the premium for each month employee is on the payroll.
Prepaid Premiums; To assist employees who are temporarily laid off to maintain their coverage for a full twelve months after their date of enrollment, the Company shall make the following contributions:
If an employee is laid off after four (4) months from his date of enrollment or in subsequent years if the employee is laid off after four (4) months on the payroll in the twelve (12) month period immediately following the date of rehire, the Company will pay 80% of the next two monthly premiums. Thereafter, the full premiums must be paid in advance by the employee to maintain his coverage to the anticipated date of rehire.
If an employee is laid off after five (5) months from his date of enrollment, or in subsequent years if the employee is laid off after five (5) months on the payroll in the twelve (12) month period immediately following the date of rehire, the Company will pay 80% of the next three monthly premiums and 50% of the monthly premium for the fourth to sixth months of layoff. Thereafter, the full premiums must be paid in advance by the employee to maintain his coverage to the anticipated date of rehire.
ARTICLE 16 - BENEFIT FUND
16.01
P*ijn
The Company shall pay at the rate of fifteen dollars forty cents ($15.40) per month per tenderman employed by the Company to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund Trust Account. The payment due to the United Fishermen's Benefit Fund for each employee shall be the equivalent to the cost to the Company of fifteen dollars forty cents ($15.40) per month added to the wages of that employee. The daily rate shall be one dollar ten cents ($1.10) (arrived at by dividing the monthly rate by 14).
20
If the difficulties surrounding the fishermen’s benefit fund are resolved in year 2 of the agreement then the percentage equivalent of $.05 on the shore worker raise be deducted from the 1.9% raise to the tendermen and the corresponding dollar reduction to tendermen be paid to the benefit fund. if these difficulties are not worked out the 1.9% will stand.
| jAfc
16.03	The Fund shall provide equal benefits while covered for all tendermen on
whose behalf the Company pays a contribution to the Trust Account. It is intended to design the Fund so that individual tendermen shall be able to retain coverage providing they continue to pay their premiums into the Benefit Fund during the layoff.
ARTICLE 17 - PENSION PLANS
The United Fishermen's Benefit Fund shall incorporate Group Life Insurance and Weekly Indemnity Provisions and such other benefits as may be approved and established by the Board of Trustees.
17.01
Employees enrolled in the Company Pension Plan may receive details from the Human Resources Department at their Head Office. The Company agrees to honour all commitments made to employees who remain on the Pension Plan as outlined in the 1989 - 1992 contract.
17.02
18.01
19.01
Employees enrolled in the Tendermen Pension Plan are covered under the attached Memorandum of Agreement which is attached as Appendix A to this to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 18 - BEREAVEMENT
Should an immediate relative of atendermandie and the tenderman requires time off to attend the funeral or to attend to funeral arrangements during the period of employment, he shall receive, upon request up to three (3) days' leave with pay. "Immediate relative" shall mean Mother, Father, Husband, Wife, Son, Daughter, Brothers, Sisters, Mother-in-Law and Father-in-Law. If it is found necessary because of unforeseen circumstances such as location of boat or weather conditions to grant more time, a fourth day may be given with pay.
ARTICLE 19-JURY DUTY
The Company shall pay the difference between the amount of jury fees and
daily rate, for days of work lost, to any employee required to report for and/or serve jury duty.
21
20.0	i 20.02
21.01
21.02
21.03
FIRST:
SECOND:
ARTICLE 20 - CONDITIONS OF VESSELS
The Company undertakes to have their vessels in a clean and orderly condition at the commencement of the season and it shall be the duty of the crew to return the vessel, in alike condition, with allowances for reasonable wear and tear.
In the event that any vessel is returned to its yard or tie-up berth in a dirty and disorderly condition, the Company concerned shall report such vessel to the Union Headquarters who will examine the vessel and take such disciplinary measures to the crew as it is felt necessary.
ARTICLE 21 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
During the life of this Agreement, should any difference arise concerning the interpretation, application, operation, or any alleged violation of this Agreement, including any questions as to whether any matter is arbitrable or should any local trouble arise on a packer, there shall be no stoppage of work or strikes on the part of the Union nor shall there be any lockouts on the part of the Company until the grievance procedure outlined has been complied with.
It is in the general interest of both parties to prevent the elevation of minor questions into formal grievances and as a possible means to this end, employees are urged to raise grievances imagined or otherwise with their Captain or other Company representative, but in any event, within five (5) days of the day on which the grievance arose. Employees have the right to go directly to their Union representative if they wish to do so.
The successive steps to be taken in the handling of any grievance until it is settled shall be set forth in the following:
The Employee shall notify the Boat Delegate who shall immediately approach the Captain, the fleet supervisor, or such other person designated as the representative of the Company responsible for labour relations involving tendermen.
If no settlement is made, the employee and/or the Boat Delegate shall notify the Captain or Company representative that he intends to pursue the grievance and thereupon immediately advise the Union's Business Agent and/or a full time Union representative of the alleged violation of the
22
THIRD:
21.04
Agreement. The grievance shall be placed in writing and include full details of the alleged violation and reference to the pertinent section of the Agreement. Upon receipt of the written submission, a meeting will be arranged between Management and the Union's Grievance Committee and/or lull time representatives of the Union to attempt resolution of the grievance.
If no settlement is reached, recourse may be had by either party to arbitration. Each of the parties in the dispute shall appoint an arbitrator.
The arbitrators shall attempt to nominate a third arbitrator who shall act as Chairman of the Arbitration Committee. Failing to agree upon such impartial arbitrator within seven (7) days of their appointment. either party may request the Honourable Minister of Labour to appoint such impartial arbitrator. In the case of a grievance or dispute involving interpretation of this Agreement, the majority decision of arbitrators shall be final and binding on both Parties, it is being understood that not withstanding the foregoing, no decision of such Arbitration Board shall change this Agreement in working or format. The Arbitration Board shall make a decision within ten (10) days of the selection or appointment of the Chairman.
Each Party shall bear the cost of its own representative and the Parties shall equally share the remuneration of the Chairman.
c)	Both Parties should attempt, and it shall not be considered a violation of the agreement, for a single arbitrator to settle a grievance. If agreement is not possible on this procedure part (c) shall be forfeited in favour of parts (a) and (b).
All time limits set forth herein are exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and Statutory Holidays and may be extended by mutual consent of both Parties, it being agreed both parties are interested in and will strive to achieve settlement of all grievances or disputes in the shortest possible time.
ARTICLE 22 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Company shall give the Union as much advance notification as practical of any proposed technological change that would affect a significant number of employees and will participate with the Provincial Government and the Union in training and retraining such employees.
23
ARTICLE 23 - TERMINATION AND REVISION
23.01	The Agreement shall be in full force and effect from April 16, 1998 to April
IS, 1999. This Agreement shall be continued thereafter from year to year unless notification in writing is given at least two (2) months prior to April 15,1999 or prior to April 15th of any year thereafter by either party desiring to change or modify any portion of this Agreement or to terminate the entire Agreement. Such notice, where request is made for modification or change shall specify the exact Articles in which the modification or changes are desired and subsequent negotiations shall be confined exclusively to such requests. Negotiations shall commence as quickly as possible following receipt of the notice of modification or change.
SIGNED AT VANCOUVER THIS
DAY O
1998.
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING
B. C. PROVINCIAL COUNCIL UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERS’ UNION
24
APPENDIX A
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TENDERMEN PENSION PLAN
This Agreement dated for reference this 5b day o
BETWEEN;
1998.
FISH PROCESSORS’ BARGAINING ASSOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
AND:
BRITISH COLUMBIA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL,
UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERS' UNION (hereinafter referred to as the "Union")
OF THE SECOND PART
The parties hereto agree as follows, and further agree that this document and the covenants contained herein shall form part of the collective agreement between the parties:
1.	DEFINITIONS
1.1	For the purposes of this agreement, unless there is something in the subject matter or context inconsistent therewith each of the following words, phrases and expressions shall have the meanings ascribed thereto:
a)	"Applicable Legislation" means
i)	any statute of Canada, or of the Province of British Columbia, or any regulation prescribed under any statute of Canada, or the Province of British Columbia which requires compliance by the Plan; and
ii)	the requirements for registered pension plans under or pursuant to the Income TLx Act (Canada);
b)	"Company" means any one of the Allied Pacific Processors Limited, British Columbia Packers Limited, the Canadian Fishing Company Limited; or Ocean Fisheries Limited;
25
c)	"Employee" means any person who is subject to the collective agreement currently in force between the parties;
d)	"Gross Earnings" means the gross annual earnings of an Employee received from the Company excluding the amount of any taxable benefits received by the Employee;
e)	"Member" means an employee who meets the eligibility requirements in
section 3 of this agreement and on whose behalf contributions are payable pursuant to the provisions of this agreement;
"Plan" means the Pension Plan, administered by the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' Union - CAW created by the Union and the Trustees in accordance with the Report;
"Report" means the Report of the Industrial Inquiry Commission regarding the Fish Processing Industry and the GATT ruling dated April 15, 1991;
"Trust Agreement" means the trust agreement constituted by the Union and the Trustees to receive funds contributed to the Plan;
i)	"Statutory Leave" means pregnancy leave, parental leave, bereavement leave, or a period of attendance at court as a juror;
j)	"Trust Fund" means the fund created pursuant to the Trust Agreement to hold all funds contributed to the Plan; and
k)	"Trustees" means any trustees appointed or elected as trustees of the Plan.
2.	STRUCTURE OF PLAN
2.1	The Plan shall be a money-purchase plan.
The Plan shall be administered by not less than three Trustees appointed by the Union.
2.3	The contributions of both the Member and the Company together with any accumulated interest, shall vest immediately.
2.4	No provision of the Plan or Trust Agreement shall be inconsistent with sections 2 through 6 of this agreement and such inconsistent provision shall be void and unenforceable.
26
2.5	The parties agree that, notwithstanding paragraph 2.4 of this agreement, other than paragraphs 2.1 or 5 2, no provision of this agreement is intended to affect any agreement reached with respect to the Plan between the Trustees, the Union and any employer not a party to this agreement.
3.	ELIGIBILITY
3.1	An employee shall be eligible and shall become a Member of the Plan at the beginning of the calendar year following
a)	the calendar year in which the Employee has reached 125 cumulative days of service, or
b)	two complete years of continuous employment (as defined in the Pension Benefits Standards Act) with the employer, which period may begin before January I, 1993, wifi earnings of not less than 35% of the Year's Maximum Pensionable Earnings (as defined in the Canada Pension Plan) in each of 2 consecutive calendar years.
3.2	A person commencing employment with the Company after being a member of the Plan will not have to qualify pursuant to paragraph 3.1 above as long as he or she did not withdraw his or her interests in the Plan on or after the date he or she last ceased employment with an employer participating in the Plan or if he or she did withdraw his or her interests the date of withdrawal was less than 2 years prior to the date of commencement of employment with the Company.
3.3	The Plan is compulsory except for Employees who are members of an existing Company pension plan as of August 10, 1992, and who elect to remain members of such plan.
,e
4.
4.1
CONTRIBUTIONS AND REMITTANCES TO TRUSTEES
Commencing August 10, 1992, the Company shall make employer contributions equal to 3.5% of each Member's Gross Earnings to the Plan.
4.2	By payroll deduction, each Member shall contribute 3.5% of his or her Gross Earnings.
4.3	The Company shall, in addition to any contributions required to be made by the Company pursuant to clause 4.1, contribute to the Plan ($4.06) effective April 16, 1995 per day worked by the Employees. This will increase to $4.16 effective January 1,1998 per day worked by the employee. All contributions made pursuant to this paragraph shall be allocated to members of the Plan who are 45 years of age
27
or older as of December 31, 1995 or became 45 in subsequent years, in accordance with the formula provided in the Report.
4.4	A Member may also increase, by payroll deduction, his or her contribution. This may be done, in writing, once a year
4.5	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, contributions to the Plan shall not exceed the amounts authorized by Applicable Legislation and in the event excess contributions are made by any Member or the Company, such excess will be refunded to the Member or the Company, as applicable. Any refund to the Company will be paid to the Member by the Company as directed by the Union.
4.6	Should operation of the Plan result in the need to refund monies to a Member due to provisions of Applicable Legislation, the Company will assist in such refunds if requested by the Union.
4.7	Subjectto paragraph 4.4, the Company shall forward all the contributions in respect of each pay period ending in any month to the Trustees no later than 20 calendar days following the last day of that month.
4.8	Should the Company fail to make the necessary payments within the time period outlined, the Company shall pay interest at the prime rate as determined by the Company and the Trustees, or failing that, the rate set by the Royal Bank of Canada, such interest to accrue from the first, day of the month following the month in which the contributions are for until the date that the necessary payments are made to the Trustees.
4.9	The Company agrees that the necessary documents and information needed for the proper administration of the Plan will be provided in a form agreed upon by the parties.
5.	LIABILITIES
5.1	The Company shall not have any liability or obligations with regard to the Plan other than those outlined in this agreement.
5.2	Any decision to create an unfunded liability in the Plan must be approved by the Company or its successor.
6.	MISCELLANEOUS
6.1 The Company shall have the right to inspect every auditor's report regarding the Trust Fund and may obtain a copy of such auditor's report at the Company's expense.
28
6.2	Each of the parties agrees to execute and deliver such further and other document and assurances and writings as may reasonably be required to implement this Agreement.
6.3	The Company shall provide to the Union, at the request of the Union, a certificate from the Company's auditors confirming that all contributions required to be made pursuant to the provisions of this agreement have been made by the Company.
6.4	This agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto.
Executed at Vancouver as of the day, month and year first above written.
FISH PROCESSORS' BARGAINING ASSOCIATION OF B.C.
as bargaining agent for and on behalf of each of the
B. C. PROVINCIAL COUNCIL UNITED FISHERMEN AND ALLIED WORKERSUNION - CAW
Representing:
Allied Pacific Processors Limited British Columbia Packing Limited The Canadian Fishing Company Limited Ocean Fisheries Limited
29