LABOUR AGREEMENT
1988 - 1990
PLACER DOME INC. - Dome Mine and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
i . I • fN L " 'i V\ < ■
AGREEMENT
Between
PLACER DOME INC. - Dome South Porcupine, Ontar
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
Dated April 18, 1988
Mine
io
INDEX
Annual Vacation with Pay ..................
Apprenticeship Program ....................
Arbitration ...............................
Bulletin Boards ...........................
COLA ......................................
Definition ................................
Departments and Seniority Lists ...........
Discharge Cases ...........................
Funeral Leave .............................
General holidays ..........................
Grievance Procedure .......................
Stage One ..............................
Stage 'Two .............................
Stage Three ............................
General ................................
Stewards and Grievance Committeemen , . .
Health and Safety .........................
Hourly Wage Rates .........................
Hours of Work and Overtime ................
Hours of Work ...........................
Job Posting ...............................
Jury Duty and Crown Witness ...............
Management ................................
No Cessation of Work .....................
No Discrimination .........................
Notices .....................
Outline of Employee Benefits
and General Information ................
Rates of Pay . . ..........................
Recognition ...........................
Senior i ty ...............................
Temporary Employees ....................
Absence .........................•......
Special Training .......................
Shift Premium .............................
Sick Pay ..................................
Sunday Premium ............................
Term of Agreement .........................
Union Security ............................
Addendum I
1 . Rates of Pay .......................
A.	Hours of Work and Overtime . . . .
B.	Sunday and Shift Premium .........
C . Meal Period ....................
2.	General Holidays ...................
3.	Vacations with Pay .................
4.	A. Jury Duty and Crown Witnesses .
B. Funeral Leave ...................
5.	Qualifying Periods and "Working Days
6.	Benefit Plans ......................
INDEX (continued)
Addendum II
1.	Line of Progression - Mill .........
2.	Job Outlines - Mill Operators ......
3.	Job Classification - Mill Operators
4.	Progression System & Training' - Mill
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the 18th of April 1988.
BETWEEN:
PLACER DOME INC. - Dome Mine, a Company incorporated under the laws of the Dominion of Canada, hereinafter called the "Company"
OF THE FIRST PART
- and -
UNITED STEEL WORKERS OF AMERICA, hereinafter called the "Union"
OF THE SECONDPART
WITNESSETH that the parties hereto agree as follows:
Article 1
1.01
DEFINITION
The words "employee or "employees" wherever used in this
Agreement shall mean respectively an employee or employees
included in the bargaining unit defined in the Certificate of
the Ontario Labour Relations Board dated the 27th day of May,
1969, unless it appears otherwise from the context, as follows:
All employees at its mine, mill and plant in the Townships of
Tisdale, Whitney, and Shaw in the District of Cochrane, save and
A
uo
except shift bosses, foremen (including assistant foremen) and i_,, training supervisors, persons above the rank of shift boss, foreman (including assistant foreman) or training supervisor, office and clerical staff (including those in the Mine, Mill, Warehouse and Yard Offices), Engineering Department, Geological Department (other than samplers), Refiner, Assistant Refiner,
Chief Assayer, Assistant Assayer, Security Guards, Head Gateman,
> ■ i • -c, ‘t *-
,!A-o
persons regularly employed for not more than twenty-four hours per week and students employed during the school vacation period,
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
2.01
The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all its employees included in the bargaining unit defined in Article 1 with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions as set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT
3.01
The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power:
(,a) to maintain order, discipline and efficiency, to be the
judge of the qualifications of employees, to make, alter and amend rules of conduct and procedure for employees;
(b) to hire, discharge, classify, direct, transfer, promote,
demote, lay-off, suspend or discipline employees, provided, however, that any exercise of these rights in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement or a claim that an employee has been discharged or disciplined without just cause shall be subject to the provisions of the Grievance
Procedure; and
(c) generally to manage the enterprise in which the Company is engaged and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the right to plan, direct and control operations, determine the number of personnel required from time to time, the number and location of plants, operations and facilities and the methods, procedures, equipment, machines and tools in connection therewith, the schedules of work and production, the extension, limitation, curtailment or cessation of operations and all other rights and responsibilities of management not specifically modified elsewhere in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4 NO DISCRIMINATION
4.01
There shall be no discrimination by the Company or Union or its members against any person employed by the because of membership or non-membership in any union.
4.02
No person shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a member of any union or trade union, and no statements or representation to the contrary shall be made.
the Company'
4.03
There shall be no solicitation of membership in any union organization or collection of union dues or any union activity (except as set out in the Grievance Procedure) on the Company's time or on the Dome Mine and Plant property, except as specifically permitted in writing by the Company.
4.04
Casual conversation which does not interfere with the work of any person employed by the Company shall not be regarded as Union activity.
ARTICLE 5
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
5.01
Employees are urged to attempt to settle any complaints or grievances with their immediate shift bosses or supervisors before proceeding with the Grievance Procedure.
5.02
It is agreed that the settlement of any grievance shall not be construed as a precedent and shall not be binding on the Company in respect to any other grievance.
5.03
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit or impair the right of any employee to present any complaint
directly to any representative of the Company.
5.04
Should any difference as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement arise between the Company and the Union or any employee and in the latter case, if the employee should wish to present his difference through the procedure set out below instead of presenting it directly to a representative of the Company, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such difference in the following manner:
STAGE ONE:
5.05
The employee (accompanied and represented if he so desires by a Steward who is reasonably familiar with the work on which the employee is engaged) shall, providing it is done within one hundred and after twenty hours (5 days) after the circumstances giving rise to the alleged grievance have originated or arisen, present his complaint either orally or in writing to his immediate shift boss or foreman, and if within one hundred and twenty hours (5 days) from the time when such complaint was made to the shift boss or foreman a decision satisfactory to the employee is not given to him, then-
STAGE TWO
5.06
Before proceeding further with the matter such representations shall be stated by the employee in writing signed and presented by him(accompanied if he so desires by his Steward), within five (5) days after the decision of the shift boss or foreman for Stage One has been given or if no decision was given, then within seventy-two (72) hours (3 days) from the expiry of the time period for giving such decision. Such written representations shall. be presented to the Management Representative designated by the Company from time to time to handle such matters at Stage Two. The Management Representative, if he so desires, may be accompanied by other officials of the Company. Such Management Representative shall give his decision in writing within seven (7) days from the date upon which such representations were presented to him and if the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, then-
STAGE THREE
5.07
Notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter shall, within seven (7) days after the decision of the Management Representative for Stage Two has been or should have been given, by the Grievance Committee to the Management Representative designated by the Company from time to time to handle such matters at this Stage Three, Such Management Representative shall notify the Union of the time and place at
which he will meet the Grievance Committee to discuss the matter. At such time, the representations in writing presented at Stage Two indicating the nature of the grievance and the remedy sought shall be presented to such Management Representative by the employees and not less than two (2) and not more than three (3) members of the Grievance Committee, The Management Representative may, if he desires, be accompanied by other officials of the Company, At this meeting, such representations and the decision of the Management Representative for Stage Two shall be considered. At the inception of or during this Stage Three, the Company or the Union may require that a Staff Representative of the Union be present at such meeting. Every effort will be made to settle such difference within ten (10) days from the date upon which the Management Representative for Stage Three received written notice of the matter as above set forth and such Management Representative shall give the decision in writing on behalf of the Company within such ten (10) day period.
GENERAL
5.08
Saturdays and Sundays and General Holidays or scheduled days off and General Holidays observed by the Company shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the three stages of the Grievance Procedure or under Section 5.12 of these General Provisions.
5.09
The Company will forward to the Union written notification of Management Representatives or the position designated to handle the matters of the Grievance Procedure.
5.10
If no Management Representative shall have been designated by the Company for any of the stages through which a matter must proceed, such matter may proceed directly to the next higher stage for which a Management Representative has been named.
5.11
Any and all	time limits fixed by this Article	for	the
taking of action	by either party	or by an employee	may	at	any
time be extended	by agreement in	writing signed by	the
Management Representative of the	Company for Stage	Two	or	Three
and a Steward or the Local Staff Representative.
5.12
Any difference which arises directly between the Union and the Company concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement (which shall not include matters upon which an employee(s) is personally entitled to grieve) will be submitted in writing by either party to the other within five (5) days following the origination or occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the alleged grievance at Stage Three. The decision of the Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall be given within seven (7} days
after such meeting.
5.13
Where two (2) or more employees in the same department have identical complaints concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, such complaint shall constitute a group grievance and commence at Stage Two within five (5) days after the circumstances giving rise to the alleged grievance have originated or occurred. A group grievance shall be presented by at least two employees from the group concerned or a greater number if mutually agreed on, accompanied (if they so desire) by the appropriate number of Stewards or Grievance Committeemen as permitted in the various Stages.
5.14
In the event that any difference concerning the interpretation, application administration or alleged violation of this Agreement shall not have been satisfactorily settled under the foregoing provisions, the matter may then, by notice in writing given by one party to the other within ten (10) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative at Stage Three or the decision in Section 5.12 be referred to arbitration as hereinafter provided. If no decision be given within the applicable period allowed above for the purpose, notice of arbitration may be given within ten (10) days after
the expiration of such period.
5.15
Should any difference arise between the Company and the union or between the Company and any employee concerning the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, or should any discharged employee believe that he has been discharged in violation of the provisions of this Agreement and should either party or an employee desire to take advantage of the procedure provided for in this Article, each step in such procedure (including any reference to arbitration) required to effect a satisfactory disposition of the matter shall be taken by such party or such employee within the time limits set forth in this Article or in the Article concerning Discharged Cases, as the case may be, or the matter shall be deemed to have been settled or abandoned.
5.16
If any dispute affecting an employee's rate of pay is finally settled in his favour and provided that the grievance was presented in writing within five (5) days after the employee received his cheque for the pay period in which the grievance first occurred, any adjustment shall be made retroactive to the date the grievance first occurred. If the grievance was not presented before the expiration of such five (5) day period, any adjustment shall be made effective as of the day the grievance
was presented in writing.
5.17
Any misunderstanding in relation to contract bonus received will not be considered under the Grievance Procedure until it has been taken up with the Bonus Department by the employee who is directly concerned within five (5) days after receiving the bonus cheque or the posting of the "bonus sheet" whichever is the later,
STEWARDS AND GRIEVANCE CH4MITTEEMEN
5.18
The Stewards and Grievance Committeemen herein referred to shall be appointed by the Union from employees having completed their probationary period, whose duties shall be to assist employees in the area the Steward or Committeeman represents in presenting alleged Grievances under the Grievance Procedure.
Their number in the aggregate shall not be more than one (1) for each twenty-five (25) employees, with a minimum of four (4) allowed.
5.19
The union shall from time to time notify the Company in writing of the names of the employees who are serving as Stewards and Grievance Committeemen, together with the areas each represents. The Company shall not be required to recognize them
until so notified.
5.20
Grievance meetings shall, as far as possible, be carried out during the regular hours of the day shift. Where a grievance meeting occurs during the working hours of an employee and/or steward in attendance, the company will pay for the time spent by the employee and or steward in attending such meeting which falls within his working hours,
5.21
The union acknowledges that Stewards and Grievance Committeemen have regular duties to perform on behalf of the Company, If a Steward or Grievance Committeeman requires time off during working hours to attempt to settle a grievance or attend a meeting with the Company, he shall request the permission of his immediate supervisor, stating the reason for his request, which permission shall not be unreasonably denied.
5.22
If an attempt to settle a grievance involves any employee entering any department or section of the property other than his authorized working place, or if it involves the investigation of the condition of a working place or of equipment, he must carry a written permission for that purpose from his Department Head or the Manager to be obtained through his immediate Supervisor. He will be accompanied on such investigation by the Manager or his
designated representative and the immediate Supervisor in the
department, section or place concerned.
ARTICLE 6
ARBITRATION
6.01
When either party requests that any matter be submitted to arbitration as herein before provided, it shall make such request in writing addressed to the other party to this Agreement, and at the same time nominate an arbitrator. Within ten days thereafter, the other party shall nominate an arbitrator; provided, however, that if such party fails to nominate an arbitrator as herein required, the Minister of Labour for the Province of Ontario shall have power to effect such appointment upon application thereto by the party invoking arbitration. The two arbitrators so nominated shall confer within five days and shall attempt to select by agreement a Chairman of the Arbitration Board. If they are unable to agree upon such a Chairman within such period, they shall then request the Minister of Labourer for the Province of Ontario to appoint an impartial Chairman, provided that the Chairman shall be selected from other than the Civil Service and shall be chosen having regard to his impartiality and his qualifications in
interpreting collective bargaining agreements.
/<!
6.02
In any arbitration the written representations of the employee or employees made at Stage Two and the decision of the Company at Stage Three of the Grievance Procedure or in the case of a difference directly between the Union and the Company, the written representation by the applicant for the arbitration and the reply thereto by the other party shall be presented to the arbitrators and the award of the arbitrators shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out.
6.03
Each party shall be entitled to be represented by counsel or otherwise and to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party and to present arguments orally and/or in writing. When written arguments are submitted each party may reply once to the argument of the other party. When any written argument or brief is filed by a party with the Board of Arbitration a copy shall at the same time be supplied to the other party.
6.04
The union and the Company shall respectively pay the expenses of the arbitrator appointed by each, and the fees and expenses of the third arbitrator, if any, shall be borne in equal shares by the Union and the Company.
6.05
Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the Party
calling the witness.
6.06
The finding of the majority of the Board of Arbitrators as to the facts, the interpretation of the provisions of the Agreement and as to whether or not it has been violated shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no case shall the arbitrators be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
6.07
The arbitrators shall be requested to give their award within a period of fifteen (15) days after the close of the hearing.
ARTICLE 7
NO CESSATION OF WORK
7.01
In view of the orderly procedure herein set forth for settling differences, the Union agrees that there shall be no strike, stoppage, slow-down, restriction of output or other interference with work or the company's operations during the life of this Agreement and that any or all of the employees taking part in or instigating any such strike, stoppage, slowdown, restriction of output or other interference with work or the Company's operations shall be subject to discharge or other discipline by the Company, subject to any rights the employee may have under the grievance procedure,
7.02
The Company agrees that it will not cause nor direct any lock-out of employees.
ARTICLE 8
DISCHARGE CASES
8.01
If an employee who has completed his probationary period be discharged from his employment after the date hereof and believes that his discharge results from an unjust application of the provisions of this Agreement, he may have the matter dealt with under the Grievance Procedure. Any such matter may be presented at the Second Stage of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) days after written notice of such discharge has been given and not otherwise.
8.02
In the event that it should be finally decided that the discharge of any such employee resulted from an unjust application of the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall reinstate such employee and pay his full compensation (less amounts of money earned by the employee during the time lost) at the employee's regular basic rate for the hours lost which he normally would have been scheduled to work after written complaint against such discharge has been received by the Company. Upon such reinstatement, there shall be deemed to
have been no break in the employee's continuous service by
reason of such discharge. Accordingly, such grievances may be settled under the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures by:
(a)	confirming the employee's dismissal;
(b)	Reinstating the employee with or without compensation for the time los t; or
(c)	any other arrangement mutually agreed to by the parties hereto, or which is just as determined by a Board of Arbitration appointed pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9 SENIORITY
9.01
During the first fifty-five (_55_) shifts worked of his employment with the Company, an employee shall be considered on. probation and he shall not acquire any seniority rights until the completion of the said period. After completion of his probationary period an employee shall be credited with Company seniority from the date he last commenced to work for the Company. The departmental seniority of an employee means the length of his continuous service in the department in which he is at the time regularly employed, since the date of his last entry into service in such department except as expressly
provided herein.
9.02
Seniority of an employee shall be completely lost and employment deemed terminated if he:
(a)	quits, or
(b)	is discharged,	or
(c)	is laid off by	the	Company	for	a	period	in	excess of
one (1) year if the employee has one (1) or more years of service or for the period of his service if he has less than one (1) year of service, or
(d)	works for another	employer	while	absent	from	his
employment with the Company whether he is on official leave of absence or otherwise except when the Company approves such other work.
9.03
In any case of reduction in working force of a department (except lay-offs considered by the Company to be temporary only,) the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee or employees shall be laid off:
(a)	the departmental seniority of each employee concerned, and
(b)	the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, physical fitness, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to do the work of the job concerned, with integrity and reputation being a main requirement on certain jobs such as the handling of
gold.
When in the judgment of the Company factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two (2) or more employees then, except as hereinafter provided, the employee having the lesser or least seniority will be the first to be laid off.
9.04
In any case of a general reduction or curtailment of the entire working force (except lay-offs considered by the Company to be temporary only) the Company shall, consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee or employees shall be laid off:
(a)	the Company seniority of each employee concerned, and
(b)	the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, physical fitness, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to do the work of the job concerned,with integrity and reputation being a main requirement on certain jobs such as the handling of gold.
When in the judgment of the Company factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two (2) or more employees then, except as hereinafter provided, the employee having the lesser or least seniority will be the first to be laid off. In the application of this section, and subject to the requirement of equality of employees as set out above, an employee about to be laid off from his department shall be entitled to displace the employee with the least Company seniority.
9.05
For a period of one (1) year (where the employee has one or more year's of service) or for the period of his service (where the employee has less than one year's service) from the day of lay-off for lack of work of any employee he shall have preferential rights for re-hiring (but only for jobs whose occupants would be classified as employees and which are not of a temporary or an emergency nature) in accordance with -the following provisions:
those most recently laid off within the qualifying periods outlined above shall, to the extent of the number of workers at any one time required by the Company, be sent notices by mail by the company stating the jobs available and the proposed time of hiring which shall not be less than ten (10) calendar days from the date of such mailing. Such notices shall be mailed by registered mail to each such person addressed to the last address which he shall have recorded with the Company. The persons to whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work shall if they are qualified and physically able to fill the
.	-7 f)-1
job available be re-hired in the inverse order to that in which /	/ jy i
they were laid off. The Company shall not be required however to re-hire at any time any persons who shall have failed to report for re-hiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any
such notice sent to him.
9.0d
In making a promotion in any department the duration of which is expected to exceed thirty (30) working days (except to a position outside the bargaining unit), the Company shall. consider the following two (2) factors in determining which employee shall be promoted:
(a)	the departmental seniority of each employee concerned;
and
(b) the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, physical fitness, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to do the work of the job concerned with integrity and reputation being a main requirement on certain jobs such as the handling of gold.
When in the judgment of the Company factor (b) above is to all intents and purposes equal as between two (2) or more employees, then except as hereinafter provided, the employee
'7 '
having the greater or greatest departmental seniority will receive the promotion,
9.07
The seniority article of this Agreement shall not apply to the selection or appointment for the job of Concentrator Leader

and Concentrator Operator.
9.08
An employee who is required by the Company to be transferred from one department to another for the efficient conduct of operations, will have no initial departmental seniority in the department to which he is transferred and will thereafter commence to accumulate departmental seniority in such department.
9.09
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
JOB POSTING
Where a permanent job vacancy occurs in other
....	7
than the lowest classification m any Department L' it will be posted for four (4) working days on the bulletin board provided for that purpose. Only those applications submitted during the period of posting will be considered The Company shall endeavor to fill job vacancies in the lowest classifcation with employees of the Company qualified and capable of performing the job duties of the vacancy concerned. To keep the Company advised of their desire to be considered for specific vacancies or transfers to these positions the individual shall indicate such desires on the appropriate forms to be supplied by the Company,
Where there is a line of progression within the Department, the Company may promote up the line of
/
progression without posting the position,
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
Employees who wish to be considered for the job vacancy must file an application with their Supervisor. The Company will provide the appropriate forms
Applications from within the Department will be considered first and if the vacancy is not filled from within the Department then the aplications from other Departments will be considered.
To determine the successful candidate, the Company shall consider:
(a)	The Departmental seniority of each employee
concerned; and
(b)	The requirements and efficiency of operations and
the ability, physical fitness, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to do the work of the job concerned with integrity and reputation being a main requirement on certain jobs, such as the handling of gold.
When in the judgement of the Company, factor (b) above is to all intents and purposes equal as between (2) or more employees; then except as herein after provided, the employee having the greater or greatest departmental seniority will receive the promotion.
(vii) The job posting procedure as set out shall apply
only to the filling of the initial vacancy and up to one (1) further vacancy which may be created by the transfer of successful applicants, Further vacancies created by the job posting procedure shall be filled as may be determined by the Company, either by internal promotion, transfer, or by hiring a new employee.
(viii)	Following awarding of the position, the Company shall post the name of the successful applicant for such job within four (4) working days.
(ix)	If there is no applicant or no successful applicant for the job, the company will then be free to choose an employee who did not apply for the job and who is willing to accept such job, or to hire an outside employee to fill the vacancy.
(x)	An employee shall not apply for
more than two (2) job vacancies at any one time. The Company will not be obliged to consider applications for the posted jobs from those employees who have successfully applied for another posted job within the previous one (!) year.
(xi) The job posting procedure will not apply in
filling' vacancies in the Mine Dry, Gatehouse, #8 Shaft Deckroom, #3 Shaft Deckroom, #8 Shaft Bit and Salvage Shop. In filling these vacancies, the Company will give preference to employees who are unable to perform their regular jobs due to health problems.
(xii) The job posting procedure will not apply if the vacancy is filled with a presently inactive employee, who due to health problems, requires rehabilitation. Such an employee will be identified to the Union prior to placement in the job.
9.10
(a)	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to preclude the transfer of a person excluded from the bargaining unit to a position where he is included in the bargaining unit or vice versa, provided that no employee shall be thereby laid off or demoted except in the event there is a general reduction or curtailment of the entire working force under Section 9.04. Persons employed by the Company who are transferred into the bargaining unit will be credited with full seniority based on
length of service.
(b)	Where an employee within the bargaining unit accepts a position with the Company outside the bargaining unit and thereafter returns to the bargaining unit, such employee shall regain the company and departmental seniority acquired prior to date of transfer out of the bargaining unit and shall continue to accumulate additional company and departmental seniority as of the date of his transfer back to the bargaining unit, provided the return occurs within six (6) months.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
9.11
A temporary employee is one who has been hired for a specific job of a temporary nature, which in each case, shall not exceed a period of six (6) months.
9.12
On completion of the job, the services of such temporary employee shall be terminated; however, should he be required as a regular employee he shall be re-hired in that capacity, progress through the probationary period as outlined in section 9.01; and his seniority shall then be as outlined in section 9.01.
ABSENCE
9.13
When hereafter an employee is absent on leave of absence or otherwise for a period in excess of one (1) month, except in case of disabling accident or sickness, such period shall not be counted and shall. be excluded in computing his departmental and Company seniority
9.14
Any leave of absence permit must be in writing and signed by an authorized Company official.
Leave of absence for reasons other than those listed in Section 9.17, may be granted to an employee if a request is made in writing at least five (5) days in advance. The leave will be granted for reasons acceptable to the Company and only if it does not interfere with operations, The company may waive the five (5) day notice if the circumstances are in its opinion sufficiently urgent.
9.15
An employee desiring to return to work after an unauthorized absence may be required to give at least one (1) day's notice to the Company of his intention at which time he will be told on which shift to return.
9.16
An employee who is unable, for any reason, to report for work must, if possible, notify his foreman before the beginning
of his shift.
When an employee misses a shift, he will notify his foreman of his intended date of return, as soon as possible. The foreman will confirm the intended date of return as the date of return.
9.17
The Company will grant leaves ofabsence to attend Union business to not more than six (6) employees, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	that the Union gives a-t least one (1) week's written
notice to the Company designating the employee or employees for whom such leave is desired;
(b)	that leaves of absence hereunder will not exceed an
aggregate of one hundred (100) working days per year or as may be otherwise mutually agreed;
(c)	that such employee or employees can be spared.
SPECIAL TRAINING
9.18
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company shall have the right f/Oj'm time to time to designate to the Union individuals who are to be given special. training or experience in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company (including students in temporary employment) not exceeding at any one time thirty r (30) or five percent (5%) of the employees, whichever shall be
the greater, and to promote, demote or transfer such individuals,
engage, retain or dispense with their services, and direct their
efforts from time to time, free from any limitations provided for in this Agreement and provided that no employee shall be thereby laid off or demoted.
ARTICLE 10 DEPARTMENTS AND
SENIORITY LISTS
10.01
For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement, the Departments shall be as follows:
Mine
Mill
Surface
10.02
Within two (2) months after date of execution of this Agreement, the Company will prepare departmental lists of the employees showing departmental seniority for posting in the department concerned and Company seniority lists showing Company seniority. Such lists shall be posted and remain for a period of three (3) weeks for the express purpose that any employee may make a complaint as to the correctness of the date of his last entry into the Company's service, At the end of this three (3) week period, the list, including any corrections that have been made, shall become final, These lists shall be revised and posted every four (4) months. A copy of the lists, as corrected
will be sent to the Union.
ARTICLE 11
ANNUAL, VACATIONS WITH PAY
11.01
An employee having more than one (1) year of continuous employment will be entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay equal to four percent (4%) of his earnings for work performed during the twelve-month period immediately prior thereto.
11,02
An employee having more than five (5) years' continuous employment will be entitled to three (3) weeks' vacation with // pay equal to six percent (6%) of his earnings for work performed during the twelve-month period immediately prior thereto,
11.03
s~')

iy y
An employee having more than fifteen (15) years' continuous employment will be entitled to four (4) weeks' vacation with pay ^ / equal to eight percent (8%) of his earnings for work performed during the twelve-month period immediately prior thereto.
11.04
An employee having more than twenty-five (25) years' continuous employment will be entitled to five (5) weeks' vacation with pay equal to ten percent(10%) of his earnings for work performed during the twelve-month period immediately prior
thereto.
ARTICLE 13
GENERAL HOLIDAYS
13.01
An employee required to work on the following general holidays will be paid for authorized work performed thereon at the rate of two and one-half times his basic hourly rate --
* EMPLOYMENT ANNIVERSARY DAY FLOATER
* The employment anniversary holiday and floater may be taken by each employee on a mutually agreeable date anytime during the year except for the month of December and first week
VICTORIA DAY
CHRISTMAS DAY
DOMINION DAY
NEW YEAR'S DAY
GOOD FRIDAY
LABOUR DAY
THANKSGIVING DAY
BOXING DAY
CIVIC HOLIDAY
of January.
13.02
An employee not required to work on any of the general holidays set out in Section 13.01 above, shall be entitled to payment for such holiday computed at his basic hourly rate for a total of eight hours, provided:
(i)	he has completed thirty (30) shifts worked with the Company
prior to the date of the general holiday concerned;
(ii)	he works his full regular scheduled shifts on the work day both immediately before and after the holiday, with the following exceptions;
(a)	he is on his authorised annual vacation during which time one of the aforesaid general holidays occurs and he has worked his regular full shifts both immediately before and after such vacation period;
(b)	if an employee reports for work late on a shift immediately before or after the holiday and he is permitted to proceed to his work place, he shall be entitled to an equivalent number of hours of holiday pay as he is paid for for the shift for which he reported late;
(c)	if, having commenced work on his regular scheduled shift before or after the general holiday concerned, the employee is prevented from completing such shift because of accident or illness; provided, however, that the employee reports immediately to his Shift Boss or Foreman and is subject to being examined by the
Company's doctor and declared medically unfit for work;
(d)	absence caused by death of a member of his immediate
family (i.e. spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grand-parent and grandchild of the employee) satisfactory proof of which must be furnished the Company by the employee himself when required;
(e)	absence caused by jury duty or crown witness, for which he qualified for payment under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 14 RATES OF PAY
14.01
The Company agrees to pay and the Union agrees to accept the hourly wage rates attached hereto as Schedule II.
14.02
In the case of the temporary transfer made for the convenience of the Company and while work is still available on his regular job, an employee shall be paid at his regular hourly rate of pay for the balance of his shift and then he shall be paid at the higher of his regular hourly rate of pay or at the rate of the classification to which he has been so transferred for hours worked on such temporary transfer. It is understood that temporary transfers shall not continue for periods longer than ten (10) consecutive shifts except in case of leave of absence, sickness, vacation and holidays.
14.03
The Company has the right to alter , amend and institute new job classifications and to establish wage rates in the new classifications. The Union has the right to grieve the rates of
pay.
SHIFT PREMIUM
14.04
A shift premium shall be paid to employees on regularly assigned shifts, with the exception of employees on incentive or bonus opportunity, of forty-five (45) cents per hour for regularly scheduled shifts commencing at or after 2 p.m. and of fifty (50) cents per hour for regularly scheduled shifts commencing at or after 10 p.m.
cy
I
ARTICLE 15 BULLETIN BOARDS
15.01
No bills, bulletins, newspapers, hand-bills or other documents relating to the Union or Union activities shall be posted, distributed or left on the Dome Mine and Plant property or in the underground workings of the Dome Mine by- the Union or any employee.
15.02
The company will provide one bulletin board in the Mine Dry, Surface Dry and Mill for Union notices.
15.03
The company will provide one bulletin board in the Mine Dry and Mill where Officers of the Union may post notices pertaining to:
(a)	Time, place and type of Union meetings.
(b)	Notices as to Union nominations and elections.
(c)	List of Union Officers and Stewards.
(d)	Notice of Union social affairs.
(e)	Other material if approved in advance by the General Manager
or his representative.
The Union shall not post any material which is objectionable to the Company. Bulletin boards shall be lockable.
ARTICLE 16 NOTICES
16.01
Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows -To the Company:	PLACER DOME INC. - Dome Mine
South Porcupine, Ontario PON 1H0
To the Union:	United Steelworkers of America
Local 7580 P.O. Box 940 Timmins, Ontario
P4N 7H1
16.02
Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) . The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
16.03
Either party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned,
ARTICLE 17 UNION SECURITY
17.01
The Company shall, during the life of this Agreement, deduct for each employee, from the last pay cheque received each month, a sum equal to Union monthly dues in the amount equal to two (2) hours straight time pay, and remit the same to the Financial Secretary of Local 7580, United Steelworkers of America.
17.02
The said deductions shall commence in the case of each new employee only after the completion of one (1) complete calendar month of employment on or before the termination of the pay period for which the cheque in 17.01 is issued.
17.03
A list of employees for whom deductions have been made
shall accompany the payment to the Union,
18.01
ARTICLE’ 18 FUNERAL LEAVE
Where the Company grants an employee's request for a bereavement leave of absence to attend the funeral of a	.. y) j
member of his immediate family, the Company will pay to the employee eight (8) hours' pay at his basic hourly rate for each day to maximum of three (3) he would otherwise have been required to work during the three (3) consecutive calendar days prior to and including the day of the funeral.
18.02
Immediate family for the purpose of this section shall be spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent and grandchild,
ARTICLE 19 JURY DUTY AND CROWN WITNESS
19.01
An employee will receive for each day of Jury Duty, or for —____________________________
each day's attendance as a subpoenaed witness of the Crown, the
difference between his basic hourly rate for eight hours and the amount of the jury fee or conduct money (whichever is applicable) received for a day he would have otherwise been required to work provided the employee furnishes the Company with a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court, showing the amount of
/
A f ■'
y -
Jury Fee or conduct money (whichever is applicable) paid. An
employee on Jury Duty or subpoenaed by the Crown, is expected to report for work when not actively involved in Court proceedings provided he has been excused by a duly authorized Court official.
ARTICLE 20 SUNDAY PREMIUM
20.01
a Sunday premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour shall be paid for each hour worked on a scheduled shift that commences on a Sunday which is being paid at the employee's basic hourly rate.
ARTICLE 21
HEALTH AND SAFETY
21.01
The existing Health and Safety Committee will be composed of not more than five (5) representatives of the Union and not more than five (5) representatives of the Company. This Committee shall meet at least once every three months or at such greater frequency as is requested by either party, to a maximum frequency of once per month,
21.02
The Company agrees to recognise a to include one (1) member from the Union.
■ ! ! /
22.01
ARTICLE 22 TERM OF AGREEMENT'
The term of this Agreement shall be from April 18,1988to
April. 17, 1990.	__
22.02
Either party may, within three months of the expiry date of this Agreement, give notice in writing to the other party of its desire to bargain with a view to its renewal with or without modif icationor to terminate the Agreement .
EXECUTED at the Dome Mine in the Township of Tisdale, Ontario tf

SCHEDULE 1
HOURS OF WORK
1
The standard work week for normal day shift on surface operations and normal day and night production shifts underground shall be composed of forty (40) hours consisting of five (5) days of eight (8) hours per day, Monday to Friday inclusive, except in cases of emergency. The standard work week for continuous operations (except in the case of Mill and Crushing Plant shift employees), two shift consecutive operations, maintenance or production shifts, other than the normal day and night production shifts above mentioned, shall be an average of forty hours per week over the shift cycle as scheduled by the Company. The standard work week in the case of Mill and Crushing Plant shift employees shall be composed of an average of forty hours per week per shift cycle, as scheduled by the Company.
2.
An employee will be paid for authorized work performed at the rate of one and one-half times his applicable hourly rate for any time actually worked on an hourly-rate basis in excess of an employee's standard work day or standard work week, except when such excess is due to a change of shift. For the purpose of determining an employee's standard work week, hours actually worked for which an employee is paid two and one-half times his basic hourly rate pursuant to Section 13.01 or hours paid for at his basic hourly rate but not worked pursuant to Section 13.02
shall be considered as hours worked.
For the purpose of
computing overtime beyond the standard work week, the regularly scheduled shifts of an employee that are not worked because of vacation or leave of absence which is authorized in writing under Section 9.17 or for funeral leave under Section 18.01 or for Jury Duty and Crown Witness under Section 19,01 shall be considered as hours worked.
3.
It is understood that the provisions of this Schedule are intended only to provide a basis for calculating time worked and shall not constitute a guarantee of hours of work per day, or days of work per week or for any period whatsoever, nor a guarantee of working schedules, In no case shall an entitled to more than one and one-half d-1/2) times his applicable hourly rate for any overtime worked,
4.
There shall be no duplication or pyramiding of overtime payment nor shall the same hours worked be counted as part of the standard work week and/or standard work day and also as hours for which an overtime premium is payable.
D .
Hoisting and lowering schedules at the Dome Mine will be ranged to provide approximately eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift, but variations from such schedules not
exceeding fifteen (15) minutes which do not occur consistently shall be disregarded. Any delay greater than fifteen (15) minutes in hoisting employees from underground which is due to
necessary repair work or safety considerations or causes beyond the Company's control shall be paid for on the basis of straight time only, but such time shall not be considered to be time worked. The daily lunch period for an employee whose work requires him to eat his lunch underground shall be one-half (1/2} hour on Company time. All underground employees shall eat their lunch at a time and place designated by their shift boss, provided, however, that the time shall be reasonably near the middle of the shift, and the place shall be reasonably clean and dry by underground standards.
6.
Eight (8) hours work at his designated working place will constitute a work day for each employee on surface, The lunch period for a surface employee will be one-half (1/2) hour on his own time except that for an employee on continuous operations or two (2) shift consecutive operations it will be one-half (1/2) hour on Company time, during which time he shall continue all necessary supervision of machinery and maintenance of service.
Hoistmen on surface and underground may eat their lunch on Company time except that, when necessary for full production, they may be required to eat their lunch during loading periods,
An employee who works on an hourly rate who is called out for emergency work shall receive four (4) work, or at the Company' s option, shall be given four (4) hours pay at his basic hourly rate without being required to work the full period.
However, only time worked shall count for purposes of overtime
computation, If he is entitled to payment at overtime rates as provided for in this Article for any or all of the time actually worked, and such payment is larger than such four (4) hours pay, he shall receive the larger amount.
8.
An employee who works on an hourly rate who reports on time for work on his regular shift and was not told in advance not to report, shall receive one of the following at the Company's option:
(!) four hours work, or
(ii)	four hours pay at his basic hourly rate without being required to work the full period; or
(iii)	payment equal to two hours pay at his basic hourly rate and
have his shift rescheduled for a later starting time and / considered as his regular shift,	/
This shall not apply to employees who are returning to work after an unauthorized or indefinite absence or if work is not available for any cause beyond the control of the Company or any labour dispute.
9,
For the purpose of this schedule, the week shall commence with the day shift on Monday,
10.
An employee will not be required to take time off from his standard work week for the purpose of avoiding the payment of overtime premium compensation during the week concerned.
11.
Where possible, the Company will give at least forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice of the change of an employee's regular shift schedule.
I
3CHRDULE I
JOB
CLASS,	HIKE
1	Labourer
HOURLY K A G E RATES
PLAHT	HILL		APRIL 18/88	CIRCA APRIL 18/89
Labourer	Labourer		13.43	13.84
2	Boileraakcr Hlpr,	ShiftHelper	13,64	14.01
Carpenter Hlpr,
Mechanic lllpr,
Pipefi tier lllpr,
Powerhouse Hlpr,
Dryaan (la Lera an
3 Deckaan	Rigger lllpr,	Assay Office Hlpr
Fuseaan, Grizzlyaan,	TiaberHover	Operator 3
Trolley Hlpr,
4 Asst, Miner Basic	Electrician Hlpr,	Cone Crusher Op
Chute Puller (Loader]	Swing Dr yaan
Pipefitter 2nd cl,
Saapler, Scavenger Trackaan
13.85	14,30
14.06	14,53
5 Hyd. Fill Storage Stope	Machinist Hlpr,	14.2?	14,76
Op. , Hotoruan Bock Breaker Op,
6 Pipefitter 1st cl,,	LaapTender,	Mechanic 3rd cl,,	14.48	14,99
Saapler Ldr, ,	Mechanic 3rd cl,,	Operator 2
Skiptender	Truck Driver f 2	U/G Crusher Op,
7 Car Repairaan, Mucking	Loco Shop 2nd cl„	Concentrator Op,,	14.69	15,22
Mach, Op., Rigger,	Pipefitter 3rd cl,	Assay Technician
Pluggeraan, Tiiberaan,
Ditch Digger Op,
8 Driller, Drill Repairman, Heavy Equipaent Op.,
Hyd, Fill Stope Op.,
Long Hole Loader
Boilermaker 3rd cl,,	Mechanic 2nd cl
Carpenter 3rd cl„	Operator 1
Dryaan Ldr.,
Mechanic 2nd cl,,
Rigger 3rd cl.,
Truck Driver 41
Slusher Hoist Mechanic 2nd cl,
I
9	Carpenter 2nd cl,	CrusherRepairaan,	15,11	15.68
Surface Crusher Leader Spare Shift Boss
(LOTUSVHOURLYRT]
L
JOB
CLASS. HI HE 10 Trolleyaan
11 Cage Tender {3
|8 Shafts,Rigger Ldr, Sr. Tinberaan
12 Haber Hover
13 Stopeboss
?4
\
15
Drill Repair Foreman (relief]
SCHBDULE I L HOURLY K A fi B BATES
PLANT
Hoistaan 2nd cl,,
Loco Shop 1st cl„
Hacbinist 3rd cl,,
Pipefitter 2nd cl,,
Rigger 2nd cl,
BoilerBaker 2nd cl., Electrician 3rd cl.,
Welder 3rd cl,,
Slusher hoist Mechanic 1st cl.
Coapressor Op.,
Powerhouse Eng. 1th Cl.
ileraaSccr
		CIRCA
	APRIL	APRIL
KILL	18/88	18/89
Concentrator Ldr., U/G Crusher Ldr.	15.32	15.91
Hechanic 1st cl,
15,53	16.11
Sr. Assay Technician
Blacbsaith,
1st cl,,
Carpenter 1st cl., Electrician 2nd Cl., Hoistaan 1st cl,,
Heavy Equip. Op.,
Machinist 2nd cl.,
Hason, Pipefitter 1st cl,, Powerhouse Engineer 3rd cl.. Hechanic 1st cl.,
Rigger 1st cl„
Shift Eng, (powerhouse] Welder 2nd cl,
Electrician 1st cl., Machinist 1st cl.,
Hotor Hechanic Cl, A., Welder 1st cl.,
Yard Crew Sub Ldr,
Carpenter Shop Ld r. ,
Electric Shop Ldr., Garage Ldr., Hoist Hechanic Ldr., Hachine Shop Ldr.,
Pipe Shop Ldr,,
Plate Shop Ldr.,
Powerhouse Ldr.,
Yard Crew Ldr,,	^
Slusher Hoist Ldr,
Crusher Foreaan (spare)
15.71	16.37
15.95	16.60
16.16	16.83
APPRRHTk.. PROGRAH
Conducted in Accordance with Ontario Departaent of Labour “Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualifications Act 1961"
Starting Rate ...................................................
After 6 aonths ..................................................
12 aonths ...................................................
18 aonths ................................................
24 aonths ................................................
30 aonths ................................................
36 aonths ................................................
42 aonths ...................................................
48 aonths First Class Rate for Journeyaan Qualification
13.22	13,61
13.43	13,84
13.85	14,30
14,27	14.76
14.69	15.22
15.11	15.68
15.53	16,14
15.95	16.60
(LOTUS\IKMLYRT)
oo
SCHEDULE III
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA)
During the term of this Agreement there shall be a cost-of-living allowance (COLA) as set forth below. The term "Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.)" as used in thi s article shall mean the Canadian Consumer Price Index - All Items (1971=100) as published monthly by STATS CAN.
(1)	Effective April 18,1989 and for the second year of this contract, there shall be a cost-of-living allowance (COLA) of one cent ($.01) per hour for each full .35 increase in the Consumer Price Index after the CPI exceeds six per cent (6%) . The movement in the Consumer Price Index will be reviewed monthly commencing in April 1989 using the month of March 1989 as the comparison base, and the cost-of-living allowance payable on the first pay period following the effective date of review where the monies become due shall be an "add-on" for the term left in the second year. This COLA adjusted monthly thereafter shall continue as an "addon" until the termination of the contract, at which point it shall be included in the base rates. This formula shall apply, only if, and to the extent that the increase in the CPI exceeds six per cent (6%) during the twelve montji index review period of March 1989 to March 1990.
J
(2)	In the event the CPI figures necessary to compute an
allowance, if any, due under this Article are not available, then the adjustment shall be deferred until such time as the CPI figures are available.
(3)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, will be made in the
cost-of-living allowance due to any revisions which may later be made in the published figures for the CPI for any months on the basis of which a wage increase shall have been determined.
(4)	Where the cost-of-living allowance calculated in accordance
with (1) above is applicable, it shall become payable on the first pay period following the official announcement of CPI.
OUTLINE OF EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND GENERAL INFORMATION
The following descriptions of health plans are set out for the benefit of employees. The insurance contracts and eligibility and qualification procedures will govern in all
cases.
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
The Company will pay the full, premium of life (which includes accidental death and dismemberment amount) in the amount of:
(i) Effective July 1, 1988 coverage will increase Thousand Dollars ($16,000) to Twenty Thousand
insurance in the same
0
from Sixteen
^71/. /)
Dolla
ifs
($20,000.00)
(ii) Effective May 1, 1989 coverage will increase to Twenty-four Thousand Dollars ($24,000.00).
The above coverage shall be applicable to all employees in the bargaining unit from the first day of hire,
ONTARIO HEALTH INSURANCE COMMISSION PLAN
The Company will continue to pay the full monthly premium for qualified employees with or without dependents.
DRUG PLAN AND EXTENDED HEALTH CARE
The Company will continue to pay 100% of the monthly premium for qualified employees for family or single coverage for both the Drug Plan and the extended health care plan,
VISION CARE BENEFIT PLAN
Part 1 - Personal Prescription Glasses:
The Company will pay 100^-'of the monthly premium for personal prescription glasses for qualified employees and de-
pendents, subject to the standard limitations of the Plan.
Part II - Prescription Safety Glasses:
(a)	The Company will pay 100% of the cost of Prescription Safety Glasses or $45.00, whichever is the lesser, once in each twelve (12) month period for each employee. There is no waiting period; however, an employee must request the completion of the necessary forms from the First Aid Officer, prior to a visit to the optometrist of the employee's choice. The remaining cost of the Prescription Safety Glasses (if' any) will be made by payroll deduction.
(b)	The Company will contribute a further Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) towards the purchase of replacement Prescription Safety Glasses to those employees who require more frequent replacement due to working conditions. This additional subsidy is subject to inspection and approval of management.
DOME MINE'S SICK PAY PLAN
This is a Company-operated plan, fully paid by the Company, under which an employee may receive 50% of his basic wage for the first nine (9) consecutive working days of time lost due to a legitimate illness or non-occupational injury anc60%y6 bf his basic wage for the remainder of the eligibility period.
Eligibility for sick pay commences after having lost two full consecutive shifts of regularly scheduled employment.
Payment then commences the third full consecutive shift and may continue to a maximum of six months in any 12 month period in
01
f) - <00
accordance with the aforementioned paragraph and provided that
each day of lost time is certified by the report of a fully qualified medical practitioner.
LONG TERM DISABILITY
The Company will pay the monthly premium for the Long Term 7 C? Q~ f&O Disability Insurance Plan commencing in the month following the month in which the employee completes his probationary period.
The Plan shall provide to eligible employees an amount of Five Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($550.00) per month effective the first month following the expiration of eligibility for sick pay under the Dome Mines' Sick Pay Plan.
Effective July 1, 1988 the monthly guarantee shall be increased One Hundred Dollars to Six Hundred Fifty Dollars ($650.00) with maximum earnings of 75% of pre-disability earnings. Details of the Plan, including eligibility requirements, payments and qualifications are outlined in a pamphlet, available to all employees at the Time Office.
DENTALPLAN
The Company will pay the monthly premium for the Dental Plan commencing in the month following the month in which the employee completes his probationary period and while he remains in the active employ and on the active payroll of the Company,
Effective July 1, 1988, the Dental Plan shall be updated to reflect 1988 Ontario Dental Association Rates. There is a pamphlet available for all employees at the Time Office which outlines in full the benefits covered under the Plan.
INCENTIVE BONUS CONTRACTS
( 1 ) For the information of those employees involved, the Company will post, contract rates in the mi ne dry for all. elements of measurable work I ised in monthly calculations of bonus earned.
(2) Prints-ours of each month's bonus calculation for each
contract vi 11 be made avai lable to the main contractor ( on each of twoshi fts (.'here app.1 i.oable) , for posting on a bu] 1 eti n board in the mine dry and for the shifters' office.
LINE OF PROGRESSION - MILL:	(Superseded by ADDENDUM II)
There are three major elements of work associated with
milling that are affected by the line of progression, namely:
(1)	Crusher operation
( 2) Mill operation
(3) Tailings dam operation
These three elements are depicted graphically below:
		Grinder Op.	
		Soiiv s Op.	
Tailings	Dam Ldr.	Filter Op.	U.G. Cr. Op
Tailings	Dam Op.	Hyd. Fill Op	Cone Cr. Op
Mil] Labourer Pool
The Company reserves the right to hire new employees with significant previous experience in milling and to place these employees in the line at a point commensurate with their experience.
A detailed explanation of the line of progression is
available from mill supervision on request.
PENSIONS	y")	:
/ ' ( ' /
/ if
(1)	Effective as of June 1, 1988 the present pension plan shall
be increased to Twenty Dollars and Fifty Cents ($20.50) per month per year of service for all future service. The cost of this increase (if any) to be on the same ratio as is being currently paid.
(2)	Effective as of May 1, 1989 the present pension plan shall
be increased to Twenty Three Dollars ($23.00) per month per year of service for all. future service. The cost of this increase (if any) to be on the same ratio as is being
currently paid.
71’'
/
APPRENTICESHIP FRCX2iAM
(1)	The Company will sponsor an apprenticeship program. The
selection of employees for an apprenticeship program will be according to provisions of 9.09 of the CBA.
(2)	The Company agrees to maintain all Employee Benefits while
the apprentice is attending trade school.
ADDENDUM I TO AND FORMING PART OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
PLACER DOME INC. - Dome Mine (hereinafter called the "Company" )
- and -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (hereinafter called the "Uni on" )
The parties to this Agreement hereby agree that this Addendum represents an amendment to the main agreement for the sole purpose of establishing a work schedule based on a 12-hour shift. This work schedule, in effect and agreed to by both parties is now part of this Agreement and subject to change only by mutual agreement of the parties, Where no request for termination is made, the system shall become part of the agreement and subject to change only by mutual consent or negotiation.
During the period the twelve ( 12 ) hour schedule is in effect, the following shall be deemed to amend the appropriate sections of the collective agreement as applicable to the twelve (12) hour schedule.
1. RATES OF PAY
A.	Hours of Work and Overtime
Work Shall be scheduled for the 12 hour schedule in accordance with the schedule attached hereto. For the purposes of overtime, only those authorized hours worked in excess of 12 hours in any one day or those authorized hours worked in excess of the scheduled work week (which for the purposes of the 12-hour shift schedule shall mean the average hours per week as per the averaging certificate) shall be paid for as overtime. Those clauses relating to this area shall be suspended for the period of the 12 hour system for those employees affected by the 12-hour schedule. It is specifically understood that hours paid in accordance with the requirements of the General Holidays Schedule of the Collective Agreement and amended herein by Section 2 of this Addendum, shall not be considered as time worked for1 the purpose of calculating overtime during the period this 12-hour schedule is in effect.
B.	Sunday and Shift-Premium
Where the implementation of the 12 hour schedule would necessitate extra payment in "Sunday premium" or "shift premium", then for a shift commencing at 8:00 a.m. an employee shall receive the regular hourly rate of pay for the first 8 hours, plus the applicable per hour shift premium for the next 4 hours, and for a shift commencing at 8:00 p.m., the employees shall receive the regular hourly rate plus the applicable shift premium for the first 4 hours, and the applicable shift premium
for the final 8 hours. Sunday shift premium shall continue as defined in Article 20.
C.	Meal Period
There shall be 2 one,-half hour meal periods during each 12-hour shift to be scheduled not more than 5 hours apart.
2. GENERAL HOLIDAYS
The following shall govern General Holidays:
(1)	Where the employee is not scheduled to work on a general holiday, he shall be paid 8 hours' pay at straight time in accordance with the present wording of the Agreement; and
(2)	Where the employee's regular scheduled 12-hour shift falls on one of the outlined general holidays, in Section 13.01, and he is not required to work his shift, he shall be paid for 12 hours' pay at straight time provided all other requirements are met; and
(3)	Where the employee's regular scheduled 12-hour shift falls on one of the outlined general holidays in Section 13.01 and he is required to work his shift, he shall be paid at time and one-half for all hours worked on that shift in addition to 8 hours pay at straight time: except for the "Employment Anniversary Day or Floater" which shall be taken and celebrated by the employee on this 12-hour schedule on one of his scheduled non-working days, and the employee shall receive eight (8) hours' pay at straight time for this day.
3.	VACATIONS WITH PAY
Where the 12-hour schedule is in effect an employee shall be entitled to "working" days equivalent to the entitlement outlined in Article 11; however, it is understood and agreed that vacation "working! days taken shall. be equivalent to a complete "workingeyeLe" ,
4.	(a) JURY DUTY AND CROWN WITNESSES
Where the 12-hour schedule is in effect and an employee's regular scheduled 12-hour day qualifies in the same manner as an employee's 8-hour day qualifies, he shall receive pay for the 12 hours .
(b) FUNERAL LEAVE
Where the 12-hour schedule is in effect and an employee's regular scheduled 12-hour day qualifies in the same manner as an employee's 8-hour day qualifies, he shall receive pay for the 12 hours , provided that the total accumulated hours shall be 24 hours only and shall be applicable to the day before and the day of the Funeral..
5.	QUALIFYING PERIODS AND "WORKING DAYS"
The requirement in the collective agreement of the completion of a number of shifts as in Articles 9, 13, 14 and elsewhere in the collective agreement, except where specifically excluded, shall be considered as equivalent to the same number of 8-hour days. Where 12-hour shifts are in effect, the equivalent period shall be considered an equal total number of
hours worked.
6.	BENEFIT PLANS - SICK PAY PLAN
An employee's entitlement to "sick days" shall be considered on the basis of "days". (It is understood that where the 12-hour schedule is in effect, the qualifying "days" for benefits shall be two (2) consecutive twelve-hour days.)
In the event that, in the application of the collective agreement, discrepancies arise due to the implementation of the 12 hour shift schedule, the relevant sections of the collective agreement shall be considered to be amended to the extent that such amendments effectively restore to the employee the conditions and terms and benefits of the collective agreement. Such amendments shall create an identical and pro-rated effect to the employee on the 12-hour schedule equivalent to the employee working the 8-hour schedule.
ADDENDUM II TO AND FORMING PART OF THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
PLACER DOME INC. - Dome Mine
(hereinafter called the "Company")
and --
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
(hereinafter called the "Union")
ADDENDUM
SKILLS PROGRESSION SYSTEM FOR MILL _OLUTION| OPERATOR
GRINDING OPERATOR BACKFILL OPERATOR
I
DISC FILTER OPERATOR MILL SHIFT HELPER
JOB OUTLINES
Job ti ties and outline scope will be as follows. These job scopes are not intended as job descriptions, but define the general areas and types of responsibi 1 i ty of each operator. As previously, operators will, be expected to carry out. work assigned to them by their supervisor, regardless of their job title or classification.
GRINDING OPERATOR
-	Monitoring; of rod and ball mills, cyclones, conveyors, chip screens and associated pumps.
-	Adjustment of cyclones and water as required to meet circuit parameters.
-	Clean up.
-	Operate circuit manually in the event of automation failure.
DISC FILTER OPERATOR
-	Mon i toring of thickener, pre-aeration and disc filters together with
associated pumps.
-	Maintaining disc fi Lter sector bags.
-	CM ean up .
-	Relief of operators during shift.
SOLUTION OPERATOR
-	Monitoring of leach, C.I.P., strip and carbon regeneration circuits and anc i11ar i e s.
-	Monitoring and adjustment of cyanide, lime and carbon levels.
-	Transferring of carbon for stripping.
-	Operate circuit manual!.y in the event of automation failure.
BACKFILL OPERATOR
Monitoring of tailspinner feed preparation thickener and cyclones, graded/cemented baekf i 1 i cyclones, cement addition, and associated pumps and agitators.
Monitoring of tailings [jump system.
Adjustment of cyclones and eater as required on the basis of parameters given and in plant tests.
Clean up.
Operate in manual in the event of automation failure.
SHIFT HELPER
-	Reagent mi xing .
-	Clean up.
-	Back up in any area as required.,
-	Relief of' operators during shift.
RATE STRUCTURE
Operator 3
Disc Filter Operator
3
PROGRESSION SYSTEM AND TRAINING
The progression system wi 11 involve advancement from Shift Helper through Operator 3 and 2 to Opex-ator I , The exi sting progression system will be discontinued. Entry ] eve liii.;. ] be Sh i f t He], per , (See diagram)
A training program wj..l ]. be developed for each of the three major skills (grinding, solutions, backfill), which will have as major' elements;
1) Written or oral test {e.g. if ... what?) based on Ministry of Skills modular training program. Operators can take the test after 300 hour's experience. The test can be repeated at one month intervals if It is failed,
2)	Practical demonstration (e.g. procedure for stabilizing circuit after start up).
3)	On the job experience, Time frame will be 50 shifts (600 hours).
Once the operator has completed the training program for a skill, i.e. he has completed the written, demonstration, andexpei-ience requirements, he will be eligible for an additional, payment of $0. 10 per hour as a disbursement. This payment is intended to reflect the value to Dome of the resulting flexib.il i ty of sk.il is and to provide an incentive for training. During training, and operator wi 1 I. not be entitled to additional payments . Once qual i fled in any skill, an operator will periodically be expected to perform that task instead of his normal task, to facilitate training of others and to maintain his proficiency in that skill. The ”T" rate wi 1.1 then be applicable.
The disbursements will be payable per hour worked. There will be no overtime premium, i.e. it will be SO.10 per skill per regular or overtime houi".
The disbursement will be limited to a maximum of §0.20 per hour when an employee is working on "T" rate, in order to ensure that the employee on "T" rate does not get a higher rate plus disbursement than the regular operator,
Disbursements will be paid monthly in arrears .
Since this scheme is new, i t will be necessary to have the three levels of operator in place without them completing the traini ng program. Operators will be selected for the various positions in accordance wi th the selection criteria set out, in Article 9 .06 of the Labour Agreement. They will not be eligible to train for other skills until they have completed the training program for their normal area of work.
Signed at Timmins this ^--/;J'day of —------
1988.
For the Company
For the Union
B. E. Robertson,
R. Ahuja
P. Blythe
E. Sulis