SOURCE	(IoA'vjP			
EFF.			Of5.	
TERM.	w		c6	u.
No. OF EMPLOYEES		M3		
NOMGRE □ 'EMPLOYES		_i£		
AGREEMENT
between
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 48-S
HO
W
101995
AUGUST 10, 1995
00125 (04)
CONTENTS
1	—PURPOSE.................................. 5
2	- NO DISCRIMINATION....................... 5
3— SCOPE.................................... 5
3A - DEFINITIONS............................ 6
4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ...................... 7
5	- UNION RECOGNITION....................... 7
6	- UNION MEMBERSHIP ....................... 8
7	- UNION DUES AND CHECK OFF .............. 8
8	- UNION COMMITTEES/
REPRESENTATION ....................... 8
9	- SENIORITY ............................. II
10	- NORTHERN PREFERENCE................... 13
11	- PROMOTIONS AND JOB TRANSFERS ......... 14
12	- TERM EMPLOYEES AND
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES.................. 16
13	- LAYOFF AND RECALL .................... 18
13	A - SEVERANCE PAY ...................... 19
14	- TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.................. 20
15	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE................... 22
16	- ARBITRATION........................... 26
17	- NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS................ 28
18	- HOURS OF WORK ........................ 28
19	- OVERTIME.............................. 29
20	- WAGE SCHEDULES AND
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS.................. 31
21	- ANNUAL VACATION AND
GENERAL HOLIDAYS..................... 33
22	- PERSONAL LEAVE........................ 36
23	- UNION LEAVE........................... 37
24	- EDUCATION LEAVE ...................... 38
25	- JURY AND CROWN
WITNESS ABSENCE...................... 39
26	- FUNERAL LEAVE ........................ 39
27	- EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND
RETIREMENT PLAN ..................... 41
28	- HEALTH AND SAFETY..................... 46
29	- APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM................ 47
30	- BULLETIN BOARDS....................... 48
31	- MISCELLANEOUS......................... 49
32	- CALL-OUT.............................. 51
33	- MEDICAL CERTIFICATE-
ILLNESS.............................. 52
34	- CONTRACTING-OUT....................... 52
35	- WORK BY SUPERVISORS................... 52
36	- PREMIUMS AND
ALLOWANCES........................... 53
1
37 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
55
APPENDIX A - WAGE SCHEDULE........•/'---. •.	**
APPENDIX B - WAGE PROGRESSION.............. 59
B.l - WAGE PROGRESSION................ 59
B.2 - WAGE PROGRESSION ............... 60
B.3 - WAGE PROGRESSION ............... 61
B.4 - WAGE PROGRESSION................ 62
APPENDIX C - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
RETIREMENT PLAN ........... 63
APPENDIX D - MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
WAIVER: VACATION DAYS OFF__	64
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
RE: McCLEAN LAKE...................... 65
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE: VACATION BONUS.................... 68
2
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(the "Company")
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S (the "Union")
The negotiating committees for the parties hereto have bargained collectively and have reached agreement as to terms for a new Collective Agreement.
The terms of the said Agreement are as follows:
"The Collective Agreement between the parties in force and effect until May 31, 1995 shall continue in force and effect until May 31, 1998 amended only to the extent as set forth in Appendix "A" to Appendix "AY" both inclusive hereto."
The Union's negotiating committee undertakes to recommend these terms of settlement to the members of the bargaining unit and the Company’s negotiating Committee undertakes to recommend" these terms of settlement to the Executive Management of the Company,
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 28th day of July, 1995.
FOR THE COMPANY:
FOR THE UNION:
T. Gitzel C.D. Gitzel B. Hickie
J. Whitehawk L. Buckley
J. Case S. Schmidt A. Bouvier G. Steininger
3
August 16, 1995
Cogema Resources Inc.
P.O. Box 9204 817-825 45th St. W.
Saskatoon, Sask.
Dear Mr. Brian Hickie:
The proposed changes to the Collective Agreement signed by the joint Union and Company Negotiating Committees on July 28, 1995, have been voted on and approved by members of Local 48-S.
Yours truly,
Sid Schmidt Secretary-Treasurer C.E.P. Local 48-S
August 21, 1995
Mr. John Case President CEP Local 48-S Cluff Lake SK
Dear Mr. Case:
This will acknowledge receipt of a memorandum dated August 16, 1995 sent by Mr. Schmidt advising that the Union membership has ratified the Memorandum of Agreement dated July 28, 1995 between Cogema Resources and the Union.
This letter will confirm that the Executive management of Cogema Resources have also approved the Memorandum of Agreement. We therefore have a new Collective Agreement dated August 10, 1995.
Yours truly,
Tim Gitzel
Manager, Corporate Affairs
4
ARTICLE ■— PURPOSE
LI In consideration of the mutual value of joint discussions and negotiations and in consideration of the Company’s commitment to provide northern residents with the maximum direct economic benefits, the parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the employees covered by this Agreement, and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of grievances of such employees, without slowdown or stoppage of work.
1.2	It is a further purpose of these parties to promote and encourage a productive, efficient and harmonious working environment.
ARTICLE 2 — NO DISCRIMINATION
2.1	The parties agree there will be no discrimination against an employee by reason of activity in the Union, or by reason of non-activity in the Union or by reason of age, sex, creed, colour, nationality, religion or ethnic background.
2.2	Nothing in this agreement which gives a preference to northern residents shall be construed to be discrimination.
ARTICLE 3 — SCOPE
3.1	This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Cogema Resources Inc. regularly working at Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan, and at McClean Lake, Saskatchewan, excluding environmental technician, instrument technician, assistant planner, metallurgical assistant, laboratory technician, mine technician, office and clerical staff, foreman and those above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is expressly understood and
5
agreed that employees of the Company’s Exploration Department and Resources Evaluation and Geological Control Department are not part of the bargaining unit and do not come within the scope of this agreement.
3.2	The parties hereto agree that the relations between them shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement.
3.3	It is agreed that this Agreement contains the complete understanding between the parties for the term of this Contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendments or waivers affecting the terms of this Agreement shall only be discussed by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee. Any agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of such discussions shall become effective upon being reduced to writing and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE 3A — DEFINITIONS Parties:
Wherever the word ‘parties’ appears in this Agreement, it will mean the Company and the Union.
Regular Rate:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement shall mean,the rate of pay for the employee’s classification as set forth in Appendix A excluding any overtime, any premiums or any allowances whatsoever.
Qualifications:
“Qualifications” wherever that term is used in this collective agreement is defined as ability, skills, experience, training/education, physical fitness and job performance of an employee.
Gender:
The parties have wherever possible used language in this agreement which is Gender neutral. In the event a dispute arises which relates thereto, the relevant language of the preceding agreement shall govern.
6
Students:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement it will mean a person who is employed during his/her annual break from academic studies, and who plans to continue with his/her academic studies following his/her annual break.
ARTICLE 4 — MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
4.1	The Union expressly understands and agrees that the Company retains the exclusive right to operate and manage the affairs of the Company provided the rights of the Company shall not be exercised so as to be in contravention or violation of any specific provision or provisions as set forth in this agreement.
ARTICLE 5 — UNION RECOGNITION
5.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Employees defined in Section 3.1, and both parties agree to bargain collectively and in good faith.
5.2	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues, initiation fees,, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization on Company time.
5.3	No person shall engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time, except to the extent expressly provided for in the Agreement, or by law.
5.4	Nothing in this Agreement prevents the Union President or the President's representative from familiarizing new employees with the Union during non-working hours. Where a new employee has been hired the Company shall advise the Union in writing as to the name of the employee, the employee's start date, classification and starting wage rate.
7
ARTICLE 6 — UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.1	Nothing in this Agreement prohibits or interferes in any way with an employee’s right to become and remain a member of the Union, and nothing prohibits or interferes with an employee’s right not to become or remain a member of the Union.
ARTICLE 7 — UNION DUES AND CHECK OFF
7.1	Pursuant to Section 70 of the Canada Labour Code the Company shall deduct from the wages of each employee affected by the collective agreement, the amount of the regular union dues.
7.2	The regular Union dues are calculated based on the number of hours worked by each employee during a month and such dues shall be deducted from the employees pay cheque during the following month and the same shall be remitted to the financial secretary of the Union by the end of the month during which the deductions were made except where unforeseen or unusual circumstances apply.
7.3	The Company shall at the time of remitting the union dues so deducted furnish the Union with a list identifying the: name of the employees from whom deductions were made and the amount of dues deducted from each employee.
7.4	All provisions of the Canada Labour Code shall apply in respect of compulsory check-off of regular union dues.
7.5	Each employee’s T4 slip shall clearly show the amount of money deducted and remitted.
ARTICLE 8 — UNION COMMITTEES/
REPRESENTATION
8.1	The Company will recognize a grievance committee consisting of not more than eight (8) employees of the Company or alternates who shall be employees of the
8
Company, designated by the Union, in writing, provided, however, not more than four (4) members of the committee shall attend at any grievance meeting. There shall be at least two- (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
Any membership change in the grievance committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
8.2	The Company will, recognize an occupational health and safety committee which will be made up of an equal number of representatives from both the Company and the Union.
The Union will designate in writing, the names of eight (8) employees of the Company as members of the said committee, provided, however, not more than four (4) such members shall attend at any meeting of the committee. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
The Company will notify the Union in writing of its representatives on the committee.
The appropriate departments of government shall be advised of the creation of this committee and shall be advised of the names of the members of the committee.
8.3	The Company will recognize a negotiating committee of not more than eight (8) employees of the Company designated by the Union in writing, provided, however, not more than five (5) members of the committee shall attend any negotiating meeting. There shall be at least
9
two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
The Union will furnish a written list to the Company giving the names of all members on the negotiating committee. Any membership change in the committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
8.3.1	The Company agrees that members of the Union’s negotiating committee may travel free of charge to and from the mine sites to Saskatoon on Company provided transportation when such travel is necessary for the employee to attend negotiating meetings with the Company. Requests for such travel arrangements shall be made to the employee’s immediate supervisor at least one (1) week in advance of the scheduled meeting with the Company.
8.4	The Union may have the assistance of a representative of the National Union, or an authorized Agent of the Local Union, present at any meeting of the above recognized committees with the Company.
8.5	The Union will furnish a written list to the Company, giving the names of all Executive members of the Union, of the Stewards and the Alternate Stewards and Committee members and Alternate Committee members. This written list will be kept current by the Union. Only those Union members whose names have been given to the Company, in writing, will be recognized by the Company.
8.6	As far as is practical, grievance meetings between the Company and the Union’s grievance committee and meetings of the occupationalhealth and safety committee will be held at the site during normal working hQurs. A committee member attending such meetings
10
shall not suffer a loss of regular pay as a result of attending such meetings.
ARTICLE 9 — SENIORITY
9.1	Seniority is defined as an employee’s period of continuous service with the Company since the employee’s last date of hire.
9.2	Except to the extent as specifically otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, seniority for all purposes of this agreement may only be exercised within the employee’s department. The departments are:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
General Services and RPHS Sc EP
9.3	An employee on an authorized leave of absence shall maintain his/her position on the seniority list and shall have benefits maintained during the term of such leave, but except in the case of an authorized paid leave, during such leave an employee shall not earn vacation
pay-
9.4	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for a period of five hundred (500) hours worked. On completion^of this probationary period an employee’s seniority shall be retroactive to date of hire.
9.5	The terms of this Agreement shall apply to all probationary employees excepting that such probationary employees may be terminated, without recourse to the grievance procedure or arbitration procedure.
9.6	An employee’s seniority and employment rights shall be considered lost by reason of:
(a)	Dismissal forjust cause.
11
(b)	Voluntary resignation.
(c)	Failure to report to work on recall from layoff within one week of being notified in writing by double registered mail at the employee's last known address of the requirement to report for employment. If the time requirement cannot reasonably be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement by the Union and the Company.
(d)	Retirement in accordance with the terms of any Company pension plan.
(e)	Unauthorized absence from work unless a reasonable explanation is furnished within three (3) days of start of such absence.
(f)	Layoff for a period of:
twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with up to five (5) full years of continuous service
eighteen (18) months in the case of an employee with full years of service between five (5) and ten (10) years
twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with more than ten (10) full years of continuous service.
(g)	Permanent discontinuance of the mine site operation where the employee has seniority rights.
Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on designated bulletin boards by the Company every three (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority lists shall be brought to the attention of the Company by written notice from the Union. If no notice is given within thirty (30) days of a posting the said posted lists shall be-deemed to be correct. No penalty shall be incurred by the Company due to any action taken on the basis
of such inaccurate seniority listing, provided such action was taken prior to receipt of written notice from the Union that such listing was in error. Where an error has occurred the Company shall re-issue corrected seniority lists. Coincidental with the posting of the new seniority lists on the Bulletin Boards, the Company will mail to the Union a copy of such seniority lists.
9.8	An employee transferred and/or promoted to a permanent position outside the bargaining unit shall retain all seniority held at the time of transfer and/or promotion, and will re-activate such seniority if the employee returns to the bargaining unit within the three (3) month period following such transfer and/or promotion. If the employee fills a permanent position outside the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months the employee shall lose all retained seniority.
9.9	An employee temporarily assigned to ajob outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority and remit regular monthly membership or union dues.
9.10 Transfer and/or promotion to positions out of scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
9.11	Where an employee who is on lay-off is offered, and performs work for a period of up to one normal work week (seventy-seven (77) hours) during the lay-off, the employee's lay-off for all purposes under the Collective Agreement shall be considered to be uninterrupted by virtue of having worked to the extent as herein provided.
ARTICLE 10 — NORTHERN PREFERENCE
10.1	It is recognized that the Company has or will enter into Surface Lease Agreements wiih the Government of Saskatchewan which do or will among other things spell out certain objectives and commitments with respect to the employment of Northern residents.
13
10.2	The parties hereby agree that such steps will be taken as are required to ensure that the objectives and commitments of the Surface Lease Agreements are complied with.
10.3	Whether any agreements exist with the Government of Saskatchewan, the parties agree that preference will be given to northern residents in matters of hiring, promotions, recall and training. In the case of a reduction in the work force, preference will be given to retaining northern residents.
ARTICLE 11 — PROMOTIONS AND JOB TRANSFERS
11.1	The Company shall determine the number of employees in eachjob classification and if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to be left vacant.
11.2	Jobs will be posted for Company-wide applications where:
(a)
A new position is established.
(b)
A permanent day position becomes open.
A permanent position becomes open at level 5 A in the case of the tradesman (non-ticketed) and the warehouse per son job classifications, and at level 5C in the case of all other job classifications referred to in Appendix B.
11.3	A successful applicant who has applied under Section 11.2(c) shall normally be placed at the 5B level provided the employee has been in the employ of the Company for more than six (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the 5B level.
14
11.4	When a vacancy occurs as outlined in Section 11.3, to be filled by the posting procedure, then:
(a)	A job posting, open for ten (10) days, will be placed on bulletin boards. The job title, qualifications, rate of pay, normal work location, shift work or days, the shift to which a successful applicant would initially be assigned, and last date for receipt of applications, will be listed in such posting.
(b)	All employees will be eligible to apply for such jobs, except for employees who have been successful applicants on permanent job postings within the last six (6) months preceding the date of the current posting.
(c)	The six (6) month provision set forth in (b) above shall not apply to Northern residents who may wish to apply for an apprenticeship vacancy as referred to in Article 29.1 of this agreement.
11.5	Written application forms supplied by the Company will be required on all jobs posted. Applications must be mailed or delivered to the Company.
11.6	In filling posted positions, the senior applicant will be awarded the position where the senior applicant has the qualifications as determined by the Company. If there are no applicants wliose qualifications meet the requirement for the posted position, the Company may fill the position from any source.
Where an applicant has been awarded a posted position, and where at any time within a period of five hundred (500) hours worked from the time of the applicant’s assignment to the position the employee resigns or is determined to be unsuitable, the Company may then fill the position without a further posting, by selecting a qualified person from the list of applicants who had initially applied for the posted position, or from any other source if there is no qualified applicant on the list of those who had initially applied.
15
11.7	Where the Company determines to proceed with the appointment, the name of the successful applicant will be posted on Company bulletin boards within ten (10) days of the closing date of the job posting. If a posted vacancy is not filled within ninety (90) days, the Company will re-post the vacancy, if the vacancy is still to be filled.
11.8	Time limits for the presenting of a Grievance on Promotions or Job Posting will start from the date of postings of the name of the successful applicant, as per Section 11.7.
11.9	Where the Company intends to appoint a person to a first line supervisory non-bargaining unit position the Company will for informational purposes post a notice to that effect for ten (10) days on the bulletin board before making the appointment. It is expressly understood that such positions are not subject to the collective agreement, and that the Company in its sole and absolute discretion retains the unfettered right to select a person from any source to fill the position.
ARTICLE 12 — TERM EMPLOYEES AND
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
12.1	"Term employees" are employees who are hired for a specified period of time^to perform work of a specific nature or specific purpose where such work is not a part of the normal operations of the Company.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of the names of term employees, date of hire, work to be performed and the expected duration of the work to be performed.
12.2	"Temporary employees" are employees who are hired to replace employees who are absent from work due to sickness or accident, vacation, child care leave, authorized leave of absence or for any other reason which the
16
parties may agree is temporary. A temporary employee may be hired on such basis for up to ninety (90) days worked of the employee. Such period may be extended for the duration of the period the employee is replacing an employee who is absent due to sickness, accident, and child care leave, and for ninety (90) calendar days in all other circumstances identified above. The Union shall be advised of any extension as contemplated by this Article.
12.3	The Company may offer term work or temporary work to any permanent employees who may be laid off and who are eligible for recall. Such laid off employees may accept or reject term work or temporary work for the Company without, in any way, affecting their recall rights.
12.4	The hiring of term employees or temporary employees is subject to the following limitations:
(a)	Such employees shall be classified and compensated on the same basis as permanent employees, however, they will only acquire seniority rights as provided below.
(b)	Such employees may be accepted as permanent employees by the Company. In such case, all hours worked as term or temporary shall be credited toward the probationary period set forth in article 9.4 of this agreement.
(c)	Such employees who have demonstrated to the Company that they are qualified candidates will be given preference for permanent employment.
(d)	Article 27 (Employee Benefits and Retirement Plan) shall not apply except to the extent the group insurance plan specifically makes provision for coverage in respect of term or temporary employees. In lieu thereof, after the completion of five hundred (500) hours worked,
17
such employees shall be paid an hourly premium based on three (3%) percent of the Level IB wage rate not including the Short Term Disability (STD) rate. The STD rate shall not apply to Term and Temporary employees.
12.5	Where a temporary vacancy occurs in a "line of progression," the position will be filled by assigning, temporarily the senior employee in the next lower job in the "line of progression" to the vacant position provided that employee is qualified to perform the work.
ARTICLE 13 — LAYOFF AND RECALL
13.1	In any reduction of the work-force for a period in excess of seven (7) days, the Company will give employees so affected seven (7) working days notice prior to their layoff. In lieu of the said notice, the Company may elect to pay seven (7) days pay at the employee's regular rate to the employee laid off.
13.2	In any reduction of work forces expected to last for a period not longer than seven (7) days, the Company will attempt to give employees thus affected twenty-four (24) hours notice.
13.3	In the event of a reduction in crew size, permanent employees affected shall be laid off in order of their seniority standings provided the senior employee possesses the qualifications and is willing to perform the work of the laid off employee and has demonstrated he/she is capable of performing the work at the level of performance of the laid off employee.
13.4	Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their seniority and qualifications to perform the work for which they are being recalled.
18
13.5	Notice referred to herein shall only apply to an employee who has completed his/her probationary period.
13.6	Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a layoff is caused by an event of force majeure or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the layoff notice provisions set forth in this article shall not apply.
13.7	Employees recalled to work in their normal job will be considered to have voluntarily resigned if they do not report for work on the date designated.
13.8	Where an employee exercises bumping rights pursuant to Section 13.3, the employee shall:
(a)	Do so within forty-eight (48) hours of the employee's notice of layoff and the employee adversely affected shall be then deemed to have been given the required notice of layoff and shall then have forty-eight (48) hours to exercise bumping rights pursuant to Section 13.3.
(b)	Be paid at the wage for the job classification to which the employee has bumped.
ARTICLE 13A — SEVERANCE PAY
■■■ An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated as a result of a layoff caused by a reduction in the work force shall be entitled to severance pay as provided in Article 13.2A provided the employee,
(a)	has had two years (3,542 hours) or more employment with the Company, and;
(5) has been laid-off and no specific recall date is given to the employee at the time of the layoff, and if the employee relin-
19
quishes his/her seniority and employment rights as referred to in Article 9.6(f) of this agreement.
(c)	advises the Company in writing within the time period applicable as set forth in Article 9.6(f), following the date of the employee's layoff that seniority and employment rights are being relinquished, and that the employee is making a claim for severance pay.
13.2A Severance pay shall be paid to an employee who qualifies for the same under this Article on the basis of one full pay period's pay (i.e. 77 hours) at the employee's regular rate at the time of layoff for each full year of seniority at the time of such layoff. Severance pay will be limited to a maximum of twelve (12) times one pay period's pay.
13.3A Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of the employee's seniority and employment rights.
ARTICLE 14 — TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
14.1	The provisions of this Article 14 are intended to assist employees affected by a technological change as herein defined, to adjust to the effects of such change.
14.2	Sections 52, 54 and 55 of the Canada Labour Code do not apply to the Company and the Union or to any person or persons covered by the certification and/or the scope of this Agreement.
14.3	In this section "technological change" means:
(a) the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment or
20
material of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized by it in the operation of the work, undertaking or business; and,
(5) a change in the manner in which the Company carries on the work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
14.4	The procedure for dealing with technological change that is likely to affect the terms, conditions and tenure of employment of a significant number of employees is as follows:
14.4.1	The Company will notify the Union of such a technological change at least one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the date on which such change is to be affected. Such notice shall be in writing and shall state:
(a)
the nature of the technological change;
the date upon which the Company proposes to affect the technological change, and;
the names, seniority dates and classifications of the employees primarily affected.
14.5	An employee displaced as a result of a technological change will exercise seniority rights which are as follows:
An employee receiving Notice of Layoff shall exercise his/her seniority to displace a junior employee in a classification of an equal or lower rate of pay, or the junior employee on a job previously held, providing the employee receiving the notice of layoff has the necessary qualifications;
The displaced employee may then exercise his/her seniority rights in the same manner as
21
above unless there are no junior employees to displace or the displaced employee does not have the necessary qualifications in which case that employee is subject to layoff;
(c)	An employee receiving the Notice of Layoff and not exercising seniority rights under (a) and (b) above, will be placed on layoff.
14.6	"Significant" for the purpose of this article shall be fifteen (15%) percent of the total workforce.
14.7	Employees with one or more full year's seniority who are on layoff status as a result of Technological Change as herein defined may elect to be paid severance pay.
14.8	Employees who are laid off or who have selected layoff status because of technological change as defined herein shall at the employee's election be paid severance pay as set forth in Article 13A where he/she elects to receive severance pay.
14.9	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of such employee's seniority and employment rights.
14.10	Upon request, the Company will furnish to Canada Employment Centre, the laid-off employee's skills inventory record and other applicable information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced employee in another job with another employer.
ARTICLE 15 — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
15.1	"Grievance" as used in this Agreement is an alleged violation in respect of the interpretation or application of, or compliance with a specific provision or provisions of this Collective Agreement.
22
15.2	The parties encourage employees to bring any complaints to the attention of the employee’s immediate supervisor for consideration, before a grievance is filed. If after bringing the matter to the immediate supervisor’s attention, the employee is still not satisfied, a grievance may be filed.
15.3	It is the intention of both parties that all grievances shall be processed as quickly as possible at all steps.
15.4	All grievances to be processed hereunder shall be filed in writing signed by the employee and shall set forth the essential facts of the grievance, with reference to how the employee feels aggrieved, the provision or provisions under which the grievance is filed, and the redress claimed. Such written grievance shall then form the basis of the grievance through all the steps of the grievance procedure and arbitration procedure.
15.5	Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in the manner stated below:
Step 1: An employee who feels he/she has a grievance as defined above shall continue on the employee’s assigned duties. Should the employee wish to submit a grievance, a written grievance shall be prepared and presented to the employee’s immediate supervisor. The grievance shall be submitted to the employee’s immediate supervisor within nine (9) scheduled working days (of the employee) following the date of occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance. The immediate supervisor shall within nine (9) scheduled working days (of the supervisor) following receipt of the employee’s submission of the grievance, give written reply to the employee. A shop steward may accompany an employee when presenting his/her grievance.
Step 2: If a settlement is not reached at Step 1, the employee, along with the employee’s shop steward, may within five (5) scheduled working days (of the emnloyee) of the completion of Step 1 present the
23
written grievance to the General Foreman of the employee’s Department. The General Foreman shall reply to the grievance, in writing, within five (5) scheduled working days (of the general foreman) following the date on which the grievance was received by the General Foreman.
Step 3: If settlement is not reached at the second step, the written grievance may, within five (5) scheduled working days (of the employee) after the completion of Step 2, be presented to the appropriate superintendent who has responsibility for the Department in which the employee is assigned. The Superintendent shall reply to the grievance in writing within five (5) working days (of the superintendent) following the date on which the grievance was received by the Superintendent.
Step 4: A fourth step grievance meeting may be held at a place to be agreed upon by both parties to discuss an outstanding grievance, provided however such meeting shall occur and a reply shall be given not later than thirty (30) days after the completion of Step 3.
15.6	If a grievance as defined in Section 15.1 above involved a group or groups of employees, the grievance procedure may be commenced at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. The same shall be to a group grievance. Such grievance must be submitted in writing within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance.
15.7	If a grievance occurs as defined in Section 15.1 and concerns the Union as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of Section 15.5, the executive of the Union may within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance, present a written grievance at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, except that such grievance shall be presented to the mine manager or his/her designate and not to a department superintendent.
24
15.8	If an employee believes that he/she has been suspended or discharged without just cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within eight (8) days after written notice of such discharge has been sent by double registered mail to the employee’s last known address or after written notice of such discharge has been personally given to the employee. The Union will be given a copy of such written notice.
Where it is not convenient for the suspended or discharged employee to do so, an Executive member of the Union may present the grievance signed by the employee to the appropriate Superintendent at Step 3.
Where an employee is suspended or discharged and such action results in the employee being removed from the site, the Union will be notified of such action. The employee affected will be permitted a reasonable amount of time to review the suspension or discharge with an Executive member of the Union. The Union will be advised in writing of any discharge of a nonprobationary employee.
Where an employee is required to attend a meeting with the Company in respect of a reprimand, suspension or discharge, the employee may, if he/she so wishes, have an Executive member of the Union in attendance at such a meeting provided an Executive member is available to be in attendance at the time.
15.9	The remedy for adjusting a suspension or discharge grievance, if it is determined that any is justified, may consist of reinstatement with or without back pay or with partial back pay, or may consist of pay or partial back payment without reinstatement, or may consist of any other redress appropriate to the circumstances.
15.10	If settlement is not reached at Step 3 or Step 4, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration as set forth in Article 16. The Union shall notify the Company of its intent to seek arbitration by written notice, served by
25
double registered mail within forty-five (45) days, after the completion of Step 3.
15.11	All time limits for the filing and processing of grievances are mandatory and any non-compliance with such time limits shall result in the grievance being deemed abandoned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and the Union may, by agreement in writing, extend or waive any time limit.
15.12	Where a Disciplinary Form Report is to become part of an employees personnel file, the employee shall be provided with two (2) copies of the same. One copy shall be for the employees personnel record and the second shall be for the Union’s files in the event the employee elects to furnish a copy thereof to the Union.
ARTICLE 16 — ARBITRATION
16.1	Any grievance as defined in Article 15 which is not settled under the terms of that Article and which has been processed in a timely manner may, in accordance with the terms of that Article be submitted to Arbitration as hereinafter provided.
16.2	The Arbitration Procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirements’set out in Article 15.
16.3	Where the parties mutually agree, the grievance may be referred to a single arbitrator for determination, and in such case the single arbitrator will be appointed by agreement between the parties. Where however, the parties do not agree to refer the matter to a single arbitrator and/or where the parties are unable to agree on a person to act as single arbitrator, the grievance may be referred to a board of arbitration as provided for in Article 16.4.
26
16.4	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one representative each of the Company and the Union, to be selected by written notice given to the other party within fourteen (14) days following notification of arbitration, and one person acceptable to such representatives who shall act as Chairman. If agreement cannot be reached on selection of the Chairman within seven (7) days of the appointment of the representatives the matter shall be referred to one of the following -who will be selected by lot by the Union and the Company representatives:
(1)	Francine Chad-Smith
(2)	Robert E. Stromberg
(3)	Ken Stevenson
(4)	Bill Campbell
If the Chairman so selected is unable to serve, then lots will be drawn again and so on until a Chairman has been selected who can serve.
16.5	No person shall serve as a single arbitrator or on the Board of Arbitration if involved directly in the grievance under consideration.
16.6	When-the single arbitrator has been appointed or the Board of Arbitration has been formed in accordance with this Article, the arbitrator or board shall meet and hear the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision in writing to the parties not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made on the matter by the parties.
16.7	A decision of the single arbitrator or the decision of a majority of the Board shall be taken to be the decision and shall be final and binding on all parties concerned. In the event that a majority decision cannot be arrived at by a board of arbitration, the decision of the Chairman shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
27
16.8	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to the single arbitrator or arbitration board and the decision must be based solely on the provisions of this Agreement.
16.9	The expenses of the single arbitrator or Chairman of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Each party shall be responsible for its own costs other than the costs of the single arbitrator or the Chairman.
16.10	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not deal with more than one (1) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 17 — NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS
17.1	The Union, its agents, and each employee agrees that there will be no strikes, slow downs or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout.
ARTICLE 18 — HOURS OF WORK
18.1	This article shall not be construed as a guarantee of work per day or per week nor as a restriction of the Company’s right to operate or schedule its operations.
18.2	The normal work day shall be eleven (1 1) consecutive hours of work within any consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period broken only for established breaks as outlined in sections 18.4 and 18.5.
18.3	The normal work week for employees shall be seventy-seven (77) hours per week. This is followed by pne (1) week off. Shift schedules shall be posted on
28
a bulletin board and notice of any changes shall be provided one (1) work week in advance whenever possible.
Where after a shift schedule has been posted, it becomes necessary to change the employees working hours (i.e. a change from night to day shift or vice versa) the Company will make a reasonable effort to notify the employee of the change as far in advance as reasonably possible.
18.4	Employees will have a one (1) hour lunch period scheduled approximately at the middle of each shift of work or at die start or end of the shift depending upon flights. The lunch period in each shift of work shall not be considered as time worked and shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves his/her work station and shall be deemed to end when the employee returns to his/her work station.
18.5	Employees will be granted a total of thirty (30) minutes for not more than two (2) rest periods during each complete normal work day. The rest period shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves his/her work station and shall be deemed to end when the employee returns to his/her work station.
ARTICLE 19 — OVERTIME
19.1	The Company shall determine the need for overtime and shall make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. The Company shall endeavor to give notice of overtime as far in advance as practical. An employee may refuse to work an unreasonable amount of overtime, however in all cases of emergency and at shift changes, employees shall be required to work overtime as assigned.
19.2	(a) An employee will be paid two (2) times the
employee’s regular rate for any time actually worked in excess of eleven (11) hours in one work day.
29
(b)	Except to the extent as specifically provided in this agreement, overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
(c)	Where an employee works on a day that is the employee’s scheduled day off, the employee shall be paid for the hours worked on that day at the applicable overtime rate of pay. Those hours, however, shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of determining when overtime becomes applicable in respect of the employee’s subsequent shift schedules.
19.3	Where a change in a work schedule is made for the convenience of the employee (i.e., transfers, promotions), or where, with the consent of the Company an employee arranges to cover another employee’s shift, all regular scheduled hours worked as a result of such change or arrangement shall not be subject to payment at overtime rate notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary.
Where the Company schedules an employee to work in excess of seventy-seven (77) hours in one pay period, the employee will be paid for the excess hours at the applicable overtime rate.
19.4	A meal will be made available whenever practicable before the employee commences his/her overtime work.
19.5	Overtime work will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among employees normally performing the work in the area or the crew, provided such employees have the qualifications to perform the work. It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime within a particular area and crew will, at any given time, have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is reasonably practicable under the circumstances.
30
19.6	Where an employee has worked overtime after the completion of his/her scheduled shift, the employee shall take a minimum of eight (8) hours rest and may elect to take up to twelve (12) hours rest before returning to work.
19.7	Where an employee having worked overtime after the completion of his/her scheduled shift finishes overtime work less than eight (8) hours before the beginning of his/her next scheduled shift, the employee will be paid at regular rate for the hours not worked between the beginning of the employee’s next regular shift and eight (8) hours after the end of the overtime worked following the previous shift.
19.8	Where in such instances the employee elects to return to work prior to having twelve (12) hours of rest, the employee shall so advise his/her supervisor or the supervisor’s designee to that effect. Such advice shall be given no later than by the completion of the overtime work. An employee in such instances will be paid at his/her regular rate upon returning to work.
Refer to Article 32 for Call-Out Provisions.
ARTICLE 20 — WAGESCHEDULES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
20.1	The wage schedule which shall be effective during the term of this agreement shall be as set out in Appendix A attached hereto and the said Appendix A shall form an integral part of this agreement.
20.2	The wage progression schedule which shall be effective during the term of this agreement shall be as set out in Appendix B attached hereto and the said Appendix B shall form an integral part of this agreement.
20.3	Except to the extent as otherwise set out in Section
20.4	and 20.5, a newly hired employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 5C during the first six (6) months of his/her employment.
31
20.4	A Journeman (ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 1A.
20.5	A Tradesman (non-ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid no lower than at Level 5 A during the first six (6) months of employment and a Warehouse Person shall be assigned to and paid at level 5A during the first six (6) months of employment.
20.6	Subject to Section 20.7 an employee shall advance to his/her next succeeding wage level upon satisfactory completion of the standard time periods set out in Appendix B, and the employee shall continue to advance to each succeeding level until having reached the maximum level for the employee’s job classification.
20.7	An employee will move to the next wage level for his/her job classification where the employee has successfully completed the training program designated from time to time by the Company.
Where within a period of fourteen (14) scheduled working days (of die employee) following the completion of a time period, the employee has not been assessed as contemplated by this Article, it shall be presumed that the employee has satisfactorily completed the time period.
20.8	An employee when indentured as an apprentice in one of the journeyman (ticketed) classifications as in Section20,10 shall normally be assigned to and paid at level 5B of the apprentice’s indentured j ob classification during the first six (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the 5B level. An employee who accepts an apprenticeship position shall in no event be placed on the wage progression schedule more than three (3) leyels lower than the level at which the employee was
32
paid immediately prior to accepting the apprenticeship position.
An apprentice shall advance on the wage progression schedule to and including level 2A, except in the case of a plumber/pipefitter apprentice who shall advance on the schedule to and including IB. Thereafter and when the apprentice obtains a trade certificate in his/her trade, the apprentice shall be entitled to the level 1A (journeyman ticketed)job classification wage rate.
20.9	For the purpose of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are recognized tradesman (non-ticketed) job classifications.
—	Welder
—	Heavy Duty Mechanic
—	Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Machinist
20.10	For the purposes of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are the recognized journeyman (ticketed) job classifications.
—	Welder
—	Heavy Duty Mechanic
—	Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Electrician
—	Machinist
—	Plumber/Pipefitter
20.11	Journeyman (ticketed) shall mean certified by the province of Saskatchewan or the equivalent as recognized by the province of Saskatchewan.
ARTICLE 21 — ANNUAL VACATION AND
GENERAL HOLIDAYS
21.1	Wherever the term "vacations" is used, it shall mean the combination of annual vacations and general holidays.
33
21.2	All employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to twenty-one (21) working days of vacation with pay after completing one (1) full year of service and after completing each full year of service thereafter to and including the fifth (5th) full year.
21.3	After completing the fifth (5th) full year of continuous employment, employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
Vacations/
Full Years of	Holidays
Continuous Service	Entitlement
After 5 years	22	days
After 6 years	23	days
After 7 years	24	days
After 8 years	25	days
After 9 years	26	days
After 10 years	27 days
After 11 years and each	28 days
year thereafter
21,4	A full year of service means 1,771 hours worked, less an employee’s vacation entitlement in excess of twenty-one (21) days. Where an employee has not worked 1,771 straight-time hours in a year, any overtime hours the employee may have worked during that year may be used on a straight-time basis for the purpose of accumulating the 1,771 hours referred to herein. Where an employee works less than 1,771 hours in a year, the employee’spay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during the year.
21.5	The general holidays listed below form part of the 21 days of vacation:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Saskatchewan Day
34
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
21.6	Where an employee works for the whole or part of his/her scheduled shift on a general holiday (midnight to midnight), the hours worked on the general holiday will be paid at the applicable regular rate plus two (2) times the applicable regular rate.
21.7	Vacation scheduling shall be by Department. The requirements of efficient operations shall be of paramount importance in scheduling vacations, with seniority given all possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to May 1st in each year. Vacation requests received prior to May 1st shall also take precedence over any requests for personal leave of absence.
Without limiting the paramount importance of efficient operations in scheduling any vacations, where there are unusual or mitigating circumstances, the Company will consider a request by an employee to take one week (seven (7) days) of vacation at a time other than during a scheduled vacation shut-down period.
21.8	Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Company from scheduling vacation shut-downs, of all or any part of its operations. If the Company determines to cause a vacation shut-down it will provide employees affected and the Union with as much notice of such shut-down as is reasonably possible and in any event, with not less than four (4) weeks’ notice.
The four (4) weeks’ notice shall not apply where the shut-down is the result of circumstances beyond the control of the Company. If any such shut-down occurs, employees will take such vacation days as they are entitled to receive and if there is any short-fall, they wiU be considered as laid-off for the duration of the
35
shut-down, but in such cases the notice provisions as in Article 13 shall not apply.
Where the Company is not able to assign an employee all his/her earned vacations during vacation shut-down periods, the Company before assigning the employee’s vacations outside the shutdown periods will consider the employee’s preference periods for taking his/her vacations. Subject to business and operational requirements, the Company will make every reasonable effort to accommodate the employee’s preference.
When scheduling employees who are to remain at the site during shut-down periods, to the extent that business and operational requirements permit, preference for releasing employees for vacation during the said periods shall be given to employees with the highest seniority.
21.9	Where in the case of a vacation shut-down an employee becomes laid-off for all or part of the vacation shut-down period, the employee’s life insurance, major medical insurance, dental plan, vision care insurance and long term disability insurance will continue in effect until the end of the vacation shutdown period or the employee’s recall to work, whichever first occurs. The Company will pay 100% of the premium costs associated with the foregoing.
ARTICLE 22 — PERSONAL LEAVE
22.1	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay provided such leave is requested in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will, among other things, consider the following when deciding to grant or refuse a request for such leave:
36
(a)	whether such leave will interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(b)	whether a qualified replacement is available to replace the employee during the leave;
(c)	whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the employee;
(d)	whether the request for leave is justified.
22.2	In case of emergency nature, the Company will waive the fourteen (14) day request in writing requirement as set forth in 22.1.
22.3	Personal leave will not be granted where an employee has accrued vacation time which could be utilized.
22.4	Leave for employees with child care responsibilities, including the case of a male employee shall be as set forth in the Canada Labour Code.
ARTICLE 23 — UNION LEAVE
23.1	The Company may grant a Union leave of absence for a maximum of five (5) employees for periods up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay in the case of employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union labour seminars, courses or conferences. Where special circumstances apply (e.g. enrolement in the Labour College of Canada program) leave without pay may be granted for a period of up to sixty (60) calendar days.
23.2	Any leave considered must have been applied for in writing by the employee at least two (2) weeks in advance, in the case of a leave of up to fourteen (14) calendar days; and, at least thirty (30) calendar days in respect of a leave requested for a period longer than fourteen (14) calendar days. Leave requests shall be
37
considered, having regard to whether such leave will interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company.
ARTICLE 24 — EDUCATION LEAVE
24.1	An employee may request a leave of absence without pay to further the employee’s education for the purpose of upgrading in the employee’s present job or for advancement within the Company, by attending full time classes of instruction.
24.2	Subject to the above, the Company, will give consideration to such request conditional on, among other things, the following:
(a)	the employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
(b)	the leave will not interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(c)	there is a qualified replacement for the affected employee;
(d)	the leave is requested in writing at least three
(3)	months in advance, with all details of the instruction course provided;
(e)	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company; and
(f)	not more than two (2) employees may be on leave at any one time, and not more than one
(1)	employee may be on leave from any one department at any one time.
24.3	Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will require that the affected employee actually attend each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness.
24.4	Should the employee return to work following a leave of .absence as referred to above, the Company will
38
reinstate the employee in the employee’s former job, if the job is still in existence and provided the employee passes the required medical examination.
ARTICLE 25 — JURYAND CROWN WITNESS ABSENCE
25.1	When an employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is called and reports as a Crown witness, the employee shall be paid the difference between the daily amounts received for such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the employee’s regular rate for such day or days provided such day or days were regularly scheduled days of work for the employee.
Where because of flight schedules to and/or from the site an employee, because of Jury or Crown Witness duty loses scheduled hours, (other than on the day or days the employee actually serves as a Juror or Crown Witness) the employee shall be paid for his/her scheduled hours as if those days had been worked.
25.2	Such differences shall be paid only if the employee presents a written statement to the Company from an appropriate Court officer, showing dates of such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the amounts received for such service.
ARTICLE 26 — FUNERAL LEAVE
26.1	The Company, upon being notified of a death in the immediate family, will grant an employee who is scheduled to work a maximum of up to three (3) days paid funeral leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. It is understood that such paid leave will not be granted in instances when an employee who is otherwise eligible for such leave does not attend the funeral, or who does not have immediate family matters to attend to in respect of the funeral.
39
In the case of death of an employee’s spouse or child, four (4) additional paid funeral leave days may be granted for a total of a maximum of up to seven (7) days paid funeral leave, not in addition to the three (3) days provided for in paragraph 1 above. The conditions contained in paragraph 1 above shall be applicable.
In addition to any paid funeral leave granted, an employee may be granted up to an additional three (3) days’ funeral leave on an unpaid basis. Any accrued vacation time may be utilized in lieu of unpaid funeral leave.
The Company upon being notified of the death of an employee’s blood related Aunt or Uncle, will upon request consider the granting of up to three (3) days unpaid funeral leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. Approval thereof shall not be unreasonably withheld. It is understood that such unpaid leave will not be granted in instances where the employee does not attend the funeral,
26.2	For purposes of funeral leave, “immediate family” means the employee’s spouse, children, mother, father, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law, brother and sister-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren of the employee and any relative permanently residing in the employee’s household or with whom the employee resides.
26.3	Common law status shall be recognized if the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the employee has notified the Company of the common law status prior to the bereavement.
26.4	Pay for funeral leave shall be at the employee’s regular rate.
26.5	Where by reason of funeral leave an employee is to travel to and from the site; and where space is avail-
40
able on scheduled company transportation, the employee may travel on such transportation at no cost to the employee.
26.6	Where space is not available as referred to in 26.5 within a twenty-four (24) hour period after the employee has been advised of the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family, the Company upon being requested to do so, shall make every reasonable effort to arrange transportation for the employee from the mine site at which that employee is employed to that employee’s normal pick-up point.
Where such arrangements are made, the company will absorb the cost of the aforementioned transportation.
ARTICLE 27 — EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND RETIREMENT PLAN
27.1	During the lifetime of this agreement, there shall be a group insurance plan and a retirement plan which shall provide benefits for employees as set out herein. The conditions respecting the benefits under the said plans shall be as set forth in the plans.
27.2	The benefits under the plan and the responsibility for the payment of premiums shall be as set forth in 1 to 7 inclusive in this article.
1.	Short Term Disability
1.1	If a disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report for work, up to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period of disability.
1.2	If a disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable
41
_ Effective to December 31, 1995, from the fourth day (33.0 hours) after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks during any one period of disability.
~ Effective from January 1, 1996, from the third and one half day (27 Vi hours) after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks during any one period of disability.
1.3	The benefits will be at 70% of normal earnings to a maximum of the following amounts in respect of a normal work week (77 hours).
(1)	Effective August 10, 1995 to December 31, 1995
-	$960.00
(2)	Effective January 1, 1996 to May 31, 1996
-	$980.00
(3)	Effective June 1, 1996 to May 31, 1997
-	$1,000.00
(4)	Effective June 1, 1997
- $1,025.00
1.4	The Union and the employees agree to forfeit the UIC rebate or reduction of premiums, in that the rebate or reduction is deemed to be in lieu of other benefits.
1.5	Benefits payable under a plan where the employee pays one hundred (100%) per cent of the premiums (employee-pay-all-plan) are exempt from income tax. All premiums (one hundred (100%) per cent) for this part of the plan shall be paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
2.	Long Term Disability
2.1	If an employee continues off work due to a nonoccupational injury or illness for a period longer than one hundred and five (105) days, the employee is
eligible to apply for long term disability to age sixty-five (65) years.
2.2	Benefits under the plan are seventy (70%) per cent of regular earnings, inclusive of other benefits to which the employee is entitled in such circumstance (e.g. Canadian Pension Plan benefits).
2.3	Long term disability benefits are fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
2.4	Disability is defined as the inability of an employee to perform the employee's ownj ob classification for a period of twenty-four (24) months and thereafter the inability to perforin any job for which the employee is suited by reason of education, training or experience.
2.5	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
3.	Life Insurance
3.1	Employees and their families are covered by life insurance as follows:
—	employee - two (2) times yearly earnings with a minimum of $27,000.00
—	spouse - $3,500.00
—	each dependent child - $1,500.00
3.2	If the employee becomes totally disabled before retirement, the insurance shall continue until age sixty-five (65) years on a paid-up basis.
3.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the Plan in respect of coverage to twenty-seven thousand ($27,000.00) dollars shall be paid by the Company.
43
4.	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
4.1	Employees are covered by accidental death and dismemberment insurance for accidental death or dismemberment. The same shall be in addition to employee life insurance coverage as in 3 of this article.
4.2	The principal sum shall be $50,000.00 in the case of loss of life. There is to be a schedule regarding dismemberment and loss of sight and/or hearing.
4.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Dental Plan
5.1	A dental plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
5.2	The plan shall pay one hundred (100%) per cent of routine dental treatments, expenses and fifty (50%) per cent of major treatments and orthodontic treatment.
5.3	The plan shall pay a maximum in any one (1) calendar year of $1,000.00 in the case of each insured family member.
5.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent, for this part of the plan, shall be paid by the Company.
6.	Major Medical Insurance
6.1	A major medical plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
6.2	Hospital expenses, one hundred (100%) per cent for semi-private or private accommodations above those paid by the Saskatchewan Medicare Plan will be paid by the major medical plan.
6.3	The plan will pay eighty (80%) per cent of the costs of other services items set forth in the plan.
6.4	The plan will cover hospital costs incurred while outside of Canada to a maximum of $8,000.00.
6.5	PRESCRIBED DRUGS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for prescribed drugs which are not now covered by the Provincial Government Plan.
6.6	EYE EXAMINATIONS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for Eye examinations which were covered by Medicare, and which are not now covered by Medicare.
6.7	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
7,	Vision Care Insurance
7.1	A vision care plan covering employees and their family members as applicable shall be in effect.
7.2	The Plan will provide the payment on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of regular frames and lenses to a maximum benefit of one hundred and twenty—five ($125.00) dollars per person in any twenty-four (24) month period.
7.3	The Plan will provide for the payment of contact lenses on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of the cost where medically necessary on a one-time basis and to a maximum benefit of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.
7.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
8.	Retirement Plan
8.1	There shall be a retirement plan, which shall be amended and/or administered as the case may be to reflect the provisions of Appendix C (Employee Benefits: Retirement Plan) hereto.
45
8.2	Upon retirement an annuity shall be purchased for an employee and benefits thereafter shall continue during the employee’s lifetime and in any event will continue to the employee’s beneficiaiy or estate until one hundred twenty (120) monthly payments have been made.
9.	General
9.1	Eligibility for the various employee benefit plans and retirement plan shall be as provided in the various plans.
9.2	The Company reserves the right to alter or amend the plans but shall not do so without first having consultation with the Union.
9.3	Any conflict between the details set forth in this article and the group insurance plan and the retirement plan shall be resolved on the basis of the provision of the group insurance plan and/or the retirement plan, as the case may be.
27.3	Within a period of three (3) months from the signing date of the collective agreement, the Company will have prepared an Employee Benefits Plan Booklet which summarizes the Benefits plan referred to herein. The said Booklet will be amended in the event of substantive changes to any part of the plan. Each employee shall be provided with a copy of the said Booklet, and any substantive changes which may be made to any part of the plan.
ARTICLE 28 — HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.1	The Company shall institute and maintain all reasonable and necessary precautions for the heath and safety of its employees. All employees covered by this Agreement shall cooperate in the implementation of all such reasonable and necessary health and safety precautions. It is recognized as being the mutual obligation of the Company and the Union to assist in the-elimination and prevention of unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices and jointly to assist in the prevention of accidents.
46
28.2	Committee members shall not suffer any loss of pay while performing their duties at their mine site as members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
28.3	Employees shall at all appropriate times use such devices and wear such articles of clothing or equipment as are intended for their protection.
28.4	The Company shall supply protective clothing and equipment in accordance with Company policy governing safety apparel.
ARTICLE 29 — APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
29.1	Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled by posting the vacancy as in Article 11 of this Agreement. Only those employees who are northern residents shall be eligible for the apprenticeship program.
29.2	Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend necessary formal training, subject to the ability of the Company to meet its normal requirements of operation.
29.3	Employees who are indentured will enter the program at a level as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Saskatchewan Department of Labour.
29.4	Apprenticed employees, while taking an approved formal off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular rate, less any Canada Manpower training allowance provided to or on behalf of the employee. Any living away from home allowance or travel allowance paid by the government shall not be deducted by the Company from the employee's wages.
29.5	Employees who do not attend each session and who do not have a reasonable cause for failing to attend may have their employment terminated by the Company.
47
29.6	Employees who fail to obtain a passing mark may be afforded an opportunity to repeat the program in whole or in part. Where an employee is not afforded an opportunity to repeat the program (in whole or in part) or where the employee fails to obtain a passing mark after repeating the program (in whole or in part), the employee will be removed from the program. In such case, the employee will be offered an entry position in any line of progression provided the employee is qualified for the position and provided a vacancy exists at that time.
If no such vacancy exists, where in the Company’s opinion an employee has made every reasonable effort to obtain a passing grade, but nonetheless fails to do so, the employee will be placed on lay-off and recalled if and when an entry position in any line of progression becomes available within a twelve (12) month period, provided the employee is qualified for the position.
29.7	(a) Apprenticeship wages will be shown in Appen-
dix A.
(5)	An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the SaskatchewanApprenticeship Branch or after having completed the required months of experience and having demonstrated his/her capability to perform at that level.
29.8	Employees who are not northern residents will be given consideration for entry into the apprenticeship program in a trade, only when there are no applicants for the posted apprentice position.
ARTICLE 30 — BULLETIN BOARDS
30.1	The Company will provide the Union with bulletin boards to be affixed in appropriate places where
48
employees will be able to see and read them. The number of bulletin boards to be supplied by the Company and the locations for affixing such boards shall be agreed upon between the parties.
30.2	Bulletins to be posted shall be restricted to notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union and reports of various committees of the Union.
30.3	Only bulletins authorized by Local 48-S Executive will be posted.
ARTICLE 31 — MISCELLANEOUS
31.1	Sufficient copies of the Collective Agreement will be printed to supply the Company and die Union needs. The Company and the Union will share equally in the cost of such printing.
The parties shall agree as to the number of copies to be printed, and the total cost of same before an order is placed with a printer.
31.2	The Company agrees to allow access to the mine sites to the National Representative of the Union for the purpose of attending to official Union business, provided permission is first obtained from the Company. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
31.3	Where any Company transportation to a mine site is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay is such that the employee is unable to complete five and one-half (5 1/2) hours of work before the finish of the employee’s scheduled shift on the day of the delay, the employee shall in any event for that day be guaranteed five and one-half (5 1/2) hours of pay at regular rates for that day.
(b)	Where transportation is delayed on the day immediately following the employee’s scheduled return to a mine site, such that die employee is unable to complete his/her full eleven (11) hour
49
shift before the finish of the employee’s regular shift on the day of the transportation departure, the employee shall in any event for that day be guaranteed eleven (II) hours of pay at regular rates for that day. The guarantee set forth herein shall be in addition to the guarantee set forth in
(a)	herein.
31.4	Where any transportation from a mine site is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay is two (2) hours or less, the employee shall not receive any pay unless the employee works in which case, the employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the employee’s regular rate for all hours actually worked during the two (2) hours or less period of delay.
(b)	Where the delay is in excess of two (2) hours, employees will be paid for the delay thereafter, at their regular rate for all hours on that day prior to 7:00 p.m. Where the employee works on the day of the delay, the employee shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s regular rate for all hours actually worked during the period of delay prior to 7:00 p.m.
31.5	The guarantees of hours and pay set forth in 31.3 and
31.4	shall not apply in the case of a delay resulting from a labour dispute or in the case of force majeure.
31.6	Except as otherwise specifically provided in this collective agreement, all notices required to be given by either party shall be given as follows:
Cogema Resources Inc.
P.O. Box 9204 Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7K 3X5
Attention: Human Resources Superintendent
50
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union Local 48-S
Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan
Attention: Local Union President
A copy of any notice to be given to the Local Union President at Cluff Lake shall be forwarded to the President’s normal place of residence.
ARTICLE 32 — CALL-OUT
32.1	An employee who has already left his/her work area after completion of the employee’s scheduled shift and who is recalled for work shall be paid at two (2) times the employee’s regular rate for all hours worked on recall, up to the starting time of his/her next scheduled shift, but in any event the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4) hours at his/her regular rate.
32.2	The provisions of 32.1 above do not apply if the employee is recalled within one (1) hour of the starting time of the employee’s regular shift.
32.3	Where a call-out results in an employee having less than a total of eight (8) hours rest between the time the employee completes work on a regular shift (or completion of any overtime following that shift), and the start of the employee’s next regular scheduled shift, the employee will be paid at regular rate for the hours not worked between die beginning of his/her next scheduled shift and the time of the employee’s return to work upon having accumulated a total of eight (8) hours of rest since the completion of his/her last regular shift or completion of any overtime following that shift.
51
ARTICLE 33 — MEDICAL CERTIFICATE -
ILLNESS
33.1	An employee before returning to work following an illness or accident shall furnish a written certificate from a qualified medical practitioner or from a public health nurse.
33.2	The Company may at any time require of an employee that he/she submit to a medical examination by a qualified medical practitioner of the Company’s choice, and in such case the cost of same shall be borne by the Company.
ARTICLE 34 — CONTRACTING-OUT
34.1	Subject only to 34.2 herein, it is agreed that the Company reserves the unfettered right to contract-out work where in its exclusive opinion, it is necessary, economic or expedient to do so.
34.2	The Company, however, will not contract-out work where to do so, directly results in the lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 35 — WORK BY SUPERVISORS
35.1	It is recognized that the duties of a Supervisor are primarily supervisory in nature, therefore, it is agreed that a Supervisor shall not perform work of a quantity which would normally occupy a bargaining unit employee for a full shift on an on-going basis.
35.2	A Supervisor will not perform bargaining unit work to the extent that it directly results in the lay-off of an employee in the bargaining unit
52
ARTICLE 36 — PREMIUMS AND ALLOWANCES
36.1	The following premiums and allowances shall apply:
(a) Tool Allowance: Employees who are required to furnish their own tools shall be paid a tool allowance effective from August 10, 1995 for each pay period as follows:
(i) In the case of Heavy Duty Mechanics up to $45.00 each pay period.
(ij) In the case of the Industrial Mechanics up to $40.00 per pay period.
(iii) In the case of all other employees required to furnish their own tools up to $35.00 for each pay period.
This said allowance is to cover loss, breakage or replacement of tools. The tools required to be supplied shall be as per the approved tool list. It is understood that it may be necessaiy from time to time to make reasonable changes to the approved tool list having regard to the nature of the work to be performed by the employee.
Tool allowances as herein provided shall not apply where an employee is to be absent from work for a period exceeding four’(4) consecutive normal work weeks of that employee due to lay-off, illness/accident, or leave of absence.
In occurrences as described above, the Company will, based on the employee’s preference, either securely store the employees tools at the site, or deliver the employees tools to one of the Company’s normal pickup points. An employee who wishes his/her tools delivered, shall notify die Company as to the normal pick-up point to which the employee wishes the tools delivered.
53
(b)	Safety Boot Allowance: Employees shall wear approved safety boots at all times while at the work place. Employees other than probationary employees will be granted a safety boot allowance as follows, payable on the employee’s anniversary date of employment.
to May 31, 1996 - $120.00 from June 1, 1996 - $125.00 from June 1, 1997 - $130.00
A probationary employee shall be paid the aforesaid allowance after the completion of the employee’s probationary period and annually thereafter on the employee’s anniversary date.
(c)	Lead Hands: Where the Company designates an employee as a temporary lead hand, the employee shall be paid $77.00 per pay period in addition to his/her regular rate.
Where the employee is assigned to such a function during only part of a pay period, but for periods of one (1) normal day or more, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
(d)	Rotating Shift Premium: Where the Company assigns an employee to a rotating shift, (necessitating the employee to alternate on day and night shifts) a rotating shift premium of $50.00 per pay period will be paid in addition to the employee’s regular rate. Where an employee is assigned to such a shift arrangement during only part of a pay period, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
Employees whose shift rotation is such that they are on two (2) weeks of day shift for every one (1) week of night shift shall be paid twcrfrrirds (2/3) of the said $50.00 rotating shift premium per pay period.
Multi-Skill Premium: Where in the performance of his/her job, an employee is required by the Company to hold two (2) or more valid Provincial or Interprovincial journeyman’s tickets, the employee shall be paid a multiskill premium of $110.00 per pay period in addition to the employee’s regular rate.
54
(f)	Boiler Operator Ticket Premium: Where in the performance of his/her job, an employee is required by the Company to hold a Boiler Ticket, the employee shall be paid a premium of $25.00 per pay period in addition to the employee's regular rate.
(g)	Split Shift Premium - Bartenders: Where the Company assigns a Bartender to a split shift, and the employee does not receive a Rotating Shift premium, a split shift premium of $25.00 per pay period will be paid in addition to the employees regular pay. Where the employee is assigned to a split shift during only part of a pay period, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
ARTICLE 37 — DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement,including the Supplementary Agreement attached hereto, shall be binding upon the parties from August 10, 1995, and shall remain in force and effect until May 31, 1998, and from year to year, thereafter, unless either party not less than thirty days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the termination date hereof, gives notice in writing, to the other party to terminate, renew or negotiate revision to this agreement.
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. COMMUNICATIONS,
ENERGY AND
__________ PAPERWORKERS UNION,
55
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE
YEAR 1
1. For the Period between June 1, 1995 and May 31, 1996
(a)	Effective from the date of ratification, the wage schedule (except the adjustment in respect of STD) shall be increased by two (2%) percent.
(b)	A gross lump sum payment of four hundred ($400.00) dollars to all employees on the payroll at the date of ratification not to be added to the Wage Schedule. The same amount represents approximately one (1%) percent of average bargaining unit salaries.
(c)	In lieu of retroactivity a gross lump sum payment of two hundred ($200.00) dollars to all employees on the payroll at the date of ratification.
The following conditions shall apply with respect to the four hundred ($400.00) dollar lump sum referred to in paragraph (b) hereof:
Except as otherwise, provided, in order to qualify for the lump sum payment an employee shall have worked all the normal hours during the year (year 1).
(e)	Should an employee work less than the normal hours the employee shall receive the lump sum payment on a pro-rata basis.
(0 Vacation time and authorized leave of absence shall be deemed to be time worked for the purposes of these provisions.
(g) If an employee does not work all the normal hours during the year (year 1) as a result of being laid— off, the employee shall not suffer a reduction in the lump sum payment as a result of being laid-off.
The total gross lump sum payments of six hundred ($600.00) dollars as referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) shall be made no later than fourteen (14) days immediately following the date of ratification.
56
YEAR 2
2.	For the Period between June 1, 1996 and May 31, 1997
Effective June 1, 1996, the wage schedule (except the adjustment in respect of STD) shall be increased by three (3%) percent.
YEAR 3
3.	For the Period between June 1, 1997 and May 31, 1998
Effective June 1, 1997, the wage schedule (except the adjustment in respect of STD) shall be increased by three (3%) percent.
The adjustment in respect of the STD plan shall remain at forty (40C) cents during the whole of the period of the new collective agreement.
57
WAGE SCHEDULE
NOTE
L^vel 1A	22.45	June 1, 1995 + 0.40 = 22.85			23.12	June 1, 1996 3.0% + 0.40 = 23.52			23.81	June 1, 1997 3.0% + 0.40 = 24.21	
IB	21.69	+	0.40 =	22.09	22.34	+	0.40 =	22.74	23.01	+	0.40 = 23.41
2A	20.79	+	0.40 =	21.19	21.41	+	0.40 =	21.81	22.05	+	0.40 = 22.45
2B	19.89	+	0.40 =	20.29	20.49	+	0.40 =	20.89	21.10	+	0.40 = 21.50
3A	18.99	+	0.40 =	19.39	19.56	+	0.40 =	19.96	20.15	+	0.40 = 20.55
3B	18.12	+	0.40 =	18.52	18.66	+	0.40 =	19.06	19.22	+	0.40 = 19.62
4A	17.23	+	0.40 =	17.63	17.75		0.40 =	18.15	18.28	+	0.40 = 18.68
4B	16.16	+	0.40 =	16.56	16.64	+	0.40 =	17.04	17.14	+	0.40 = 17.54
5A	15.42	+	0.40 =	15.82	15.88	+	0.40 =	16.28	16.36	■4"	0.40 = 16.76
5B	14.56	+	0.40 =	14.96	15.00	+	0.40 =	15.40	05.45"		"0:40- = 15.85
5C	14.19	+	0.40 =	14.59	14.62	+	0.40 =	15.02	- 1 ir.'0o +		0.40 = 15.46
In lieu of retroactivity to June 1, 1995, qualifying employees are to be paid a lump sum payment of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.
58
APPENDIX B
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Levels	Standard Time Periods
1A	60 months and after
IB	54-60 months
2A	48-54 months
2B	42-48 months
3A	36-42 months
3B	30-36 months
4A	24-30 months
4B	18-24 months
5A	12-18 months
5B	6-12 months
5C	Entry-6 months
1.2 Notwithstanding the standard time period provided for Level IB, in the case of Heavy Equipment Operators (Mine Department) and Mill Operators (Mill Department) the standard time period for Level 1B shall be 54-66 months.
APPENDIX B.1
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Mine Department
Levels	1A JA
IB 2A
aa
3A
3B	“
4A
4B
5A
5B
5C
Job Classification _L.	_1_
Heavy Equipment Survey
Operators Assistants
4A
3A
Eky Persons Utility & Janitors Person
59
APPENDIX B.2
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Mill Department
Levels	1A
IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Job Classification
1A
Mill Operators
3A
4A
Dty Persons & Janitors
Uti
ity
Person
60
Levels
APPENDIX B.3
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
1A
IB
2A
2B
3A
3B
4A
4B
5A
5B
5C
Job Classification
Mine & Mill Maintenance Employees
Da]
IB
T
Journeymen
Ticketed
—*—5B
Apprentices
Indentured
IB
—1_5A
Tradesmen
Non-ticketed
IB
—*-5C
Trades Helpers Maintenance
61
Levels
APPENDIX B.4
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
1A
IB
2A
2B
3A
3B
4A
4B
5A
5B
5C
Job
Classification
Genera] Services & RPHS & EP Departments
I 1A I
IB
-2A-
5A
5C General Helpers Operators
3A
Environmental
62
APPENDIX C
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: RETIREMENT PLAN
CONTRIBUTIONS: The plan currently provides that by payroll deductions, an employee contributes 5% of the first $417.00 of monthly earnings, and 4% of the excess. The Company contributes 72% of the employees contributions.
The Company will amend the plan so that
(a) effective on the date of ratification the company’s contribution would increase to seventy-four (74%) percent, and;
(5) effective June 1, 1997, the company’s contribution would increase to seventy-six (76%) percent.
The plan will be administered to reflect Article 27.8.2 of the existing Collective Agreement as follows:
27.8.2 Upon retirement an annuity shall be purchased for an employee and benefits thereafter shall continue to the employee’s beneficiary or estate until one hundred twenty (120) monthly payments have been made.
In order to give effective meaning to Article 27.8.2, the following administrative practises will apply:
(A)	All employees currently in the plan will have a onetime opportunity to withdraw contributions from the plan before June 1, 1993.
(B)	Subject to (C) below, an employee may not withdraw the contributions made on the employee’s behalf by the company, and may only withdraw that part of the employee’s contributions which are in excess of the contributions the Company has made on the employee’s behalf.
(C)	Subject to any applicable law, an employee may withdraw or have contributions transferred, if the employee loses seniority and employment rights by virtue of Article 9.6 of the Collective Agreement.
63
APPENDIX D
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as "the Company"),
- and -
COMMUNICATION, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S
(hereinafter referred to as "the Union").
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collective Agreement
dated August 10, 1995 which may suggest otherwise, the parties
agree to apply Article 21.2, subject to the following:
1.	Any employee who is entitled to vacation days off, and has not earned vacation pay entitlement in respect of all those vacation days, may elect to waive entitlement to those vacation days off in respect of which the employee is not entitled to vacation pay.
2.	Any employee who intends to make an election to waive as in paragraph 1, shall make such election within a fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately preceding April 30 and October 31 of each year.
3.	Either 'party may give notice of termination of this Memorandum of Agreement by giving a three (3) months written notice thereof to the other party.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement without written notice as set forth in paragraph 3 herein shall, in any event, automatically terminate on May 31, 1998.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 28th day of July, 1995.
For the Company:
For the Union:
T. Gitzel
J. Case
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
TO THE:
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company"),
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
LOCAL 48—S,
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union").
It is understood and agreed that this Supplementary Agreement
shall be read, interpreted, administered and applied as if all its
terms and conditions were embodied within the Collective
Agreement between the parties to the Collective Agreement.
The Collective Agreement shall be deemed to reflect the following:
1.	Article 7.2: Union dues remittances shall be on an individual mine site basis. That is to say, there shall be a monthly remittance together with the accompanying information required by Article 7.3, in respect of bargaining unit employees at Cluff Lake, and a separate monthly remittance together with the accompanying information in respect of bargaining unit employees at McClean Lake.
2.	Articles 7.3: Where an employee has been specifically hired for work at the McClean Lake mine site but for training purposes is assigned to the Cluff Lake mine site, the Union dues in respect of that employee will be remitted with the Cluff Lake mine site remittances in so long as the employee is employed at the Cluff Lake mine site.
3.	Article 8.1: There shall be a separate grievance committee at each of the two (2) mine sites with representation from the three (3) Departments referred to in the Article.
4.	Article 8.2: There shall be a separate Occupational Health and" Safety Committee at each of the two (2) mine sites
65
with representatives from the three (3) Departments referred to in the Article.
5.	Article 8.3: There shall be one (1) negotiating committee with representation from each of the two (2) mine sites provided however that the maximum number of members as recognized or attending negotiating meetings shall be as set forth in the Article.
6.	Article 9.1: Seniority ‘willbe defined as continuous service with the Company since the last date of hire at the mine site where the employee is employed.
7.	Article 9.2: Seniority may be exercised only within the employee’s Department at the mine site where the employee is employed.
8.	Article 9.4: An employee who has been specifically hired for work at the McClean Lake site, but who for training purposes is assigned to the Cluff Lake mine site shall not accumulate seniority at the Cluff Lake mine site. Such an employee when he/she commences employment at the McClean mine site shall for seniority purposes be credited on the McClean Lake seniority list with all time worked at the Cluff Lake mine site.
9.	Article 10: There will be recognition of Surface Lease Agreements at both mine sites. Notwithstanding anything herein or otherwise which may suggest the contrary, it is agreed that in respect of all matters which relate to seniority (including employment and employment related matters) at McClean Lake or Cluff Lake, the Collective Agreement’s provisions are subject to the respective Surface Lease Agreements and/or the Human Resources Development Agreements and/or any agreements with Government which relates to employment and employment matters. The Surface Lease shall prevail over the Human Resources Development Agreement in the event of conflict between those documents.
10.	Article 11.0: Jobs will be posted and filled on a site-wide application basis. This article will be applied to reflect the foregoing. An employee at one mine site may not exercise or transfer his/her seniority to the other mine site, but an employee at a mine site who is offered and accepts employment as a newly hired employee at the other mine site; shall retain his/her service time with the Company only for any of the following applicable purposes:
66
Article 20,0 Relative to Classification assignment and progression on the wage schedule
Article 21.3 Vacations/General Holidays
Article 27. Employee Benefits and Retirement Plan
Memorandum of Agreement Re: Vacation Bonus
11.	Article 13: Lay-off and recalls will apply on an individual mine site basis, and departmental basis at each mine site.
12.	Article 14: This article shall be deemed to apply with respect to each mine site and without restricting the generality of the foregoing and the percentage identified in Article 14.6 shall apply at each site individually.
13.	Article 21: All provisions with respect to vacations including scheduling shall be deemed to be on an individual mine site basis.
14.	General: Any conflict between anything contained in this Supplementary Agreement and anything contained in the Collective Agreement shall be resolved on the basis of that which is contained in this Supplementary Agreement.
This Supplementary Agreement shall be binding upon the parties
in so long as the Collective Agreement is binding upon these
parties.
Signed at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 28th day of July, 1995.
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY
67
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as "the Company")
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 48-S (hereinafter referred to as "the Union")
RE: VACATION BONUS
It is agreed that the following vacation bonus provision as had been set forth in Article 21.5 between these parties, shall continue to apply to Cluff Lake employees who were in the employ of the Company as of April 28, 1994.
After the completion of each complete four (4) years of continuous service (7,084 hours worked), an employee shall be granted a vacation bonus based on seven (7) days' pay at regular rate.
Where an employee during any applicable complete four (4) year period works less than 7,084 hours, the employee shall receive a vacation bonus, but the employee's bonus pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during such period. The vacation bonus shall be paid upon completion of each complete four (4) year period.
Where an employee has qualified for the vacation bonus as provided herein, die employee may request that the said vacation bonus be paid at a time to coincide with the employee's vacation.
This memorandum of agreement shall be binding upon the parties in so long as the Collective Agreement is binding upon these parties.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, this 28th day of July, 1995.
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. COMMUNICATIONS,
ENERGY AND
68
SUBJECT INDEX
Article Page
AD & D Insurance......................... 27.2.4	44
Annual Vacation ............................. 21	33
Apprenticeship............................... 29	47
Arbitration ................................. 16	26
Benefits .................................... 27	41
Boiler Ticket Premium..................36.1 (f)	55
Boot Allowance......................... 36.1 (b)	54
Bulletin Boards ............................. 30	48
Bumping Rights............................. 13.8	19
Call Out..................................... 32	51
Check-Off......................................7	8
Clothes - Safety .......................... 28.4	47
Common-Law Defined......................... 26.3	40
Contracting Out.............................. 34	52
Crown Witness ............................... 25	39
Dental Plan.............................. 27.2.5	44
Discrimination.................................2	5
Dues (Union) ..................................7	8
Duration of Contract ........................ 37	55
Discharge/Dismissal from Company........... 15.8	25
Education Leave ............................. 24	38
Flight Delays...............................31.3	49
Force Majeure...............................31.5	50
Funeral Leave................................ 26	39
General Holidays............................21.5	34
General Holiday Pay ........................21.6	35
Grievance Definition....................... 15.1	22
Grievance Procedure ....................... 15.5	23
Health and Safety............................ 28	46
Hours of Work ............................... 18	28
Immediate Family .......................... 26.2	40
Job Classification........................... 20	31
Job Posting................................ 11.2	14
Job Transfers................................ 11	14
Journeyman (Ticketed)..................... 20.10	33
JuryDiy...................................... 25	39
Layoff ...................................... 13	18
69
Lead Hand Premium 			36.1 (c)	54
Leave of Absence 			 22	36
Life Insurance			27.2.3	43
Long Term Disability			27.2.2	42
Lunch-Overtime			 19.4	30
Lunch Period			 18.4	29
Management Rights			4	7
Medical Certificate			 33	52
Medical Insurance			27.2.6	44
Membership 			6	8
Multi-Skill Premium			36.1 (e)	54
Negotiating Committee			 8.3	9
Normal Work Week			 18.3	28
Northern Preference			 10	13
No Strikes/No Lockouts			 17.1	28
Non-Ticketed Job Class			20.9	33
Occupational Health & Safety			 8.2	9
Overtime			 19	29
Personal Leave		.	 22	36
Premiums and Allowances 			 36	53
Probation			9.4	11
Promotions			 11	14
Progressions		. . . 20.6-20.7	32
- Mine 		. Appendix B.l	59
- Mill		. Appendix B.2	60
- Mine and Mill Maintenance	. Appendix B.3	61
- General Services		. Appendix B.4	62
Recall			 13.4	18
Recognition - Union			5	7
Regular Rate	'. .		 3A	6
Reinstatement			 15.9	25
Rest Breaks			 18.5	29
Retirement Plan . . .			27.2.8	45
Retirement Plan			63
Rotating Shift Premium 			 36.1 (d)	54
Safety			 28	46
Seniority - Definition			9.1	11
-List			9.7	12
Severance Pay			13.2A	20
Srift Schedule Change			 18.3	28
Sick Leave - Short Term Disability .		27.2.1	41
70
Split Shift Premium			 36.1 (g)	55
Stewards				8.5	10
Supplementary Agreement. . ,	, . Re: McClean Lake	65
Suspension			 15.8	25
Technological Change			 14	20
Temporary Employee			 12.2	16
Term Employee			 12.1	16
Tool Allowance			36.1 (a)	53
Transfers 			 11	14
Transportation - Delays . . . .		31.3-31.4	49
Union Activity		. 		5	7
Union Dues - Checkoff . . . .		7	8
Union Leave			 23	37
Union Membership				6	8
Vacation Bonus	 Memorandum of Agreement		68
Vacation Entitlement 			21.3	34
Vacation Pay				21.4	34
Vacation Scheduling			21.7	35
Vacation Shutdown 			21.8	35
Vacation Days: Waiver . . . .		64
Visioncare						27.2.7	45
Voluntary Termination					9.6	11
Wage Schedule			56
Weekly Indemnity Rate				27.2.1	41
Work by Supervisor			 35	52
Work Day			 18.2	28
Year of Service			21.4	34
71
P.0 BOX #04
81? *32$, 45ft STREET WEST SASKATOON, (SASKATCHEWAN) CANADA S7K 3X5


from C. D. (CLARE) GITZEL Human Resources Manager
----fe-..................	__7C24-C
.. _____________.............
____*^Lt!Lj5L__________________________
._______________s*
r REPLY