AGREEMENT
between
AREVA
AREVA Resoures Canada Inc.
(Formerly known as COGEMA Resources Inc. and hereafter referred to as AREVA Resources Canada Inc.)
and
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION LOCAL 48-S
June 1, 2005 to
May 31, 2009
CONTENTS
1	—PURPOSE................................. 2
2	— NODISCRIMINATION....................... 2
3	- SCOPE.................................. 2
3	A - DEFINITIONS.......................... 3
4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...................... 5
5	— UNIONRECOGNITION....................... 5
6	— UNION MEMBERSHIP....................... 7
7	- UNION DUES AND CHECK OFF................7
8	- UNION COMMITTEES/
REPRESENTATION........................ 8
9	— SENIORITY............................. 12
10	— NORTHERNPREFERENCE................... 15
11	—PROMOTIONS ANDIOB TRANSFERS........... 16
12	— TERMEMPLOYEES AND
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES.................. 19
13-	LAYOFF ANDRECALL...................... 21
13A - SEVERANCEPAY......................... 23
14—	TECHNOLOGICALCHANGE.................. 24
15	— GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE................... 27
16	—ARBITRATION........................... 31
17	— NOSTRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS...............  33
18	— HOURS OF WORK........................ 33
19	— OVERTIME..............................35
20	— WAGESCHEDULES AND
IOB CLASSIFICATIONS.................. 37
21	— ANNUAL VACATION AND
GENERAL HOLIDAYS..................... 40
22	— PERSONALLEAVE........................ 43
23	— UNIONLEAVE........................... 44
24	- EDUCATION LEAVE...................... 45
25	— JURY AND CROWN
WITNESS ABSENCE...................... 46
26	— FUNERALLEAVE......................... 47
27	— EMPLOYEEBENEFITS AND
RETIREMENT PLAN...................... 49
28	— HEALTHAND SAFETY..................... 56
29	— APPRENTICESHIPPROGRAM................ 56
29A - POWER ENGINEER TRAINING
CERTIFICATION PROGRAM.................58
30	— BULLETIN BOARDS...................... 61
31	— MISCELLANEOUS........................ 61
32	— CALL-OUT............................. 63
33	— MEDICAL CERTIFICATE-
ILLNESS.............................. 64
34	- CONTRACTING-OUT ..................... 64
35	— WORKBY SUPERVISORS................... 65

36	—PREMIUMS AND
ALLOWANCES......................... 65
37	— EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS... 70
38	• DURATION OF AGREEMENT...............70
APPENDIX A - WAGE SCHEDULE..
APPENDIX B — WAGEPROGRESSION..
B,1 — WAGEPROGRESSION...
B.2 — WAGEPROGRESSION...
B.3 — WAGEPROGRESSION...
B.4 — WAGE PROGRESSION............
APPENDIX C — EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
RETIREMENT PLAN........
APPENDIX D — MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
WAIVER: VACATION DAYS OFF. MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE ARTICLE21,4 - COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT. MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE: EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES: SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS-
CLUFF LAKE MINE SITE..........
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE: SEVERANCE PAY: SUSPENSION OF
CLUFF LAKE OPERATION...........
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT
RE McCLEANLAKE....................
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE VACATION BONUS.................
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RE: CONTRACTING OUT AND WORK
BY SUPERVISORS.................
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE:CLUFF LAKE DECOMMISSIONING.....
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE: HEALTH SAFETY INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS TRAINING FUND...........................
72
74
75
76
77
78
79 81
.82
83
85
86 89
90
.91
.92
ii.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
A REV A RESOURCES CANADA INC.
aid
(the "Company")
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S	(the "Union")
The negotiating committees for the parties hereto have bargained collectively and have reached agreement as to terms for a new Collective Agreement.
The terms of the said Agreement are as follows:
The Collective Agreement between the parties in force aid effect until May 31,2005 shall continue in force and effect until May 31, 2009 amended only to the extent as set forth in the documents attached hereto as Appendix 1.
The Union's negotiating committee undertakes to recommend these terms cf settlement to the members of the bargaining unit and the Company's negotiating Committee undertakes to recommend these terms of settlement lo the Executive Maiagement cf the Company.
Dated at Saskatoon. Saskatchewan this 14" day of January, 2006
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION:
Jim Corman
Tammy Van Lambalgen Stacey Venaas Dave Wudrick
Walter Manning Dave Pingert Keith Higginbotham Cliff Chanin Duncan Brown Gord Wrightson
1
ARTICLE 1 — PURPOSE
1.1	In consideration of the mutual value ofjoint discussions and negotiations and in consideration of the Company's commitment to provide northern residents with the maximum direct economic benefits, the parties hereto agree that the purpose of this Agreement shall be to set forth the basic terms and conditions of employment affecting the employees covered by this Agreement, and to provide procedures for the prompt and equitable settlement of grievances of such employees, without slowdown or stoppageof work.
1.2	It is a further purpose of these parties to promote and encourage a productive, efficient and harmonious working environment.
ARTICLE 2- NO DISCRIMINATION
2.1	The parties agree there will be no discrimination against an employee by reason of activity in the Union, or by reason of non-activity in the Union or by reason of age, sex, sexual orientation, creed, colour, nationality, religion or ethnic background.
2.2	Nothing in this Agreement which gives a preference to northern residents shall be construed to be discrimination.
ARTICLE 3- SCOPE
3.1	This Agreement shall apply to all employees of Areva Resources Canada Inc. regularly working at Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan, and at McClean Lake, Saskatchewan, excluding environmental technician, instrument technician, assistant planner, metallurgical assistant, laboratory technician, mine technician, maintenance
2
planner technician, recreation technician, radiation technician, training technician, safety technician, office and clerical staff, supervisor and those above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is expressly understood and agreed that employees of the Company's Exploration Department and Resources Evaluation and Geological Control Department are not part of the bargaining unit and do not come within the scope of this Agreement.
3.2	The parties hereto agree that the relations between them shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement.
3.3	It is agreed that this Agreement contains the complete understanding between the parties for the term of (his Contract. Any additions, deletions, changes, amendments or waivers affecting the terms of this Agreement shall only be discussed by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union Negotiating Committee. Any agreements, amendments, or changes arrived at as a result of such discussions shall become effective upon being reduced to writing and signed by both parties.
ARTICLE 3A — DEFINITIONS
Parties:
Wherever the word 'parties' appears in this Agreement, it will mean the Company and the Union.
Regular Rate:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement shall mean the rate of pay for the employee's classification as set forth in Appendix A excluding any overtime, any premiums or any allowances whatsoever.
Qualifications:
"Qualifications" wherever that term is used in this Collective Agreement is defined as ability, skills, experience, training/education, physical fitness andjob performance of an employee.
3
Gender:
The parties have wherever possible used language in this Agreement which is Gender neutral. In the event a dispute arises which relates thereto, the relevant language of the preceding agreement shall govern.
Students:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement it will mean a person who is employed during his/her break from academic studies, and who plans to continue with hisher academic studies following hisher break. A person who has a break of not more than one (1) year in hisher academicstudies may be considered a student for the purposes of this definition. Enrolment shall be considered as proof of plans to continue academic studies.
Northern Resident:
Wherever that term is used in this Agreement it will mean the definition thereof as contained in any applicable Surface Lease Agreement, Human Resources Development Agreement or any other agreement respecting Northern residents in regards to the respective mine sites, and/or as contained in those agreements as they may be amended andor replaced from time to time.
For informational purposes the definition of Northern resident as at the signing date of this Agreement is as follows:
a)	A person who has resided in Saskatchewan’s North for a period of 10 years or one half his or her age, whichever is the lesser. Such a person:
• Shall not lose status by relocating outside of Saskatchewan’s North for educationalpurposes; a Shall not lose status by relocating outside of Saskatchewan’sNorth for five years or less; and a Shall regain status if he or she has lived outside of Saskatchewan’s North for more than five years
4
but re-establishes primary residency in
Saskatchewan’sNorth at the time of hire.
b)	A person who transfers from one mine operation in Saskatchewan’sNorth to another, or is re-employed within one year after leaving mine employment in Saskatchewan’s North, and who met the criteria of a Resident of Saskatchewan’s North contained in the applicable Human Resources Development Agreement at the time of recruitment to that operation.
c)	A person who bas been designated by the Minister to be a Resident of Saskatchewan’sNorth.
ARTICLE 4 —MANAGEMENTRIGHTS
4.1	The Union expressly understands and agrees that the Company retains the exclusive right to operate and manage the affairs of the Company provided the rights of the Company shall not be exercised so as to be in contravention or violation of any specific provision or provisions as set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLES — UNION RECOGNITION
5.1	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive Bargaining Agent for the Employees defined in Section 3.1, and both parties agree to bargain collectively and in good faith.
5.2	No person shall solicit membership in the Union or in any other labour organization, or collect dues, initiation fees, fines or assessments for the Union or any other labour organization on Company time.
5.3	Subject to paragraph 2 hereof, no person shall engage in any Union or labour organization activity on Company time, except to the extent expressly provided for in the Agreement, or by law.
5
Where it is necessary for the President of the Union or his/her duly authorized representative to conduct a work related investigation and/or to attend a discipline meeting, or to attend to any other Union related matter for short periods of time which cannot be reasonably attended to during non-working hours, such time away from work shall be authorized on a paid basis, provided the sameis approved in advance by his/her Supervisor.
Where a union Executive member or shop steward is to attend a disciplinary meeting, such representative shall be from the employee’s department. Where such a representative is not working in the same department the representative may then be from another department.
5.4	Nothing in this Agreement prevents the Union President cr the President’s representative from familiarizing new employees with the Union during non-working hours. Where a new employee has been hired the Company shall advise the Union in writing as to the name of the employee, the employee’s start date, classification and starting wage rate.
Where a new employee has been hired, within a period of the employee’s first three (3) working shifts, the employee’s Supervisor shall introduce the new employee to the Union representative designated in writing by the Union as the Union’s representative for the work area to which the employee is assigned. If the Union representative is not at the mine site during the aforementioned time period, the introduction shall occur as soon as reasonably practical when the Supervisor, the employee and the designated Union representative are simultaneously at the mine site.
5.5	During the orientation of a new employee, an Executive Member of the Union or designate shall be afforded up to one (1) hour during regular working hours, to communicatewith the new employee for the purposes of identifying the employee’s Shop Steward, the swearing
6
in of the new employeewho elects tojoin the Union, and for advising with respect to Union meetings and related matters.
Absence from his/her work duties to perform the duties referred to in paragraph one hereof shall necessitate prior authorization from the Union's Representatives Supervisor, and shall not interfere with production. Authorization shall not unreasonably be denied.
5.6	In the administration and application of the collective agreement, the parties shall act bona fide, and shall conduct their relationship in good faith toward one another.
ARTICLE6 — UNION MEMBERSHIP
6.1	Nothing in this Agreement prohibits or interferes in any way with an employee's right to become and remain a member of the Union, and nothing prohibits or interferes with an employee's right not to become or remain a member of the Union.
ARTICLE7 — UNION DUESANDCHECKOFF
7.1	Pursuant to the Canada Labour Code, the Company shall deduct from the wages of each employee to whom the collective agreement applies the amount of the regular union dues.
For the purposes only of this Article 7.1, students shall have union dues deducted from their pay in respect of work which they perform, where the work is normally performed by members of the bargaining unit. For all other purposes the agreement shall not apply to students.
Students shall not normally be hired to fill permanent vacant positions.
7.2	The regular Union dues are calculated based on 1he number of hours worked by each employee during a pay period and such dues shall be deducted from the employees pay cheque for that pay period and the same shall be remitted to the SecretaryATreasurer, Communication, Energy & Paperworkers Union of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario on a timely basis except where unforeseen or unusual circumstances apply.
7.3	The Company shall at the time of remitting the union dues so deducted furnish the Union with a list identifying the name of the employees from whom deductions were made and the amount of dues deducted from each employee.
7.4	All provisions of the Canada Labour Code shall apply in respect of compulsory check-off of regular union dues.
7.5	Each employee's T4 slip shall clearly show the amount of money deducted and remitted.
ARTICLE 8 — UNION COMMITTEES/ REPRESENTATION
8.1	The Company will recognize a grievance committee consisting of not more than eight (8) employees of the Company or alternates who shall be employees of the Company, designated by the Union, in writing, provided, however, not more than four (4) members of the committee shall attend at any grievance meeting. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
8
Any membership change in the grievance committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
8.2	The Company will recognize an occupationalhealth and safety committee which will be made up of an equal number of representatives from both the Company and the Union.
The Union will designate in writing, the names of six (6) employees of the Company as members of the said committee, provided, however, not more than three (3) such members shall attend at any meeting of the committee. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
The Company will notify the Union in writing of its representatives on the committee.
The appropriate departments of government shall be advised of the creation of this committee and shall be advised of the names of the members of the committee.
8.3	The Company will recognize a negotiating committee of not more than eight (8) employees of the Company as designated by the Union in writing. There shall be at least two (2) representatives from each of the following three (3) departments:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS and EP
The Union will furnish a written list to the Company giving the names of all members on the negotiating committee. Any membership change in the committee will be submitted in writing to the Company.
9
8.3.1	The Company agrees that members of the Union's negotiating committee may travel free of charge to and from the mine sites to Saskatoon on Company provided transportation when such travel is necessary for the employee to attend negotiating meetings with the Company. Requests for such travel arrangements shall he made to the employee's immediate supervisor at least one (1) week in advance of the scheduled meeting with the Company.
8.4	The Union may have the assistance of a representative of the National Union, or an authorized Agent of the Local Union, present at any meeting of the above recognized committees with the Company.
In addition to its negotiating committee as defined in Article 8.3, and its representative as defined in paragraph 1 hereof, the Union reserves the right to have in attendance at a negotiations meeting a subject specialist engaged by the Union to advise the Union with respect to a particular subject matter.
8.5	The Union will furnish a written list to the Company, giving the names of all Executive members of the Union, of the Stewards and the Alternate Stewards and Committee members and Alternate Committee mem-hers. This written list will be kept current by the Union. Only those Union members whose names have been given to the Company, in writing, will be recognized by the Company.
8.6	As far as is practical, grievance meetings between the Company and the Union's grievance committee and meetings of the occupational health and safety committee will be held at the site during normal working hours. A committee member attending such meetings shall not suffer a loss of regular pay as a result of attending such meetings.
10
8.7	(a) Either party may by notice in writing, request that
a Union/Management communication meeting be convened to discuss and consider any relevant topic of significance affecting the company and/or the employees. Such communication meetings shall not be convened more frequently than once each quarter.
(b) Communications meetings as contemplated by this Article, shall be organized having regard to the following formats:
Format A being meetings to discuss and consider topics which are considered to be of a site specific nature; and
Format B: being meetings to discuss and consider topics which are considered to be of a policy, practices and procedures nature.
(c)	Either party may request in writing that every other communicationsmeeting be scheduled as a Format B meeting. Where a Format B meeting has been scheduled, a Senior representative of the Company’s Saskatoon corporate office shall be in attendance, and an invitation to attend shall be extended to the Union’s National Representative.
(d)	The party making a request that a communications meeting be convened, shall identify the specific topic(s) it wishes to discuss. The other party shall respond to the request in a timely manner, and shall identify any specific topic(s) it wishes to discuss at the said meeting.
(e)	Communication meetings as contemplated by this Article shall consist of not more than four (4) representatives from each party, not including the non-site representatives attending Format B meetings.
11
Either party may request a representative of Human Resources Development Canada attend the communication meetings to facilitate constructive discussions on the relevant topics of significance affecting the Company and/or the employees.
ARTICLE 9 — SENIORITY
9.1	Seniority is defined as an employee's period of continuous service with the Company since the employee's last date of hire. Where two (2) or more employees had been last hired on the same date, the alphabetical letters of the employee's surname shall determine the initial placement of each of them on the seniority list relative to one another.
9.2	Except to the extent as specifically otherwise provided in this Collective Agreement, seniority for all purposes of this Agreement may only be exercised within the employee's department. The departments are:
(a)	Mine Department
(b)	Mill Department
(c)	General Services and RPHS & EP
9.3	An employee on an authorized leave of absence shall maintain his/her position on the seniority list and shall have benefits maintained during the term of such leave, but except in the case of an authorized paid leave, during such leave an employee shall not earn vacation pay.
9.4	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for a period of five hundred (500) hours worked. On completion of this probationary period an employee's seniority shall be retroactive to date of hire. Any extension of an employee's probationary period shall only be by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
12
9.5	The terms of this Agreement shall apply to all probationary employees excepting that such probationary employees may be terminated, without recourse to the grievance procedure or arbitration procedure.
9.6	An employee's seniority and employment rights shall be considered lost by reason of:
1(a) Dismissalforjust cause.
(b) Voluntary resignation.
(c) Failure to report to work on recall from layoff within one week of being notified in writing by double registered mail at the employee's last known address of the requirement to report for employment. If the time requirement cannot reasonably be met, an extension of time may be granted upon mutual agreement by the Union and the Company.
(d)	Retirement in accordance with the terms of any Company pension plan.
(e)	Unauthorized absence from work unless a reasonable explanation is furnished within three (3) days of start of such absence.
(f)	Layoff for a period of:
twelve (12) months in the case of an employee with up to five (5) full years of continuousservice
eighteen (1 8) months in the case of an employee with full years of service between five (5) and ten (10)years
twenty-four (24) months in the case of an employee with more than ten (10) full years of continuousservice.
13
(g)	Permanent discontinuance of the mine site operation where the employee has seniority rights.
9.7	Seniority lists shall be revised and posted on designated bulletin boards by the Company every three (3) months. Any errors in the posted seniority lists shall be brought to the attention of the Company by written notice from the Union. If no notice is given within thirty (30) days of a posting the said posted lists shall be deemed to be correct. No penalty shall be incurred by the Company due to any action taken on the basis of such inaccurate seniority listing, provided such action was taken prior to receipt of written notice from the Union that such listing was in error. Where an error has occurred the Company shall re-issue corrected seniority lists. Coincidental with the posting of the new seniority lists on the Bulletin Boards, the Company will mail to the Union a copy of such seniority lists.
9.8	An employee transferred and/or promoted to a permanent position outside the bargaining unit shall retain all seniority held at the time of transfer and/or promotion, and will re-activate such seniority if the employee returns to the bargaining unit within the three (3) month period following such transfer and/or promotion. If the employee fills a permanent position outside the bargaining unit for more than three (3) months the employee shall lose all retained seniority.
9.9	An employee temporarily assigned to ajob outside the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority and remit regular monthly membership or union dues.
An employee temporarily assigned pursuant to this Article 9.9 may not take disciplinary action against a member of the bargaining unit.
14
9.10	Transfer and/or promotion to positions out of scope are not subject to the terms of this Agreement.
9.11	Where an employee who is on lay-off is offered, and performs work for a period of up to one normal work week (seventy-seven (77) hours) during the lay-off, the employee's lay-off for ail purposes under the Collective Agreement shall be considered to be uninterrupted by virtue of having worked to the extent as herein provided.
ARTICLE 10 —NORTHERN PREFERENCE
10.1	It is recognized that the Company has or will enter into Surface Lease Agreements with the Government of Saskatchewan which do or will among other things spell out certain objectives and commitments with respect to the employment of Northern residents.
The Company shall notify the Union of any new or changed provisions relative to northern resident requirements. Further the Company shall also notify the Union of any changes to the Surface Lease Agreements or other agreements affecting this Agreement between the parties.
10.2	The parties hereby agree that such steps will be taken as are required to ensure that the objectives and commitments of the Surface Lease Agreements are complied with.
15
10.3	Whether any agreements exist with the Government of Saskatchewan, the parties agree that preference will be given to northern residents in matters of hiring, promotions, recall and training. In the case of a reduction in the work force, preference will be given to retaining northern residents.
ARTICLE 11 —PROMOTIONSAND JOB TRANSFERS
11.1	The Company shall determine the number of employees in each job classification and if a vacancy in a job classification is to be filled or to he left vacant.
11.2	Jobs will be posted for Company-wide applications where:
(a)	A new position is established.
(b)
A permanent position becomes open.
A permanent position becomes open at level SA in the case of the tradesman (non-ticketed) and the warehouse person job classifications, and at level 5C in the case of all otherjob classifications referred to in Appendix B,
11.3	A successful applicant who has applied under Section 11.2(c) shall normally be placed at the SB level provided the employee has been in the employ of the Company for more than six (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the SB level.
16
11.4	When a vacancy occurs as outlined in Section 11.2, to be
filled by the posting procedure, then:
(a)	A job posting, open for fourteen (14) days, will be placed on bulletin boards. The job title, qualifications, rate of pay, normal work location, shift work or days, the shift to which a successful applicant would initially be assigned and last date for receipt of applications, will be listed in such posting.
Where a job posting has been posted, and an opening occurs on a shift other than the shift to which an employee is assigned, the Company will consider an employee’s request that he/she be assigned to the other shift. Any request will be considered subject to operational requirements and only one such shift change will be considered in respect of each job posting. An employee, whose request for a shift change is accommodated, shall not receive any premium pay as a result of the change in shift. In addition, an employee who has been successful in his/her request for a shift change will not be eligible to apply for further shift changes under this provision within a period of one year from the approval of the change in shift.
An employee who intends to voluntarily leave the employ of the Company shall give fourteen (14) calendar days notice of his/her intention.
(b)	All employees will be eligible to apply for such jobs, except for employees who have been successful applicants on permanent job postings within the last six (6) months preceding the date of the current posting.
(c)	The six (6)month provision set forth in (b) above shall not apply to Northern residents who may wish to apply for an apprenticeship vacancy as referred to in Article 29.1 of this Agreement.
17
11.5	Written application forms supplied by the Company will be required on all jobs posted. Applications must be mailed or delivered to the Company.
11.6 In filling posted positions, the senior applicant will be awarded the position where the senior applicant has the qualifications as determined by the Company in accordance with Article 3 A - Definitions. If there are no applicants whose qualificationsmeet the requirement for the posted position, the Company may fill the position from any source.
Where an applicant has been awarded a posted position, and where at any time within a period of five hundred (500) hours worked from the time of the applicant's assignment to the position the employee resigns or is determined to be unsuitable, the Company may then fill the position without a further posting, by selecting a qualified person from the list of applicants who had initially applied for the posted position, or from any other source if there is no qualified applicant on the list
of those who had initially applied.
When exercising its determination as to qualificationsin paragraph 1 hereof, the Company shall do so in good faith and not in a discriminatorymanner.
Where an employee has been awarded a posted position, and where within a fourteen (14) working day familiarization period the employee opts not to remain or is determined to be unsuitable in the new position, the employee shall return to the employee's previous position without any loss of seniority.
11.7	Where the Company determines to proceed with the appointment, the name of the successful applicant will be posted on Company bulletin boards within ten (10) days of the closing date of the job posting. If a posted vacancy is not filled within ninety (90) days, the Company will re-post the vacancy, if the vacancy is still
to be filled.
18
11.8	Time limits for the presenting of a Grievance on Promotions or Job Posting will start from the date of postings of the name of the successful applicant, as per Section 11.7.
ARTICLE 12 —TERMEMPLOYEESAND
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
12.1	"Term employees" are employees who are hired for a specified period of time to perform work of a specific nature or specific purpose where such work is not a part of the normal operationsof the Company.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of the names of term employees, date of hire, work to be performed and the expected duration of the work to be performed.
12.2	"Temporary employees" are employees who are hired to replace employees who are absent from work due to sickness or accident, vacation, child care leave, authorized leave of absence or for any other reason which the parties may agree is temporary. A temporary employee may be hired on such basis for up to ninety (90) days worked of the employee. Such period may be extended for the duration of the period the employee is replacing an employee who is absent due to sickness, accident, and child care leave, and for ninety (90) calendar days in all other circumstancesidentified above. The Union shall be. advised of any extension as contemplated by this Article.
12.3	The Company may offer term work or temporary work to any permanent employees who may be. laid off and who are eligible for recall. Such laid off employees may accept or reject term work or temporary work for the
19
Company without, in any way, affecting their recall rights.
12.4	The hiring of term employees or temporary employees is subject to the following limitations:
1(a)	Such employees shall be classified and compen-
sated on the same basis as permanent employees, however, they will only acquire seniority rights as provided below.
(b)	Such employees may be accepted as permanent employees by the Company. In such case, all hours worked as term or temporary shall be credited toward the probationary period set forth in article 9.4 of this Agreement.
(c)	Such employees who have demonstrated to the Company that they are qualified candidates will be given preference for permanent employment.
(d)	Article 27 (Employee Benefits and Retirement Plan) shall not apply except to the extent the group insurance plan specifically makes provision for coverage in respect of term or temporary employees. In lieu thereof, after the completion of five hundred (500) hours worked, such employees shall be paid an hourly premium based on three (3%) percent of the Level IB wage rate not including the Short Term Disability (STD) rate. The STD rate shall not apply to Term and Temporary employees.
12.5	Where a temporary vacancy occurs in a "line of progression,'' the position will be filled by assigning, temporarily the senior employee in the next lower job in the "line of progression" to the vacant position provided that employee is qualified to perform the work.
20
ARTICLE 13 —LAYOFFAND RECALL
13.1	In any reduction of the work-force for a period in excess of seven (7) days, the Company will give employees so affected seven (7) working days notice prior to their layoff. In lieu of the said notice, the Company may elect to pay seven (7) days pay at the employee's regular rate to the employee laid off.
13.2	In any reduction of work forces expected to last for a period not longer than seven (7) days, the Company will attempt to give employees thus affected twenty-four (24) hours notice.
13.3	In the event of a reduction in crew size, permanent employees affected shall be laid off in order of their seniority standings provided the senior employee possesses the qualifications and is willing to perform the work of the laid off employee and, provided there is a reasonable expectation that after a job orientation of seven (7) scheduled working days that he/she would be capable of performing the work at the level of performance of the laid off employee.
The displaced employee may then exercise his/her seniority rights in the same manner as above unless there are no junior employees to displace or the displaced employee does not have the necessary qualifications in which case that employee is subject to layoff.
An employee who receives Notice of Layoff and not exercising seniority rights under the above, will be laid off.
Where layoffs are to occur, the Company at its absolute discretion may offer a voluntary layoff option to qualified employees working in the same department.
21
13.4	Employees will be recalled from layoff on the basis of their seniority and qualificationsto perform the work for which they are being recalled.
13.5	Notice referred to herein shall only apply to an employee who has completed hisher probationary period.
13.6	Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a layoff is caused by an event of force majeure or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the layoff notice provisions set forth in this Article shall not apply.
13.7	Employees recalled to work in their normal job will be considered to have voluntarily resigned if they do not report for work on the date designated.
13.8	Where an employee decides he/she may wish to exercise hisher bumping rights, pursuant to Article 13.3 the followingshall apply:
(a)	Within forty-eight (48) hours of the employee having been given a notice of layoff he/she shall file a Notice of Intent with the Company that he/she intends to exercise hisher bumping rights. Where bumping rights are to be exercised the employee shall do so within a period forty-eight (48) hours following the giving of the Notice of Intent aforementioned.
The employee adversely affected shall be then deemed to have been given the required notice of layoff and shall then have forty-eight (48) hours to file a Notice of Intent that he/she intends to exercise hisher bumping rights and a further forty-eight (48) hours to exercise his/her bumping rights pursuant to Section 13.3
(b)	Be paid at the wage for the job classification to which the employee has bumped.
13.9	Where in the case of a vacation shut-down an employee becomes laid-off for all or part of the vacation shut-
22
down period, the employee's life insurance, major medical insurance, dental plan, vision care insurance and long term disability insurance will continue in effect until the end of the vacation shut-down period or the employee's recall to work, whichever first occurs. The Company will pay 100% of the premium costs associated with the foregoing.
ARTICLE 13A — SEVERANCE PAY
13.1A An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated as a result of a layoff caused by a reduction in the work force shall be entitled to severance pay as provided in Article 13.2A provided the employee,
(a)	has had one years (2,002 hours) cr more employmentwith the Company, and;
(b)	has been laid-off and no specific recall date is given to the employee at the time of the layoff, and if the employee relinquishes his/her seniority and employment rights as referred to in Article 9.6(f) of this Agreement.
(c)	advisesthe Company in writing within the time period applicable as set forth in Article 9.6(f), following the date of the employee's layoff that seniority and employment rights are being relinquished, and that the employee is making a claim for severance pay.
13.2A	Severance pay shall be paid to an employee who
qualifies for the same under this Article on the basis of one and one-half (1 Vi) pay period's pay (i.e. 115.5 hours) at the employee's regular rate at the time of the layoff for each full year of service at the time of such layoff. Severance pay for part years of service at the time of lay-off shall be
23
	calculated on a pro-rata basis. Severancepay will be limited to a maximum of twelve (12) times one and one half pay periods pay (ie: 1386 hours).
13.3A	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of the employee's seniority and employmentrights. The Company shall notify the Union of those employees accepting severance pay.
13.4A	For the purposes of determining a full year of service, periods of absence from work due to temporary layoff, (not including layoff arising due to vacation shutdowns [Article 21.81) and absence due to an employee having withdrawn his/her services, through a strike or lockout shall not be considered as service.
13.5A	Severance pay shall be calculated on the basis of the formula in effect (Article 13.2A) at the time the employeewas laid off.
ARTICLE 14 — TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	
14.1	The provisions of this Article 14 are intended to assist employees affected by a technological change as herein defined, to adjust to the effects of such change.
14.2	Sections 52, 54 and 55 of the Canada Labour Code do not apply to the Company and the Union or to any person or persons covered by the certification and/or the scope of this Agreement.
14.3	In this section "technological change" means:
	(a) the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment or material 24
of a different nature or kind than that previously utilized by it in the operation of the work, undertaking or business; and,
(b) a change in the manner in which the Company carries on the work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipmentor material.
14.4	The procedure for dealing with technological change that is likely to affect the terms, conditions and tenure of employment of a significant number of employees is as follows:
14.4.1 The Company will notify the Union of such a technological change at least one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the date on which such change is to be affected. Such notice shall be in writing and shall state:
(a)	the n ature of the technological change;
(b)	the date upon which the Company proposes to affect the technological change, and;
(c)	the names, seniority dates and classifications of the employeesprimarily affected.
14.5	An employee displaced as a result of a technological change will exercise seniority rights which are as follows:
(a) An employee receiving Notice of Layoff shall exercise his/her seniority to displace a junior employee in a classification of an equal or lower rate of pay, or the junior employee on a job previously held, providing the employee receiving the notice of layoff has the necessary qualifications; and where there is a reasonable expectation that the senior employee could perform the job satisfactorily after a job orientation period of up to twenty one (21) scheduled working days he/she shall he provided with such job orientation.
25
(b)	The displaced employee may then exercise his/her seniority rights in the same manner as above unless there are no junior employees to displace or the displaced employee does not have the necessary qualifications in which case that employee is subject to layoff;
(c)	An employee receiving the Notice of Layoff and not exercising seniority rights under (a) and (b) above, will be placed on layoff.
14.6 "Significant" for the purpose of this Article shall be twelve (12%) percent of the total workforce.
14.7	Employees with one or more full year's seniority who are on layoff status as a result of Technological Change as herein defined may elect to be paid severance pay.
14.8	Employees who are laid off or who have selected layoff status because of technological change as defined herein shall at the employee's election be paid severance pay as set forth in Article 13A where he/she elects to receive severance pay.
14.9	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as a voluntary resignation with termination of such employee's seniority and employment rights.
14.10	Upon request, the Company will furnish to Canada Employment Centre, the laid-off employee's skills inventory record and other applicable information necessary to assist them in relocating such displaced employeein another job with another employer.
ARTICLE I S - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
26
15.1	"Grievance" as used in this Agreement is an alleged violation in respect of the interpretation or application of, or compliance with a specific provision or provisions of this Collective Agreement.
15.2	The parties encourage employees to bring any complaints to the attention of the employee's immediate supervisor for consideration, before a grievance is filed. If after bringing the matter to the immediate supervisor's attention, the employee is still not satisfied, a grievance may be filed.
15.3	It is the intention of both parties that all grievances shall be processed as quickly as reasonably possible at all steps. Where discipline is to be applied, it shall normally be applied within fourteen (14) days of the Company having become aware of the circumstances, unless the Company's investigation into the matter cannot reasonably be concluded within the aforementioned time period. Subject to Article 15.8, in the event that the employee is not on site when discipline is to be applied, the disciplinary form report will be given to an executive member of the Union.
15.4	Ail grievances to be processed hereunder shall be filed in writing signed by the employee and shall set forth the essential facts of the grievance, with reference to how the employee feels aggrieved, the provision or provisions under which the grievance is filed, and the redress claimed. Such written grievance shall then form the basis of the grievance through all the steps of the grievance procedure and arbitration procedure.
15.5	Grievances meeting the above requirements shall be processed in the manner stated below:
	Step 1; An employee who feels he/she has a grievance as defined above, shall continue on the employee's assigned duties. Should the employee wish to submit a grievance,
	27
a written grievance shall be prepared and presented to the employee's immediate supervisorby the employee or by the Union. Where the employee is presenting the grievance he/she may be accompanied by a shop steward. The grievance shall be submitted to the employee's immediate supervisor within nine (9) scheduled working days (of the employee) following the date of occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance. The immediate supervisor shall within nine (9) scheduled working days (of the supervisor)following receipt of the submission of the grievance, give written reply to the employee with a copy to the Union.
Step 2: if a settlement is not reached at Step 1, the employee. along with the employee's shop steward, may within five (5) scheduled working days (of the employee) of the completion of Step 1 present the written grievance to the General Supervisor of the employee's Department. The General Supervisor shall reply to the grievance, in writing, within five (5) scheduled working days (of the General Supervisor) following the date on which the grievance was received by the General Supervisor.
Step 3: If settlementis not reached at the second step, the written grievance may, within five (5) scheduled working days (of the employee) after the completion of Step 2, be presented to the appropriate superintendent who has responsibility for the Department in which the employee is assigned. The Superintendent shall reply to the grievance in writing within five (5) working days (of the superintendent) following the date on which the grievancewas received by the Superintendent
Step 4; A fourth step grievance meeting may be held at a place to be agreed upon by both parties to discuss an outstanding grievance, provided however such meeting shall occur and a reply shall be given not later than thirty (30) days after the completion of Step 3,
28
15.6	If a grievance as defined in Section 15.1 above involved a group or groups of employees. the grievance procedure may be commenced at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. The same shall he to a group grievance. Such grievance must be submitted in writing within ten (10) days of the occurrenceof the grievance.
15.7	if a grievance occurs as defined in Section 15.1 and concerns the Union as a whole, and would not be handled by the provisions of Section 15.5, the executive of the Union may within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the grievance, present a written grievance at Step 3 of the grievance procedure, except that such grievance shall be presented to the mine manager or his/her designate and not to a department superintendent.
15.8	If an employee believes that he/she has been suspended or discharged without just cause, the matter shall be presented at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure within eight (8) days after written notice of such discharge has been sent by double registered mail to the employee's last known address or after written notice of such discharge has been personally given to the employee. The Union will be given a copy of such written notice.
Where it is not convenient for the suspended or discharged employee to do so, an Executive member of the Union may present the grievance signed by the employeeto the appropriateSuperintendentat Step 3,
Where an employee is suspended or discharged and such action results in the employee being removed from the site, a Union Executive member or a shop steward will be notified without unreasonable delay. The employee affected will be permitted a reasonable amount of time to review the suspension or discharge with an Executive member or shop steward of the Union. The Union will be advised in writing of any discharge of a nonprobationary employee.
Where an employee is required to attend a meeting with the Company in respect of a reprimand, suspension or
29
discharge, the employee shall be informed that he/she has the right to have an Executive member or shop steward of the Union in attendance at any such meeting. If the employee wishes an Executive member or shop steward to be in attendance, the meeting shall proceed with the Executive member or shop steward in attendance. If an Executive member or Shop Steward is not on site the meeting nonetheless shall proceed only in the case of suspension or discharge.
15.9	The remedy for adjusting a suspension or discharge grievance, if it is determined that any is justified, may consist of reinstatement with or without back pay or with partial back pay, or may consist of pay or partial back payment without reinstatement, or may consist of any other redress appropriateto the circumstances.
15.10	If settlement is not reached at Step 3 or Step 4, the grievance may be referred to Arbitration as set forth in Article 16. The Union shall notify the Company of its intent to seek arbitration by written notice, served by double registered mail within forty-five (45) days, after the completion of Step 3 or Step 4, whichever is applicable in the circumstances.
15.11	All time Limits for the filing and processing of grievances are mandatory and any non-compliance with such time limits shall result in the grievance being deemed abandoned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and the Union may, by agreement in writing, extend or waive any time limit.
15.12	Where a Disciplinary Form Report is to become part of an employee’s personnel file, the employee shall be provided with two (2) copies of the same. One copy shall be for the employee’s personal record, and the second shall be for the Union’sfiles.
15.13	Where an employee has been disciplined and a disciplinary report has become part of his/her personnel
30
file, if the employee does not commit another similar act for which the employee has been disciplined, within a period of two (2) years, the earlier disciplinary report shall be removed permanently from the employee’s file and shall not be valid for consideration in any future discipline.
ARTICLE 16 —ARBITRATION
16.1	Any grievance as defined in Article 15 which is not settled under the terms of that Article and which has been processed in a timely manner may, in accordance with the terms of that Article be submitted to Arbitration as hereinafter provided.
16.2	The Arbitration Procedure shall extend only to those issues which are arbitrable under this Agreement and only if the grievance was properly and timely filed and meets the requirementsset out in Article 15.
16.3	Where the parties mutually agree, the grievance may be referred to a single arbitrator for determination, and in such case the single arbitrator will be appointed by agreement between the parties. Where however, the parties do not agree to refer the matter to a single arbitrator and/or where the parties are unable to agree on a person to act as single arbitrator, the grievance may be referred to a board of arbitration as provided for in Article 16,4.
16.4	The Board of Arbitration shall be composed of one representative each of the Company and the Union, to be selected by written notice given to the other party within fourteen (14) days following notification of arbitration, and one person acceptable to such representatives who shall act as Chairperson. If agreement cannot be reached on selection of the Chairperson within seven (7) days of the appointment of the representatives the matter shall be referred to one of the following who will be selected by lot by the Union and the Company representatives:
31
(1)	Francine Chad-Smith
(2)	Robert E. Stromberg
(3)	Ken Stevenson
(4)	Bill Campbell
If the Chairperson so selected is unable to serve, then lots will be drawn again and so on until a Chairperson has been selected who can serve.
16.5	No person shall serve as a single arbitrator or on the Board of Arbitration if involved directly in the grievance under consideration.
16.6	When the single arbitrator has been appointed or the Board of Arbitration has been formed in accordancewith this Article, the arbitrator or board shall meet and hear the evidence of both parties and shall render a decision in writing to the parties not later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the completion of the hearing of evidence and representations made on the matter by the parties.
16.7	A decision of the single arbitrator or the decision of a majority of the Board shall be taken to be the decision and shall be final and binding on all parties Concerned. In the event that a majority decision cannot be arrived at by a board of arbitration, the decision of the Chairperson shall be final and binding on all parties concerned.
16.8	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement. The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board may consider only the particular issue or issues presented to the single arbitrator or arbitration board and the decision must be based solely on the provisions of this Agreement.
16.9	The expenses of the single arbitrator or Chairperson of the Board of Arbitration shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union. Each party shall be responsible
32
for its own costs other than the costs of the single
arbitrator or the Chairperson.
16.10	The single arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall not deal with more than one (1) grievance without the mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 17— NO STRIKES/NO LOCKOUTS
17.1	The Union, its agents, and each employee agrees that there will be no strikes, slow downs or withholding of production and the Company agrees that there shall be no lockout during the term of this Agreement and until the requirements of the Canada Labour Code concerning strikes and lockouts are met.
ARTICLE 18 — HOURS OF WORK
18.1	This Article shall not be construed as a guarantee of work per day or per week nor as a restriction of the Company's right to operate or schedule its operations.
18.2	The normal work day shall be eleven (1 1) consecutive hours of work within any consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period broken only for established breaks as outlined in sections 18.4 and 18.5.
18.3	The normal work week for employees shall be seventy-seven (77) hours per week. This is followed by one (1) week off. Shift schedules shall be posted on a bulletin board and notice of any changes shall be provided one (1) work week in advance whenever possible.
The Company will normally give employees seven (7) days notice of any change in the starting time of the employees shift or commencement day of the employees scheduled work week. If less than seven (7) days notice is given, the following shall apply:
33
•	In the case of a change in the employee’s starting time the employee affected by the change will be paid two (2) times his/her regular rate for all hours worked on 1he first shift of such changed schedule. The change in the starting time as referred to herein, means a change from day shift to night shift or vice versa.
•	In the case of change in the employee’s commencement day, the employee affected by the change will be paid two (2) times hisher regular rate for all hours worked on the first shift of such changed schedule.
18.4	Employees will have a one (1) hour lunch period scheduled approximately at the middle of each shift of work or at the start or end of the shift depending upon flights. The lunch period in each shift of work shall not be considered as time worked and shall be deemed to commence when the employee leaves his/her work station and shall be deemed to end when the employee returns to hisher work station.
18.5	Employees will be granted a total of 30 minutes for not more than two (2) rest periods during each complete normal work day. The rest period shall be deemed to commence when the employee arrives at hisher reasonably designated rest area and shall be deemed to end when the employee leaves hisher rest area.
18.6	In a circumstance where an employee(s) time card is altered from that which the employee has recorded, the affected employee(s) shall, without undue delay, be provided with a photocopy of the implemented change and shall be informed as to why the change was made.
An employee’s vacation time accrual shall be recorded on his/her remuneration statement. An employee who is entitled to vacation days off and has not earned vacation pay entitlement in respect of those days shall be permitted to take the unpaid vacation days, pursuant to
34
the applicable provisions of Article 21. The waiver provisions shall continue to apply.
ARTICLE 19 —OVERTIME
19.1	The Company shall determine the need for overtime and shall make a sincere effort to keep such overtime to a minimum. The Company shall endeavour to give notice of overtime as far in advance as practical. An employee may refuse to work an unreasonable amount of overtime, however in all cases of emergency and at shift changes, employees shall be required to work overtime as assigned.
19.2	(a) An employee will be paid two (2) times the
employee's regular rate for any time actually worked in excess of eleven (11) hours in one work day.
(b)	Except to the extent as specifically provided in this Agreement, overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
(c)	Where an employee works on a day that is the employee's scheduled day off, the employee shall be paid for the hours worked on that day at the applicable overtime rate of pay. Those hours, however, shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of determining when overtime becomes applicable in respect of the employee's subsequent shift schedules.
19.3	Where a change in a work schedule is made for the convenience of the employee (i.e„ transfers, promotions), or where, with the consent of the Company an employee arranges to cover another employee's shift, all regular scheduled hours worked as a result of such change or arrangement shall not be subject to payment at overtime rate notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary.
35
	Where the Company schedules an employee to work in excess of seventy-seven (77) hours in one pay period, the employee will be paid for the excess hours at the applicable overtime rate.
	Where an employee works less than a full normal work period and where the employee is assigned time off immediately following completion of work during that particular work period, at least equal to the amount of time actually worked during the aforementioned work period, the hours worked during this work period shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of determining overtime in respect of the employee’s subsequent shift schedules.
19.4	A meal will be made available whenever practicable before the employee commences his/her overtime work.
19.5	Overtime work will be distributed as equitably as is reasonably practical among employees normally performing the work in the area or the crew, provided such employees have the qualifications to perform the work. It is understood that this section does not assume that each employee sharing overtime within a particular area and crew will, at any given time, have received the same number of overtime hours but merely expresses the policy of the Company to keep such overtime as nearly in balance from time to time as is reasonably practicable under the circumstances.
19.6	Where an employee has worked overtime after the completion of his/her scheduled shift, the employee shall take a minimum of eight (8) hours rest and may elect to take up to twelve (12) hours rest before returning to work.
19.7	Where an employee having worked overtime after the completion of his/her scheduled shift finishes overtime work less than eight (8) hours before the beginning of his/her next scheduled shift, the employee will be paid at regular rate for the hours not worked between the
	36
beginning of the employee's next regular shift and eight (8) hours after the end of the overtime worked following the previous shift.
19.8 Where in such instancesthe employee elects to return to work prior to having twelve (12) hours of rest, the employee shall so advise his/her supervisor or the supervisor'sdesignee to that effect. Such advice shall be given no later than by the completion of the overtime work. An employee in such instances will be paid at his/her regular rate upon returning to work.
Refer to Article 32 for Call-Out Provisions.
ARTICLE 20 — WAGESCHEDULESAND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
20.1	The wage schedule which shall be effective during the term of this Agreement shall be as set out in Appendix A attached hereto and the said Appendix A shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
20.2	The wage progression schedule which shall be effective during the term of this Agreement shall be as set out in Appendix B attached hereto and the said Appendix B shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
20.3	Except to the extent as otherwise set out in Section 20.4 and 20.5, a newly hired employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 5C during the first six (6) months of his/her employment.
20.4	A Journeyman (ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid at level 1A,
20.5	A Tradesman (non-ticketed) employee shall be assigned to and paid no lower than at Level 5 A during the first six (6) months of employment and a Warehouse Person shall be assigned to and paid at level 5A during the first six (6) months of employment.
37
20.6	Subject to Section 20.7 an employee shall advance to his/her next succeeding wage level upon satisfactory completion of the standard time periods set out in Appendix B, and the employee shall continue to advance to each succeeding level until having reached the maximum level for the employee'sjob classification.
20.7	An employee will move to the next wage level for his/her job classification where the employee has successfully completed the training program designated from time to time by the Company.
Where within a period of fourteen (14) scheduled working days (of the employee) following the completion of a time period, the employee has not been assessed as contemplated by this Article, it shall be presumed that the employee has satisfactorily completed the time period.
20.8	An employee when indentured as an apprentice in one of the journeyperson (ticketed) classifications as in Section 20.10 shall normally be assigned to and paid at level 5B of the apprentice's indentured job classification during the first six (6) months. Where, however, the employee has had prior formal training in the position applied for, the Company in its absolute discretion may place the employee at a level higher than the 5B level. An employee who accepts an apprenticeship position shall in no event be placed on the wage progression schedule more than three (3) levels lower than the level at which the employee was paid immediately prior to accepting the apprenticeship position.
An apprentice shall advance on the wage progression schedule to and including level 2A, except in the case of a plumber/pipefitter apprentice who shall advance on the schedule to and including 1B, Thereafter and when the apprentice obtains a trade certificate in his/her trade, the apprentice shall be entitled to the level 1A (journeyperson ticketed)job classification wage rate.
38
20.9	For the purpose of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are recognized tradesman (non-ticketed)job classifications.
—Welder
—	HeavyDuty Mechanic
—	Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Machinist
20.10	For the purposes of the wage and wage progression schedules, the following are the recognized journeyperson (ticketed)job classifications.
—Welder
—	Heavy Duty Mechanic
—	Industrial Mechanic (Millwright)
—	Electrician —Machinist
—	Plumber/Pipefitter
—	Power Engineer 2’“ Class
—	GeneralMaintenanceOperator (possessingjourneypersoncrane and hoist operator certification)
20.11	Journeyperson (ticketed) shall mean certified by the province of Saskatchewan or the equivalent as recog— nized by the province of Saskatchewan. A journeyperson (ticketed) who is required by law to be retested shall be compensated for all related out—of— pocket expenses, provided the same are approved in advance by the Company.
In the event an employee needs some time to practice in order to help prepare him/her for retesting, subject to the approval of management and having regard for operational requirements, the employee may be afforded a reasonable time to practice at work with no loss of pay.
39
ARTICLE 21 —ANNUALVACATION AND GENERAL HOLIDAYS
21.1	Wherever the term "vacations" is used, it shall mean the combination of annual vacations and general holidays.
21.2	All employees covered by this Agreement are entitled to twenty-one (21) working days of vacation with pay after completing one (1) full year of service and after completing each full year of service thereafter to and including the fifth (5th) full year.
21.3	After completing the fifth (5th) full year of continuous employment, employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
year thereafter
21.4	A full year of service means 1,771 hours worked, less an employee's vacation entitlement in excess of twenty-one (21) days. Where an employee works less than 1,771 hours in a year, the employee's pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during the year.
Full Years of ContinuousService
Vacations/
Holidays
Entitlement
After 11 years and each
40
21.5	The general holidays listed below form part of the 21 days of vacation:
New Year's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day Saskatchewan Day Labour Day ThanksgivingDay Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
21.6	Where an employee works on a General Holiday, the employee shall be paid three (3) tines the employee’s regular rate for all hours worked on the General Holiday.
21.7	Vacation scheduling shall be by Department. The requirements of efficient operations shall be of paramount importance in scheduling vacations, with seniority given all possible consideration for vacation requests received prior to April 1st in each year. Vacation requests received prior to April 1st shall also take precedence over any requests for personal leave of absence.
The Company will post the vacation schedule on or before April 15‘ of each year having regard for the requests received prior to April 1”.
Except where unforeseen circumstances arise, and except where a vacation shut-down is implemented, the vacation schedule once posted shall not be altered except by mutual agreement between the Company and the affected employee.
Where an employee requests a change in his/her scheduled vacation, he/she shall make the request in writing, and the employee shall be informed within fifteen (15) days of the making of the request as to whether the requested change is approved or denied.
41
Without limiting the paramount importance of efficient operations in scheduling any vacations, where there are unusual or mitigating circumstances, the Company will consider a request by an employee to take one week (seven (7) days) of vacation at a time other than during a scheduled vacation shut-down period. Subject to the foregoing, where an employee has accumulated sufficient vacation credits, the Company will make a reasonable effort to schedule the one week referred to herein during the period June 1 to September 15 inclusive.
The vacation period shall be the twelve month period from April 1 “ to March 31".
21.8	Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Company from scheduling vacation shut-downs, of all or any part of its operations. If the Company determines to cause a vacation shut-down it will provide employees affected and the Union with as much notice of such shut-down as is reasonably possible and in any event, with not less than four (4)weeks' notice.
The four (4) weeks' notice shall not apply where the shut-down is the result of circumstances beyond the control of the Company, if any such shut-down occurs, employees will take such vacation days as they are entitled to receive and if there is any short-fall, they will be considered as laid-off for the duration of the shutdown, but in such cases the notice provisions as in Article 13 shall not apply.
Where the Company is not able to assign an employee all his/her earned vacations during vacation shut-down periods, the Company before assigning the employee's vacations outside the shutdown periods will consider the employee's preference periods for taking his/her vacations. Subject to business and operational requirements, the Company will make every reasonable effort to accommodate the employee's preference.
42
Where the Company has given notice that a vacation shut-down is to occur, an employee potentially affected, shall advise his/her immediate supervisor within forty-eight (48) hours after notice has been given as to his/her preference for being released for vacation purposes, or for remaining at work (where work is available) during the shut-down period.
Subject to business and operationalrequirements and the need for the Company to maintain a fully qualified work force, (as may be required during the shut-down), employees with the highest seniority within his/her job on the shift affected shall be afforded the first opportunity of working during the shut-down or of being released for vacation.
The Company shall not be required to absorb any premiums, penalties or any additional costs as a result of an employee exercising his/her seniority with respect to the foregoing.
ARTICLE 22 —PERSONALLEAVE
22.1	The Company may grant a personal leave of absence for a period of up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay provided such leave is requested in writing at least two (2) weeks in advance. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the Parties. It is understood that the Company will, among other things, consider the following when deciding to grant or refuse a request for such leave:
(a)	whether such leave will interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(b)	whether a qualified replacement is available to replace the employee during the leave;
43
(c)	whether the denial of such leave would cause undue hardship to the employee;
(d)	whether the request for leave is reasonable.
22.2	In case of emergency nature, the Company will waive the fourteen (14) day request in writing requirement as set forth in 22.1.
22.3	Personal leave will not be granted where an employee has accrued vacation time which could be utilized.
22.4	Leave for employees with child care responsibilities, including the case of a male employee shall be as set forth in the Canada Labour Code.
ARTICLE23 — UNION LEAVE
23.1	The Company may grant a Union leave of absence for a maximum of five (5) employees for periods up to fourteen (14) calendar days without pay in the case of employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend Union labour seminars, courses or conferences. Where special circumstances apply (e.g. enrolment in the Labour College of Canada program) leave without pay may be granted for a period of up to sixty (60) calendar days.
23.2	Any leave considered must have been applied for in writing by the employee normally at least two (2) weeks in advance, with at least one (1) week in advance only where unusual cr mitigating circumstances apply, in the case of a leave of up to fourteen (14) calendar days; and, at least thirty (30) calendar days in respect of a leave requested for a period longer than fourteen (14) calendar days. Leave requests shall be considered, having regard to whether such leave will interfere with the business and operationalrequirements of the Company.
44
ARTICLE 24 — EDUCATION LEAVE
24.1	An employee may request a leave of absence without pay to further the employee's education for the purpose of upgrading in the employee's present job or for advancement within the Company, by attending full time classes of instruction.
24.2	Subject to the above, the Company, will give consideration to such request conditionalon, among other things, the following:
(a)	the employee must have two (2) or more years of service;
(b)	the leave will not interfere with the business and operation requirements of the Company;
(c)	there is a qualified replacement for the affected employee:
(d)	the leave is requested in writing at least three (3) months in advance, with all details of the instruction course provided;
(e)	the leave of absence does not exceed nine (9) months unless extended by the Company; and
(f)	not more than two (2) employees may be on leave at any one time, and not more than one (1) employee may be on leave from any one department at any one time.
24.3	Such leaves, if granted by the Company, will require that the affected employee actually attend each session of the course unless prevented by proven illness.
24.4 Should the employee return to work following a leave of absence as referred to above, the Company will reinstate the employee in the employee's formerjob, if the job is still in existence and provided the employee passes the required medical examination.
45
ARTICLE 26 — JU RYAN D CROWN WITNESS ABSENCE
25.1	When an employee is summoned to and reports for jury duty, or is called and reports as a Crown witness, the employee shall be paid the difference between the daily amounts received for such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the employee's regular rate for such day or days provided such day or days were regularly scheduled days of work for the employee.
Where because of flight schedules to and/or from the site an employee, because of Jury or Crown Witness duty loses scheduled hours, (other than on the day or days the employee actually serves as a Juror or Crown Witness) the employee shall be paid for his/her scheduled hours as if those days had been worked.
25.2	Such differences shall be paid only if the employee presents a written statement to the Company from an appropriate Court officer, showing dates of such jury duty or Crown witness service, and the amounts received for such service.
46
ARTICLE 26 — FUNERAL LEAVE	
26.1	The Company, upon being notified of a death in the immediate family, will grant an employee who is scheduled to work a maximum of up to four (4) days paid funeral leave, one of which shall be the day of the funeral. It is understood that such paid leave will not be granted in instances when an employee who is otherwise eligible for such leave does not attend the funeral, or who does not have immediate family matters to attend to in respect of the funeral.
	In the case of death of an employee's spouse or child, three (3) additional paid funeral leave days may be granted for a total of a maximum of up to seven (7) days paid funeral leave, not in addition to the four (4) days provided for in paragraph 1 above. The conditions contained in paragraph 1 above shall be applicable.
	In addition to any paid funeral leave granted, an employee may be granted up to an additional three (3) days funeral leave on an unpaid basis. Any accrued vacation time may be utilized in lieu of unpaid funeral leave.
	The Company upon being notified of the death of an employee's blood related Aunt or Uncle, will upon request consider the granting of up to three (3) days unpaid funeral leave to be taken between the day of death and one day after the day of the funeral. Approval thereof shall not be unreasonably withheld. It is understood that such unpaid leave will not be granted in instances where the employee does not attend the funeral.
26.2	For purposes of funeral leave, "immediate family" means the employee's spouse, children, step children, mother, father, step parents, brother, sister, mother and father-in-law, brother and sister-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren of the employee and any relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee resides.
	47
26.3	Common law status shall be recognized if the arrangement has been permanent for at least six (6) months or the employee has notified the Company of the common law status prior to the bereavement.
26.4	Pay for funeral leave shall be at the employee's regular rate.
26.5	Where by reason of funeral leave an employee is to travel to and from the site; and where space is available on scheduled company transportation, the employee may travel on such transportation at no cost to the employee.
26.6	Where space is not available as referred to in 26.5 within a twenty-four (24) hour period after the employee has been advised of the death of a member of the employee's immediate family, the Company upon being requested to do so, shall make every reasonable effort to arrange transportation for the employee from the mine site at which that employee is employed to that employee's normal pick-up point.
Where such arrangements are made, the Company will absorb the cost of the aforementioned transportation.
26.7	Where a medical Doctor confirms that the death of an employee's immediate family member, as defined in Article 26.2, is imminent, the Company will make arrangements as soon as reasonably possible to return the employee by charter or otherwise to his/her normal pickup point should a scheduled flight not be available within a reasonable period of time having regard for the circumstances.
26.8	Should the death of an employee's immediate family member, as defined in Article 26.2, occur during an employee's vacation period, the affected employee by telephoning his/her supervisor as soon as reasonably possible may have the scheduled vacation cancelled and
48
in such case the funeral leave shall commence pursuant to Article 26.1.
ARTICLE27 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITSAND RETIREMENT PLAN
27.1	During the lifetime of this Agreement, there shall be a group insurance plan and a retirement plan which shall provide benefits for employees as set out herein. The conditions respecting the benefits under the said plans shall be as set forth in the plans.
27.2	The benefits under the plan and the responsibility for the payment of premiums shall be as set forth in 1 to 7 inclusive in this Article.
1.	Short Term Disability
1.1	If a disability results from a non-occupational injury, income benefits will be payable from the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report for work, up to a maximum of fifteen weeks during any one period of disability.
1.2	If a disability results from a non-occupational illness, income benefits will be payable
• Effective to July 7, 1999, twenty-seven and one half (27 Vi) hours after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks during any one period of disability.
- Effective from July 8, 1999, twenty-two (22) hours after the first scheduled work day the employee is unable to report to work, up to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks during any one period of disability.
49
1.3	The benefits will be at 70% of normal earnings to a
maximum of the following amounts in respect of a normal work week (77 hours).
(1)	Effective on February9,2006 -$1,275.00
(2)	Effectiveon June 1,2007 - $1,325.00
Where a delay occurs in an employee receiving his/her short term disability income benefits, and where the delay is not of the employee’s making, if requested to do so by the employee the Company in its discretion will advance funds to the employee of not more than $ 1,500. Any advanced funds will be repaid to the Company by way of a deduction from amounts owing to the employee, which in any event shell occur within three pay periods. The same shall be available to an employee,not more than once each calendar year.
1.4	The Union and the employees agree to forfeit the U1C rebate or reduction of premiums, in that the rebate or reduction is deemed to be in lieu of other benefits.
1.5	Benefits payable under a plan where the employee pays one hundred (100%) per cent of the premiums (employee-pay-all-plan) are exempt from income tax. All premiums (one hundred (100%) per cent) for this part of the plan shall be paid by the employee through payroll deductions.
2.	Long Term Disability
2.1	If an employee continues off work due to a nonoccupational injury or illness for a period longer than one hundred and five (105) days, the employee is eligible to apply for long term disabilityto age sixty-five (65) years.
2.2	Benefits under the plan are seventy (70%)per cent of regular earnings, inclusive of other benefits to which the
50
employee is entitled in such circumstance(e.g. Canadian
Pension Plan benefits).
2.3	Long term disability benefits are fixed at the level of benefits the employee was eligible for at the time of disability.
2.4	Disability is defined as the inability of an employee to perform the employee's own job classification for a period of twenty-four (24) months and thereafter the inability to perform any job for which the employee is suited by reason of education, training or experience.
2.5	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
3.	Lie Insurance
3.1	Employees and their families are covered by life insurance as follows:
—	employee- two (2) times yearly earnings with a minimum of $30,000.00
—	spouse- $5,000.00
—	each dependent child - $2,000,00
3.2	If the employee becomes totally disabled before retirement and is receiving LTD benefits, the life insurance shall continue until age sixty-five (65) years on a premium waiver basis.
3.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the Plan in respect of coverage to thirty thousand ($30,000.00) dollars shall be paid by the Company.
51
4,	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance
4.1	Employees are covered by accidental death and dismemberment insurance for accidental death or dismemberment, The same shall be in addition to employee life insurance coverage as in 3 of this Article.
4.2	The principal sum shall be $50,000.00 in the case of loss of life. There is to be a schedule regarding dismemberment and loss of sight and/or hearing.
4.3	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
5.	Dental Pian
5.1	A dental plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
5.2	The plan shall pay one hundred (100%) per cent of routine dental treatments, expenses and fifty (50%)per cent of major treatments and orthodontic treatment.
5.3	The plan shall pay a maximum in any one (1) calendar year of $1,250.00 in the case of each insured family member.
The aforementioned maximum shall increase as follows: Effective on June 1,2006 - $1,750.00 per calendar year. Effective on June 1,2007 - $2,000.00 per calendar year.
5.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent, for this part of the plan, shall be paid by the Company.
6.	Major Medical Insurance
6.1	A major medical plan covering employees and family members as applicable shall be in effect.
52
6.2	Hospital expenses, one hundred (100%) per cent for semi-private or private accommodations above those paid by Saskatchewan Health Services will be paid by the major medical plan.
6.3	The plan will pay eighty (80%)per cent of the costs of other servicesitems set forth in the plan.
6.4	The plan will cover hospital costs incurred while outside of Canada to a maximum of $8,000.00.
6.5	PRESCRIBED DRUGS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for prescribed drugs which are not now covered by the Saskatchewan Prescription Drug Services Plan.
6.6	EYE EXAMINATIONS: Subject to the general conditions of the plan to pay for Eye examinations which were covered by Saskatchewan Health Services, and which are not now covered by SaskatchewanHealth Services.
6.7	HEARING AIDS: The plan shall pay eighty (80%) per cent of the associated costs not covered by Saskatchewan Health Services.
6.8	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
7. Vision Care Insurance
7.1	A vision care plan covering employees and their family members as applicable shall be in effect.
7.2	The Plan will provide the payment on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of regular frames and lenses or contact lenses selected in place of eyeglass frames and lenses to a maximum benefit of one hundred and fifty ($150.00) dollars per person in any twenty-four (24) month period.
The aforementioned maximum shall increase as follows: 53
Effective on June 1, 2006 - $200.00 in any twenty four (24) month period.
Effective on June 1, 2007 - $225.00 in any twenty four (24) month period.
7.3	The Pian will provide for the payment of contact lenses on the basis of eighty (80%) per cent of the cost where medically necessary on a one-time basis and to a maximum benefit of two hundred ($200.00) dollars.
7.4	All premiums, one hundred (100%) per cent for this part of the plan shall be paid by the Company.
8. Retirement Plan
8.1	There shall be a retirement pian, which shall be amended and/or administered as the case may be to reflect the provisions of Appendix C (Employee Benefits: Retirement Plan) hereto.
8.2	Upon retirement the following options shall be available to the employee with respect to funds credited to his/her account at the time of his/her retirement:
(a)	have purchased for him/her an annuity effective from retirement date
(b)	have the funds transferred to an RRSP account established by the employee
(c)	have the funds remain in his/her existing account, and direct that an annuity be purchased at any subsequent datepsmLtbad by law
(d)	have the funds transferred to a RRIF account established by the employee
All the foregoing options are subject to any locking-in of funds which may have earlier been elected by the employee.
54
9.	General
9.1	Eligibility for the various employee benefit plans and retirement plan shall be as provided in the various plans.
9.2	The Company reserves the right to alter or amend the plans but shall not do so without first having consultation with the Union.
9.3	Any conflict between the details set forth in this Article and the group insurance plan and the retirement plan shall be resolved on the basis of the provision of the group insurance plan and/or the retirement plan, as the case may be.
10.	Sick Leave at the Work Site
Effective January 1, 2004 an employee who becomes bona fide ill at the work site shall be paid for up to twenty-two (22) hours sick leave pay during each calendar year, based on one hundred (100%) percent of his/her regular wage rate.
An employee who commences employment after January 1, 2004 shall become eligible for sick leave, on the 1" day of January of the year immediately following the year in which the employee commences employment.
27.3	Within a period of three (3) months from the signing date of the Collective Agreement, the Company will have prepared an Employee Benefits Plan Booklet which summarizes the Benefits plan referred to herein. The said Booklet will be amended in the event of substantive changes to any part of the plan. Each employee shall be provided with a copy of the said Booklet, and any substantive changes which may be made to any part of the plan.
55
ARTICLE 28 — HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.1	The Company shall institute and maintain all reasonable and necessary precautions for the heath and safety of its employees. All employees covered by this Agreement shall cooperate in the implementation of all such reasonable and necessary health and safety precautions. It is recognized as being the mutual obligation of the Company and the Union to assist in the elimination and prevention of unhealthy and unsafe working conditions and practices and jointly to assist in the prevention of accidents.
An employee who raises what he/she reasonably believes to be bona fide safety concerns shall suffer no adverse consequences as a result of raising such concerns.
28.2	Committee members shall not suffer any loss of pay while performing their duties at their mine site as members of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
28.3	Employees shall at all appropriate times use such devices and wear such articles of clothing or equipment as are intended for their protection.
28.4	The Company shall supply protective clothing and equipment in accordance with Company policy governing safety apparel.
ARTICLE 29 —APPRENTICESHIPPROGRAM
29.1	Apprenticeship vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled by posting the vacancy as in Article 11 of this Agreement. Only those employees who are northern residents shall be eligible for the apprenticeship program.
29.2	Employees who are indentured will be given leaves of absence in order to attend necessary formai training,
56
subject to the ability of the Company to meet its normal
requirements of operation.
29.3	Employees who are indentured will enter the program at a level as determined by the Apprenticeship Branch, Saskatchewan Department of Labour.
29.4	Apprenticed employees, while taking an approved formal off-site training course, will be paid the equivalent of their regular rate, less any Canada Manpower training allowance provided to or on behalf of the employee. Any living away from home allowance or travel allowance paid by the government shall not be deducted by the Company from the employee's wages.
29.5	Employees who do not attend each session and who do not have a reasonable cause for failing to attend may have their employmentterminated by the Company.
29.6	Employees who fail to obtain a passing mark may be afforded an opportunity to repeat the program in whole or in part. Where an employee is not afforded an opportunity to repeat the program (in whole or in part) or where the employee fails to obtain a passing mark after repeating the program (in whole or in part), the employee will be removed from the program. in such case, the employee will be offered an entry position in any line of progression provided the employee is qualified for the position and provided a vacancy exists at that time.
if no such vacancy exists, where in the Company's opinion an employee has made every reasonable effort to obtain a passing grade, but nonetheless fails to do so, the employee will be placed on lay-off and recalled if and when an entry position in any line of progression becomes available within a twelve (12) month period, provided the employee is qualified for the position.
29.7	(a) Apprenticeship wages will be shown in Appendix
A.
57
(b)	An apprentice will only move to the next pay rate
having successfully completed the course as prescribed by the Sad«b±ewan Apprenticeship Branch or after having completed the required months of experience and having demonstrated his/her capability to perform at that level.
29.8	Employees who are not northern residents vill be given consideration for entry into the apprenticeship program in a trade, only when there are no applicants for the posted apprenticeposition.
ARTICLE 29A — POWER ENGINEERTRAINING CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
29A. 1 Power Engineer Trainee vacancies as determined by the Company shall be filled by posting the vacancy as in Article 11 of this Agreement. Preference for filling vacancies in the Power Engineer Training Program will be extended to employees who are Northern residents.
29A.2 Trainees will be registered with an educationalinstitution offering a correspondenceprogram relevantto the necessary training (currently the SAIT Power Engineering program is the relevant program).
29A.3 All tuition and course material costs associated for the trainee’s current level of study will be paid at approximately the time of registration by the Company. Any necessary supplemental resource material will be provided by the Company.
29A.4 Power Engineers will be required to take the prescribed examinations at a location designated by the Boiler and Pressure Safety Branch of the Government of Saskatchewan.
An employee engaged in taking the prescribed examination off-site will be paid at his/her regular wage rate in respect of any scheduled working hours that the
58
employee missed as a result of being required to take the examination, fin employee who writes an exam on his/her scheduled day oif will be paid up to four hours at his/her overtime rate. All associated travel expenses shall be paid by the Company consistent with the Company's expenses schedule. Any examination fees will also be absorbed by the Company.
29A.5 Subject to operationalrequirements, a trainee assigned to the night shift will be permitted a reasonable amount of study time during normal working hours, but the same shall be limited to one (1) hour per shift. All such study time shall be approved by the trainee's supervisor.
29A.6 The time periods and pay rate progression for trainees is as follows:
Grade XII
Obtain Fireman's certificate Complete utilitiestraining write first set 4* class exams Obtain 4* class certificate Write first set 3" class exams, obtain 3" class permit, operate utilities independently Write second set 3” class exams, acid plant & CX training
Write third set 3” class exams, acid plant & CX training Obtain 3" class certificate 2nd class permit operate acid plant independently
2nd class permit operate all facilities independently
Total
29A.7 Trainees will be required to meet the time periods as outlined in Article 29A.6, Where a trainee fails to complete a required level of certificate in the designated time period, the Chief Power Engineer may grant an extension to a time period, where there is a reasonable
59
5c
5b 6 mo. 5a 6 mo. 4b 6 mo. 4a 6 mo.
3b 6 mo.
3a 6 mo.
2b 6 mo. 2a 6 mo.
lb 6 mo,
la 6 mo.
60 mo.
expectation that the trainee will successfully complete a required level.
29A.8 Where an employee has not been successful in obtaining a passing grade the employee will be offered an entry position in the mill operators progression provided the employee is qualified for the position and provided a vacancy exists at that time.
29A,9 If no such vacancy exists, and where in the Company’s opinion the employee has made every reasonable effort to obtain a passing grade, but nonetheless fails to do so, the employee will be placed on lay-off and, where qualified, shall be recalled if and when an entry position in the mill operators progression becomes available within the time period as referred to in Article 9.6(f) of this Agreement.
29A, 10 (a) Power Engineer Trainee wages will be as set forth in Appendix A.
(b) An employee shall advance to the next succeeding wage level immediately after having successfully completed the required exam for the applicable ticket level subject to the operating time requirements of the Boiler and Pressure Vessel Act of Saskatchewan. Any trainee operating at a level above his/her current ticket grade as a result of a permit shall be paid at the higher rate of pay for all hours of the work week so worked.
29A.11 Employees who are not Northern residents will be given consideration for entry into the Power Engineer Training Program only where there are no qualified Northern residents available for filling the vacancy.
29A. 12 An employee, in the Power Engineer Training Program who does not complete the requirementsof the program and is subsequently offered an entry level position in the mill operator progression, shall be placed on the wage progression schedule at three (3) levels lower than the
60
level at which the employee was paid immediately prior to accepting the mill operatorposition.
ARTICLE 30 — BULLETIN BOARDS
30.1	The Company will provide the Union with bulletin boards to be affixed in appropriate places where employees will be able to see and read them. The number of bulletin boards to be supplied by the Company and the locations for affixing such boards shall be agreed upon between the parties.
30.2	Bulletins to be posted shall be restricted to notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union and reports of various committeesof the Union. In addition, any other posting related to union matters as authorized by the General Manager.
30.3	Only bulletins authorized by Local 48-S Executive will
be posted.
ARTICLE 31 —MISCELLANEOUS
31.1	Sufficient copies of the Collective Agreement will be printed to supply the Company and the Union needs. The Company and the Union will share equally in the cost of such printing.
The parties shall agree as to the number of copies to be printed, and the total cost of same before an order is placed with a printer.
31.2	The Company agrees to allow access to the mine sites to the National Representative of the Union for the purpose of attending to official Union business, provided permission is first obtained from the Company. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
31.3	Where any Company transportation to a mine site is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a) Where the delay is such that the employee is unable to complete his/her scheduled shift on the
61
day of the delay, the employee shall in any event be guaranteed pay for all scheduled hours at his/her regular rate for that day.
(5) Where the employee reports on time and the transportation is delayed on the first and/or second day immediately following the employee's scheduled return to a mine site, the Company shall pay the employee at the employee's regular rate, all regular scheduled hours lost up to a maximum of twenty two (22). The guarantee set forth herein shall be in addition to the guarantee set forth in (a) herein.
31.4	Where any transportation from a mine site (defined as plane departure time) is delayed, the following shall apply:
(a)	Where the delay Is two (2) hours or less, the employee shall not receive any pay unless the employee works in which case, the employee shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times the employee's regular rate for all hours actually worked during the two (2) hours or less period of delay.
(b)	Where the delay is in excess of two (2) hours, employees will be paid for the delay thereafter, at their regular rate for all hours on that day prior to 7:00 p.m. Where the employee works on the day of the delay, the employee shall be paid at two (2) times the employee's regular rate for all hours actually worked during the period of delay prior to7:00 p.m.
31.5	The guarantees of hours and pay set forth in 31.3 and 31,4 shall not apply in the case of a delay resulting from a labour dispute or in the case of force majeure.
31.6	Except as otherwise specifically provided in this CollectiveAgreement, all notices required to be given by either party shall be given as follows:
62
Areva Resources Canada Inc.
P.O. Box 9204 Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7K 3X5
Attention: Vice-President,
Human Resources & Industrial Relations
and
Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union Local 48-S
McClean Lake/Cluff Lake, Saskatchewan
Attention: Local Union President
* A copy of any notice to the Local Union Presidents at Cluff Lake and McClean Lake shall be forwarded to the Presidents normal place of residence.
ARTICLE 32 — CALL-OUT
32.1	An employee who has already left his/her work area after completion of the employee's scheduled shift and who is recalled for work shall be paid at two (2) times the employee's regular rate for all hours worked on recall, up to the starting time of his/her next scheduled shift, but in any event the employee shall be paid for not less than four (4)hours at his/her regular rate.
32.2	The provisions of 32.1 above do not apply if the employee is recalled within one (1) hour of the starting time of the employee'sregular shift.
32.3	Where a call-outresults in an employee having less than a total of eight (8) hours rest between the time the employee completes work on a regular shift (or completion of any overtime following that shift), and the start of the employee's next regular scheduled shift, the employee will be paid at regular rate for the hours not
63
worked between the beginning of his/her next scheduled shift and the time of the employee's return to work upon having accumulated a total of eight (8) hours of rest since the completion of his/her last regular shift or completion of any overtime following that shift.
ARTICLE 33 — MEDICAL CERTIFICATE-ILLNESS
33.1	An employee before returning to work following an illness or accident shall furnish a written certificate from a qualified medical practitioner or from a public health nurse. Where the cost of the same is not covered by a third party, that cost will be borne by the Company provided a receipt from the practitioner or nurse is supplied to the Company.
33.2	The Company may at any time require of an employee that he/she submit to a medical examination by a qualified medical practitioner of the Company's choice, and in such case the cost of same shall be borne by the Company.
ARTICLE 34 — CONTRACTING-OUT
34.1	Subject only to 34.2 herein, it is agreed that the Company reserves the unfettered right to contract-out work where in its exclusive opinion, it is necessary, economic or expedient to do so.
34.2	The Company, however, will not contract-out work where to do so, directly results in the lay-off of an employeein the bargaining unit.
64
ARTICLE 35 —WORKBYSUPERVISORS
35.1	It is recognized that the duties of a Supervisor are primarily supervisoryin nature. Included in these duties, but not limited to, a Supervisor will instruct, train, demonstrate or temporarily provide assistance to an employee in the performance of his/her duties. During the performance of his/her duties, a Supervisor shall not take the opportunity of overtime away from an employee. Therefore, when an opportunity (such as lunch break) for overtime work occurs, a qualified employee shall be provided the option to perform the work. An employee may refuse to work an unreasonable amount of overtime however, in all cases of emergency or at shift changes the employee shall be required to work overtime (see Article 19.1). However, if no qualified employee is immediately (same shift) available or in the event of an emergency or to ensure the operations continue without disruption, the supervisor may carry out the required work.
35.2	For the purpose of this Article 35, emergency includes any situation that has the potential cause injury to an employee, physical damage to the plant or to equipment, or environmentdamage.
ARTICLE 36 — PREMIUMS AND ALLOWANCES
36.1	The following premiums and allowances shall apply:
(a)	TtoL Allowance: Employees who are required to furnish their own tools shall be paid a tool allowance effective from February 9, 2006 for each pay period as follows:
(i)	In the case of Heavy Duty Mechanics up to $55.00 per pay period.
65
(ii)	in the case of He Industrial Mechanics up to $50,00 per pay period.
(iii)	in the case of all other employees raqjirad to furnish their own tools $45.00 per pay period.
This said allowanceis to cover loss, breakage orreplace-ment of tools. The tools required to be supplied shall be as per the approved tool list. It is understood that it may be necessary from time to time to make reasonable changes to the approved tool list having regard to the nature of the work to be performed by the employee.
TbriL allowances as herein provided shall not apply where an employee is to be absent from work for a period exceeding four (4) consecutive normal work weeks of that employee due to lay-off, illness/accident, or leave of absence.
In occurrences as described above, the Company will, based on the employee's preference, either securely store the employees tools at the site, or deliver the employees tools to one of the Company's normal pick-up points. An employee who wishes his/her tools delivered, shall notify the Company as to the normal pick-up point to which the employeewishes the tools delivered.
In the event a tool as per the approved tool list, does not pass radiation inspection (after cleaning) to allow the tool to be removed from the site, that tool will be replaced by the Company.
An employee shall inform his/her Supervisor of any tool(s) in addition to those identified on the approved tool list he/she has at the site which are necessary for the performance of that employee's job. Where such advice has been given, such tool(s) shall likewise be subject to this Article.
66
Where an employee is to leave the work site and not return, any of his/her tools which are required to be supplied by the employee pursuant to the approved tool list, which do not pass radiation inspection after cleaning shall be replaced by the Company, or the Company may elect to pay the employee for the cost of any affected tool on the list.
(b)	Safety Boot Allowance: Employees shall wear approved safety hoots at all times while at the work place. Employees other than probationary employees will be granted a safety boot allowance as follows, payable on the employee's anniversary date of employment.
Effective February 9, 2006 - $150.00 in each
calendar year.
A probationary employee shall be paid the aforesaid allowance after the completion of the employee's probationary period and annually thereafter on the employee's anniversary date.
In addition to the foregoing, in the case of an employee whose primary duties require him/her to work outdoors, upon the production of a receipt of purchase, the employee will be reimbursed for the cost of the initial purchase of winter safety boots to a maximum of one hundred and thirty ($150.00) dollars. Where after a period of twenty four (24) months has expired from the initial purchase, the employee satisfies the Company that his/her winter safety boots have become unwearable as a result of normal usage on the company premises, upon the production of a receipt of purchase the Company shall reimburse the employee for the cost of a subsequent purchase to a maximum of one hundred and thirty ($150.00) dollars. Reimbursements in no event shall be made more frequently than once in respect of a twenty four (24) month period.
(c)	Lead Hands: Where the Company designates an employee as a temporary lead hand, the employee shall be paid $77.00 per pay period in addition to his/her regular rate. A Lead Eland shall not apply disciplinary measures to another bargaining unit employee on behalf of the Company.
67
Where the employee is assigned to such a function during only part of a pay period, but for periods of one (1) normal day or more, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
(d)	Night Sift Premium: An employee assigned to work regular hours between 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM will be paid a premium of one ($1.00) dollar per hour in respect of all regular hours worked during the said period.
The aforementioned night shift premium shall be increased to the following amounts:
Effective: February 9, 2006 - $1,30 per hour.
Effective: June 1, 2007 - $1.40 per hour.
Shift Overlap Premium: A Shift overlap premium of seventy ($70.00) dollars per pay period shall be paid to an employee(s) who is designated to remain at his/her work area until the incoming shift employees have received directions from the designated employee on the finishing shift. The foregoing is in contemplation of a minimum of five (5) minutes and a maximum of fifteen (15) minutes per shift and includes cleanup time.
The aforementioned shift overlap premium shall be increased to the following amounts:
Effective: June 1, 2006 - seventy-five ($75.00) dollars per pay period.
Effective: June 1,2007 - eighty ($80.00) dollars per pay period.
(e)	Multi-Skill Premium: Where in the performance of his/her job, an employee is required by the Company to hold two (2) or more valid Provincial or Interprovincial joumeyperson's tickets, the employee shall be paid a multiskill premium of $110,00 per pay period in addition to the employee's regular rate.
68
(f)	Boiler Operator Ticket Premium: Where in the performance of his/her job, an employee is required by the Company to hold a Boiler Ticket, the employee shall be paid a premium of $25,00 per pay period in addition to the employee'sregular rate.
(g)	Split Shift Premium - Bartenders: Where the Company assigns a Bartender to a split shift, and the employee does not receive a Rotating Shift premium, a split shift premium of $25.00 per pay period will be paid in addition to the employees regular pay. Where the employee is assigned to a split shift during only part of a pay period, the payment shall be made on a pro-rata basis.
(h)	Power EngineerTicket Premiums: Effective from July 8, 1999 where in the performance of his/her job an employee is required by the Company to hold a first or second class Power Engineer (Steam) ticket, the employee shall be paid a minimum premium of $250,00 (inclusive of the Boiler Operator Ticket Premium) in addition to the employee's regular rate.
(i)	Except as may be otherwise provided in this Article or another Article of this Collective Agreement, all premiums and allowances are payable only in respect of hours worked.
Except for lead hand, shift over-lap, night shift and split shift premiums, for the purposes of this paragraph, vacations and general holidays are considered as hours worked.
69
ARTICLE 37 — EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
(a)	Where a formal evaluation of an employee’s performance is made the employee shall be given an opportunity to review, and sign the completed evaluation form to indicate that its contents have been read. The employee shall have the right to place his/her own comments on or appended to the form.
(b)	Refusal to sign the form shall be signified on the form. The absence of the employees signature on the form shall not render the evaluation invalid.
(c)	Where the employee requests a copy of the evaluation a copy thereof shall be provided to him/her,
ARTICLE 38 —DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement, including the Supplementary Agreement attached hereto, shall be binding upon the parties from June 1, 2005 and shall remain in force and effect until May 31, 2009, and from year to year, thereafter, unless either party not less than thirty days nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the termination date hereof, gives notice in writing, to the other party to terminate, renew or negotiate revision to this Agreement.
FOR AREVA RESOURCES CANADA INC.
J. Corman	T, Van Lambalgen
D, Wudrick	S. Venaas
70
FOR COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S
W. Manning D. Pingert
K. Higginbotham C. Chanin
71
D. Brown G. Wrightson
APPENDIX "A"
WAGE SCHEDULE
YEAR#!
1. Forthe Period between June 1,2005 and May 31,2006:
An increase in the wage schedule (except the amount in respect of STD of three (3,0%) percent.
YEAR #2
2. For the period between June 1,2006 and May 31,2007:
An increase in 1he wage schedule (except 1he amount in
respect of STD) of three (3,0%) percent.
YEAR #3
3.	For the period between June 1,2007 and May 31,2008:
An increasein the wage schedule (exceptthe amount in respect of STD) of: five and one quarter (5.25%) percent.
YEAR #4
4.	For the period between June 1,2008 to May 31,2009:
An increasein the wage schedule (except 1he amountin respect of STD) of five and three quarters(5.75%) percent.
The adjustment in respect cf the STD plan shall retain at forty six ($.46) cents during 1he whole of the period of 1he new collective agreement.
*Retroactivity on wages and overtime shaJ l apply only to employees actively on the Company payroll at the date of ratification,February 9,2006.
72
WAGESCHEDULE
Level	June 1,2005'	June 1,2006	June 1,2007	June 1,2008
	3.0%	3.00%	5.25%	5.75%
1A+				35.45+0.46=35.9 L
1A	30.00+0.46=30.46	30.90+0.46=31.36	32:52+0.46=32.98	34.39+0.46=34.85
IB	28.99+0.46=29.45	29.86+0.46=30.32	31.43+0.46=31.89	33.24+0.46=33.70
2A	27.77+0.46=28.23	28.60+0.46=29.06	30.10+0.46=30.56	31.83+0.46=32.29
2B	26.58+0.46=27.04	27.38+0.46=27.84	28.82+0.46=29.28	30.48+0.46=30.94
3A	25.39+0.46=25.85	26.15+0.46=26.61	27.52+0.46=27.98	29.10+0.46=29.56
3B	24.22+0.46=24.68	24.95+0.46=25.41	26.26+0.46=26.72	27.77+0.46=28.23
4A	23.02+0.46=23.48	23.71+0.46=24.17	24.95+0.46=25.41	26.38+0.46=26.84
4B	21.60+0.46=22.06	22.25+0.46=22.71	23.42+0.46=23.88	24.77+0.46=25.23
5A	20.61+0.46=21.07	21.23+0.46=21.69	22.34+0.46=22.80	23.62+0.46=24.08
5B	19.48+0.46=19.94	20.06+0.46=20.52	21.11+0.46=21.57	22.32+0.46=22.78
5C	18.97+0.46=19.43	19.54+0.46=20.00	20.57+0.46=21.03	21.75+0.46=22.21
NOTES:
a)	Table shows introduction of new Wage Level 1A+ in Januaiy 1,2008. From Jan 1,2008 to May 31,2008 1A+ rate is $100 above 1A rate to be
calculated at $33.52)
b)	Warehouse attendant top progression level increased to 2B on Januaiy 1,2008.
APPENDIX B
WAGE PROGRESSIONSCHEDULE
1,1 Levels 1A+ JA IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Standard Time Periods Refer to Appendix B, 1 -3 60 months and after 54-60 months 48-54 months 42-48 months 36-42 months 30-36 months 24-30 months 18-24 months 12-18 months 6-12 months Entry-6 months
1.2 Notwithstandingthe standard time period provided for Level IB, in the case of Heavy Equipment Operators (Mine Department) and Mill Operators (Mil Department) the standard time pericd for Level IB shall be 54-66 months.
1.3 Effective January 1, 2008 the following personnel will be eligible for the 1A+ level: Ticketed Joumeypersons and 172nd/ Class Power Engineers with 6000 hours of continuous service with Areva Resources Canada Inc,, also Mil Operators who are at the 1A level with 6000 hours of continuous service with AREVA Resources Canada Inc. and who have successfully achieved and maintained certification in all circuits of the mill.
74
APPENDIX B.1
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Mine Department
Levels	1A+
1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C
Job Classification
1A+
-I-	1A
Ticketed Joumeypersons	Heavy Equipment
172"* Class Power	Operators
Engineers
3A
4A
3A
Survey	Dry Persons	Utility
Assistants	& Janitors	Person
APPENDIX B.2
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Mill Department
Levels 1A+
'A+
ON
1A
IB
2A
2B
3A
3B
4A
4B
5A
5B
5C
1A	1A
3A
l- or y* Class Power
Engineers with 6000 hours continuous service juxi Mill Operators with 6000 hours of continuous Serv ice and who meet the
11k
Power Engineer M31 Operators Dry Persons (1‘ or 2* Class	& Janitors
Certificate)
Utility
Person
Section Oof Appendix B
APPENDIX B.3
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
Mine & Mill Maintenance Employees
1A+ 1A IB 2A 2B 3A 3B 4A 4B 5A 5B 5C Job Classification
1A+
1A
IB
5B
Joumeyperson	Joumeyperson	Apprentices
Ticketed with	Ticketed	Indentured
6000 hours of continuous service with AREVA
IB	IB
5A
5C
Tradesperson	Trades Helpers
Non-ticketed	Maintenance
APPENDIX B.4
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
General Services & RPHS & EP Departments
Levels 1A+
1A
IB
2A
2B
3A
3B
4A
4B
5A
5B
5C
Job
Classification
1A+
Journeyperson Ticketed with 6000 hours of continuous service with AREVA
0
-I—	IB
5B
Journeyperson Apprentices Ticketed Indentured
2B'
3A+
5A
Warehouse
Persons
IB
5C
General
Helpers
Operators
3A
5C
Radiation
Samplers
3A
5C
11
* 1: Effective January 1,2008 the top wage level for warehouse persons will be Level 2B.
APPENDIX C
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: RETIREMENT PLAN
CONTRIBUTIONS:
(A)	The plan currently provides that by payroll deductions, an employee contributes 5% of the first $417,00 of regular monthly earnings, and 4% of regular monthly earnings in excess thereof. The Company contributes 76% of the employees contributions. The approximate effective company’s contribution rate is 3,16% of the employee’s regular earnings.
(B)	The Retirement Plan shall be amended to reflect the following contribution rates:
(i) Effective from July 8, 1999 the contribution rates shall be:
(a)	Employee contribution:	an amount of
4.16% of employee’s regular earnings
(b)	Company contribution:	an amount of
3.81% of employee’sregularearnings
(ji) Effective June 1, 2000 contribution rates shall be amended to reflect the following:
(a)	Employee contribution:	an amount of
4.50% of employee’sregularearnings
(b)	Company contribution:	an amount of
4.50% of employee’sregular earnings
(iii) Effective June 1, 2001 contribution rates shall be amended to reflect the following:
(a)	Employee contribution:	an amount of
5.00% of employee’sregular earnings
(b)	Company contribution:	an amount of
5.00% of employee’sregular earnings
79
(C)	Upon retirement the following options shall be available to the employee with respect to funds credited to his/her account at the time of his/her retirement:
(a)	have purchased for him/her an annuity effective from retirement date
(b)	have the hinds transferred to an RRSP account established by the employee
(c)	have the funds remain in his/her existing account, and direct that an annuity be purchased at any subsequentdate permitted by law
(d)	have the funds transferred to a RRIF account established by the employee
(D)	In order to give effective meaning to Article27.8,2, the following administrative practises will apply:
Subject to (ii) below, an employee may not withdraw the contributions made on the employee’s behalf by the Company, and may only withdraw that part of the employee’s contributions which are in excess of the contributions the Company has made on the employee’s behalf.
Subject to any applicable law, an employee may withdraw or have contributions transferred, if the employee loses seniority and employment rights by virtue of Article 9,6 of the Collective Agreement.
(i)
(ii)
80
APPENDIX D
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as "the Company"),
-and-
COMMUNICATION,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION, LOCAL 48-S
(hereinafter referred to as "the Union").
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Collective Agreement
dated July 8, 1999 which may suggest otherwise, the parties agree to
apply Article 21,2, subjectto the following:
1.	Any employee who is entitled to vacation days off, and has not earned vacation pay entitlement in respect of ail those vacation days, may elect to waive entitlement to these vacation days off in respect of which the employee is not entitled to vacation pay.
2.	Any employee who intends to make an election to waive as in paragraph 1, shall make such election within a fourteen (14) calendar day period immediately preceding April 30 and October 31 of each year.
3.	Either party may give notice of termination of this Memorandum of Agreement by giving a three (3) months written notice thereof to the other party.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement without written notice as set forth in paragraph 3 herein shall, in any event, automatically terminate on expiry of the CollectiveAgreement.
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan,this 11 th day of June, 2003.
For the Company:	For the Union:
B.	Hickie______ M. Burke
81
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
RE
ARTICLE 21.4 - COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
During negotiations for the new Collective Agreement, the parties agreed to amend Article 21.4 of the Collective Agreement to read as follows:
21.4 A fullyearof servicemeans 1,771 hours worked, less an employee’s vacation entitlement in excess of twenty-one (21) days. Where an employee works less than 1,771 hours in a year, the employee’s pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during the year.
The material effect of the amendment is to eliminate the provision whereby overtime hours worked were capable of being utilized for the purposes of accumulatingup to a full year of service.
In lieu of the foregoing amendment, each employee who has worked not less than twelve hundred (1,200) straight time hours during any year ending on May 31‘ (commencingMay 31,2000), shallbepaida gross payment of one hundred ($100.00) dollars no later than the second scheduled pay date after May 31 *.
82
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNTIES RE
SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS-CLUFF LAKE MINE SITE
The following shall apply only to those Cluff Lake mine site employees who have been given notice of lay-off (with no reasonable expectation of being recalled), and; who may be interested in becoming employed at the McClean Lake mine site should a position for which they may be qualified, become available at the McClean Lake mine site:
(a) Within a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days after being laid-off, the employee shall notify the Company in writing as to any job(s) for which he/she is qualified and which he/she wishes to be considered for in the event a position becomes open at the McClean Lake mine site.
(5) The Company will advise the President of the local Union in writing (with a copy to the Local Union Vice President) as to the names of employees who have given notice to the Company, pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(c)	An employee who has been offered, and has rejected an employment offer at the McClean Lake mine site, shall receive no further consideration for any other openings which occur at the McClean Lake mine site.
(d)	Subject to all the applicable conditions set forth in this Memorandum, the qualified employee with the greatest seniority at the Cluff Lake mine site amongst those seeking consideration for a particular position shall be awarded the position.
The following general conditions apply:
(e)	The northern preference provisions of the Collective Agreement, the applicable Surface Lease Agreements: the applicable Human Resources Development Agreements and any other applicable agreements respecting northern residents shall supersede and not be affected by the terms of this Memorandum of Agreement;
83
1(0 Where a position became available at the Me Clean Lake mine site, qualified employees at that site will be considered prior to consideration being given to former employees from the Cluff Lake mine site.
(g)	The seniority which an employee has accumulated ai the Cluff Lake mine site shall not apply at the McClean Lake mine site;
(h)	Notwithstanding paragraph (0 hereof, an employee's service time at the Cluff Lake mine site, for the purposes only of vacations, severance pay (Article 13,A of the Collective Agreement), employee benefits/retirement plan shall apply;
(i)	This Memorandum of Agreement shall not apply io an employee who has accepted severance pay following his/her lay-off at the Cluff Lake site;
(j)	An employee who is offered and accepts employment at the McClean Lake site shall make himself/herself available for pick-up at an established McClean Lake site pick-up point:
(k)	Except to the extent as may be specifically provided for in this Memorandum, the Collective Agreement, the Supplementary Agreement signed June 22, 1999 and the Memorandum of Agreement (Re: Vacation Bonus) signed June 22, 1999 shall continue to apply as applicable in all respects.
Dated at Saskatoon this 8" day of July, 1999.
CQGEM A RESOURCES INC. COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERSUNION OF CANADA LOCAL 48-S
B.Hicki
M. Pvck
84
MEMORANDUMOF AGREEMENT
SEVERANCE PAY RE
SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS-CLUFF LAKE MINE SITE
A.	Article 13,1 A - Severance Pay of the Collective Agreement shall not apply to employees at the Cluff Lake mine site, who are actively employed by the Company at July 8, 1999 and will be laid off as a result of the suspension of operations. Instead thereof, the following shall apply to the aforementioned employees:
(a)	the employees will have had one year (2002 hours) or mere of employment with the Company;
(b)	at the time of lay-off there is not a reasonable expectation the employee will be recalled to work ar the Cluff Lake mine site;
B.	Severance pay shall be paid to an employee who qualifies for the same under this Memorandum of Agreementbased on:
One and one-half (1 Vi] pay periods pay (ie: 115,5 hours) at the employee’s regular rate at the time of the lay-off for each full year of service at the time of lay-off.
C.	Acceptance of severance pay will be classed as voluntary resignation with termination of the employee’s seniority and employment rights.
Dated at Saskatoon this 8lh day of July, 1999,
IA RESOURCES INC.	COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANA] LOCAL 48-S
I. Hicl it
M. Dvck
85
SUPPLEMENTARYAGREEMENT
TO THE:
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COGEMA RESOURCES INC., (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"),
and.
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA,
LOCAL 48-S,
(hereinafterreferred to as the "Union").
It is understood and agreed that this Supplementary Agreement shall be read, interpreted, administered and applied as if all its terms and conditions were embodied within the Collective Agreement between the parties to the Collective Agreement.
The CollectiveAgreement shall be deemed to reflect the following:
1.	Article 7.2: Union dues remittances shall be on an individual mine site basis. That is to say, there shall be a monthly remittance together with the accompanying information required by Article 7.3, in respect of bargaining unit employees at Cluff Lake, and a separate monthly remittance together with the accompanying information in respect of bargaining unit employees at McClean Lake.
2.	Article 7.3: Where an employee has been specifically hired for work at the McClean Lake mine site but for training purposes is assigned to the Cluff Lake mine site, the Union dues in respect of that employee will be remitted with the Cluff Lake mine site remittances in so long as the employee is employed at the Cluff Lake mine site.
3.	Article 8.1: There shall be a separate grievance committee at each of the two (2) mine sites with representation from the three (3) Departments referred to in the Article.
86
4.	Article 8.2; There shall be a separate OccupationalHealth and Safety Committee at each of the two (2) mine sites
with representatives from the three (3) Departments referred to in the Article.
5.	Article 8,3: Tharashall he onefP nerphiahnng committee with representation from each of the two (2) mine sites provided however that the maximum number of members as recognized or attending negotiating meetings shall be as set forth in the Article.
16.	Article 9,1: Seniority will be defined as continuous service
with the Company since the last date of hire at the mine site where the employee is employed.
7.	Article 9.2: Seniority may be exercised only within the employee's Department at the mine site where the employee is employed.
8.	Article 9.4: An employee who has been specificallyhired for work at the McClean Lake site, but who for training purposes is assigned to the Cluff Lake mine site shall not accumulate seniority at the Cluff Lake mine site. Such an employee when he/she commences employment at the McClean mine site shall for seniority purposes be credited on the McClean Lake seniority list with all time worked at the Cluff Lake mine site.
9.	Article 10: There will be recognition of Surface Lease Agreements at both mine sites. Notwithstanding anything herein or otherwise which may suggest the contrary, it is agreed that in respect of all matters which relate to seniority (including employment and employment related matters) at McClean Lake or Cluff Lake, the Collective Agreement's provisions are subject to the respective Surface Lease Agreements and/or the Human Resources Development Agreements and/or any agreements with Government which relates to employment and employment matters. The Surface Lease shall prevail over the Human Resources Development Agreement in the event of conflict between those documents.
10.	Article 11.0: Jobs will be posted and filled on a site-wide application basis. This Article will be applied to reflect the foregoing. An employee at one mine site may not exercise or transfer his/her seniority to the other mine site, but an employee at a mine site who is offered and accepts employmentas a newly hired employee at the other mine site, shall retain his/her service time with the Company only for any of the following applicablepurposes:
87
Article20.0 Relative to Classification assignment and progression on the wage schedule Article 21.3	Vacations/General Holidays
Article 27.	EmployeeBenefits and Retirement
Plan
Memorandum of Agreement Re: Vacation Bonus
11.	Article 13: Lay-off and recalls will apply on an individual mine site basis, and departmentalbasis at each mine site.
12.	Article 14: This article shall be deemed to apply with respect to each mine site and without restricting the generality of the foregoing and the percentage identified in Article 14.6 shall apply at each site individually.
13.	Article 21: All provisions with respect to vacations including scheduling shall be deemed to be on an individual mine site basis.
14.	General: Any conflict between anything contained in this Supplementary Agreement and anything contained in the Collective Agreement shall be resolved on the basis of that which is contained in this SupplementaryAgreement.
This Supplementary Agreement shall be binding upon the parties in
so long as the Collective Agreement is binding upon these parties.
Signed at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan,this 22nd day of June, 1999,
FOR COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
B.Hickie	E. Doell	D,	Greyeyes	H, Piercy
D,	Seright	L. Buckley	J. Corman
FOR COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS
UNION OF CANADA - LOCAL 48-S
G, Steininger	T, Aubichon	A. Goodwin	K	Greenaway
M.Dyck	A. Dreher	E. Lidguerre
88
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COGEMA RESOURCES INC. (hereinafter referred to as "the Company”)
■ and ■
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA, LOCAL 48-S (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)
It is agreed that die following vacation bonus provision as had been set forth m Article 21.5 between these parties, shall continue to apply to Cluff Lake employees who were in die employ of die Company as cf April 28,1994.
After the completion of each complete four (4) years of continuous service (7,084 hours worked), an employee shall be granted a vacation bonus based on seven (7) days‘ pay at regular rate.
Where an employee during any applicable complete four (4) year period works less than 7,084 hours, die employee shall receive a vacation bonus, but die employee’s bonus pay shall be pro-rated on the basis of actual hours worked during such period. The vacation bonus shall he paid upon completion of each complete
four (4) year period.
Where an employee has qualified for die vacation bonus as provided herein, the employee may request that die said vacation bonus be paid at a time to coincide with the employee’s vacation.
This memorandum of agreement shall he binding upon the parties in so long as the Collective Agreement is binding upon these parties,
DATED at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan,this 22nd day of June, 1999.
FOR COGEMA RESOURCES INC. FOR COMMUNICATIONS,
RE: VACATION BONUS
ENERGY AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA -LOCAL48-S
B, Hickie
M, Dyck
June 21,1999
DELIVERED BY HAND
MfvMurray Dyck President
rgy
on
• and.
Gentlemen:
RE: Articles 34 tod 35 of:
Collective Agreement
During negotiations for a new collective agreementihe parties engaged in discussionsrclati ve to Articles 34 and 35 of the collective agreement.
During those discussions the Company representative made certain observations relative to those Article. Those Observations are as follows:
Article 34-Contracting-out
The company re-affirms ils comments thai before contracting-out work of a significant nature, that ils representatives will advise the Union as io the nature of the work it contemplates contracling-oui.
The foregoing shall apply only where there are bargaining unit employees on lay-off (retaining recall rights), sufficient in number and qualifications, such that there would be a reasonable expectation they could perform the work economically and expeditiously if afforded an opportunity to do so.
This undertaking does nol limit the company rights as sei forth in this Article or otherwise.
Article 35 - Work by Supervisors
nie companyre-alfimis thai the duties of supervisor are primarily supervisory in nature.
The intention is that Supervisors perform bargaining unit work only in cases where the circumstances are such that the supervisordeems it is necessary io do so.
nie company undertakes io remind supervisors as to the provisions and limitations set forth in
Article 33.
We believe the foregoing summarizes the essentials of our discussionsrelative to those Articles. Yours truly,
B. Hickie
Manager, Human Resources
Bfljy
cc: Mr. Gordon H.Steininger
National Represen(alivc-CEP Union And: All Members of Unions Negotiating Committee
90
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COGEMA RESOURCES INC.
(hereinafter referred to as "theCompany")
- and -
COMMUNICATIONS, ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION
OF CANADA,LOCAL 4$-S (hereinafter referred to as "theUnion")
It is understood that the decommissioning of the Cluff Lake mine site will requin the retention of several bargaining unit employees for a period of several months.
Where bargaining unit employees at Cluff lake are interested in obtaining employment at McClean Lake should be a position for which they may be qualified become available and where such a position becomes available prior to the Company beinu able to release such employees from their positions at Cluff Lake, the following shall apply:
1(a)	nie employee shall notify the company of hisher interest in an open position at
McClean Lake for which he/she is qualified.
(b) The northern preference provisions of the Collective Agreement, the applicable Surface Lease Agreements, the applicable Human Resources Development Agreements and any other applicable agreements respecting northern residents shall supersede and not be affected by the terms of this Memorandum of Agreement.
(c)	Where a position becomes available at the McClean Lake mine site qualified employees at that site will be considered prior to consideration being given to employees currently at the Cluff Lake mine site.
(d)	Subject to all applicable conditions set forth in this Memorandum the qualified employee with the greatest seniority at the Cluff Lake none site amongst those who have notified the company of their interest in the position at McClean Lake shall be awarded the position.
(e)	Where an employee from Cluff Lake is offered and accepts a transfer to McClean Lake the employee will be allowed a period of 500 hours of work at McClean Lake for the purpose of assessing his/her qualifications for the position. Where within the 500 hour period the employee is unable to meet the qualifications for the position the employee will be placed on layoff. Where such layoff is to occur, the employee will be entitled to severance in the same amount as he/she would otherwise have been entitled to had he/she been laid off from hisher position at Cluff Lake on the same date as the date of transfer to McClean Lake.
(f)	Where the position at McClean Lake is to be filled by a qualified employee at Cluff Lake the position at McClean Lakemay be filled on a temporary basis until such time as the Cluff Lake employee is released to the McClean Lake mine site.
(g)	nie seniority which an employee has accumulated at the Cluff Lake mine site shall not apply attheMcClcan Lake mine site.
(h)	Not withstanding paragraph (g) hereof, an employee's service time at the Cluff Lake mine site, Tor the purposes only of vacation, severance pay (Article 13A of the Collective Agreement) employee benefits/retirement plan shall apply.
Dated at Saskatoon this 17" day of December 2004,
COGEMA Resources Inc.	COMMUNICATIONS.
ENERGY	AND
PAPERWORKERS UNION OF CANADA LOCAL 48-S
91
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
COMMUNICATIONS,ENERGY AND PAPERWORKERS UNION OF LOCAL 48*S (CEP)
■ and •
COGEMA Resources Inc.
SASKATOONS K (COGEMA)
R E Health Safety industrial Relations Training Fund (HSIRTF)
Further to the Collective Agreement effective from June l", 2005 and expiring on May 31, 2009, the Company agrees to conhibute monies to the Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada's (CEP), Health Safety and Industrial Relations Fund (HSIRTF) for training solely in the areas of Health, Safety and Industrial Relations.
Contributions shall be calculated on the basis of sixty dollars ($60.00) per annum per bargaining unit member calculated annually and paid January 31 of each year to the HSIRTF,
The HSIRTF agrees to provide to the Company an annual HSIRTF audit.
Training carried out under this Fund will be subject to the Leave of Absence provisionscontained in the Collective Agreement.
These terms and conditions will apply for twelve months commencing January 31, 2006. At that time, should a review of the program determine it to be successful the Company will extend the agreement to May 3t“, 2009, This will then become part of the collective agreement.
Signed this:
Date: January 14, 2006 Walter Manning
National Representative, Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada
Jim Corman
GeneralManagerMcCiean Lake Operations,COGEMA Resourceslnc.
92
SUBJECT INDEX
Article Page
AD & D Insurance............................27.2.4
Annual Vacation.................................21
Apprenticeship..................................29
Arbitration.....................................16
Benefits........................................27
Boiler Ticket Premium....................36.1 (0
Boot Allowance...........................36.1 (b)
Bulletin Boards.................................30
Bumping Rights................................13.8
Call Out........................................32
Check-Off........................................7
Clothes - Safety............................. 28.4
Common-Law Defined............................26.3
Contracting Out.................................34
Crown Witness...................................25
Dental Plan.................................27.2.5
Discrimination...................................2
Dues (Union).....................................7
Duration of Agreement...........................38
Discharge/Dismissal from Company..............15.8
Education Leave.................................24
Employee Performance Evaluations................37
Flight Delays.................................31.3
Force Majeure.................................31.5
Funeral Leave...................................26
General Holidays............................  21.5
General Holiday Pay...........................21.6
Grievance Definition..........................15.1
Grievance Procedure...........................15.5
Health and Safety...............................28
HSIRTF..................Memorandum of Agreement
Hours of Work...................................18
Immediate Family..............................26.2
Job Classification..............................20
Job Posting...................................11.2
Job Transfers...................................11
Journeyman (Ticketed)........................20.10
52
40 56 31 49
69 67 61 22
63 7
56
48
64
46 52
2
7
70 29 45 70 62 62
47
41 41 27 27 56 92 33 47 37 16 16 39
93
Jury Duty			25	46
Layoff			13	21
Lead Hand Premium			36.1 (c)	67
Leave of Absence			22	43
Life Insurance			27.2.3	51
Long Term Disability			27.2.2	50
Lunch-Overtime			19.4	36
Lunch Period			18.4	34
Management Rights			4	5
Medical Certificate			33	64
Medical Insurance			27.2.6	52
Membership			6	7
Multi-Skill Premium			36.1 (e)	68
Negotiating Committee			8.3	9
Night Shift Premium			36.1(d)	68
Normal Work Week			18.3	33
Northern Preference			10	15
No Strikes/No Lockouts			17.1	33
Non-Ticketed Job Class			20.9	39
Occupational Health & Safety			8.2	9
Overtime			19	35
Personal Leave			22	43
Power Engineer Ticket Premium			36.1 (h)	69
Power EngineerTraining Certification Program	29A		58
Premiums and Allowances			36	65
Probation			9.4	12
Promotions			11	16
Progressions			20.6-20.7	38
- Mine			75
- Mill			76
- Mine and Mill Maintenance			Appendix B.3	77
- General Services		.... Appendix B.4	78
Recall			13.4	22
Recognition - Union			5	5
Regular Rate			3A	3
Reinstatement			15.9	30
Rest Breaks			18.5	34
Retirement Plan			27.2.8	54
Retirement Plan			Appendix C	79
94		
Safety			28	56
Seniority - Definition			9.1	12
- List			9.7	14
Severance Pay			13.2A	23
Shift Overlap Premium			36.1 (d)	68
Shift Schedule Change			18.3	34
Sick Leave - Short Term Disability				27.2.1	49
Split Shift Premium			36.1(g)	69
Stewards			8.5	10
Supplementary Agreement...	Re:	McClean Lake	86
Suspension			15.8	29
Suspensionof Operations Cluff Lake:		
Severance..............Memorandum of Agreement 85
Employment Opportunities .Memorandum of Agreement 83
Cluff Decommissioning..Memorandum of Agreement 91
Technological Change...........................14	24
Temporary Employee...........................12.2	19
Term Employee................................12.1	19
Tool Allowance...........................36.1 (a)	65
Transfers......................................11	16
Transportation - Delays.................31.3-31.4	62
Union Activity..................................5	5
Union Dues - Checkoff...........................7	7
Union Leave....................................23	44
Union Membership................................6	7
Vacation Bonus..........Memorandum of Agreement 89
Vacation Entitlement.........................21.3	40
Vacation Pay.................................21.4	41
Vacation ScheduGqg...........................21.7	41
Vacation Shutdown............................21.8	42
Vacation Days: Waiver................Appendix D 81
Visioncare.................................27.2.7	53
Voluntary Termination.........................9.6	13
Wage Schedule........................Appendix A 72
Weekly Indemnity Rate......................27.2.1	50
Work by Supervisor.............................35	65
Letter of Understanding.............Appendix D 90
Work Day....................................18.2	33
Year of Service..............................21.4	40