COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
IRON ORE COMPANY OIF CANADA
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF’ AMERICA
Local 5795
Labrador City Newfoundland & Labrador
March 1, 1990 (1990 -1993)
00139 (03)
STENTS
SUBJECT
ARTSCLS
Append ix "A" -Appendix "B11 -Appendix “C" -Appendix "D11 -Appendix "E" -
Appendix “FM -Appendix “F-1M -Appendix MF-2M -Appendix “G“ -
Appendix **H“ -
Append ix 11111 -Appendix “J1* -
Appendix "K" -Appendix “L“ -
Appendix “H" -
Appendix "N" -
C.W.S.	126
Learner periods	117
Consultative machinery	133
Meeting of appeal	134
Cost of Living Allowance
Jlic.O.L.A.)	135
welfare Plan	140
Dental plan insurance	162
\j Retirement Plan	168
Memorandun of understanding on miscellaneous matters	169
Contracting out requirement list	172
Air transportation	173
Protective clothing & equipment	175
Technological changes	179
Employment benefits & spouse or family status	180
Supplementary unemployment benefit plan	184
Cooperative partnership	200
Arbitration
Authority of the Union
Contracting out
D ischarge cases
Duration of the agreement
Grievance procedure
Headnotes
Holidays
Hours of work and overtime pay Leave of absence Legal text
VIII
XXII
XX
X
XXVII
VII
XXV
XVI
XI
XVII
XXVI
41
121
117
45
C.124\
31
123
97
49
99
123
i
Management grievances Management rights Notices Preamble
Probationary employees
Recognition of the Union
Reporting and call back
Safety & Health
Scope of the agreement
Seniority
Shift premiums
Strikes and lock-outs
Vacation with pay
Validity of the agreement
Wage!!
IX	44
in	4
XXIII	121
i	2
V	11
IV	5
XIV	81
XVIII	105
II	2
VI	12
XII	55
XXI	120
xv	84
XXIV	123
XIII	56
ii
THIS AGREEMENT made this 18th day of April, 1990.
BETWEEN
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA, a Corporation duly incorporated, hereinafter called «the Cornpany»
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (Local 5795), a voluntary nonincorporated organization of employees hereinafter called «the Union»
OF THE SECOND PART.
WHEREAS by a certificate issued by the Newfoundland Labour Relations Board dated the 14th day of October 1959, the Union is certified as the bargaining agent for «a unit of employees of Iron Ore Company of Canada, Carol Project, comprising all hourly rated production and maintenance employees, except students, supervisors and those above the rank of supervisor^
NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
PREAMBLE
1 .01 - The present Agreement is for the purpose of setting wage rates, hours of work and other working conditions as set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT
2.01	- The words «employee» (he or she) oi «employees» wherever used in this Agreement, shall mean respectively any employee o r employees Included in the unit of employees specified In the decision of the Newfoundland Labour Relations Board dated October 14th, 1959.
2.02 - The words «student» o r «students»
wherever used in this Agreement shall mean respectively any person or persons who have been admitted to a college or university and are employed by the {Company during the regular holiday period of the institution to which they have been admitted for study.
2
2.03 ■ Supervisory personnel and employees
excluded from the bargaining unit shall not perform work on hourly-rated jobs where the effect is to deny an employee of the bargaining unit work for which he would otherwise be available. It is understood that the above mentioned excluded personnel will not perform the work of a regular employee of the bargaining unit except where such work arises:
1)	Due to the work being Incidental to their duties.
2)	In emergencies or where an absence would stop work sequences. These «fill-ins» would necessarily be of short duration.
3)	For experimental work or to Instruct or train employees on new and changing operations.
If supervisory personnel or other employees excluded from the bargaining unit perform work in violation of this paragraph and the job classification and the work can reasonably be identified, the Company shall pay a grievor working in the same job classification, the applicable standard hourly wage rate for the time involved or for four (4) hours, whichever is
greater. Should the grievor be an employee who is working outside the job classification as specified above, then the employee working or available for work, with the least overtime in that job classification, should be paid as outlined above. The Union will be advised of such payment.
ARTICLE Iii
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01 ■ The Union recognizes the right of the Company to (operate and manage! its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. The hiring of employees, the location of the plants, the direction of the working forces, the scheduling of working hours and production, the methods and processes used, the right to decide on the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, and the right to use improved or changed methods; , machinery and equipment, and jurisdiction over all operations, plant machinery, tools and employees at its mines and plants are solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Company, except as specified by the terms of this Agreement.
4
3.02	- The Company has the right to make and alter from time to time reasonable rules and regulations, to be observed by the employees. New or modified rules and regulations of general application shall be published ten (10) days after being sent to the Union by registered mail. At the request, of the Union, a meeting to explain and discuss these rules and regulations will be held no later than five (5) days before they are put into effect.
3.03	- The Union acknowledges that it is the function of the Company to promote, classify, train, test, transfer and schedule employees, and also the right of the Company to suspend, demote, discipline or discharge any employee for just and sufficient cause. Any exercise of the rights and functions specified in this paragraph and in paragraph 3.02 in conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure set forth in Article VII and Article X.
ARTICLE IV
RECOGNITION OF THE UNION
4.01 - The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the bargaining unit above described.
4.02	- The parties hereto mutually agree that any employee of the Company covered by this Agreement may become a member of the Union
\ if he wishes to do so, or may__refrain from /y - becQmtng. a.member of the UnlonT however, all ? employees will pay the equivalent of dues as Indicated In paragraph 4.04 a).
4.03	- The Company and the Union agree that no employee and no member of the family of any employee shall in any manner be discriminated against or coerced, restrained or unduly Influenced on account of membership or non-membership in any labour organization, or by reason of any activity or lack of activity in any labour organization, or by reason of race, creed, colour, sex, age, political or religious beliefs or personal prejudice.
4.04	a) ■■ The Company agrees that it will deduct from the earnings of each employer?, in each month, an amount of money equivalent to the dues authorized by the ‘constitution of the United Steelworkers of America. The Company will remit the amounts so deducted to the financial secretary of the Union by the fifteenth (15th) of the month following deduction.
6
b)	- The Union agrees to indemnify the Company of any recourse In damages or otherwise against the Iron Ore Company of Canada for making the above deduction and payments during the term of this collective agreement.
c)	- Should the Union advise the Company within fifteen (15) clays of receipt of the Union dues list that dues have been deducted incorrectly, the Company will correct the errors on a subsequent payroll. If the employee has terminated In the interim, the Company will be held responsible for reimbursing the! correct dues for that employee to the Local.
d)	■ Bargaining unit employees hired after the signature date of this collective agreement will sign the following authorization: «l, the undersigned, do, of my own free will and accord, hereby authorize and direct the Iron Ore Company of Canada to deduct monthly from my net earnings an amount of money equivalent to the dues authorized by the constitution of the United Steelworkers of American
e)	■ Each month, the Company will furnish the Union with a list showing the employees who have been hired, terminated, laid off, recalled or transferred out of the bargaining unit, and the dates on which employees have been recalled or (aid off. Such list will Indicate the name, badge number and occupation of the employees concerned. in the case of employees who have been hired, the Company wilt furnish the Union with the hiring date and local address; changes of address will also be supplied.
4.05	- There will be no Union activities on Company time or Company work area, except as provided in this Agreement.
4.06	- If the Union desires to post notices with the exception of notices of convocation of meetings and of the list of officers, they shall be first submitted to the management for approval. Neither the Company nor the Union shall make any change in such notices thereafter. Bulletin boards will be provided by the Company for notices and no notice shall be posted except on such boards.
4.07	- During the life of this Agreement, the Company will grant leave of absence without pay to employees for the purpose of attending Onion courses, conventions, con fetenee&-amd committee meetings. Such leave, if granted, shall not exceed an aggregate of fifty-two (52) weeks (365 days) in any year. In order not to interfere with the eff iciency of operations, where eight (8) or less employees are in a classification no more than one (1) employee in the classification will be granted leave at the same time; where nine (9) or more employees are in the classification, not more than two (2) employeea will be (granted leave at the same time. In total not more than nine (9) employees will be granted leave at one time.
The Union agrees to give at least one (1) week's notice, in writing to the Company requesting such leave and designating the employees for whom it is desired,, Request for three! (3) clays or more must be submitted to the Labour Relations Department. Request for less than three (3) days must be taken to the department supervisor and the employee involved must obtain permission from this person. Such leave wilt not be arbitrarily denied.
4.08	- Number not used.
4.09	- The Company will grant leave of absence ywithoytjaay-duriing the life of this Agreement for the purpose of working full time for the International JLlnlon, the Newfoundland and Labrador Federation of Labour or the C.L.C. under ‘the following conditions:
a)	not more than one (1) employee may be on such leave at one time;
b)	the leave must be for a period of not less than two (2) months or for not more than the life of the Agreement;
c)	not more than three (3) such leaves will be granted;
d)	the Union agrees to give at least two (2) weeks' notice, in writing, requesting suchi leaves or extensions thereof;
e)	it Is understood that request for such leaves or extensions thereof will not be arbitrarily denied, however, the efficiency of operations must be taken into account.
10
4.10	* Regular scheduled shifts lost by employees for authorized leave of absence on Union business will count as shifts worked for the purpose of computing overtime. Overtime hours refused by employees on account of Union business will not be debited under the provisions of paragraph 11.04.
ARTICLE V
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
5.01	- A probationary employee shall be one engaged with a view to becoming a regular employee. If after sixty (60)_ calendar days employment since hisImosT recent date of hire his services are satisfactory in the opinion of the Company, his name shall be! placed upon the Company seniority list and classified seniority list where applicable as of the dale of his first shift since his most recent date of hire and he shall be considered a regular employee.
-1 j
5.02	- During the sixty (60) day period of probation, he shall have no seniority rights under this Agreement and there shall be no responsibility for the Company to retain in employment or to ire-employ such person in the event he is released and the Company shall be free to release such person.
11 1
5.03	- If a probationary employee wishes to discuss with management a complaint including the termination of his employment, he can do so at a meeting, with the assistance of the Union if he so desires.
5.04	- Probationary employees who are terminated due to lack of work, who at time of termination request in writing (a copy of the request will be given to the employee and the Union) to be re-hired and who are re-hired within one (1) year of termination, wilt be allowed to count the probationary period last accrued towards completion of the probationary period set out in paragraph 5.01.
ARTICLE Vi SENIORITY
6.01	- Seniority shall be Cine of the factors considered with respect to employees within the bargaining unit in cases of job selection and, subject to 6.07, 6.11 and 6.21 shall be the governing factor in cases of layoff due to curtailment of work and recall after layoff.
Z- 7-
12
Company and Classified Seniority
6.02	■ There will be two (2) types of seniority
lists maintained:
a)	a Company list setting forth the dates on which the employees began their continuous service with the bargaining
unlit;
b)	classified lists setting forth the dates upon which employees became classified in the job, including apprentices and learners. Employees who hold Company seniority shall be placed on the classified list as of the date of posting of their name as the successful applicant for the job. Where two (2) or more bidders are selected on
%{'■	the s:ame,^jebii~~psstlj3gii, classified
seniority dates will be listed'in the order of Company seniority. The classified seniority list will also indicate Company seniority.
13
6.03	- Classified seniority shall include the following job classifications:
a)	Operations:
1.	Blaster
2.	Drill Operator	- Production
3.	Shovel Operator
4.	Mobile Crane	Operator
5.	Environmental	Technician
b)	Maintenance:	
	1.	Automotive Mechanic
	2.	Electrician Transmission Maintenance
	3.	Carpenter
	4.	Electrician
	5.	Machinist
	6.	Mechanic
	7.	Painter
	3.	Pipefitter
	3.	Welder
	10.	Electronic Repairman
	11.	Power Engineer
14
6.04	■■ Each employee shall hold rights in only one (1) classified seniority list at any given time, except in cases where the employee is laid off from another classified job at which time the employee shall retain recall rights aind classified seniority to such Job. it is understood that when the employee accepts or declines recall to such job, the employee shall then hold recall rights In only one classified seniority list.
Promotion
6.05	a) - Applications for promotion will be accepted from regular employees who meet the minimum requirements For the job. Seniority shall be the determining factor after employees have successfully demonstrated:
i)	ability to perform the work as appraised by written and/or practical job tests which are fair,equitable and related to the job;
ii)	physical fitness,.
6.05	b) - An employee who fails to qualify under the provisions set out in this Article and Article 13 may be accompanied by a person of his choice when reviewing his theoretical test results.
I 5
Layoffs and Recalls
6.06	■ In cases off layoff due to curtailment of work other than the layoff of apprentices, the junior employee in the classification so affected will be laid off. it is understood that in learner classifications, layoff will begin in the lowest class and employees in & higher Job class cannot be laid off before ail employees in the lower job class are! laid off. Apprentices will be laid off by classified seniority beginning with apprentices in Group I which comprises training periods I through 4. Apprentices in Group ii, that is, in training periods higher than period 4 will also be laid off according to classified seniority but cannot be laid off until all apprentices in Group I have been laid off.
Displacements	“2^-
6.07	> in cases of layoff due to curtailment of work, the employee laid oft may displace an employee! with less Compani^senlbrlty in the non-classified group. Such an employee will be required to meet the current qualifications for the standard rate of the job unless he has been employed by the Company in the job at the standard rate within the past thirty-six (36) months, if the machinery has been changed, the employee shall receive a five (5) day familiarization period should It be necessary.
16
6.08	- in cases of layoff due to curtailment of work, the laid off employee cannot exercise his seniority to displace an employee with a higher rate.
5.09	a) - No notice of layoff in accordance with
6.09	b) Is required In cases where the curtailment of work results only in the displacement of employees but no actual reduction in force. In such cases, ‘the Company will post the jobs and the number of employees directly affected by the curtailment five (5) days in advance of layoff. Such displacement will be carried out by order of seniority.
‘vX
b)	- In ail cases of layoff of regular employeesr) from the bargaining! unit due to a curtailment or^ work:, employees will be given fourteen (14) _ days’_notice by posting a notice stating the number of employees and job classifications directly affected by the layoff, if such notice is not given, the Company will reimburse the affected employees for the regular shifts they would have worked had such notice been given.
Any delays of three (3) days or less caused by the displacement procedure or by emergencies or reasons beyond the control of the Company shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Copy of the fourteen (14) day notice will be sent to the Union.
17
6.10	a) - An employee notified of his layoff in accordance with paragraph 6.09 b) who refuses to exercise his seniority, when contacted by the Company during the period of notice, will be considered as having accepted his layoff.
b)	■■ An employee on leave of absence at time of layoff other than a leave granted under 6.12 vi) or ‘vii), will be notified of his change of status' and such an employee must exercise his seniority within two (2) days after termination of the leave of absence as granted, otherwise he will be considered as having accepted his layoff.
c)	- Employees laid off from a job, when exercising their seniority in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraphs a) and b) of this paragraph 6.10, will have the opportunity to obtain from the personnel office the information the employee deems necessary which will enable him to displace in accordance with the rights they have acquired under the collective agreement.
Recalls
6.11	a) - in cases of recall, the procedures in paragraph 6.06 will be followed In reverse, taking into account paragraph 6.11 b) provided the employee meets the current qualifications for the job.
18
b) - it is understood! that there are cases where senior employees are unable to acquire recall rights to certain jobs equal to or lower than their regular jobs because of the process of layoff.
in such cases, at time of layoff, employees who are unable to displace and maintain employment in accordance with article 6.08 will be given recall rights to all non-classified jobs of equal or lower rate, taking into consideration bids under the open posting procedure, provided they meet the current qualifications for the standard rate of the jobs.
For such jobs the employee will be considered for recall according to his length of continuous service. Such recalls will remain in force until the (employee is recalled to his regular job at which time the employee shall be obligated to return to his regular occupation from which he was originally laid off. Recalls shall take place according to the provisions of paragraph 6.13.
Due to the details involved, the Company will not be liable for any financial obligation as a result of errors arising out of the administration of this paragraph until seven (7) days after the filing of ‘the grievance calling attention to the errors.
19
Termination
6.12	- An employee shall be terminated for any
of the following reasons:
i)	if the employee quits;;
ii)	if the employee is discharged for just and suff icient cause and is not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance procedure;
Hi) if he is absent without leave for’ a period of three (3) consecutive scheduled shifts of work, which case shall be construed as a quit as of the day before the commencement of such absence, unless the reasons which prevented the employee from requesting such leave of absence are judged valid by the Company;
iv)	number not used;
v)	layoff by the Company due to curtailment of operations for thirty-six (36) consecutive months;
2- /.
20
‘vi) if an employee Is unable to return to work within thirty-six (36) months of the commencement of his non-eompensable
sickness, Injury or other disability, in the case of an employee who has less than two (2) years’ service;
vii) if an employee Is unable to return to work after exhaustion of Company Long Term Disability benefits In the case of an employee with more than two (2) years service.
6.13 a) - Layoff due to curtailment of work shall not constitute a termination provided that the employee notifies the Labrador City personnel office within five (5) days of the date of receipt of the recall notice advising whether or not he intends to accept, If he advises that he accepts, he will be obligated to return to work within fifteen (15) clays of notice of recall.
b) - Recalled employees will have fifteen (15)
days from the day work is commenced and during which the personnel office Is open to obtain information relative to their last layoff and current recall. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays are excluded from the fifteen (15) day period noted above.
21
c)	- An employee recalled to work for a period of less than thirty (30) days may refuse such a recall. The employee who refuses such a recall will keep ail rights to a subsequent recall. Due to the details involved, the Company will not be liable for any financial obligation as a result of errors arising out of the administration of this paragraph.
Disabled Employees
6.14 a) • Employees who, by reason of minor j disability, advancing age or other causes are 'Zs' unable to maintain necessary standards of /^efficiency or safety for the job, may be moved to
some other job for which they are qualified and

t/s
, In such cases, the employee will be treated as p '((■'' being laid off and! paragraph 6.07 or 6.08 will ^ apply.
b)	- it is understood and agreed that an employee may present a grievance if he feels that his qualifications for a job to which he alleges he is entitled have not been properly assessed.
c) - The Company agrees to discuss with the Union the placement of employees who, due to minor disability, advancing age or other causes are subject to the provisions of this paragraph.
22
d)	- An employee whose driver's license is suspended will be treated as being laid off and the provisions of paragraph 6.08 will apply. When the license Is reinstated, the provisions of paragraph 6.11 will apply, it Is understood that this Article applies only to those employees whose occupiations may require them to operate a vehicle in areas covered by provincial highway regulations.
Open Posting
6.15 a) - Applications of regular employees for any bargaining unlit job above job class 2 can be filed at any time during regular office hours at the personnel ‘office on forms furnished by the Company. A duplicate copy of the form will be returned to the employee. The Company will advise the applicant in writing as to the acceptance or non-acceptance of his application. Every four (4) months the Company will send the Union the list of names of accepted applicants outstanding in each classification.
b) ■■ Employees who fail a practical or theoretical examination required for acceptance as set out in paragraph 6.15 a) may be re-examinesd, at their request, two (2) weeks after the first failure, four (4) weeks after the second failure and eight (8) weeks after the third failure.
23
6.16	a) - Upon determining that a job is vacant, the Company will select from employees at work, on vacation or on authorized leave of absence of not more than twenty-nine (29) clays the applicant with the most seniority among the applicants notified of their acceptance in accordance with paragraph 6.15. if the applicant selected declines the job, he will sign a form to signify his rejection and the next senior applicant will be selected. The Company will post the name of the applicant so selected on the bulletin boards within five (5) days of selection, A copy of the selection notice shall be sent to the Union. Should there be no successful applicants, a posting to that effect will be made. Employees may apply for the vacancy within five (5) days of date of posting.
6.17	- Provided he has not been moved by the Company to the posted job to which he was appointed, the employee will be {entitled to be paid the applicable rate of the job for which he was selected after five (5) days from the date of the notice in which his selection was announced. In case of a multiple vacancy job posting, the senior successful applicant will be paid the applicable rate of the job as of the date a successful applicant junior to him begins working In the job If this occurs before the five (5) days mentioned above. The successful applicant will be moved to the new job in not
24
more than three (3) weeks if there are fifteen (15) or less men working in the job he vacates or in not more than two (2) weeks if there are more than fifteen (15) men working in the job he vacates.
6.18	- If the Company determines that no applicants qualify through the open posting procedure, then it may fill the vacancy by other means.
6.19	- Jobs which have been opened to outside hiring for a period of three (3) months will be listed In the personnel office. Taking into account any employment office commitments, interested employees who meet the minimum requirements for these jobs will be eligible for same.
6.20	- There will be no vacancy filled by the open posting procedure so long as the vacancy can be filled by a senior employee who is on layoff from that job.
6.21	- Prior to implementing Article 6.20, employees who have been laid off from their original job for four (4) months or less will be recalled.
25
6.22	a) - A temporary vacancy created by an employers who reports himself ill, or an employee on leave of absence including compensable accidents, or resulting from the process of recall, Job posting and selection, will be treated as a temporary vacancy for a period of up to twenty-nine (29) days, after which the principles of job selection as set forth in this contract ‘will apply. In addition to ‘the foregoing, it is mutually agreed that the total period of time an employee is on annual vacation and extended vacation which Is In addition to and taken immediately following annualvacation, will also be treated as a temporary vacancy.
b)	- For a temporary vacancy known to be for ten (10) days or less, the Company at the earliest opportunity will offer it to the employee with the most seniority who meets the minimum requirements in the section/area and on the same shift.
c)	- In cases where it is known the temporary vacancy will be more than ten (10) days, the Company when filling such vacancy shall:
i)	where there Is an employee available on the job, who has been displaced from, and has recall rights to, the job where the temporary vacancy has been created, assign such employee to fill the vacancy;
26
ii)	For vacancies known to be for more than ‘ten (10) days up to twenty-nine (29) days Inclusive and provided there is no employee as set out in paragraph 6.22 c) i), the Company will fill the vacancy by assigning the employee with the most seniority in the sectlon/area who meets the minimum requirements of the Company as provided in paragraph 6.05. if the Company does not assign the qualified employee with the most seniority in the section/area, he will be entitled to the rate of the assignment for the time of the temporary vacancy. if the qualified employee having the most seniority refuses the job, the Company will assign according to 6.22 b);
iii)	any vacancies known to be for thirty (30) days or more ‘that are not filled according to paragraph 6.22 c) i) will be filled according to the open posting procedure;
iv)	notwithstanding paragraph 6.22 c) iii), it is understood and agreed that an employee returning from a temporary absence as defined in 6.22 a) must return to the job he occupied at the start of the absence or, if such job no longer exists on his return, he may exercise displacement rights in accordance with his seniority.
27
6.23	- An employee can bid only for an equal or higher-rated job.
6.24	Applications to bid for a lower-rated job shall be subject to the approval of management who will take into consideration reasons brought forward by the employee. Such reasons will not be arbitrarily denied,. Management will allow employees to submit bids for lower-rated jobs if such employees have been in the job they wish to leave for a period of five (5) consecutive years. In such cases a replacement must be available.
Employees Transferred Outside the Bargaining Unit
6.25	- in the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be transferred to a staff or supervisory position outside the bargaining unit, he shall retain for a year the seniority dates or date previously acquired while serving in such capacity in the event that he is transferred back to the bargaining unit. During this period, in accordance with paragraph 4.04
a), the Company will remit monthly to the financial secretary of the local the amount of money the employee paid in accordance with paragraph 4.04 a) in his last complete month of employment in the bargaining unit.
28
Posting of Seniority Lists
6.26	- The Company will prepare a bargaining unit seniority list and classified seniority lists every February 1 St and August 1 st and will post them in suitable locations and furnish the Union with copies of same. An employee may make a complaint, In writing to the personnel office as to the correctness of his seniority date during the first three (3) month-period following the first posting of his seniority date and, subsequent to this period, the first (or corrected) date shall become final. Subsequent errors will be corrected to the aforementioned final date. An employee absent due to illness, accident, leave of absence, layoff or vacation shall have two (2) weeks after his return to make such complaint.
Testing
6.27	a) - When practical tests are administered on an employee’s shift, they shall be taken on Company time. When an employee takes a practical test on his own time and, by taking such test the employee performs productive work, time required will be reimbursed at straight time rates. When practicable, the Company will endeavour to use the same tester where two (2) or more employees take the same practical test for the same job vacancy.
29
Theoretical tests [required for the purpose of meeting job qualifications will be taken on the employee’s own time; such tests will be administered as soon as possible.
b)	- The tests referred to in 6.27 a) shall be fair, equitable! and appropriate to the job vacancy. Any employee who does not meet the requirements of one of these tests shall, on request, receive an explanation of where he did not meet the requirement.
c)	- Testing sessions will take place at specific time and results of tests will be available to the employee twenty-four (24) hours after, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, at the personnel office.
d)	- With a view to ensuring adequate safety in the administration of practical tests, the Company agrees ‘to meet with the Union to review the testing procedure.
6.28	- A regular employee transferred by the Company from one United Steelworkers of America Ibargaining unit in the Company to a different United Steelworkers of America bargaining unit in the Company, will not be required to complete a new probationary period as a result of such transfer.
30
ARTICLE Vii
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	■ Recognizing the importance of full discussion between the supervisor concerned and the employee in clearing up misunderstandings and preserving harmonious relations, discussion must take place between the supervisor and the employee during working hours in order that every effort may be made to settle the employee's complaints and problems as Ihey arise and within two (2) days from the employee’s request for such a meeting. However, it is understood that at such a meeting, the employee if he so desires, will be accompanied by a grievance committeeman.
NOTE: However, In no case will a grievance be considered beyond the delay provided in accordance with paragraph 7.04 c).
7.02	a) - There shall be a Union grievance committee, composed of one (‘I) member for every thirty (30) employees in ‘the bargaining unit, all of whom shall have at least six (6) months’ seniority with the Company, in dealing with the Company, no more than three (3) members may act on the Union grievance committee at any one time, one of whom should be familiar with the work of the department irs which the grievance arose.
31
b)	-The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the members of the Union grievance committee and of any changes that may occur in same. The Company shall not be required to recognize members of the committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the names selected.
7.03	- The parties to this Agreement agree that it is of the utmost importance to adjust complaints and grievances as quickly as possible.
7.04	a) - infraction reports, including infractions which could result in discharge, will not be issued later than seventy-two (72) hours from the time the Compeiny has determined there is an infraction.
b)	- Notice of disciplinary action, including discharge, will not be issued later than forty-eight (48) hours from issuance of the infraction report.
c)	- No grievance shall be considered if the circumstances occurred or originated more than twelve (12) days (excluding vacations and leaves of absence of more than ten (10) days) prior to the request for a meeting at step 1.
32
d)	■■ In assessing discipline the Company will not consider any infraction of the same nature that occurred more than one (1) year from the current infraction. Should a disciplinary action be reduced through the grievance or {arbitration procedure only the resulting discipline will be recorded in the employee’s file.
7.05	a) - Should a regular employee feel that his complaint or problem could result in a written grievance, he shall take the following steps in order:
STEP 1
Not later than twelve (12) days after the circumstances occurred or originated or the disciplinary action was issued, the employee shall request a meeting with the supervisor of his section/area. The supervisor will arrange to hold a meeting within two (2) days to discuss the matter with the concerned employee and he shall receive a signed dated copy confirming his request. The employee may be assisted by one (1) member of the (grievance committee and the supervisor may be accompanied by another Company official. At the request of either party, the supervisor shall be heard. Except when the aggrieved employee is on night shift, this meeting will be convened during his working hours; however, when operations dictate
9
T
33
otherwise, the meeting will be held outside working hours. If the meeting is held outside the working hours of the grievance committeeman, he will be allowed one (1) hour at straight time for the meeting. Should the complaint: or problem not have been satisfactorily resolved at this meeting and if the regular employee feels that a written grievance Is appropriate, he shall obtain from the supervisor conducting the meeting, two (2) copies of a dated and signed form summarizing the result of the meeting which form shall be attached to the written grievance and presented at step 2. When possible, the supervisor will give an answer to the employee and to the grievance committeeman on the above mentioned form during the meeting, or not later than two (2) days thereafter.
STEP 2
Not later than five (5) days following receipt of the answer at step 1, the employee shall present his grievance in writing (on a form provided by the Company) to his supervisor who will sign and date the grievance in the employee's presence, or to the Labour Relations department who will do likewise for referral to the department head concerned.
34
The department head or a designated representative, who may be accompanied by other Company officials, shall meet with the Union grievance committee and the employee not later than five (5) clays after receipt of the written grievance to consider the representations made by the person or persons presenting same and the supervisory personnel involved,. The department head shall render his decision in writing not later than two (2) days from the date of the step 2 meeting. Should no settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned be reached, the next step in the grievance procedure may be taken not later than five (5) days thereafter.
STEP 3
The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance to the Union grievance committee who, if they decide to continue the grievance, will forward it by registered mail to Labour Relations for referral to the Manager. The Union grievance committee and the Manager, or some other person designated by him, shall meet each week to hear grievances submitted two (2) or more days before the date of the meeting. At this stage, the Union grievance committee may be accompanied by a representative of the Local Union and/or International Union if his presence is requested.
35
Other officials of the Company may also be present at the meeting. At the request of either party, the! aggrieved employee shall be heard. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard. Should the Union bring forth witnesses, one will hot lose regular earnings to testify at the meeting. The Manager shall render his decision in writing not later than five (5) clays following the date of the step 3 meeting.
b)	- The Company will inform, when possible, two (2) clays in advance but in no case less than one (1) day in advance the Union at step 2 and step 3 of the date, place and hour of the hearing of the grievance.
c)	- No Company representative can hear more than one (1) step of the grievance procedure.
7.06	- If the grievance is not settled as a result of the meeting referred to in step 3, and if the grievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement, the grievance may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided in Article VIII below, provided, however, it is hereby agreed that no grievance may be referred to arbitration after a period of twenty-six (26) days from the date of the decision in writing by the Manager,,
36
7.07	a) - Should differences arise between the Company and a group of employees in the same department or in the same job classification in more than one d) department, a group grievance may be filed not later than twelve (12) days after the circumstancea occurred or originated and the matter shall be taken up at step 2 of the grievance procedure outlined above. Such group grievance shall bear the signatures of ail employees involved with the grievance and a listing of names of those involved employees on authorized leave of absence. Up to the presentation of the grievance at the step 3 meeting, the Union may submit additional signatures and names of employees involved in the grievance as set out above. The Union and the Company may agree to regroup individual grievances when the facts alleged are identical and the remedy sought is the same. if several individual grievances are filed and if the Union wishes to regroup them in a group grievance, the Union wilt choose one of the individual grievances and the decision ori this grievance will be applied to the other grievances.
37
b)	- Should (differences arise between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation of this Agreement, or should either party allege that the other has violated this Agreement, the matter shall be taken up at step 3 of the grievance procedure outlined above at the request of either party and If a satisfactory settlement of the dispute is not reached within twenty-five (25) days, the matter may be referred within twenty-one (21) days by either party to arbitration as provided In Article VIII below.
c)	- Should differences arise between the , Company and the Union as to the Interpretation ^ / of the Co-Operative Wage Study (C.W.S.) /, Manual, or should either party allege that the
! other has violated this Manual, the matter shall be taken up at step 3 of the grievance procedure outlined above at the request of either party. For the application of this paragraph, the! Union’s grievance committee will be representatives of the Co-Operative Wage Study committee. If a satisfactory settlement of the dispute is not reached within thirty (30) days, the matter may be referred within twenty one (21) days by either party to arbitration as provided In Article VIII below.
38
7.08	- The nature of the alleged misinterpretation or violation of this Agreement and the settlement sought shall be set out in the written record of the grievance at step 2 (or at step 3 if the grievance is a result of a difference between the Company and the Union) and may not be subject to change after its Introduction at step 3 and any such changes must be set out In writing.
Time Limits
7.09	- Saturdays, Sundays and the day a holiday is celebrated shall not be included when determining the time within which any action is to be taken in Article VII, Article VIII or Article X of this Agreement. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article or by Article VIII may be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
7.10	- Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to deprive any employee of his right to negotiate any of his personal complaints without the assistance of the Union if he so desires. No settlement of a personal complaint shall be in violation of this Agreement, nor shall it be used as a precedent with other grievances.
39
7.11	a) - If It Is necessary for the presentation of a grievance that a grievance committeeman or employee be absent during working hours, he must first obtain permission from h i s supervisor; such permission will not be arbitrarily dented.
b)	- Step 2 and step 3 grievance meetings will be held during the regular scheduled working hours of aggrieved employees except when they are on night shift or when operations dictate, otherwise the meetings will be held outside working hours.
c)	- The Company agrees that any grievance committeeman and aggrieved employee who perform work during a regular scheduled shift and who are required to lose time from that shift in order to attend a grievance meeting shall be paid for such time off.
d)	-When step 2 and step 3 grievance meetings are scheduled or go beyond the regular scheduled working hours of the grievance committeeman, the grievance committeeman two (2) at step 2, three (3) at step 9 shall be paid one (1) hour at straight time rates for such attendance in addition to time lost from their regular scheduled working hours.
40
7.12 a) - The party initiating the procedure provided for in this Article and in the arbitration Article shall take each step in such procedures within the time limits set forth, or as extended by mutual agreement in writing and, upon failing to do so, the grievance or matter In dispute shall be deemed ‘to have been abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
b) - In the event of the absence off the authorized agent or agents of either party at any step, it shall be permissible at the expiration of the time specified! in 7.05 for the other party to proceed! with the next step of the foregoing procedure.
ARTICLE VIII ARBITRATION
8.01 - Both parties to this Agreement agree that the provisions specified in this Agreement are the sole source of any rights the Union might assert iri arbitration and only those management rights that are abridged by specific provision of this Agreement are arbitrable. Any dispute oi grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Article VII
41
or Article X and which has not been settled, will be referred to an arbitrator at the request of either of the parties hereto.
8.02	- Should the parties fall to agree on an #arbitrator within ten (10) days of receipt of the request for arbitration, the parties shall choose the iarbitrator In rotation from the following mutually agreed list of arbitrators:
LIST OF ARBITRATORS
Dr Leslie Harris Mr. I. Bruce Mr. Dennis Browne Dr .John Scott
8.03	a) - If the arbitrator chosen in rotation from the agreed list of arbitrators is not available within the time limits set out herein, he will be replaced by the following person on the list and, except by mutual agreement [between the parties, will not be used again as an arbitrator until his name returns in the normal order of rotation.
b) - Unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and title Union, the following time limits will be adhered to by the parties::
42
i)	it is understood that the hearing at arbitration must commence within thirty (30) days from the date of acceptance by the arbitrator to hear the grievance;
ii)	the arbitrator will render his decision within sixty (60) days from the date of closing off arbitration hearings.
8.04	- The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
8.05	- The arbitrator shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement so far as shall be necessary to the determination of the grievance and shall not have any power to alter or change in any way the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with t h e terms and provisions of this Agreement; nor shall any past practices or customs become binding unless they are in writing between the Company and the Union. Where the arbitrator determines that an employee has been disciplined for cause, he may review and modify the penalty imposed.
8.06	- The expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid equally by the Union and the Company.
43
8.07	■■ Arbitration cases will be processed at the city in which the grievance was filed unless otherwise mutually agreed. Should there be more than one (1) grievance pending at arbitration at the same time, the Company and the Union may mutually agree to have one (1) or more of these grievances processed at the same arbitration session.
8.08	- Discharge cases shall have preference over other cases submitted to arbitration.
ARTICLE IX
MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES
9.01 - It is understood that management may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union grievance committee any complaint in respect to the! conduct of ‘the Union in its dealings with the Company and, if such complaint by the management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the two (2) parties, it may be treated as ii grievance filed under the procedures set out in Article VII (introduced at step 3) and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievance of an employee.
44
ARTICLE X
DISCHARGE CASES
10.01	a) -If an employee who has acquired seniority feels he has been discharged without just and sufficient cause, the case may be taken up as a grievance and processed according to the following provisions which shall be taken in order.
b) - If the employee so desires and before presenting his case as a formal grievance, he may discuss his case with his supervisor with the assistance of a grievance committeeman. The supervisor will be accompanied by another Company official other than the official responsible for settling the grievance at a higher step.
10.02	- Such grievance (on a form provided by the Company) must be lodged with the head of his department or the personnel supervisor or Labour Relations not later than two (2) days after the employee has received a written notice of the disciplinary action taken. The department head will arrange! a mutually satisfactory time to meet with the employee to discuss the grievance. He may be accompanied by another Company official (other than an official responsible for settling the grievance at a
45
higher step) and the employee may be accompanied bythe Union grievance committee. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee! concerned Is not reached within two (2) days of receipt of the grievance, the grievance may be presented as follows at any time not later than ‘two (2) days thereafter.
10.03	- The aggrieved employee shall present his grievance to the! Union grievance committee who, If they decide to continue the grievance, will forward lit by registered mail to Labour Relations for referral to the Manager. The Union grievance committee and the Manager, or some other person designated by him, shall meet as promptly as possible and not later than three (3) days from the postmark date of the registered letter to consider the grievance. At this stage, they may be accompanied by a representative of the Local Union and/or the International Union if their presence is requested. Other officials of the Company may also be present at the meeting. At the request of either party, the aggrieved employee shall be heard. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard and at this time the aggrieved employee may also be In attendance. At this meeting, decisions in writing made at 10.02 will be presented. The decision of the Manager shall be given in writing not later than two (2) days after the meeting with the Union grievance committee.
46
10.04	- If final settlement of the grievance Is not completed within two (2) days after the closing of the meeting referred to In 10.03, the grievance may be referred within ten (10) days by the Union grievance committee to arbitration as provided In Article VIII above.
10.05	a) - The party initiating the procedure provided for In this Article and in the arbitration Article shall take each step In such procedures within the time limits set forth, or as extended by mutual agreement in writing and upon failing to do so, the grievance or matter In dispute shall be deemed ‘to have been abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
b) ■ In the event of the absence of the authorized agent or agents of either party at an> step, it shall be permissible at the expiration of the time specified in 10.02 to 10.04 for the othei party to proceed with the next step of the foregoing procedure.
10.06	■ Such grievance may be settled by confirming the management’s action in dismissing the employee, or reinstating the employee with compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties. If the matter is not settled through the
47
procedure outlined In this Article and is. taken to arbitration, the arbitrator will have full jurisdiction to uphold or reject the! discharge or change the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension and fix the duration of such suspension. In the event that the arbitrator rejects the discharge or changes the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension, the employee shall be reinstated and paid his wages at his regular basic rate (less amounts earned by him during the time lost) for the time lost since the date of discharge, or for the period of time not covered by the suspension, limited to the scheduled work week for a maximum period of one hundred and eighty (180) days on which he would have been scheduled to work, ‘to which will be added the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Company. On the other hand, should the arbitration be delayed at the request of the Union, the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Union will be deducted from any days to be paid.
48
ARTICLE XI
HOURS OF WORK: AND OVERTIME PAY
11 .01 - The following paragraphs are intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or days of work per week.
11.02	- For the purpose only of computing
overtime and not as a limitation upon the scheduling of employees for work, the work week shall be a period of seven (7) consecutive days commencing with the beginning of the day shirt on Monday and the work day shall be a period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the beginning of the clay shift of the plaint as schetjulecj by^he Company.	y, y ^
11.03	a)/^'jhe first four (4) hours worked in excess of eight (3) hours in any day or hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any work week or on assigned days off shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in any day shall be paid at the rate of twice (2) the regular rate. Any time allowed and paid as overtime in any working day shall not be used to compute overtime during the work week and to ‘the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime rates under one provision, they
49
shall not be considered as hours worked in determining overtime under the same or any other provision. ^
c:/
b)	- Work scheduled and performed on Sunday will be paid for at the rate off time and one half
(1-1/2). Work performed on Sunday in excess yj of eight (8) hours, or in excess of forty (40)^ ^ straight time hours in the work week will be paid for at double time (2).
c)	- In any period of overtime which ends with an Incomplete half hour (1/2), that portion of the half hour (1/2) will be rounded to a full half hour (1/2) for pay purposes.
11.04	- Overtime hours will be worked on a voluntary Jaasis provided the requirements of the'service are met and it will be distributed I/' equitably in rotation in each classification where qualifications will permit. Overtime lists will be based on seniority and a list of overtime worked by all eligible employees will be posted. It is understood that an employee who refuses ‘overtime will be debited with the number of hours he would have worked had he accepted, lit is also understood that employees who consistently refuse overtime may be temporarily dropped from the eligible list and may be reinstated on the list upon request.
50
11.05	- Employees shall be allowed a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes, Inclusive of said eight (8) hour period. Such lunch period will not be changed unnecessarily. However, where necessary for continuous operations, employees will maintain supervision of their equipment and machines during this lunch period.
11.06	- An employee who actually begins work in accordance with his regular job description and on his regular shift will be provided four (4) hours work at the prevailing hourly wage rate of that occupation. If the employee Is offered a job at a higher standard hourly rate he shall receive! the higher rate of pay for the hours worked at this assignment.
11 .07 ■■ In the event the employee completes more than four (4) hours’ work in his normal classification and on his regular shift, he will be paid a full shift at the prevailing wage rate of that occupation provided that such employee shall perform other work to which he may be assigned. If the standard rate of pay for the job to which the employee is assigned is higher than his normal rate, he shall receive the ‘higher rate of pay for the hours worked at this assignment, If the standard rate of pay for the job to which the employee is assigned is lower
51
than his normal rate, he shall be paid at the rate of the occupation for which he was originally called or scheduled.
11.08	- It is mutually agreed that provisions of 11.06, 11.07 and Article XIV shall not apply in cases where work Is not available due to causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company.
11.09	a) - Overtime rates shall not apply to time worked by an hourly-rated employee in excess of his regular work day or work week when such time is due to change of shift of the regular work schedule.
b) - The Company will endeavour not to reassign an employee such that he works two (2) shifts back-to-back in the same occupation. Should an employee work two (2) shifts back-to-back in the same occupation the second shift will be paid as an overtime shift notwithstanding paragraphs 11.09 a) and 11.13 c). Should an employee work a second shift back-to-back in another occupation at Company request, that second shift will be paid as an overtime shift notwithstanding 11.09 a) and 11 .1 3 c).
52
Should the employee work more than five (5) regular scheduled shifts in that week, the second shift referred to above will be considered as a straight time shift for purposes only of overtime payment for the sixth shift in that week.
11.10	- Number not used.
11.11	- Number not used.
11.12	- If required for continuous operations, employees will remain on the Job at the end of their shift until their relief arrives or until the Company arranges for another relief. It is mutually agreed that no employee should be required to work more than two (2) hours after the end of his regular shift in such cases.
11.13	a) - For the purpose of ensuring equitable distribution of overtime, the Company will review with the Union, at least once per month if necessary, through the use of a joint committee, (overtime records and methods of recording overtime credits. This committee may also review ;and revise if necessary:
53
1)	Existing work schedules to ensure the proper distribution of shifts by day, afternoon, night and shifts off. In the distribution of shifts, it is the intention of the parties to respect the structure of the normal week.
2)	Proposed changes In scheduling or the scheduling system.
3)	The rotation of tradesmen between shop, field and plants.
b)	- Such scheduler or changes mentioned in ‘I) and 2) will be posted when possible seventy-two (72) hours prior to the change taking effect.
c)	- Should an employee's shift schedule be changed ‘without having given him at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of the change, he will be paid at the rate of double (2) time for hours worked on the first shift of the changed
schedule.	"7
y ....
54
ARTICLE XII SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01 - For the purpose of this Article:
a)	All shifts beginning after six (6:00) a.m. and up to noon (12:00) wilt be day shifts.
b)	All shifts beginning after noon (12:00) and up ‘to eight (8:00) p.m. wilt be afternoon shifts.
c)
All shifts beginning after eight (8:00) p.m. and up to six (6:00) a.m. will be night shifts.	y¥'„
s'
12.02	- ,A shift premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour shall be paid for shifts beginning after noon (12:00) and up to eight (8:00) p.m.
12.03	- A shift premium of forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour shall be paid for shifts beginning after eight (8:00) p.m. and up to six (6:00) a.m.
12.04 - Shift premiums shall be computed In overtime.
12.05	- Premium time shall be determined by the shift for which the employee Is scheduled.
55
ARTICLE XIII
‘WAGES
The Co-Operative Wage Study (C.W.S.) Manual for Job Description, Classification and Wage Administration, dated March 1st, 1958 (herein referred to as the «Manual» is Incorporated into this Agreement as APPENDIX «A» and its provisions shall apply as If set forth in full herein, provided that reference In the Manual to such jobs as trade or craft, assigned maintenance, clerical or technical, group leader, spell hand, testing or Inspection, learner,apprentice, Instructor, shall not of itself establish existence of such jobs in the operations of the Company or determine that such jobs are! within or are not within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
Standard Hourly Wage Scale
13.01	- Effective on March 1, ‘I 990 the Standard Hourly Rate for Job Class 1 shall be fourteen dollars and fifty-seven cents ($14.57) per hour and the increment between succeeding job classes shall be twenty-one cents (.210), establishing a Standard Hourly Wage Scale as follows:
56
5Z-A
/
STANDARD HOURLY WAGE SCALE
Jot1	March 1	March 1
Class	1990(1)	1991(2)
March 1 1992(3)
1	14.57
2	14.78
3""	14.99
4	15.20
5	15.41
6	15.62
7	15.83
8	16.04
9	16.25
10	16.46
11	16.67
12	16.88
13	17.09
14	17.30
15	17.51
16	17.77
17	17.93
18	18.14
19	18.35
20	18.56
21	18.77
22	18.98
23	19.119
24	19.40
15.62
15.86
16.10
16.34
16.58
16.82
17.06
17.30
17.54
17.78
18.02
18.26
18.50
18.74
18.98
19.22
19.46
19.70
19.94
20.18
20.42
20.66
20.90
21.14
16.67
16.93
17.19
17.45
17.71
17.97
18.23
18.49
18.75
19.01
19.27
19.53
19.79
20.05
20.31
20.57
20.83
21.09
21.35
21.61
21.87
22.13
22.39
22.65
NOTE;
(1)	30.80 increase to the base rate; 30.75 fold-in from the C.O.L.A.; increment increase from 30.15 to 30.21
(2)	30.55 increase to the base rate; 30.50 fold-in from the C.O.L.A.; increment increase from 30.21 to 30.24
(3)	30.55 increase to the base rate; 30.50 fold-in from the C.O.L.A.; increment increase from 30.24 to 30.26
57
13.02	- The standard hourly rate for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall so continue for the duration of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale and shall be applied to any employee In accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
13.03	- No employee shall be entitled to any wages as set forth in this Article unless he is ready, able and willing to perform the duties required in his job.
13.04	- Each standard hourly rate established under paragraph 13.01 shall be:
a)	the established rate of pay for all hours paid for on a non-incentive job; and
b)	the established hourly base rate and minimum guaranteed rate of pay under any incentive applied to the job In accordance with the provisions, of this Article.
Production and! Maintenance Jobs
13.05	- Except as ‘otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for each production or maintenance job, other than a trade or craft or apprentice job, shall apply to any employee during such time as the employee is required to perform such job.
58
Trade or Craft Jobs
13.06	- Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for a trade or craft or apprentice Job shall apply to any employee during Iheftme such employee is assigned to the respective rate classifications in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Out-of-ILIne Differentials
13.07	- The Company shall furnish to the Union a list agreed to by the Company and the Union of employees who are to be paid trout-of-line differentials:*. Such list shall contain the following information:
a)	name of Incumbent to whom such out-ofline differential is to be paid;
b)	job title of job on which out-of-line differential is to be paid;
c)	job classification of such job;
d)	standard hourly rate of such job;
e)	amount of out-of-line differential; and
9 date such out-of-line differential became effective.
59
13.08	- Except as such out-of-line differential may be changed by the means hereinafter provided, any employee included in the list referred to in paragraph 13.07 shall continue to be paid such out-of-line differential during such time as the emjployee continues to occupy the job for which the differential was established.
13.09	- II an employee with an out-of-llne differential Is transferred or assigned to a job having a higher standard hourly rate, then the differential shall be reduced by the amount of the Increase In the standard hourly rate.
13.10	- If an employee with an out-of-line differential Is transferred or assigned to a job having the same standard hourly rate, then the same differential shall apply.
13.11	- If an employee with an out-of-line differential is permanently transferred to a job having a lower standard hourly rate, then the out-of-line differential shall be cancelled.
13.12	- If such employee referred to in paragraphs 13.09, 13.10 and 13.11 shall be returned to the job for which the out-of-line differential was established, the out-of-line differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by other means.
60
13.13	- When an employee would, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, be entitled to receive his regular rate, he shall also receive any out-of-line differential to which he is entitled.
13.14	- In addition to the means herein provided, increases In the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate lout-of-line differentials.
13.15	- Except for the application of the out-ofline differentials, as called for herein, the terms of this Agreement which govern transfers shall apply.
13.1 £i - In determining out-of-line differentials, no employee shall be listed as an incumbent on more than one job, unless he is regularly assigned ‘to more than one (1) job.
Learner Rates
13.17' - Learner jobs requiring learner rates, due to lack of adequate training opportunity provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be negotiated and made a part of this Agreement.
61
13.18	- A schedule of learner rates for the respective learning periods of 520 hours of actual learning experience with the Company on jobs for ‘which training opportunity is not provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be established at a level of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale rates for the respective job classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor 2 of the job classification record of the respective job as follows:
a)	Code C: Seven (7) to twelve (12) months.
1)	One (1) learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job,
b)	Code D: Thirteen (13) to eighteen (18)
months.
1)	A first learner period classification at a
level four (4) job classes below the job class of the job; and
2)	a second learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
62
c) Code E and higher: Nineteen (19) months
and above.
‘I) A first learner period classification at a level six (6) job classes below the job class of the job;
2)	a second learner period classification at a level four (4) job classes below the job class off the job; and
3)	a third learner period classification at a level two (2) job classes below the job class of the job;
4)	employees who have no related work experience in relation to the respective job, shall serve an additional 520 hours of work in the learner period two (2) job classes below the job class of the job.
13.19	- The learner periods, as provided in paragraph 13.18, shall apply to those jobs listed in APPENDIX «B» of this Agreement, except as otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the Union and so indicated in APPENDIX «I3». Learner periods shall apply only to the jobs in Job Class 8 and up, except where the provisions of paragraphs 13.20 and 13.21 apply.
63
13.20	- The Company, at its discretion, may apply a learner rate to a learner on any job where another employee other than the learner is on the! job, provided the learner rate applied is:
a)	in case of an employee hired for the learning job, the standard hourly rate for Job Class 2; or
b)	in the case of an employee transferred from another job in the plant, the lower figure of:
1)	the standard hourly rate of the job from which transferred; oi
2)	the standard hourly rate of the job
being learned.
13.2:6 - Any employee, when assigned to a job on which a learner rate applies, shall be credited in the learner schedule with ail ‘time previously worked on such job. it is agreed that such past time shall be computed ‘from the records of the Company. This paragraph applies only to learners.
Training of Employees for Jobs
13.27	» Employees who possess the necessary qualifications and ability shall be eligible for training for the respective trade or craft jobs. Such employees shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement which apply for filling of job vacancies.
13.28	- For the duration of this Agreement, the provisions of Articles 5.04, 5,05 b) and c), 5.06, 5.07 and 5.08 set forth in the Manual shall be inoperative and shall be superseded by paragraphs 13.29 to 13.34 inclusive of this Agreement.
13.29	a) - Employees training through an apprenticeship course in a given trade or craft shall be governed by the company procedure as determined by the Provincial Block Training Program set out by the Manpower Training Division of the Department of Education of
66
Newfoundland and Labrador. Any changes to this procedure during the life of this Collective Agreement will be discussed with the Union in advance. Employees shall be provided with opportunity to receive on the job training in the various areas of the project applicable to his trade and shall advance through the procedure according to the following Schedules:
67
SCHEDULE “A’
Vocational School 9 Mo. = 1200 hours credit. P-2 NX + 800 hocrs work experience
or
Block 1 iraining 6-6 weeks ptus 2000 hours, work. Advance to P-2 on 1000 hours ortfy.
Block H Training to take place between 2000 & 4000 hours. Advance to P-3 on 2000 hours plus required training (!)-Advance to FM on 3000 hocrs only.
Block 111 Training to take place between 4000 & 6000 hours. Advance to P-5 on 4000 hours plus required training 00-Advance to P-6 on 5000 hours only.
Pipefitters & Carpenters advance to Journeymen after Block III and 5000 hocrs. Optional Block IV made available to Pipefitters and Carpenters to fufnii provincial journeyman requirements.
Block IV Training to take place between 6000 & 3000 hours.
Advance to P-7 on 6000 hours plus the reqcired training (IN). Advance to P-8 on 7000 hours.
Plant & Reid Mechanics advance to Journeyman after Slock IV training and 7000 hocrs.
industrial Electrician. Machinist and Automotive Mechanics advance to Journeymen after Block IV training and 8000 hours.
CO
to
Sectronfc Repairmen advance to M after 8000 hours, P-10 after 9000 hours and Journeyman after 10.000 hours, plus Block Training.
SCHEDULE e
5GM55UL2 G» JS5 TiLfi*« rnwSSSSiCi
__________________T»«imw Ptmoo*_________________________
Tratj* job	lit	2nd	3rd 4th	5th 6th	7th	8th	9th	10th
»«««-_________________________________________________
______________________JO» CUS«8_________________________
18	7	8	9	10	11	12 1J 14	16	18
17
16	6	7	8	9	10	11	11 14 | 16
1J	B 7	8	9	10	11	13	15
VI
CD
b)	- Trade or Craft and Assigned Maintenance Convention
In addition to the provisions of the Manual for describing and classifying trade or craft and assigned maintenance jobs, the following shall apply:
1)	The description and classification shall be carried out in accordance with the Manual.
2)	The job classification of trade or craft jobs, having been classified as In paragraph 1) above, shall be increased by two (2) job classes effective March 1st, 1974 and the two (2) job classes shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job. These jobs classes shall be further increased by two (2) job classes effective March 01, 1990, one (1) additional job class effective March 01, 1991 and a final one (1) job class effective March 01, 1992.
70
3)	The job classification of assigned maintenance jobs, having been classified at Job Class 11 or higher as in paragraph 1) above, shall be increased by two (2) job classes effective March 1st, 1974 which shall be incorporated into the total classification of the job. These job classes shall be further increased by two (2) job classes effective March 01, 1990, one (1) additional job class effective March 01, 1 991 and a final one (1) job class effective March 01, 1992,
4)	Where a change in an existing job requires a new description and classification for a job on which this Convention has already been applied, such job shall be reclassified in the same manner as that followed prior to the application of this Convention and the provisions of paragraphs 1) and 2) or
3)	above shall apply,
13.33	- An employee training through an apprenticeship course shall be Initially assigned to that period of the Schedule of Apprenticeship Progression which is appropriate to his accumulated training and experience.
13.34	- Number not used,.
71
13.35	- Notwithstanding the provisions of b) and c) of paragraph 5.05 of the Manual, effective as of the date Standard Hourly Wage Scale i s made operative, each employee performing the described work off a journeyman in a given trade or craft or each employee subsequently hired as a journeyman or transferred in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement to a trade or craft job, but not as an apprentice and who has been determined, by means of determination which is fair, equitable and appropriate in relation to the described work of a journeyman in the given trade or craft job, to be less than fully qualified, shall be governed by the following:
a)	such employee shall be assigned to training beginning with that period of the Schedule of Apprenticeship Progression set forth in paragraph 13.29 a) which is appropriate to his qualifications and ability in relation to the described work of a journeyman in the given trade or craft;
b)	such employee when so assigned shall be paid the Standard Hourly Rate appropriate to the period to which assigned, but in any event, not less than as follows:
72
For jobs with the standard rate (including the 2 job class additive) of:
A rate not fess than the equivalent to the following number of job classes below such standard rate:
JOB	CLASS		
1990	1991	1992	
22	23	24	4
20	21	22	6
19	20	21	6
18	19	20	6
17	18	19	6
15	16	17	6
13.36	- The provisions of paragraph 13.35 shall not apply lo those employees provided for in a) of paragraph 5.05 of the Manual.
13.38 - it shall be the Company’s responsibility to provide opportunities for apprentices to assimilate Provincial Block Training, Selection for attendance at Block Training will be made on the basis of seniority in his respective program.
73
13.39 - In the event an employee assigned to training through an apprenticeship course fails to qualify for progression at the conclusion of any block, the joint apprenticeship committee will review the areas of weakness and assist in the upgrading of said areas. Should the employee fail to qualify for progression in the same block on a second occasion, he will be removed from the apprenticeship training and must exercise his seniority in accordance with Article 6.07. Any dispute between the company and employee is subject to the grievance procedure.
13.43	- An employee hired for, or assigned through job posting to any job to which learner rates are applicable shall be governed by the following:
a)	such employee shall be furnished by the Company with a fist indicating the prescribed schedule of work processes and organized related instruction which apply to each learner period, together with the requirement standards which must be fulfilled in order to qualify for such job;
74
b) should such employee consider his qualifications and ability can qualify him for higher than the first learner period rate, he may request within seven (7) days after being processed as a new hire for, or after being assigned through job posting to. any job to which learner rateVare applicable, and shall receive a determination of his qualifications and ability which determination shall be made in a manner that Is fair, equitable and appropriate in relation to the described work of a qualified employee in the respective job and the following shall govern:
i)	if such determination discloses that such employee is fully qualified, he shall be assigned to the Standard Hourly Rate for the respective job; or
ii)	if such determination discloses that such employee is not fully qualified he shall be assigned to training beginning with that learner period for the respective job which is appropriate in relation to his qualifications and ability as disclosed by such determination.
13.44	- An employee assigned, in accordance with paragraph 13.43, to any learner period of a job to which learner rates are applicable shall:
75
a)	progress to the next learner period, if any, of such job upon the completion of 520 hours of actual learning experience, at which time such employee may request, and shall receive a determination of qualifications and ability as provided in b) of paragraph 13.43, in which event the governing rules contained therein shall apply;
b)	be considered a regular occupant of such job only after a determination of such employee’s qualifications and ability, made as provided In b) of paragraph 13.43, has disclosed that he is qualified, and
c)	receive a determination of his qualifications and ability when requested, as provided in a) of this paragraph, and in any other case, upon the conclusion of the final learner period of the respective job.
13.45	■ In the event an employee assigned to training through a learner schedule of a job to which learner rates are applicable fails to qualify for progression to the following period or to the Standard Hourly Rate of such job whichever is applicable, the Company shall indicate in detail to such employee the reason for such failure and advise and instruct such employee in an attempt to enable him to
76
successfully d e v e l o p the necessary ‘qualifications and ability. An employee failing to qualify as set out herein may opt to qualify in the requirements of the period failed anytime after one (1) month from the date of the failure. It is understood that a failure! under this paragraph constitutes the last failure allowed at any one 520-hour training period.
13.46	- An employee who fails to become qualified for a job to which learner rates are applicable following three (3) consecutive determinations; of his qualifications and ability shall be subject to removal from such job, in which case he shall revert to the position he occupied before he was assigned to such learner schedule.
13.47	- Any employee who alleges that a determination of his qualifications and ability has been made improperly or that he has been unjustly dealt with because of any determination which has been made, may file a grievance to be processed under the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
13.48	- The Union shall be consulted regarding:
a) The prescribed schedule of work processes and organized related instruction which apply to:
77
1)	each period of apprenticeship training
in the case of trade or craft jobs; and
2)	each learner period, In the case of a
job to which learner rates are applicable; and
b) the requirement standards which must be fulfilled in order to qualify at each period of training in either trade or craft apprenticeships or learner rates jobs.
13.49	- Employees who are or have been regularly assigned on or prior to the date the first Standard Hourly Wage Scale was made operative (October 1 st, 1958) to jobs to which learner rates apply shall be considered to be fully qualified and shall not at any time be subject to assignment to the! learner schedules for such jobs provided the employee meets the current qualifications for the job or held the job within the past twelve (12) months.
General
13.50	-Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or Standard Hourly Rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
78
13.51	» Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
13.52 a) - All hours worked up to forty (40) hours in a week by apprentices and learners will be taken into account in the computation of the 1000-hour training periods for apprentices and the 520-hour training per-"1- r~" '----lers.
b) ■■ It is also understood and agreed that apprentices and learners who attend classroom training outside working hours will be paid one (1) hour at straight time rates for each hour in attendance at such formal classroom training.
NORTHERN ALLOWANCE l"
13.53	- Effective March 1 , 1990 a Northern Allowance of one hundred and ninety-seven dollars ($197.00) per month per single status employee and two hundred and twelve dollars ($212.00) per month per married status employee will be paid, and on March 1, 1991 a Northern Allowance of two hundred and forty-seven ($247,00) per month per single status employee and two hundred and sixty-two dollars ($262.00) per month per married status employee will be paid subject to the following conditions:
ii
79
1.	One (1) only Northern Allowance per family will be allowed at the married status rate.
2a) Eligible employees must have earnings or be on annual or extended vacation in order to receive Northern Allowance.
b)	Annual or extended vacation pay received a I layoff or while on layoff or upon termination of employment is not considered as vacation taken or as earnings for the purpose of Northern Allowance.
c)	At time of termination employees with regular earnings for less than a full calendar month will receive prorata Northern Allowance for that month based on the number of days in that month to date of termination divided by thirty (30).
3.	Northern, Allowance is not considered as earnings for the purpose of computing vacation pay.
4.	An employee will be eligible for Northern Allowance following completion of his probationary period and shall be paid on a pro-rated basis.
80
5.	An employee changing «status» as outlined above must notify the personnel office of such change.
ARTICLE XIV
REPORTING AND CALL. BACK
14.01	- If an employee reports for work on his regular scheduled shift without having been notified previously not to report and if sufficient work is not available, he shall be given at least four (4) hours’ pay at his regular rate for that day at the standard rate for his occupation.
la) If an employee reports to work and before the shift starts it is known that there is no work for the employee In his, classification and on his regular shift, for the full shift, the employee will be allowed to go home with pay as indicated in paragraph 14.01 of this Article. If he is offered another job for the full shift, and he accepts, he will be paid his regular rate. If he declines and provided the job offered is one the employee can reasonably perform, he! will be allowed to go home without pay as indicated in paragraph 14.01.
81
b) An (employee assigned by the supervisor to a lower paid job shall be paid the rate of his classification for all hours worked.
2.	After an employee has worked the first half (1/2) of the shift, he may be sent home by his supervisor provided the employee is so notified before the end of the first half (1/2) of the shift.
14.02	- Employees called out to work outside their normal and regular hours shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at straight time rates or twice (2) the regular rate for actual hours worked on the call-out, whichever is the greater. Work required under the foregoing circumstances will be confined to work necessitated by the call-out. If, however, employees are informed before the end of their regular shift to commence work before their next regular starting time, the time will be computed continuously with the regular day's work and the time worked before the regular starting time will be paid for at the applicable rate.
14.03	- Article 14.02 will be applied on the following basis:
82
«Normal» Overtime will be paid for:
1.	Continuous hours worked following his regular shift.
2.	All hours worked in ‘continuity with the start of the next shift, where employee Is advised before end of his preceding shift.
3.	Work performed on assigned rest days where employee Is advised before end of last shift he works before his rest day.
4.	Replacing an absentee for a complete shift or part of a shift and he will be told who he is replacing and the work to be done when he is called or when reporting to work. The employee on regular annual vacation or extended vacation is not considered an absentee.
5.	The employee called in to work an extra shift and at time of call he is told that we expect him to work a minimum of eight (8) hours according t o a pre-determined schedule and he will be advised at least four (4) hours before the start of the regular shift and for the day shift he will be advised before midnight.
83
«Call-0u1» time will be paid for:
6.	Subject to item 4. and item 8., employees called after leaving the job, to perform a specific job. Work to be performed will be specified and the employee Is expected to work the hours required by the call-out or until he is relieved.
7.	Employee called on assigned rest day and who is not advised as in 5. above and who is not called as a replacement.
8.	Employee called to work for less than full shift and continues working on regular shift without relief (hours prior to regular shift paid as call out).
ARTICLE XV VACATION WITH PAY
15.01 - Vacations shall be granted through all the year in accordance with the schedules drawn up under the provisions of paragraph 15.02.
84
15.02	- The vacation schedule for regular and extended vacation will be worked out each year by Company and Union representatives with the aim of posting the schedule not later than November 30th. The schedule may be reviewed periodically as the need arises as to the number of employees to be released, however, except in the case of unforeseen circumstances, the schedule will not be altered without consent of both parlies. The objective is to allow the maximum number of employees vacation in the period of their preference based on the operational requirements of the Company. A copy of the posted schedule will be sent to the Union.
15.03	- Each year of completed continuous service with the Company qualifies the employee for vacation in accordance with the following schedule described in paragraph 15.04.
15.04	- Employees shall be allowed annual vacation with pay varying with the length of continuous service and prorated with the months actually worked during the year according to the following scale:
85
JS-t"
7?-2*
S e
■X

of Continuous
r v i c e
FMaxiaiumy	s
Allowed Vacation
After 1 year’s service After 2 years' service After 3 years' service After 4 years' service
18 days 23 days 28 days \ 33 days
Length of continuous service is determined by the anniversary of the employee's most recent date of hire and shall include any time an employee is on layoff by the Company due to lack of work and during which the employee retains and continues to accumulate seniority.
a)	Employees, should they so desire and within the guidelines of this Article, may choose to split their annual vacation subject to the following criteria:
1.	An employee will be permitted to split annual vacation only once.
2.	Minimum allowable vacation is 7 days
3.	Subject to provisions of Appendix T the employee may choose to take complete Air Transportation Subsidy on either portion of the vacation.
86
4.	Vacation pay will be paid for each portion of the vacation based on the number of days taken.
15.05	a) - Maximum calendar days shall not be reduced as a result of authorized absences due to medical reasons o r Union business. Maximum calendar days shall be reduced for any other authorized leave over one (1) month.
b)	- Maximum days allowed vacation shall be reduced, on a prorata basis, by complete months not worked due to layoff but in no case will the maximum days allowed be less than fourteen (14). At time of vacation, an employee will be allowed a leave of absence without pay for any vacation time cut due to layoff, if he wishes.
c)	- For each two (2) consecutive days of unauthorized absence during the year entitling an employee to vacation, the applicable maximum calendar days vacation due an employee, as determined in paragraph 15.04, shall be reduced by one half (1/2) of a day but in no case will the vacation days entitlement be less than fourteen (14) days.
87
d)	■■ An annual vacation bonus of one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) per week fifteen dollars and seventy-one cents ($15.71) for each day of annual vacation granted will be paid for vacation days taken from October 1st to December 14th and January 16th to May 31st. The vacation bonus will also be paid If annual vacation pay is given to an (employee at time of layoff, provided such layoff falls in the above mentioned periods.
15.06	a) - Annual vacation pay shall be computed by multiplying the employee's gross earnings for twenty-six (26) pay periods starting with the pay period following the service anniversary date by the percent factor corresponding to length of service as outlined below:
Length of Continuous	% Factors
S e r v i c e j\ .	of Earnings
After 1 year After 2 years After 3 years After 4 years
5.33%
6.81%
8.29%
9.77%
b) - Vacation pay or the equivalent of his vacation pay without taking such vacation shall' be considered as earnings for computing subsequent vacation pay.
88
15.07	- It Is the desire of the Company and the Union that every employee entitled thereto shall receive a vacation; and an employee shall not be entitled to any payment in lieu of a vacation /	.
unless the Company and employee shall agree '' that, the employee shall not take such vacation ^ or portion thereof, in which case the Company shall pay to him the equivalent of his vacation pay without taking SUCh vacation.
15.OB a) - Employees who are eligible for vacation pay may request same up to fifteen (15) calendar days in advance and will receive same not later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the date they are scheduled to proceed on vacation. In cases where the amount of actual vacation pay is not available within the time specified above, employees will receive an approximation thereof, which will be subsequently adjusted.
b)	- Employees who are entitled to vacation
upon layoff shall receive vacation pay at time of layoff if the employee so specifies or in accordance with a vacation	schedule
established prior to his layoff.
c)	- Employees who are eligible for vacation pay will receive same at the time they are discharged.
89
15.09	- Employees with less than one (1) year’s continuous service, for vacation purposes will receive, upon a break in continuous service, four percent (4%) of gross earnings since their date of hire. Employees with more than one (1) year’s continuous service for vacation purposes will receive, upon a break in continuous service, four percent (4%) of gross earnings since the date of the pay period nearest to their last hiring anniversary date In addition to vacation pay to which they may be entitled under paragraph 15.06 or whatever Is provided by law, whichever is greater.
15.10	- An employee who returns from vacation will be entitled to overtime for days worked in the week he returns on the! same basis as for the same week as if he had not been on vacation and had worked his regular scheduled week.
15.1 1 ■ Until such time as a highway connects Labrador City with a provincial highway system, employees and their immediate dependents will be entitled once per vacation year, provided the employee has acquired vacation rights, to a free return passage Labrador City to Sept-lies via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway. At vacation time and for the same purpose the employee will be entitled to free return transportation, as provided by the! Quebec North
90
Shore & Labrador Railway, for his personal automobile and one (1) space in a «car carrier), for his personal trailer, motor home, camper, canoe or boat on trailer. In the event that the trailer, motor home, camper or boat on trailer, exceeds the normal limits of the «car carrier)), one (1) space on a flat car will be provided for the trailer, motor home, camper, or boat on trailer. Any charges incurred in excess of 4,500 pounds will be at the employee’s expense. For the purpose of this Article the personal automobile may be In the spouse's name. Furthermore, each employee will be entitled to a second free return passage for his personal automobile from Labrador City to Sept-lles via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway.
15.12 - EXTENDED VACATION
1. Each five (5) year period of completed continuous service with the Company qualifies the employee for JEV based on five ^5" ^(5) wee&s of EV after five (5) years of service and nine (9) weeks of EV after ten (10) years of service. vEach additional five (5) year periodjpf continuous service. after ten 7^0) years of service, qualifies the employee for EV based on nine (9) weeks of EV.
/ 0 ~Y$ l~
, --
91
2a) Employees who, as of August 18th, 1966, had five (5) years of service or more but less than ten (10) years of service and were granted EV in accordance with the table set out In the 1972 - 1975 collective agreement start to accumulate their second EV as of their employment anniversary date in the year in which they received their prorated EV.
b)	Employees who were entitled to EV as of August 18th, 1966, In accordance with the table set out in the 1972- 1975 collective agreement and received their first EV after accumulating ten (10) years of continuous service, begin to accumulate their second EV on their tenth (10th) employment anniversary.
3.	Employees who had ten (10) years or more service as of August 18th, 1966, are entitled to a second EV after five (5) years of service from their employment anniversary date in 1966.
4.	Employees who reach their first five (5) years of service after August 18th, 1966, are entitled to EV as of the date of their fifth (5th) employment anniversary date. Such employees are entitled to a second EV after five (5) years of service from the date they became entitled to their first EV.
92
5.	The date of entitlement of the second EV establishes the start of the third five (5) year period of service. The start of each subsequent five (5) year period of service is established In the same manner as the third five (5) year period.
6.	For an employee entitled to EV before signature date of the 1981-1984 Agreement:
a)	EV days and pay will be In addition to annual vacation and shall be added to, paid and taken with ari employee’s annual vacation;
b)	all or any portion of EV days entitlement may be cancelled in the year an employee is scheduled for EV pay; if the employee opts for EV days he must specify his option for EV days entitlement at the time he makes application for annual vacation. The employee will receive pay for his full EV entitlement if he opted not to take his EV days entitlement.
93
7.	For an employee becoming entitled to EV on or after the signature date of this Agreement:
a)	EV will be paid in full in the six (6) weeks following the end of the pay period in which the service anniversary date completing the 5-year period entitling the employee to EV falls, if the employee so desires. Otherwise the employee will be paid in full at the time he takes the extended vacation time;
b)	ail or any portion of EV days entitlement may be cancelled. If an employee wishes to have EV days, they can be scheduled with any one annual vacation of the five (5) years following EV entitlement; however, the employee must specify his option for EV days entitlement at the time he makes application for annual vacation and paragraph 15.12.1 0 applies.
8.	EV days and EV pay wilt be calculated in the same manner and will be! subject to the same conditions as annual vacation except that a five (5) year base wilt be used for EV instead of the one (1) year base. The maximum number of calendar days allowed
94
EV multiplied by .2:9606 wilt establish the percent (%) of earnings to be granted as EV pay.
9.	EV will be scheduled in accordance with the ‘vacation scheduling procedures that apply to the bargaining unit. The desires of the individual employee will be taken into account insofar as practicable! but final allotment must be approved by the Manager to insure orderly operation.
10.	Only in the case of termination will the Company be required to allot EV time or pay in excess of twenty percent (20%) of the employees entitled to EV in the calendar year in question.
11.	in cases of employment termination due to Technological, Organizational o r Operational Changes, extended layoff, death of an employee, retirement (normal, early, special early, postponed) under the Pension Plan Agreement governing this bargaining unit, employees or beneficiaries of deceased employees, so terminated will be entitled to a prorata EV based on the service period completed at such termination date since last previous entitlement date to EV or since hiring date, as the case may be.
95
12.	Service Eionus:
For the second and each subsequent year of service completed after February 28th, 1979, and for which an employee receives an annual vacation pay, extended vacation pay will be increased by a 20-hour service bonus. Such service bonus will be paid at the same time as extended vacation pay and at the Standard Hourly Rate of the regular job held at each service year anniversary date in the applicable period of years preceding the date EV is paid.
96
ARTICLE XVI
HOLIDAY!;
16.01	a) • For any of the holidays hereafter mentioned, each employee wilt receive a holiday pay equal to eight (8) times the applicable hourly rate of the job to which he is regularly assigned, exclusive of shift and overtime premiums, provided that the employee is not absent without leave on the scheduled shift immediately preceding or following the holiday:
New Year's Daly St. Patrick Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Regatta Day Labour Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day December 26th.
b) - Notwithstanding 16.01 a), an employee on vacation or who is laid off the day following or preceding the holiday shalt be entitled to holiday pay.
97

c)	■ To be entitled to holiday pay set out in
16.01	a), an employee must have worked during the course of the two (2) weeks that precede the holiday.
d)	- The date for Regatta Day will be established annually not later than May 15th. Prior to April 15th of each year the Company will request the Union, by registered mail, to advise the Company of the date on which Regatta Day will fall in that year. The Union will so advise the Company, by registered mail, not later than May 15th; if the Union does not do so, the date will be fixed by the Company and will not be subject to change.
6/
%
16.02	- in addition to the holiday pay mentioned in paragraph 16.01, employees required to work on a holiday will be paid as follows: 150% of their regular rate for the first eight (8) hours; 200% of their regular rate for the next four (4) hours; 250% of their regular rate for all hours worked over twelve (12) hours. However, in the case where employees would have the right to a higher hourly rate for such hours worked, in accordance with another provision of the collective agreement, they will be paid at such higher hourly rate Instead of the rate provided for in this paragraph.
98
16.03	- Holiday pay hours shall be considered as hours worked only to make the hours actually worked after the holiday within the work week (i.e. Monday through Sunday) eligible for overtime, if the holiday falls on a day following the last day worked by the employee In the work week, the holiday pay hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
ARTICLE XVII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17,01	a) - An employee may be granted a leave of absence upon submitting a written request to his shift or department supervisor outlining the reasons for the leave and its length. Leaves of absence will not arbitrarily be denied, but management shall have the right to grant leave and determine its length. However, should an employee feet that his leave has been arbitrarily denied, he may refer the matter for discussion with his department superintendent. if the Company denies a leave of absence, the reasons for this refusal will be given to the employee. The only benefits accrued during leave will be seniority and those other benefits the collective agreement specifically states will be accrued.
99
b) (1) - An employee who Is absent for reason of sickness for more than three (3) days shall present a medical certificate covering the time lost upon returning to work.
(2) - The Company will administer «fit to return to work» slips concerning lost time accidents resulting from accidents during working hours and medical leaves of absence requiring hospitalization in a city other than the city of residence on the ifollowing basis:
i) Accidents during working hours:
An employee returning to work following a lost time accident provided the normal procedure was followed In conformity with the rule!; of the Workers’ Compensation Commission, will report to the personnel office with proof of physical fitness from his attending physician. Should the Company require further evidence of physical fitness through a Company designated physician, the Company will pay for the required examination and will pay the employee at his regular rate for scheduled hours lost resulting from such an examination.
100
ii) Leave of absence requiring hospitalization:
A n employee returning to work after hospitalization In a city other than his city of residence will report to the personnel office with proof of hospitalization and proof of physical fitness from his attending physician. If the Company requires further evidence of physical fitness, cost of the examination and pay for the time lost, if any, will be handled as In paragraph i) above.	/ y
17.02	a) - In case of death In his immediate family, an employee will be allowed three (3) consecutive scheduled shifts, based on the day of the funeral, with pay at his basic rate provided he actually loses the three (3) days on account of such death.
b) - The provisions of paragraph 17.02 a) will apply to an employee who was not scheduled to work due lo being on an authorized leave of absence for reason of illness of a member in his Immediate family which resulted in the death of that member of his immediate family during the period of the employee’s authorized leave of absence.
101
17.03	- For the purpose of paragraph 17.02 ((immediate family» is defined as wife or husband, daughter, son, brother, sister, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, employee’s grandmother, grandfather and grandchild.
17.04	- During the life of this Agreement, to further an employee’s educational standard, leaves of absence may be granted without pay to a maximum of six (6) employees at any one time and not more than one (1) per classification, who have at least two (2) years’ seniority in the bargaining unit to attencLon_a full time basis, a course_of studiesof at least six
,	(6) months’ duration at a recognized educational
/q ,*v institute, Employees must submit a letter of IS acceptance from the institute not less than two (2) weeks prior to the start of the leave requested. Such leave shall at no time exceed the time required to complete the course of study in that academic year and paragraph 17.01 shall apply. Seniority will be considered in granting leaves of absence, however, if the course of studies lasts more than one (1) year, renewal of the leave will be considered ahead of new leaves.
102
17.05	- Maternity leave, of absence will be granted to female employees who have acquired ^ seniority In the bargaining unit. Such request for leave shall not be refused by the Company and shall commence between the second and the fourth month prior to the anticipated date of birth of the child and shall terminate at ‘the latest six (6) months after the birth but shall not exceed a total of eight (8) months.
Such employees shall be restored to their former position if work Is available and they are capable of performing the work, provided they return to work as outlined In Article VI. If their former position is not available, such employees may exercise their displacement rights, as outlined In Article VI. If the Company hires a new employee to fill a vacancy resulting from a maternity leave of absence, such employee may exercise any seniority rights that apply or be 1 laid off without notice at the expiration of the leave of absence.
103
JURY DUTY
17.06	- Effective as of the date of the commencement of the Criminal Court in /tj Labrador City, an employee who Is summoned (j / for jury duty in his county of residence and is /,}A required to lose time from his assignment as a p result thereof shall be paid for actual time Jost with a maximunTof one (1) basic day’s pay at the straight time rate of his position for each day lost, less the amount allowed him for jury duty for each such day excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations:
a)	an employee must furnish the Company with a statement from the Court of jury allowances paid and the days on which jury duty was performed;
b)	the number of working days for which jury duty pay shall be paid is limited to a maximum of sixty (60) days in any calendar year;
c)	no jury duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is entitled to vacation or general holiday pay. An employee who is scheduled for his vacation while he is acting as juror may reschedule his vacation in a free period;
104
d)	minimum notice of three (3) days, when possible, along with copy of the summons must be furnished to the employee’s supervisor.
ARTICLE XVIII SAFETY & HEALTH
18.01	- The Company, the Union and the employees recognize their obligations and rights according ‘to the laws In force, with respect to matters of safety and health.
The parties recognize that it is the responsibility of the Company to make necessary provisions for the safety and health of its employees at the work place. In their desire to maintain high standards of safety and health at the work place, the Company and the Union will cooperate in the continuing objective of eliminating accidents and health hazards and in advocating observance of safety rules and policies.
18.02	■ The Company and the Union agree that in order to achieve high safety standards, proper attitudes must be developed by all concerned due to the primary role of the human element In any sound accident prevention and industrial diseases programs.
105
18.03	a) (i) - The Company recognizes the importance of a safety and health committee to further safety and promote desirable communications to this effect. This committee will consist of three (3) Union Safety Representatives employed in the Safety Department, a Union Environmental Technician and up to four (4) members appointed by management. The union and the company shall each designate their respective co-chairman for this group.
ii) - The three Union Safety representatives shall be paid forty (40) hours per week plus ail normal benefits and shall work full time under the direction of the head of the Safety Department.
Hi) - In addition to the three (3) employees in
18.03	a) ii), the company will maintain one (1) further union position in the environmental department. The incumbent shall work full time under the direction of the head of the Environmental Department and shall be paid forty (40) hours per week plus all normal benefits.
106
b)	- Inspection tours of Company facilities by )j the safety and health committee shall take place , ' monthly or bi-monthly as mutually agreed to’^ q seek out unsafe acts and unsafe conditions, ft' The Company will notify the committee members
of the time of the inspections.
c)	■ in the discharge of its <functions the committee shall: consider existing practices and rules relating to safety and health, review and formulate appropriate and necessary suggestions for changes in existing practices and rules, recommend adoption of new practices and rules, review and revise proposed new safety and health programs, review and analyze the cause and means to be taken in case of unsafe acts and conditions, accident statistics, and trends as well as noise, dust, fumes, gas, hazardous chemicals, cold and heat reports and make appropriate and necessary recommendations concerning the functions and duties set out above.
18.04	- Recommendations of the safety and health committee together with supporting documentation and reasons shall be submitted to the Manager for his consideration in order to provide for the safety and health of its employees during working hours and at ail , times when legitimately on company properly.
The Manager will {advise the committee of the appropriate action to be taken by the Company on the recommendations submitted.
18.05	- The committee shall hold a monthly meeting at a time determined by the cochairmen of both [parties. Each co-chairman shall submit a proposed agenda to the other cochairman at least five (5) days prior to the monthly meeting. The Company co-chairman will provide the Union co-chairman with minutes of the monthly meeting within forty eight (48) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) following this meeting. Futhermore, should conditions warrant, the co-chairmen, by mutual agreement, may call such meeting:; as they deem necessary.
18.06	- Prior to the monthly meeting, the cochairmen, or the Health and Safety Committee designate of each co-chairman, may inspect mutually selected work areas in respect of such matter as: accidejit_ investigation follow-up; excessive noise, heat, cold and -hazardous chemicals^ ^fijpies, dust or vibration as they pertain to employee’s health; reported unsafe 'conditions. A report of the inspection shall be prepared by the Company and transmitted to the Union co-chairman setting forth their findings.
108
18.07	- in the case of accidents which result in disabling Injury there will be a fact finding investigation and the company will immediately, but not later than ‘twenty-four (24) hours from the time of the accident, notify the Union Cochairman or a member of the Safety & Health Committee. Iri the case of accidents which did not, but could have resulted in disabling injury, such investigation will also be carried out if the co-chairmen deem It necessary. The union cochairman, or his Health & Safety Committee designate, may visit the scene of the accident with the company co-chairman or his designate. Each will submit his report to the Safety & Health Committee.
18.08	- Any time a safety hazard develops, it may be addressed by the appropriate Union Safety Representative and brought to the attention of the head of the Safety Department. This person wilt then advise the Union of the appropriate action to be taken by the Company.
18.09	- The Company and the Union will continue their program of air sampling and noise testing. Where the area representative of the Safety and Health, Committee alleges a significant on the job health hazard due to air pollution or noise, the Company and the Union will also make such additional noise tests and air samplings as are necessary. A report based
109
on such additional noise tests and air samplings shall be forwarded to the Safety & Health Committee.
18.10	(1) - Should- an employee or a group of employees believer that there exists an unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition with respect to the area in which he is working, other than
the normal hazards in his work or working area,
he shall have the right to stop working and he shall immediately^ report the condition to his supervisor who shall investigate the condition and take steps necessary to correct it.
(2)	- If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his supervisor, he shall have the right to be relieved from duty on the job in respect of which he has complained and will be assigned! to another job at his regular rate, or the rate of the job performed if higher. Should the stoppage of work due to an alleged unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition affect other employees, such employees will be reassigned to other jobs at their regular rates, or the rate of the job performed if higher.
(3)	- As soon as possible, a Union and a Company representative of the safety and health committee will be called in by the supervisor to inspect the alleged unsafe condition. The employee may be called in at the request of a committee representative.
110
(4)	- if the representatives agree that the condition was in fact unsafe, the employee shall be reassigned to the job when the unsafe condition has been remedied.
(5)	■■ If the representatives disagree as to the safety of the condition, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance at step 3 of the grievance procedure in accordance with paragraph 7.07 lb) or request appropriate governmental intervention.
(6)	- Pending resolution of the matter, the Company has the right to offer the work in dispute to another hourly employee who will be advised of the refusal by the regular employee to perform the work for safety reasons. If this hourly employee refuses to perform the work in dispute, while awaiting the resolution of the problem by one or the other of the methods set out in 5) above, the Company will have the right to continue to have the work performed.
(7)	- The Company may present a grievance in the event that paragraph 18.10 is subject to vexatious or abusive treatment.
111
18.11	- Protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipment necessary to properly protect employees from Injury shall be provided by the Company in accordance with practices now prevailing or as such practices may be improved from time to time by tlhe Company. The safety and health committee may make recommendations with respect to this paragraph.
When the Company introduces new personal protective apparel or extends the use of protective apparel to new areas or issues new rules relating to the use of protective apparel, the matter will be discussed with the members of the safety and health committee in advance in order for the committee to form an opinion as to the adequacy of the protective apparel and with the objective of increasing co-operation.
18.12	- The Company shall provide adequate first-aid during working hour:;.
18.13	a) - If time is needed by an employee during his normal working hours to visit the doctor as a result of a work accident and the time for such visit is not compensated for under the Workers’ Compensation Act, no loss of pay shall result.
112
b) (1) - Employees shall be allowed a complete annual Industrial examination which will be carried out In accordance with the prescribed medical examination.
(2)	- The examination may be carried out by the physician designated by the Company or by the physician of the employee’s choice. Should the employee not use the services of the physician designated by the Company, the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the complete industrial examination through the Company. Where the employee uses, the services of the physician of his choice for the industrial examination, the examination results required for employment purposes shall be forwarded to the Company designated physician.
(3)	- The above examinations will be carried out outside the employee’s work hours and the employee will be allowed one (1) hour at his regular straight time rate for attendance at such examination. The employee will receive an invoice form from the Company. The form will state that the employee has taken the prescribed examination. On receipt of the invoice the Company will pay the doctor his fee up to the agreed amount prescribed for such examination.
113
(4)	- Should the Company require an employee
to be examined by the Company designated
physician during the employee’s regular scheduled shift, no loss of pay shall result.
(5)	- Employees who are required to obtain a Miner’s Medical will be allowed one (1) hour at his regular straight time rate for attendance at such examination.
1 8.14 a) - A copy of the safety department’s report on lost-time accidents and a first-aid station report shall be forwarded to the Union co-chairman of the safety and health committee. Such report may be discussed at committee meetings.
b)	- When an employee signs a form prescribed by the Workers’ Compensation Commission, a copy of such form, as submitted by the Company to the Commission, will be made available to the Union upon request.
c)	■ When the Company contests a request for indemnity, the Union will be advised of such contestation.
18.15	- During the life of the present collective agreement, it is the intent of the Company to provide for eye examinations and prescription safety glasses under the following conditions:
114
1)	if the employee does not use the services of the Company optometrist, he will be reimbursed a maximum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for an eye examination, not more than once a year, upon presentation of a proper doctor's invoice;
2)	the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the safety glasses through the Company once every six (6) months;
3)	under the same conditions as 2) above, the Company will replace safety glasses broken or damaged on the job.
18.16	(1) - Should an employee contract an industrial disease from Company work processes which renders the employee unable to maintain necessary standards of health on the job he was regularly performing, the empioyee will be moved to some jotherjpb for whlcFThels qualified! The foregoing will also apply to ari employee who contracts an industrial disease for which a permanent partial disability is recognizerd under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
(2) - Should the Company not offer the employee a job of equal or higher rate, the employee will be treated as being laid off and paragraph 6.07 will apply.
115
(3)	- If the employee Is treated as being laid off, the Company will maintain the difference between the rate of the regular job held and the rate of the Job obtained through the provisions of paragraph 6.07.
(4)	- If an employee refuses a job of equal or higher rate for which he qualifies medically and in accordance with the terms of the collective agreement, he shall be paid the Standard Hourly Rate! of the job in which he exercises seniority.
(5)	- If there is disagreement as to the employee’s medical condition rendering the employee unable to perform a job under the terms of 18.16 (1), the employee shall be examined by a physician chosen by the employee's physician and the Company designated physician. The medical opinion of the third physician after examination of the employee and consultation with the other two physicians shall decide the matter. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company and the Union. Regular wages lost and reasonable expenses incurred by the employee as a result of an examination required by the third physician will be paid by the Company.
ARTICLE XIX ■ Not used.
116
ARTICLE XX
CONTRACTING OUT
20.01	- The Company will do repair, maintenance and production work with employees of the bargaining unit. Contracting out will be kept to a minimum.
20.02	a) - No employee In the bargaining unit will be laid off or displaced to a lower rated job because of work normally accomplished by the employees In the bargaining unit being contracted out, or such work being performed on site by a contractor. Furthermore, before contracting out such work, the Company will recall, in accordance with 6.11 a), qualified employees who are laid off or displaced, for such work, provided these employees are available.
b) . No employee working In a job in the department or departments In w h i c h a contractor Is employed will be displaced from his department, because of the contractor's work, during the period of time a contractor’s employee is working In a similar occupation on site.
1 1 7
Employees working in the department or departments where a contractor is employed will be scheduled for not less than the same number of hours per week as employees in the bargaining unit working in other departments.
20.03	- in accordance with paragraph 20.04, before the Company finally decides to contract out repair, maintenance or production work, the Company will provide the contracting out committee with detailed information as set out in Appendix "H" so that the Union members of the committee can adequately form an opinion as to whether or not such work should or should not be contracted out. Should the scope of the contractor’s work, be changed during the contract period the changes will be treated as a new contract.
20.04	- Mot less than ten (10) days before the Company finally decides to contract repair, maintenance or production work which is normally carried out by its regular qualified employees, the Company will notify the Union committee in writing. When the Company cannot give the ten (10) days’ notice, a verbal notice will be given immediately it becomes possible to do so and confirmed by telegram.
118
Within five (5) days of the notice providing the detailed Information as set out in 20.03, should the Union committee so request, a meeting of the committee will be held to review this information.
20.05	- The committee mentioned in 20.03 shall be composed of four (4) Union representatives and four (4) Company representatives. If a meeting is desired, the Union committee members shall not lose regular earnings while in attendance! at this meeting. Upon request, one (1) member of the Union committee will be allowed up to eight (8) hours per month at his regular rate to Investigate contracting out complaints in conjunction with a Company representative.
20.06	-Any alleged violation of the provisions of Article XX shall be subject to the grievance procedure and processed in accordance with paragraph 7.07 b).
20.07	- An individual employee who has been laid off or displaced in violation of the provisions of paragraph 20.02 may file a personali grievance for the pay he claims to have lost,
119
20.08	■ A contractor working on site under paragraphs 20.03 and 20.04 will not perform repair, maintenance or production work, not associated with this contract, normally performed by bargaining unit employees. Should this occur an employee may lodge a grievance at Step 2 in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.03 and any claim payable will apply from the date the grievance was filed..
ARTICLE XXI
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS
21.01	- The Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement.
21.02	- On the other hand and for the same reasons, the Union agrees that there will be no strike, picketing, concerted slowdown or stoppage of work.
21.03	- The Union further agrees that it will not involve any employee of the! Company, or the Company itself, in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees of such other employer. An employee who
120
holds a Union position at the Company and is granted a leave of absence under the provision of Article! 4.09 is not ‘touched by the above provision in exercising a Union representative function In a difference involving another employer.
ARTICLE XXII
AUTHORITY OF THE UNION
22.01	■ The United Steelworkers of America (Local 5795) and its duly appointed or elected representatives agree that they have authority from the members of the said Union to enter into this Agreement and agree that this Agreement shall be binding upon the same Union and/or Its members under the Laws of the Province of Newfoundland - Labrador.
ARTICLE XXIII NOTICES
23.01	- Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
121
To the Company:
iron Ore Company of Canada,
P. O. Box 1000,
Labrador City,
Newfoundland - Labrador.
A2V 2L8
To the Union:
Recording Secretary,
Local 5795,
United Steelworkers of America,
105 Hudson Drive,
Labrador City,
Newfoundland - Labrador.
A2V 1 L4
23.02	- Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
23.03	- Provisions of this Article apply to ail articles having time limits.
23.04	- Either party may change Its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
122
ARTICLE XXIV
VALIDITY OF THE AGREEMENT
24.01	■ If any provision of this Agreement was void in view of the provisions of the! Labour Relations Act of the Province of Newfoundland -Labrador, the other provisions of the Agreement shalt not be affected in any way by such nullity.
ARTICLE XXV HEADNOTES
25.01	- Headings, titles and sub-titles for the various paragraphs are not part of the Agreement, nor are they to be construed as such.
ARTICLE, XXVI LEGAL TEXT
26.01	- The English text is the legal text of this collective agreement.
123
ARTICLE: XXVII
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
27.01	- This Agreement shall become effective on March 1 st, 1990 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 28th day of February 1993.
27.02	- Within the ninety (90) days preceding the expiration of this Agreement, either party may notify the other party of Its desire to negotiate the terms and conditions of a new Agreement.
IN WITNESS ‘WHEREOF Iron Ore Company of Canada has caused its corporate seal to be affixed under the hands of its proper officers in that behalf and the duly appointed or elected representatives of United Steelworkers of America (Local 5795) have hereunto set their hands and seals this 18th day of April 1990.
124
IRON ORI! COMPANY OV CANADA .
D.C. RANGE
!r. H. R. GAGNON
Executive
Vice-President.
BOB YOUNG
Sub-Dietrict Director
Staff Representative
!&L &UU.
Vice-President Human Resources
RANDY COLLINS President
D. SEYMOUR Manager,
Human Resources
A. ROBERTSON Superintendent, labour Relations
inJ-
FRED POWER
Negotiation Committee
BOB BRUCE
Negotiation Committee
)
ALVIN ban:
Negotiation committee
Negotiation committee
125
APPENDIX “A
CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY (C.W.S.)
MANUAL
for
JOB DESCRIPTION CLASSIFICATION
and
WAGE ADMINISTRATION MARCH 1 St, 1958
Including C.W.S. Procedure for handling new or changed jobs dated January 11 th, 1990.
126
APPENDIX "B"
LEARNER PERIOD FOR CLASSIFICATION ANALYSIS
Division:	Labrador City
JOBS REQUIRING LEARNER RATE
STANDARD TITLE
_________________________________________________Date : 1990
HOURS AND JOB CUSS FOR
___________________________________LEARNING PERIODS_________
NO OF
MONTHS JOB LEARNER 520 H. 520 H. 520 H. FACTOR 2 CLASS PERIODS 1st Per. 2nd Per. 3rd Per.
Aggl omerati ng Attendant B1 aster
Blaster Line Crew Control Root? Qpsritor — Concentrator (1)
Crusher Operator Dragline Operator Drill Operator - Airtrac
r\_- T 1	_
ui i i i upci uwa
Product!on
Equipment Attendant -Concentrator (1)
Float Dri ver
( 1)	19-24	9
7-12	IQ
7-12	9
31-36	15
13-18	14
712	ii
7-12	8
25-30	12
13-18	8
7-12	10
i	8	
1	7	
2	10	12
i	3	
1	6	
3	6	8
1	8	
10
127
Grinding & Crushing
Attendant (1)	13-18	9
Haul age Truck Dri ver	7-12	11
induration Attendant (1)	13-18	9
Loading Pocket Operator	7-12	8
Lox Plant Operator	19-24	12
Materi al Handl i ng Attendant (1)	13-18	9
Mine Atttendant (1)	7-12	8
Mobi 1 e Crane Operator	13-18	12
Mobi 1 e Equipment Operator	13-18	11
Pelletizing Control Operator	25-30	13
Process Attendant (1)	13-18	8
Sampler - Analyst (1)	19-24	11
Senior Attendant -		
Pellet Plant	19-24	10
Scni or Attendant -		
Concentrator	19-24	10
Shovel Operator	25-30	17
Track Equipment Operator	7-12	9
(1) Learner periods to be confirmed
1
9
I	6		
3	6	8	10
2	8	10
1	9	
2	9	11
3	4	6	8
2	6	8	
3	i i	13	15
i	7		
128
For reference purpose only, the following lists jobs according to job class and indicates standard hourly rate in conformity with Article 13.01.
JOB CLASS	JOB TITLE	MARCH 1 1990	MARCH 1 1991	MARCH 1 1932
1	Janitor	14 57	15.62	16.67
2	Labourer - Beneficiation Plants Labourer - General	14.78	15.86	16.93
3	Tool crib Attendant	14.33	ic m XU . 4V	17 IQ
4	Labourer - Maintenance Oil Unloading Attendant Labourer - Track	15.20	16.34	17.45
5	Drill Operator - Jackhammer Steam Cleaner Uti1ityman	15.41	16.58	17.71
6		15.62	16.82	17.97
129
Freight Handler Plant Operator Tire Shop Han
Drill Operator - Airtrac Equipment Attendant -Concentrator Loading Pocket Operator Mine Attendant Process Attendant -Concentrator Truck Driver
Agglomerating Attendant -Pellet Plant Blaster - Line Crew Compressor Boiler Operator Grinding & Crushing Attendant Concentrator Hydraulic Crane Operator Induration Attendant Materi al Hanoi i ng Attendant -Pellet Plant
Track Equipment Operator
15.83
17.06
18.23
16.04	17.30	18.49
o
CO
16.25
17.54
1 O ■7C j.u - / D
Blaster Float Driver
Senior Attendant - Concentrator Senior Attendant - Pellet Plant
Drag!i ne Operator Haul age Truck Dri ver Mobi le Equipment Operator Samp! er Analyst Painter
Drill Operator - Production Heating and Steam Plant Operator Lox Plant Operator Mobile Crane Operator
Carpenter
Pelletizing Control Operator Painter - Letterer Pipefitter
Crusher Operator Electrician Transmission Mice. Stationary Engineer Welder
16.4S	17.78	19 01
16.67	18.02	18.27
17.51	19.22	20.83
16.88	18.26	19.53
17.93	19.70	21.35
17.09	18.50	19.79
17.93	19.70	21.35
17.93	19.70	21.35
17.30	18.74	20.05
18.14	19 94	21 61
18.14	19.94	21.61
18.14	19.94	21.61
15	Control Room Operator -
Concentrator
*	Mechanic - Field
*	Mechanic - Plant
17.51	18.98	20.31
18.35	20.18	21.87
18.35	20.18	21.87
16	* Automotive Mechanic
*	Electrician
*	Machinist
18.58
18.56
18.56
20.42
20.42
20.42
22.13
22.13
22.13
17	Shovel Operator
17.93	19.46	20.83
18	* Electronic Repai rman
18.98	20.90	22.65
NOTE: The classification of each Job mentioned represents the true CWS evaluation.
* Indicates Trsds jobs.
March	1,	1990,	the	rate	indicated	includes	the	addition	of	4	Job	classes
March	1,	1991,	the	rate	indicated	includes	the	addition	of	5	Job	classes
March	1,	1992.	the	rate	indicated	includes	the	addition	of	6	Job	classes
CM
co
APPENDIX BC"
CONSULTATIVE MACHINERY
Upon request, the Executive Vice-President and the Manager, Human Resources will meet with the officers of Local Union who will be accompanied by the Area Coordinator of the! International Union, to exchange views on matters of common interest not covered by this Agreement.
Problems which may arise with respect to the administration of the Apprenticeship Program may also be discussed under this Appendix.
The matters to be! discussed must be incorporated in an agenda signed by the president of the Local Union and addressed to the Executive Vice-President with copies to the Manager, Human Resources.
Within seven (7) days of receipt of the agenda, the Company will suggest a date for such meeting to take place.
Such a meeting will also be held at the request of the Company.
133
APPENDIX “D'
Upon written request to the Executive VicePresident, the Area Coordinator or his representative may request a meeting to appeal a grievance fifed under paragraph 7.07 b) or 7.07 C).
Such request must be forwarded not later than fifteen (15) days from the answer at step 3. No such grievance may be referred ‘to arbitration later than twenty-one (21) days from the date of the decision arrived at as a result of this meeting. Individual or group grievances including discipline or discharge grievances are excluded from this understanding.
‘The Manager, Human Resources or his representative will attend this meeting. Other individuals at this meeting will be as set out at step 3 of the grievance procedure.
134
APPENDIX ME'
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (C.O.L.A.)
A) For the purpose of this Agreement:
la) «Consurner Price lndex» refers to the Consumer Price Index for Canada, All Items {1971 =100), referred to hereafter as ((C.P.I.», published by Statistics Canada.
b) ((Consumer Price Index Base» refers to the C.P.I. for the month of October 1989 published in November 1989 at 362.9.
2.
((Adjustment Days» will be March 1, J9J9Q, June 1, 1990, September 1,
1990,	December 1, 1990, March 1,
1991,	June 1, 1991, September 1,
1991,	December 1, 1991, March 1,
1992,	June 1, 1992, September 1, 1992, and December 1, 1992. The actual date of each adjustment day shall be the first day of the pay period closest to the adjustment day.
135
3.	«Chan(je in the C.P.I.» is defined as the difference between the C.P.I. Base and the C.P.I. /published for the second calendar month next preceding the month In which the applicable adjustment day falls.
4.	The «C.O.L,A.» is calculated as below and, except as provided in sections D, E, F and (5, will be payable for the quarterly period commencing with each adjustment date.
Ei) Effective on each adjustment date, a C.O.L.A. equal to one cent ($0.01) per hour for each full .30 of a point change in the C.P.I. shall become payable for all hours worked and for any reporting allowance credited before the next adjustment date. However, such C.O.L.A. shall be reduced by an amount equal to the sum of all prior adjustments, if any, which shall have been folded In the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates pursuant to the provisions of sections D, E, F and G, below.
136
C)	Until folded Into the rates pursuant to the provisions, of sections D, E, IF and G below, the C.O.IL.A. shall be an «add-on» and shall not be part of the employee’s Standard Hourly Flate or Salary Rate. Until folded in, such adjustment shall be payable only for hours actually worked and for reporting allowance and shall not be Included for the computation of vacation pays nor shall it be paid during vacation and it shall be excluded In the calculation of any other pay, allowance or benefit.
D)	Effective March I, 1990, an amount of
seventy-five cents ($0.75^ from the one dollar and seventy-five cents ($1.7f>f' C.O.L.A. previously accumulated shall be! folded In the Standard Hourly Rates oi Salary Flates. Such adjustment shall be! treated for all purposes as a general wage or salary increase commencing on the said date.
E)	Effective March 1,1990, the balance of one dollar ($1,00)- from the previous C.O.L.A. will be paid as an “add-on" until reduced or eliminated by declining C.P.I., fold-ins or other means.
f:) Eiffective March 1,1991, a maximum amount of fifty cents ($0.50) of the C.O.L.A.
then payable shall be! folded in the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates.
G)	Eiffective March 1, 1992, a maximum
amount of fifty cents ($0.50) of the C.O.L.A.
then payable shall be folded in the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates.
H)	Any part of the C.O.L.A. not folded In the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates shall continue to be payable only for hours actually worked and for reporting allowance end shall not be included for the computation of vacation pays, nor shall it be paid during vacation and It shall be excluded In the calculation of any other pay, allowance or benefit.
I)	In the event that Statistics Canada does not issue the appropriate C.P.I. on or before the beginning of one of the periods referred to in A) 2., any adjustment required by the appropriate Index shall be effective at the beginning of ‘the next pay period after index official publication.
138
J)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise,
shall be mads due to any revision which may later be made in C.P.I, published by Statistics Canada.
K)	The continuance of the C.O.L.A. is
contingent upon the availability of the official C.P.I. from Statistics Canada In its present form and on the present basis (1971 =100), unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties. In the event that such form or bask of the Index is changed, the parties shall attempt to adjust this section or, if agreement Is not reached, request Statistics Canada to provide appropriate conversion or amendment which shall then be applicable as of the appropriate adjustment day and thereafter.
L)	If the C.P.I. declines, the C.O.L.A. will be reduced or eliminated as applicable.
M)	The actual date upon which the sums
mentioned In paragraphs D, E, F and G shall be folded into the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates is the first day of the payment period nearest to the date off adjustment, l.e., March 1, 1990, March 1, 1991 and March 1, 1992.
139
APPENDIX "F"
WELFARE PLAN
A) This Appendix titled Welfare Plan will become effective on the signature date of this Agreement and will be considered as part of this Agreement.
1. After his probationary period, every full time regular employee will become covered under the Welfare Plan.
2.
The Company will bear the total cost of maintaining the Plan with the exception of existing contributory benefits where applicable.
3.	in the event of a Compulsory Government Plan being instituted or improved, covering all or part of the benefits outlined In this Plan, the Union, In conjunction with ail other Unions of Iron Ore Company of Canada and/or Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway affected by the Government Plan, will meet the Company as soon as possible after the confirmation of the establishment or improvement of the Government Plan for the purpose of eliminating any overlapping coverage.
140
4.	Any premium savings resulting to the
Employer from such elimination of benefits will be refunded to the employees, on an equal sharing basis without distinction between single or married status, less any Employer contribution tc the Government Plan through premlL m or direct taxes, under the form of a ump sum covering the amount due from date of implementation of the Government Plan to the termination date of the collective agreement.
5.	The Plan shall be administered by the Company or through arrangements provided by it; however, the Company will provide annually, to all Unions, an overall report which will supply the information reasonably required to adequately form an opinion of the Plan's operation. Upon receipt of the report, every Union, in conjunction with all other Unions, may request a meeting with the Company to discuss it.
6.	All benefits of the Plan shall be provided under a group insurance policy or policies issued by a carrier or carriers to be selected by the Company.
141
7.	This Appendix is only a summary of the improved welfare plan; it does not include ail provisions of the plan. The provisions of the booklet titled Employee Group insurance Plan and of the policy complete administrative and technical details.
El) WELFARE PLAN IMPROVEMENTS:
The insurance coverage outlined below shall become effective as set out herein. The benefits ol the Plan as they existed prior to signature date shall be applicable for any occurrences previous to signature date, for which benefits were provided in accordance with the regulations of the Plan prior to signature date. Any coverage which was continued during an employee's layoff, leave of absence or disability in accordance with the Plan terms prior to signature date, will be continued in accordance with the benefits of the Plan prior to signature date. Employees not actively at work at signature date shall not be eligible to participate in the improved benefits until they return to work after such date, provided however, that any employee who shall return to work and who should subsequently become eligible for benefits clue to reoccurrence of a disability or claim which commenced prior to signature date,
142
will be eligible for the balance of the period under the improved plan.
The cost of providing improved weekly indemnity benefits will be considered equivalent benefits under Section 64-4 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, Bill 229 and ail premium reductions under such Act will be the sole property of the Employer.
C) BENEFIT OUTLINE:
An outline of the benefits is as follows: (ail benefits' and conditions are effective as of signature date unless otherwise specified).
The regular employee is covered by the Plan as of the first day following the completion of the probationary period under the collective agreement.
143
/}1. Insurance - Life a.od 'dental 'j Death or Dismemberment:
^Lva) Basic coverage (entirely paid by
the Company):
/j	i) Life:
$25,000--f,ox, employee with
enrolled dependent;
$20,000:	for any other
employee covered by this agreement.
ii) Accidental Death or Dismemberment (24-hour coverage):
$25,000: for employee with enrolled dependent;
$20,000:	for any other
employee covered by this Agreement.
144
b)	Optional coverage (entirely paid by the employee):
i)	Life:
$25,000: for employee with enrolled dependent.
$20,000:	for any other
employee covered by this Agreement.
li) Accidental Death or Dismemberment (24-hour coverage):
$25,000: for employee with enrolled dependent.
$20,000:	for any other
employee covered by this Agreement.
c)	Dependent Accidental Death: $2,500.00.
145
d)	Insurance at Retirement Date:
I) Employees retiring on special early or 62/10 retirement will maintain, until age 65, the basic life insurance for their class at the date of retirement; it will be reduced to $10,000 at age 65.
ii)	For employees retiring on ail types of retirement other than special early and 62/110 retirement, the life insurance will be $12,500 at retirement; it will be reduced to $10,000 at age 65.
iii)	This insurance does not cover
vested deferred pensioners.
e)	For employees whose disability results in benefit payments under the Accident and Sickness insurance Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, a Workers' Compensation Program, or an automobile insurance Act:
146
ii) Coverage, at Company cost, for basic Life and Accidental Death or Dismemberment insurance will be maintained for a period not exceeding fifty-four (54) weeks of disability; after such period
if an employee had less than eight (8) years of continuous service at date of disability, the insurance ceases but the employee may convert up to the amount of life insurance cancelled in accordance with the terms of the Plan;
or -
if an employee has eight (8) or more years of continuous service at date of disability, the amount of life insurance will be reduced to $12,500; it will be reduced to $10,000 at age 65.
147
ii) Coverage for optional Life and Accidental	Death or
Dismemberment insurance will be maintained, at employee's cost, for a	period	not
exceeding fifty-four (54) weeks of disability, after which the conversion privilege applies.
iii) in any case of death of an employee, during his disability, before age 65 and within a period of twelve (12) months following the fifty-four (54) week period, the full amount of cancelled life insurance, basic and optional, will be payable.
9 Conversion privilege:
I
When your life insurance ceases due to employment termination or layoff for more than six (6) months, or other circumstance of insurance cessation, you may convert up to the full amount of your cancelled life insurance only, without furnishing evidence of insurability. Written application for such insurance can be made to any office of the Metropolitan Life
148
insurance Company or to the Head Office located at 99 Bank Street, Ottawa, K1P 5A3, within thirty-one (31) days after your life insurance ceases. This privilege does not apply upon retirement.
2.	Hospital and Medical Expense and other .insurance*.
Coverage for personal and dependent insurance for Hospital Expenses, Air Ambulance, Medical Expenses-Extended Plan and Dependent Accidental Death is maintained, at Company cost.
a)	for employees whose disability results in benefit payment under the Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan, the Long Term Disability Plan, or a Workers' Compensation Program or an Auto insurance Act,
i]i for a period equivalent to the employee’s service with the Company at commencement of disability, but not exceeding five (5) years, in case of employees with less than eight (El) years of service;
149
ii)	until normal date of retirement, In case of employee with eight (8) years of service or more;
iii)	for ii minimum period, in any case of disability, of fifty-four (54) weeks from date of such disability while he remains so disabled;
b)	For employees retiring at age 62 or later on an immediate pension, for themselves and their spouse at date of retirement, until death for the retiree, and for his; pensioned widow until death or remarriage, if they reside in Canada or in the United States.
c)	For employees retiring earlier than age 62 on an Immediate pension, current prescription drug and medicine program, provided under paragraph 6 - Medical e n s e Extended Plan, will be maintained for themselves and their spouse at date of retirement, until death for the retiree, and for pensioned spouse until death or remarriage, if they reside in Canada or the United States.
150
7^
3.	Accirlant., and Sickness insurance:
a)	Weekly Indemnity for loss of employment earnings due to nonoccupational accident or sickness excluding accident compensated under an Automobile insurance Act will be paid from the first (1st) day of accident, first (1st) day of hospitalization, fourth (4th) day of illness for up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks for employees having less than one (1) year of continuous service or thirty-nine (39) weeks for employees having more than one (1) year of continuous service, in accordance with the following o r with Unemployment insurance Commission Act requirements:
March ‘I. 1990 March 1, 1991 March 1, 1992 $400/week	$415/week $430/week
X L - -
b)	,A fully completed claim form must be submitted to the Company within twenty-one (21) days the injury occurs or the sickness commences.
4.	Hospital Expense Insurance:
Maximum days: 730
a)	Room (semi-private) and board: 100% o f semi-private room hospital’s charge (maternity cases Included without limits' schedule)
b)	Room and board charges in a convalescent hospital or chronic care facility in Canada provided confinement occurs immediately following confinement in legally constituted hospital, up to hospital semi-private room accommodations charge.
5.	A-r Ambulance^
Maximum of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) less applicable government or local hospital subsidies, for each separate period of confinement.
a) Where the case requires air travel by stretcher the benefit covers the patient and one attendant travelling to hospital and return.
152
b)	From March 1, 1990, return air fare
of a patient to the nearest hospital where treatment Is available will be paid if an authorized physician certifies the required medical treatment is not locally available and the case requires the patient to be admitted as an In-patient in a hospital.
c)	From March 1, 1990, return air fare of a patient to a convalescent hospital or recognized treatment center, for treatment not locally available, and certified medically required by attending physician and by treating physician.
6.	Medical JExpense Extended Plan (Major Medical).:	y	^
'/O'/	• ~
JJ15.00 deductible per person 830.00 per family,
90% ■■ 10% Co-insurance
From signature date, «Drugs and medicines» means any substance or mixture of substance obtained by medical prescription, for use in treating an organic: disorder or Its symptoms,
1 £13
except for substances used in sclerotic injections in view of a reducing cure, and for any product considered as food substitute, cosmetic, shampoo, soap or household accessories.
Chiropractor: $25.00 per visit limit of twenty (20) visits per year per Insured person.
Semi private room, alter the expiration of the 730 days of hospital insurance, or after attainment of maximum benefit amount.
Maximum benefit: $20,000.00
7.	This plan will provide payment of benefits only after exhaustion of payments provided under an Automobile Insurance Act and will not pay for expenses already covered under such Act.
154
3. For an employee with two (2) years but less than five (5) years of continuous service at commencement of the disability period entitling the employee to Accident and Sickness Insurance benefit, the Long Term Disability benefit period will he equal to the employee’s length of continuous service in years and full calendar months a s established at commencemem o f disability period. During such rtisnbiilti period, no service will be accumulated in the Company Pension Plan with the following exceptions:
a) in case of total disability arh.in:j rn/y bodily injury or disease not compensable under a Wuikots’ Compensation legislation, ci edited service will be accumulated in the Company Pension Plan up to a maximum of thirty-six (36) months if ihe employee returns to wot k, after cessation of his benefit, within fhirly-six (36) months from commencement of disability;
■157
b) in case of temporary disability compensable under a Workers' Compensation legislation, credited service will be accumulated under the Company Pension Plan provided the employee returns to work within thirty (30) days after termination of Workers’ Compensation Weekly benefits in respect of such disability.
4. For an employee with five (5) years; but less than eight (8) years of continuous service at commencement of the disability period entitling the employee to Accident and Sickness Insurance benefit, the Long Term Disability benefit will be paid until age 65. No service will be accumulated under the Company Pension Plan with the following exceptions:
a) in case of total disability arising from bodily injury or disease not compensable under a Workers' Compensation legislation, credited service will be accumulated in the Company Pension Plan up to a maximum of thirty-six (36) months if the employee returns to work, after cessation of his benefits, within thirty-six (36) months from commencement of disability;
158
b) in the case of temporary disability compensable under a Workers' Compensation legislation, credited service will be accumulated under the Company Pension Plan provided the employee returns to work within thirty (30) days after termination of Workers’ Compensation weekly benefits in respect of such disability.
5
6
For an employee with eight (8) years and more of continuous service at commencement of the disability period entitling the employee to Weekly Indemnity benefit, the Long Term Disability benefit will be paid until optional retirement date and the period of disability will count as / credited service in the Company Pension'//' Plan.
■- - A
This Plan provides for disability payments^;' of 60% of the standard regular monthly basic earnings of an employee at the date of disability less, where applicable, any primary and secondary disability benefits under the Company Pension Plan Oi Workers' Compensation. This Plan shall in no event pay more than:
March 1, 1990 $1,000/month
March 1.1991 $1,200/month
1 1992
$1,400/month
7. Monthly basic earnings is defined under this Plan as follows:
(Standard Hourly Rate of regular job at time of disability X 2080 hour) -5-12
There will be no employee contribution to the Plan.
a, The Plan will contain provisions regarding proof and definition of disability and nonpayment for self-inflicted Injuries and other provisions as set out in the Company Pension Plan under existing subsection 3.6,Disability Retirement, as presently stated.
9.	During the first two (2) years of benefit payments, the disability must prevent an employee from performing any and every duty relating to his regular job. After that time, the income benefit will continue if in the opinion of the employer the employee is unable to engage in any employment of the type covered by his collective agreement and if his total disability is deemed to be permanent and continuous during the remainder of his life. Any difference between the Company and any (employee as to whether such employee is or continues to be permanently and totally
160
disabled within the meaning of this subsection shall be resolved through a medical arbitration board as set out in the Pension Plan Agreement under existing clause 3.04, as presently stated.
10.	To receive benefits an employee must be under treatment by a licensed physician.
11.	The employer shall have the right at any time, but no more than semi-annually, to verify the continued existence of such disability. If it should be established that the employee ceases to be totally and permanently disabled or the employee refuses to undergo an examination by a qualified physician at the request of the Insurance Company or the employer, the benefit shall cease and the employee will be treated as if he had terminated on the date that the medical examination was requested unless he returns to work within thirty (30) days with employer authorization.
161
APPENDIX ‘F-l'
DENTAL PLAN INSURANCE
You and your eligible dependents are covered when you are actively at work on the first day following the end of your sixty (60) day probationary period. However, any charge insured under a Provincial Health insurance Plan, will not be covered under this plan.
The plan pays, the insured proportion of covered dental expenses, excluding any charges which are in excess of the amount recommended in i the Dental Association suggested Fee Guide, in I effect at the time the expenses were incurred, for general practitioners of the province of residence of the person to whom the service is rendered.
Type A Expenses (payable at 1 00%t
1.	Routine oral examination and prophylaxis (scaling and cleaning of teeth), but not more than once in any period of six (6) consecutive months.
162
2.	Oral examination performed to determine the need for and, if required, to plan a course of orthodontic treatment. Periodic examinations used to monitor the progress of such treatment are not considered «oral examinations), for the purpose of this paragraph.
3.	Topical application of fluoride.
4.	Space maintainers that replace prematurely lost teeth for dependent children under 19 years of age.
5.	Emergency treatments for the temporary relief of pain.
6.	Administration of general anaesthesia, -when medically necessary, except local infiltration anaesthetic provided either in or out of at hospital and administered in connection with oral or dental surgery.
Type B Expenses (payable at 80%i
1.	X-rays (except in connection with orthodontics)
a)	Full mouth - once In any thirty-six (36) consecutive months:
b)	Bitewings - once in any six (6) consecutive months.
2.	Extractions.
3.	Oral surgery.
4.	Amalgam, silicate, acrylic, synthetic porcelain, and compositefilling restorations to restore diseased teeth.
5.	Periodontics (treatment of disease of the gums and other tissues of the mouth).
6.	Endodontics (root canal, pulp capping, pulpotomy).
7.	Injection of antibiotic drugs.
a, Dental treatments for type C expenses caused by accidental means.
Type C Expenses (payable at 50%)
1. Initial installation of fixed bridgework to replace missing natural teeth, including inlays and crowns as abutments but excluding periodontal splinting.
164
2. Initial installation of partial or full removable dentures to replace missing natural teeth and adjacent structures and any adjustments during the six (6) month period following Installation.
3.	Replacement of an existing partial or full removable denture or fixed bridgework by a new structure or by a new bridgework or the addition of teeth to an existing partial removable denture or bridgework, but only if satisfactory evidence is presented that:
a)	The replacement or addition of teeth is required ‘to replace one tooth or more extracted after the existing denture or bridgework was installed; or
b)	The existing denture or bridgework cannot be made serviceable and It was installed at least five (5) years prior to its replacement; or
c)	The existing denture is an immediate temporary one which cannot be made permanent and the replacement by permanent denture is within twelve (12) months from the date of installation of the temporary denture.
165
4.	Repair or recementing of crowns, inlays, onlays bridgework and dentures
a)	Only if moue than six (6) months after Initial installation;
b)	One relining or rebasing In any thirty-six (36) consecutive months.
5.	Inlays, onlays, gold fittings or crowns restorations to restore diseased teeth but only when the tooth, as a result of extensive caries cannot be restored with an amalgam, silicate, acrylic, synthetic porcelain, or composite filling restoration.
6.	Orthodontic Diagnostic Procedures and Treatment: Diagnostic procedures Including X-rays, study models and photographs and treatment consisting of appliance and surgical therapy for children under 19 years of age.
166
General Conditions:
Predetermination of -benefits payable when anticipated course of treatment involves dental expenses in excess of four hundred dollars ($400.00).
Maximum benefits-payable by the plan for each calendar year is limited to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) per covered person.
Maximum for orthodontic treatments for children under 19, the plan will not pay more than one thousand dollars ($1000.00) during a calendar year and during the lifetime of the covered person, However, payment for orthodontic treatment does not reduce the calendar year maximum for non-orthodontic treatments.
1137
APPENDIX 'F-2*
NON-CONTRIBUTORY RETIREMENT PLAN
FOR THE UNIONIZED EMPLOYEES OF
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
QUEBEC NORTH SHORE & LABRADOR RAILWAY
AND ASSOCIATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
(AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 1990)
168
APPENDIX "G"
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ON MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS
Due to the nature of the operating conditions which exist and except as stipulated In paragraph 11.08, an employee who is not notified by the end of his shift, or through the normal procedure twenty-four (24) hours prior to his next regular shift, that work Is not available on his ‘next regular shift, shall be offered a job according to the procedure set out in paragraph 14.01 1. a).
2.	The Company agrees that an employee who is terminated! by the Company for medical reasons which prevent his further employment by the Company at Labrador City, or who is retired under sub-section 3.6 of the Pension Plan, will be provided with free transportation on the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway to Sept-lles for himself, immediate dependents, personal automobile and household effects and one (1) space in a «car carrier» for his personal trailer, as set out in paragraph 15.11.
T69
3.	During the term of the current collective agreement the Company will administer the provisions of paragraph 15.1 I as follows:
a)	the space in the car carrier shall not be more than 6-1/2’ x 7’ x 18’ in dimension;
b)	the automobile may be replaced by an employee’s personal motorcycle or snowmobile with sled and contents;
c)	should an employee decide to utilize the annual transportation provided for under 15.11, at one time during his anniversary year rather than at the time of his annual vacation, he may do so provided that medical leaves of absence requiring hospitalization only will be granted him during that period.
4.	Until such time as a highway connects Labrador City with a Provincial highway system, employees on Long Term Disability, Worker's Compensation and retirees, and their immediate dependants, all of whom must be permanently residing in Labrador City, will be entitled, once per year, to a free return vehicle and passenger pass from Labrador City to Sept-lies via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway.
170
5.	Employees retiring or permanently disabled are eligible for relocation benefits of three thousand dollars ($3000.00) with receipts and five hundred dollars ($500.00) cash payment if they relocate outside the immediate area.
171
APPENDIX "H"
CONTRACTING OUT REQUIREMENT LIST
1.	Description of proposed work:
2.	Manpower (including special skills):
3.	Equipment and/or facilities:
4.	Material:-
5.	Planned Starting date: -Planned completion date: -
6.	Other remarks: ____________
P - P -_____________________
Signature
172
APPENDIX “I
AIR TRANSPORTATION
Effective March 1st, 1978, the Company will replace the current Northern Allowance Supplement by an air transportation program, at Company cost, for employees residing and permanently stationed at Labrador City, once per year per family at the time! of his annual vacation. For married employees, transport will be provided for the employee, his wife and their children. Children are defined as not fully employed children under 18 or who are full time students under 24. Air transportation will be supplied from Labrador City to St. John’s, Newfoundland, or Montreal and return. In the future, in the event that the Company sets up an air transportation system operated by the Company that provides this transportation, the Company reserves the right to negotiate and on agreement with the Union, withdraw the cash equivalent option. The withdrawal will take effect within thirty (30) days of the introduction of this new Company system. It is also understood between the parties that the cash equivalent for employees permanently residing in Labrador City will be for a trip to St. John's, Newfoundland. 100% of the cash equivalent will be advanced when leaving for annual vacation.
173
Furthermore, the cash equivalent paid for a married employee will be the lowest applicable cost ‘to the Company had the employee and his family travelled at the same time.
174
APPENDIX HJ
The following protective clothing and equipment
will be provided at Company expense to provide
safe job working conditions:
1)	The Company will supply to all employees leather, rubber and cotton gloves as well as mitts, according to the requirements of their job.
2)	Rubber gloves as used by linemen or protective leather mitts will be supplied to electricians.
3)	Leather gloves, jackets, cape sleeves, leg protectors and welder masks will be supplied to welders.
4)	Neoprene gloves will be supplied to employees working with acids or strong detergents,
5)	Rubber gloves, aprons and protective masks will be supplied to laboratory employees.
6)	Life jackets will be supplied to employees working where there is danger of falling in the water.
175
7)	Liners for safety hats will be supplied to employees according to the requirements of their job.
8)	Ear plugs or muffs will be supplied to employees according to the requirements of their job.
9)	Adequate protective clothing (waterproof jackets or coveralls or lined coveralls) and rubber boots will be supplied to all employees for weather protection according to the! requirements of their job.
The above-mentioned items will be replaced as
required provided the worn-out item is returned
to the Company.
10)	Safety hats:
a)	all employees will be supplied a safety hat;
b)	the Company will replace lost hats at
employee's expense;
c)	hats broken, damaged or lost at work will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
176
11)	Face masks/Respirators:
a)	face masks or respirators will be supplied to all employees before working in areas contaminated by dust, gas or fumes;
b)	face masks or respirators lost will be
replaced at employee’s expense;
c)	broken, damaged or lost masks or respirators will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
12)	Safety Glasses:
a)	all employees will be supplied one (‘I) pair of safety glasses;
b)	the Company will replace safety glasses
lost at employee's expense;
c)	broken, damaged or lost safety glasses will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost,
177
13)	Safety Boots
Flubber boots will be supplied to employees having to work In mud or water.
14)	Safety Locks
Safety locks and keys used for lock-out procedure will be supplied to all employees required to use same.
All of the above-mentioned items must be turned in when the employee quits the Company, otherwise he will be charged for these items.
178
APPENDIX “K'
H
AGREEMENT ON TECHNOLOGICAL
ORGANIZATIONAL OR
OPERATIONAL CHANGES

APPENDIX "LH
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND SPOUSE OR FAMILY STATUS
1.	For the purposes of application of Company employment benefits, the Company will recognize as spouse, not only legally or religiously married spouses, but also upon designation In writing by an employee, filed with the employer, such an employee and a person of the opposite sex, if they have been publicly represented as husband and wife and still are at the time an event occurs that may entitle them to a Company benefit, provided they have been living together
a)	at least one (1) year, if none of them is still married to any other person, or
b)	at least three (3) years, if one or both of them is still married to another person.
If the marital union has not been legally contracted, the spouse will not be considered as such if a period of three (3) months has elapsed during which the spouse has not cohabited.
180
In case of divorce or annulment of marriage, the spouse will not be considered as such from the date that the divorce or annulment is declared.
2.	Benefits covered under this Appendix include Life and Death or Dismemberment Accidental Insurance, Medical & Hospital Expense Insurance, Pension Plan, Northern Allowance, Air Transportation, Dental Insurance and any other benefits for which family status iis of concern, whether or not the persons are employees and whether or not they are covered or not covered under a collective agreement.
3.	There will normally be a waiting period equivalent to the conditions of a) or b) above as required, before the application of the declared status. However, where reasonable proof is provided to the Company of common residence for the periods specified, the waiting period will be waived. In any case within six ((>) months of the signature of the collective agreement, any declaration of spouse will be effective am the date the declaration is submitted to the Company on the approved form.
181
4.	Company benefits will be applied on the
following principles:
a)	Where both spouses are employed by the Company, it is understood that the Company's intent in the administration of any employee benefit Is to avoid overlapping payments to the spouses and/or the dependents If any.
b)	Any person eligible for a Company benefit as company employees is excluded from claiming the same benefit as a dependent of that employee, and neither of them can claim at the same time the benefit as supporting the other as a dependent.
c)	When a benefit is granted as a family benefit such as Air Transportation, it can be claimed only by one of the spouses and the Company liability will not exceed 100% of the amount payable for the whole family, except as set out in c) (i) below.
182
(i) In the case of the Air Transportation benefit, where commercial tickets are supplied, and where both spouses are employees and they take their vacation and travel at different times, commercial tickets will be provided for each spouse, one of whom will also be supplied with commercial tickets for their eligible children.
d)	Unl ess spouses that are both employees agree otherwise and notify the Company, a family benefit will be paid to the male employee.
5.	Failure to provide the documentation required to determine dependent status of an employee will result in an employee maintaining single status.
183
APPENDIX "M"
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN
ARTICLE I
1 .01 - Application:
This Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan (herein called «Plan» is applicable to employees of the Company who are represented by local unions of the United Steelworkers of America and the United Transportation Union with which the Company has agreed to adopt the Plan, and is supplemental to the collective agreements from time to time in effect between such unions and the Company.
1.02	- Definitions:
In the Plan
a) «Employee» means an employee of the Company for whom the bargaining agent is a local union of the United Steelworkers of America or the United Transportation Union with which the Company has agreed to adopt the Plan.
184
b)	«Coimpany» means the Iron Ore Company of Canada and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
c)	«Week» means one full work week as defined On the collective agreement applicable to the employee.
d)	«Project Serv!ce» means the most recent hiring date with the Iron Ore Company of Canada or the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway.
1.03	■ Except as specifically provided herein, the rights of the parties under the collective agreement shall remain unchanged.
ARTICLE: I
2.01	- Eligibility for Supplementary
Unemployment Benefits
Subject to the remaining provisions of Article II, the Plan shall pay a supplementary unemployment benefit to an employee for each week for which he is laid off from the Company in accordance with the collective agreement as a result of a reduction in force, provided that:
185
1)	he has two (2) years project service on the date he was laid off, and
2)	he has filed a claim for an unemployment insurance benefit under the Unemployment Insurance Act and has served the first two (2) weeks of his waiting period on the claim. Benefit becomes payable from this plan for each subsequent ‘week, that he serves as a waiting period, receives U.S.C. benefit oir fails to receive such benefit only because of administrative delays beyond his reasonable control or exhaustion of his entitlement thereto, and
3)	he applies to the Company for the
supplementary unemployment benefit in the manner provided and furnishes necessary proofs of eligibility.
2.02	“ Limitations:
No supplementary unemployment benefit will be
paid to an employee in respect of:
1)	a layoff commencing before March 1, 1985,
or
2)	the first two (2) weeks in any calendar year for which he is laid off from the Company, provided however, that such waiting period shall apply only once during any continuous layoff, or
3)	a week in which he fails to work on the first shift for which he has been notified pursuant to the collective agreement to report for work, or
4)	a week In which he is eligible for weekly payments under the applicable workers compensation act, or
5)	a week in which he receives any accident or sickness or any other disability benefit, or
6)	a week in which he receives any Company pension or retirement benefit, or
7)	more than twenty-six (26) weeks in any one layoff, or
8)	an Act of God or situation outside the
control of the Company.
187
2.03	- Employees laid off following Technological, Organizational or Operational Changes shall have the right to supplementary unemployment benefits in the same way as any other employee laid off because of a reduction in force insofar as ail conditions of the Plan are met. However, should he opt for termination pay after receipt of supplementary unemployment benefits, the Plan payments received shall be deducted from such termination pay and reimbursed to the Fund.
2.04	■ Labour Problems
No supplementary unemployment benefit shall be paid to an employee who is laid off because of a reduction in force which results from a strike, slowdown, failure to report for work, or other interference with production by any employee or employees of the Company at any of the Company's locations, divisions or subsidiaries.
2.05	- Lack of Funds
If the Fund has insufficient monies to pay the total of all the supplementary unemployment benefits payable in respect of any work week, no such benefit shall be paid for such work week.
188
ARTIQLE i
AMOUNT AND DURATION OF SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
3.01	■ Amount
The amount of supplementary unemployment benefit payable to an eligible employee for any work week for which he is eligible to receive a benefit shall, subject to the provisions of this Plan, be forty dollars ($40.00).
3.02	- Duration
The maximum number of weeks for which an eligible employee may be entitled to receive supplementary unemployment benefits shalt be determined by the number of credit units which he has accumulated.
3.03	- Payment
A supplementary unemployment benefit in respect of a work week will be paid at two (2) week intervals and shall be for the two-week period preceding the week in which payment is made.
189
3.04	- Deductions
All sums of money required to be withheld by reason of any law or regulation shall be deducted from payments owing under this Plan.
ARTICLE IV CREDIT UNITS
4.01	- Credit units are to be used for the sole purpose of determining the duration of the supplementary unemployment benefit of an employee and shall have no fixed value! in terms of either time or money.
4.02	a) - Credit units shalt be credited to an employee at the rate of one-half (1/2) unit for each forty (40) straight time hours worked by him after signature date of this Plan provided however that an employee may not have to his credit more than twenty-six (26) credit units at any one time.
b) - A salaried employee whose normal work week is thirty-seven and one half (37-1/2) hours per week shall receive one half (1/2) credit unit for each thirty-seven and one half (37-1/2) straight time hours worked by him after
190
signature date of this Plan provided however that an employee may not have to his credit more than twenty-six (26) credit units at any one time.
c) ■■ Employees in a) and b) above holding seniority at March 1, 1985 will be credited on March 1, 1985, with one half (1/2) credit unit to a maximum of twenty-six (26) credit units for each month the employee was in active service from his most recent Project Service Date to signature date of this Plan..
4.03	■ An employee shall have deducted from the credit units he has received, one (1) credit unit for each week of supplementary unemployment benefit payable to him.
4.04	■ Any employee covered by this Plan shall forfeit permanently all credit units which he has to his credit under this Plan if he:
a)	has his service and employment terminated for any reason other than layoff, or
b)	white on layoff has his entitlement to recall terminated in accordance with the collective agreement, or
191
c)	wilfully misrepresents any fact in connection, with an application by him for a supplementary unemployment benefit under the Plan.
V.RTICLE
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT E3ENFITFUND
5.01	- Establishment of Fund
Commencing with the beginning of the first pay period of a local union following the signature date of this Plan the Company shall establish a supplementary unemployment benefit fund (herein called the «Fund» and shall select and enter into a trust agreement with a trust company which shall hold and invest the Fund and make payments therefrom in accordance with such trust agreement.
5.02	- Use of Fund
Money in the Fund shall be used solely to pay supplementary unemployment benefits in accordance with the: Plan and to pay to the trust company its fees and charges for the administration of the trust.
192
5.03	- Contributions by Company
Effective signature date, the Company shall pay to the Fund each month an amount determined by multiplying five cents ($0.05) by the total number of hours worked for the Company In each pay period by all employees. Such payments by the Company in respect of any pay period shall be made on or before the 25th day of the following month.
5.04	- Limitations on Fund
Notwithstanding Article 5.03, the Company shall make no payments to the fund which would cause the fund to total an amount greater than three hundred thousands dollars ($300,000.).
ARTICLE VI APPEAL PROCEDURE
6.01	- No matter arising from the Interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the Plan shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure established In the collective agreements referred to In paragraph 1.01. '
193
6.02	- An employee who alleges:
a)	he was Incorrectly determined ineligible for supplementary unemployment benefits under the Plan, or
b)	the amount of the supplementary
unemployment benefit paid was not In accordance with the Plan,
may, provided it is done within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the allegation, that Is, off the written denial notice of t h e supplementary unemployment benefit or of Issue date of the cheque of the supplementary unemployment benefit, file an appeal in writing to a person designated by the Company in an attempt to settle such allegation. The written appeal shall state full particulars of the allegation and shall be signed by the aggrieved employee. The Company designate shall give a written decision within fifteen (15) days of the date that the appeal was filed. An appeal not adjusted may be referred to arbitration as set out herein.
6.03	- Appeals which are not presented or processed within the time limits specified in
6.02	above shall not be processed through the appeal procedure without the consent of the Company and in any event are not arbitrable.
194
6.04	- The appeals procedure set forth In this Plan shall not be used to protest or appeal a denial of an Unemployment Insurance Benefit.
6.06	- Only an appeal which has been properly filed and processed in accordance with the provisions of this Plan may be referred to the Board of Arbitration as established herein for this purpose.
6.06	-The Board off Arbitration will be composed of one person nominated by the Company, one person nominated by the Union and a third person to act as Chairman chosen by the other two members; of the Board.
6.07	- The party initiating arbitration shall notify the other party of its intention to proceed within thirty (30) days of the decision rendered to the appeal. At the same time, the notice will designate the name of the nominee who is to represent the party. Within five (5) days the party receiving the notice shall advise the other party of the name of its nominee.
195
6.08	- Should the person chosen by the Company to act on the Board, and the person chosen by the Union, fail to agree on a third person within ten (10) days of the notification mentioned In 6.07, the applicable Minister of Labour will be asked to nominate the Chairman.
6.09	- Each of the parties of this Plan will bear the remuneration and expenses of the representative appointed by it, and the parties will jointly beau the remuneration end expenses of the Chairman.
6.10	- Unless mutually agreed otherwise, the hearing must begin within thirty (30) days of the selection of the Chairman.
6.11	- All notices shall be given by registered
mail.
6.12	- The decision of the Board of Arbitration shall be final and binding upon any employee concerned and upon both parties. The decision of a majority is the decision of the Board of Arbitration, but if there is no majority the decision of the Chairman governs. There shall be no appeal from the decision of a Board of Arbitration.
196
6.1	3 ■ The Board shall not have any authority to alter, modify or change any of the provisions of this Plan, or to substitute any new provisions in lieu thereof, or to give any decision contrary to the term:; andi provisions of this Plan, and shall have no jurisdiction other than to determine, in accordance with the provisions of this Plan:
a)	whether the appeal was filed and processed within the time and in the manner specified in this Plan;
b)	whether the employee is eligible with
respect tO the supplementary unemployment benefits claimed; and
c)	the amount of any supplementary unemployment benefits payable.
6.14 - The Board of Arbitration shall have no jurisdiction to determine questions arising under the employee's collective agreement, even though relevant to the appeal before the Board. All such questions shall be determined through the regular procedures provided therefore by the collective agreement governing the employee, and ail determinations made pursuant to such collective agreement shall be accepted by the Board.
197
ARTICLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS
7.01	- Registration
This Plan is contingent upon and subject to obtaining and maintaining registration from any governmental authority as may be! necessary to establish the! deductibility for income tax purposes of any and ail contributions made by the Company under the Plan as being qualified for tax exemption, or conformity with any other law. if at any time while this; Plan Is in effect a government withdraws the registration, the Company and the Unions shall meet to negotiate a revision of this Plan, the terms of which will enable any required registration to be secured again for the Plan.
7.02	- information
The Company shall furnish the Unions on a monthly basis, information as to the status and operations of the Plan and the Trust shall report annually. All employees will be advised promptly, in writing, of the terms of the Plan and will be given access to such information on request.
7.03	- Duration
This Plan will remain in effect for a period of time concurrent with the collective agreements referred to in Article 1 .01.
7.04	- Discontinuance of Plan
Upon termination of this Plan, the net assets then remaining in the Fund shall be used until exhausted to pay weekly benefits under the Plan unless the parties ‘agree to a different use.
199
APPENDIX "N
AGREEMENT ON COOPERATIVE PARTNERSHIP
signed April 18, 1990
200
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING LOCAL 5795
I.	Students
2 Instructor for Union Courses
3.	Temporary Emftloyees
4.	Coffee Break
5.	Application of ArticJe 15.11
6.	Camper Ffck-i^j (15.11)
7.	Contractual Holidays
f). Study Leaves of Absence (17.04)
9.	Accelerated Artdtration Procedure
10.	Weiffare Plan Appendix
II.	21 Day Provision of Welfare Plan
12.	Transfer of Em|>loyees
13.	Canactian Labour College
14.	safety Boots Voucher
15.	Transportation to Esker
16.	Severance Pay Plan
17.	Procedure for Reporting Shift Absence
18.	Hydro Rate
19.	Mortgage Subsidy
20.	Collective Agreement Wonting Reduction Committee
21.	Re-numbering .toticles
22.	12 Hour Shifts
23.	Time off for the President
24.	Common Anniversary Date
25.	Train spoliation for Employees - (Article - 11.12)
26.	Article 4.07
27.	Bidctirtg Down - Re: Layoff
28.	Semolrfty List
29.	C.W.S.
;so. Group rrsp
31.	Bus Schedule
32.	’ B" Team
33.	Contracting Out
34.	lExpIrallon of Job Bids
35.	Work l*erfonned on Contractusi Hold lay
36.	Union Safety & Environmental Positions
37.	Dolomite Quarry
38.	Steeiworkersi’ Humanitarian Fund
39.	Vacation Allocation System
40.	i\cddent & Sickness and Long Term Disability
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
Offrcts - llltM.* ilu txmc
UIHMIfin NE*FCK.*<Ot*NO-It«»£ *>!L>F
P.0. SOX 1000
Labrador city, Newfoundland A2V 2 L8
Hr, Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT':	STUDBHT8
During negotiations, the Company has agreed to continue its actual practice concerning the hiring ol! students.
Yours truly,
90-1
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
SEPr :its oi'tuc’
CITY SOFOLVN.AHC—TmE.SEL’rf
p.o. BOX 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:
yt'
In addition to the provisions specified in the various collective agreements and subject to the same conditions and as agreed during the current negotiations, it is understood that leave of absence without pay will be granted for the purpose of instructing at" union sponsored courses for IOC and QNS&L employees and that the time will not exceed an aggregate total of ten (10) 'Weeks per year for all IOC & QNS4L bargaining units combined. Request for the aforementioned leave of absence shall be made through the office of the superintendent of Labour Relations.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:
RANDY COLLINS DATE:_________flV- /f__________
90-02
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OFFICII - JLIIACK
uptuij <>_e»K
L.m>ooa city •.rvTocxociHe-niiti.ini
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	TftPOmt 1MPLOY1K8 - AETICL1B <.13 a) AMP «i!3 C)
To alleviate the inpact of the delays mentioned in Articles 6.13 a) and 6.13 c), the Company and Union agree that, when necessary, local unemployed bargaining unit employees may be temporarily hired to fill these positions.
Seniority provisions including, but not limited to layoff and recall notices, do not apply to this work.
Temporary employment does not add to or detract from layoff time stipulated in Paragraph 6.12 v) of the Collective Agreement and the contractual benefits that apply during layoff.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	Q.n__6*	__
RANDY COLLINS
DATE :	$0- d4 ■ I?_____
90-3
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
omcu - ti'KEAUK itM im cxiifc
lAltAPO* oty. ■yiw,oc*ac.He-n»»t«u.v£
P.0. Box 1000 labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Raindy CoLlina
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Navfoundland
A2V 1M
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	COFTM 1(1111
Eaployses will be allowed coffee during working hours on a reasonable basis. Any modification to the practice will be discussed with the Union in advance.
Yours truly,
jQ~-£+p.--------
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
[RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
orncts - uilM'fc sen iLti ix.mc
nincotrirr	kiivi
Mi:. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
oear sir;
During the life of the current Collective Agreement, the
Company confirms the continued application of Article 15.11.
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2 L8
SUBJECT:
Yours truly,
.	^ Uy-
CONFIRMED:	<Lo JLi-1—
RANDY COLLINS
DATE; _________*70- G4-tf______
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
90-5
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
Aa agreed during negotiation* a "camper pick-up" is considered vithin the permitted weight limits without additional charge to the employee.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Hanager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	<L-U=____
RAHDYCOIiLINS
DATS!_________%-C4-lt
90-6
[RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OFFICES - mt>Ll SEFT IL(5 'X.EIEC
i tlktbOA CITY sL'*rot%DlANb-TCIKZAtui
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
As mutually agreed during the negotiations, a holiday listed in Paragraph 16.01, shall be observed on the day it occurs.
Such holiday is a regular scheduled shift for all employees so scheduled.
Should the holiday fall on a weekend, for those! employees
who work a Monday to Friday eight (8) hour schedule, the Company will review its work reguirements far the week in question and, if possible, reduce the manpower requirements in these department!; on the designated Monday of Friday of the holiday weekend.
1000
City,
Newfoundland
A2V 2L8
SUBJECT
Yours truly.
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
RAHDY COLLINS
DATE

90-7
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.0. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 11,4
Dear Sir:
During negotiations, the Company has agreed, under the terms and conditions of Article 17.04, to allow only one (1) additional leave for the whole of IOC bargaining units, chain. Such leave of absence will be granted to the first gualified applicant from the bargaining unit which has exhausted its allotment.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	Lo fiXJ-___
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:__________________________
90-8
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Dear sir:
A)
The purpose of this special accelerated arbitration procedure is to settle expeditiously disagreements relating to contracting out work within the context of Article XX of the Collective Agreement. These provisions are not necessarily related to an announced Layoff.
8)
Both parties agree to name four (4) arbitrators who will be available an reguest. They must devote the time necessary to carry out their functions and responsibilities.
The expenses of the arbitration shall be paid egually by the Union and the Company.
C) LIST OF ARBITRATORS
Dr. Leslie Harris Hr. I. Bruce Dr. John Scott Mr. Dennis Browne
once a written grievance has been filed according to the provision of Article XX, it may be referred to an arbitrator provided for in the accelerated procedure. The following procedure will be followed:
1.	Once the grievance has been filed, either president of the parties Contracting Out Committee will contact one of the arbitrators in rotation so that he may set the grievance hearing as soon as possible. The hearing will take place as soon es the arbitrator has indicated his availability.
2.	The arbitrator will examine the facts and the parties will proceed with their argument. When one or note witnesses are deemed necessary to clarify facts, they will be heard promptly.
3.	If the arbitrator deems it advisable he may visit the site with one or more representzitives of both parties.
4.	IL objections are raised during the hearing and if the arbitrator does not rule on them immediately, he will take them under advisement and will rule on them when he renders his decision.
5. The arguments at the parties will be heard during the hearing.
1.	subject to the foregoing, the arbitrator will render his decision on the bench and will confirm his decision in writing within five (5) days at the hearing.
2.	The authority of the arbitrator is limited to the application and interpretation Of the Collective Agreement and to the grievance in dispute.
3.	The arbitrator is prohibited from rendering a decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Collective Agreement, The decision will be binding on both parties and shall not create a precedent.
Yours truly,
CONFIRMED:	f ^ f »_? -
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:__________________________
90-9
I RON ORE COM PA NY OF CANADA
P.0, Box 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V 2L3
Mr. sandy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
This letter confirms the understanding reached during tne negotiations of the welfare Plan Appendix for Che Collective Agreement expiring on February 28th, 1993.
The following provisions become effective as of tne signature date of the Collective Agreement.
1.	For LTD benefit calculation purposes, the basic rate of tne •30b held by the employee when he becomes affected by tne disease or accident that lead to his long term disability status will be used for the calculation of his standard regular monthly basic earnings if the basic rate of the ]ob held by the employee at the date of the LTD benefits commences is inferior to the rate of the job held by the employee when be became affected by such disease or accident.
2.	Conditions for application of Accident & Sickness Weekly Indemnity Benefit:
i)	the term "hospitalization" includes any hospital bed confinement due to an injury or siickness that requires the patient to be kept under surveillance for a duration leas then eighteen (18) hours:
ii)	an employee disabled at the time of his recall to work from layoff will be eligible to receive benefits for the balance of the maximum period for which Ik had started to receive benefits prior to layoff or, the waiting period will start from the last day he was due to report to work and he will be eligible to receive benefits for the maximum period providing the recall date is witnin a period of six (6) months after the date of layoff, and the recall is for at least thirty (30) days if, under his
2
collective agreement, he can refuse a recall of less than thirty (30) days. Benefit payment will be conditional ta presentation of a claim form and exhaustion of sickness or injury disability benefits from Unemployment Insurance Commission or from other employment?
iii) an absence from Canada or the United states not beyond three (3) weeks will not deprive an employee of weekly indemnity benefit providing his disability started and was certified before & leaving Canada and providing
satisfactory proof of the continuation of his disability during this period of absence.
For purposes of weekly indemnity, periods of total disability will be considerad as separate periods if separated by return to work	for	at least a	continuous	period	of thirty (30)
calendar	days	in the case	of disability	due to	a related cause
and for	at least twenty	(20) days in	the case of unrelated
cause.
4.	Any surplus resulting from the optional life insurance and from the optional insurance for death or dismemberment by accidental mean?! will be used to cover any deficit or the premium	for	the group	insurance	policy	for unionized
employees.
Yours truly,

D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	CUAjLX-
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:__________fa -	- If
30-10
I RON ORE COM PANY OF CANADA
Hr- Randy Coll;ins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Daar Sir:
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V 2L3
This is to confirm our understanding regarding application of the 21 Day Provision of the Welfare Plan Appendix to the Collective Agreement concerning submission of an accident or sickness yealcly indemnity claim.
1.	It is the intent of the 21 Day Provision to encourage prompt submission of claims for sickness and accident benefits so that evaluation of a claim, including any necessary investigation of the medical and other factual aspects of the claim, can be made in an expeditious manner.
2.	It is not the intent of this provision that any claim be denied for failure to comply with the provision requirement if such failure did not interfere with the ability of the Company and/or its carrier ta establish the medical and other factual aspects of the claim.
3.	No claim will be denied under the 21 Day Provision unless the Company and/or its carrier has made a reasonable effort to investigate the medical and other factual aspects of the claim. Such investigation will involve contacting the claimant's physician or physicians or other medical source concerning the nature of the disability, number of treatments and nature of treatments or contacting the claimant concerning the same matters.
4.	The fact that a claim has been filed after the 21 day deadline will not be the basis for denial of any claim for benefits with respect to 2i period of absence subsequent to the date on which such claim was filed.
5.	In the evnnt a claim is; filed by mail it will be considered
timely if it is postmarked on or before the twenty-first (21) day of disability.
2 -
6.	If the Company's insurance or Personnel Office is closed on the twenty-first day of disability! a claim will be considered timely if it is presented on the first day thereafter on which the Company's insurance or personnel Office is open.
7.	It a claim is denied pursuant to the 21 Day Provision, the Company and/or the carrier will inform the employee i.n writing that his claim has been denied because the untimely filing interfered with the employer's and/or carrier's ability to establish the medical and factual aspects of the claim. Such letter will inform the employee of his right to have the denial reviewed upon his submission of additional evidence in support of his claim and of his right to file a grievance protesting the denial of his claim.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:.
RANDYCOLLINS DATE :________tjO'C1/' t i__
90-11
I RON ORE COM PA NY OF CANADA
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	TRANSFER OF 1HFLOYE1LB
The following is the Company's intent when it becomes necessary to transfer employees surplus to a department.
a)	Volunteers will be selected by Company seniority.
b)	Junior employees will be transferred by Company seniority.
The aforementioned is not to be construed as a restriction to Management's rights.
fours truly,
CONFIRMED:
DATE:
RANDY COLLINS
/----
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
90-12
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
offices - si XEtix
•.EXT IlfS OI.EIEC
1 lIMOOl Cirr -itUEOCWDUKE)—IE*IE ‘"EL'E
P.O. BOX 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Mr. Randy Collins President, Local 5795 United Steelvorkera of America L05 Hudson Drive Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
SUBJECT
Once per year, the Area Coordinator or his delegate, will meet with the Manager of Human Resources, or his delegate, to arrange leave! of absence without pay to study at the College. This leave pertains to employees of the various bargaining unite who have collective agreements with the Company.
On agreeing on the leaves to be granted, the following items will be among the teeters taken fete considerations:
1.	Acceptance of the employee by the College to the course of studies.
2.	During the term of the collective agreements coming into effect in 1990, the parties agree that up to six (6) leaves per year will be granted; bargaining units of 500 or more employees are eligible for a maximum of two (2) leaves per unit, smaller unite, one (1) leave per unit.
3.	In past years, the Company has granted two (2) scholarships per year in the amount of $750.00 each to the College. The College is responsible for deciding who, among the employees granted leave, should receive the scholarships.
4.	The Union is to advise the Company of the employees reguesting: leave in sufficient time for tie Area Coordinator end the; Manager of Human Resources to decide on the matter at least two (2) weeks in advance of the date leave is to begin. If
notice is late due to unforeseen circumstances, the reguest will receive full consideration.
5.	The Company will not arbitrarily deny leave but in granting same!, the Company must take into account the requirements of the service.
6.	The company agrees, that notwithstanding paragraph 15.05 a) of the Collective Agreement, maximum calendar days of vacation of an employee who has been granted a leave of absence without pay to study at the Labour College of Canada, will not be reduced as a result of such authorized absence.
Yours truly.
CONFIRMED: do-^-U. tf.n SLiJ— RANDY COLLIN!.'
DATE :_________% - 0 V - / f___
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
90-13
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OfflCEi - IL'ttli.'X ruts oeeiec
L«llt40OA CITY '.E’frFOtHDU.NO—Tt*«E *E(.'£
P.0. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Mr. Bandy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
L05 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
On June I, 1990, each employee paid by the hour or the mile other than a probationary employee or student, will be provided a voucher in the amount of $85.00 for the purchase of safety boots (and metatarsal protection) for his wear at his place of employment with the Company-.
On June 1, 1991, each employee, who on that date has one (1) year of continuous service, will be provided a voucher in the amount of $95.00 for the purchase of safety boots (and metatarsal protection) for his wear at his place of employment with the company.
On June 1, 1992, each employee who on that date has one (1) year of continuous service will be provided a vaster in the amount of $105.00 for the purchase of safety toots (and metatarsal protection) for his wear at his place of employment with the Company.
Yours truly,
— l & f - -D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resouces
CONFIRMED:	ft --(to jJl-L.
RANDY COLLINS
DATE!________I?_______________
90-14
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.o. BOX 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L3
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
The Union wia.hes employees to have the opportunity to ship automobiles via the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway to and from Esker in connection with employees' vacations. According to the tariff schedules of the QHS&L, Esker is an unmanned station.
The Company agrees to provide Railway freight service to
Esker and return on the following basis:
1.	The service will be offered once per week beginning in the reek of June 15th and ending in the week of September 13th. Additional trips will be at the discretion of the Railway baaed on need and railway eguipment availability.
2.	Reservations must be made a minimus of seven (7) days in advance of the Railway's scheduled departure date.
At time of reservation the shipper must furnish satisfactory evidence that arrangements! have been made with Churchill Falls Corporation to handle the vehicle in all respects at Esker. Ho service will be provided in a week in which no reservations have been received.
3.	if c a r carriers cannot be used at Esker, flat cars will be used in all cases.
4.	The Railway does not provide service at Esker.
5.	The Railway is not responsible for loss or damage as a result of off-loading, loading, blocking or parking at Esker or any other action or inaction by non-Railway personnel at that location.
2 -
With respect to employees entitled to the transportation benefit between Labrador City and Sept-ILes as set out in Paragraph 15.11 of the 1990-1993 Collective Agreement, the following will also apply:
1.	Where car carrier transport could be used if the vehicle were transported to Sept-Iles, the employee must pay the blocking cost to the Railway for transport to Esker at tine of shipment.
2.	The current blocking cost for an automobile is subject to change in accordance with the tariffs of the Railway as decided by the Canadian Transport Commission. Blocking charges for vehicles other than automobile:; that are capable of shipment by car carrier are available from the Railway and depend on the vehicle.
3.	No charge for off-loading, loading, blocking at Esker will be made by the Railway. Charges to the employee, if any, will be by the party responsible for the Esker location.
4.	The Esker service set out in this letter is considered as a transportation benefit eguivalent to the Sept-Iles service set out in Paragraph 15.11 of the 1990-1993 Collective Agreement. To the extent employees make use of the Esker service, they are not entitled to the Sept-Iles service.
Employees using the Esker service who are not entitled to the transportation benefit set out in Paragraph 15.11 of the 1990-1993 Collective Agreement will be handled on the same basis
as a non-employee shipper.
The whole of the foregoing is conditional on agreement by Churchill Falls Corporation to off-load, load, block and park vehicles at Esker.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	f c IjL-1- _
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:	________.
90-15
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OFFICES - ILIIILt
himi.es oceiic
i.A,l*ADO» CfTY Sl*fOl.-VDCj*K&-II»*E MIAE
P.0. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2 LB
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
In the event there is a permanent shutdown of the Iron Ore Company of Canada or the Quebec North Shore i> Labrador Railway (QNS&L) , the Company agrees to meet with th«s Union on this matter and negotiate a severance pay plan.
yours truly,
CONFIRMED:.. ■/<?—_________
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:________%-b4'H_______
D. Seymour Hanager,
Human Resources
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
Off CIS -«PT a£S <>t EIEC
: **ltOO« CITY •«EWFOL-YOt».fr_Tei»E KELYE
In order that proper job coverage may be maintained or the necessary replacement obtained, employees who must absent themselves for any reason from their regular shift without having received prior permission to do so, will arrange to contact
soon as possible. Should the Company require medical certification of an employee's fitness to return to work, the employee will have two (2) days or as mutually agreed based on doctor availability, after his return to work to provide such certification. The company will pay for the required examination. Employees who:
1)	Do not carry out the foregoing
2)	Repeatedly make contact after the start of the shift
3)	Absent themselves unduly
will be subject to
DISCIPLINE
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
I?
a-— v <L o JUt—
90-17
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OfFICU - K UAL'*
SE»T ll L5 OLflfC
. IIUCOI CIW s(WOVWCCA*CV-n*M V£L>E
P.0. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	HYDRO BATE
This confirms the Company's intent ta reimburse employees for any increase in utility cost as a result of hydro rate increases during the Life of the current Collective Agreement regardless of the ownership of the Power Utility Company.
Reimbursement will be in the form of a cash payment in the last pay period of each year.
Yours truly,
--------
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	^ if*-
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:__________%'t4- -/f_______
90-18
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
L»»l< DO« CITY. vl VfOUXM_*HD-rt*«E NJLVE
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L3
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 11,4
Dear sir:
This will confirm the Company's intent to continue the existing mortgage subsidy policy for existing mortgage holders for the life of the Collective Agreement.
It also confirms the Company's intent to develop, in consultation with the Union, a replacement system for new mortgage subsidies. This new system will be a cash eguivalent system which will be developed before December 31,	1990 and will apply to
employees irregardless of dependent status.
Should the parties fail to agree on a new system, the
current system will continue to apply unchanged to current employees for the life of this Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	(liuJ. fta JjL—
RANDY COLLINS
DATE :	%~04-'t?____________
90-19
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
3FFICES - It.JE IU
<en :iej f)i £i<r
-MMDOACITY **E* f OCWOONO— Till E s|<- Y E
P.0. EOX 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr- Randy Collins
President. Local !3795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
The Company and the Union aqree that prior to January 1, 1991 they shall form a committee for the purpose of reducing lengthy Collective Agreement language.__
The new language, when approved by the committee, shall form the basis of the language for the 1993 negotiations.
This committee shall be composed of two individuals
appointed by the Union and two appointed by the Company and shall submit its recommendations by the end of 1991.
Yours truly
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	f n f
RANDY COLLINS
DATE :	-	________
90-20
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
iff*.iiM QtElEC
.*i«4Co«rm ’.eurfoL'vot^Ko-met velv e
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
As mutually agreed during the negotiations, we will
delete all numbers not used and re-niuaber those articles affected. It is understood that this may necessitate changes to correct the
corresponding nun-.bers referred to in other articles.
1000
City,
Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Yours truly,
CONFIRMED
RANDY COLLINS
DATES

90-21
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2LS
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
Subject:	12 HOUR SHIFTS
The Company and the Union has agreed to replace the standard eight (8) hour shift schedule with a twelve (12) hour shift schedule in certain areas of the Project.
Where such as 12 hour schedule applies, it is understood that it will not result in any additional cost to the Company or loss ofrngular earnings to the employee over the same period with the same coverage.
For employees working a 12 hour schedule the parties agree that: the following amendments shall be applied to the current collective Agreement:
Article 10.06 - Such grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, or reinstating the employee with the compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which is 'just and eguitable in the opinion of the conferring parties. If the matter is not settled through the procedure outlined in this article and is taken to arbitration, the arbitrator will have full jurisdiction to uphold or reject the disicharge OtT change the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension and fix tht duration of such suspension. I" the event that the arbitrator rejects the discharges or changes the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension, the employee shall be reinstated and paid hLs wages at his regular basic rate (less amounts earned by hill during the time lost) for the time lost since the date of discharge, or for the period of time not covered by the suspension, limited to the scheduled work week for a maximum period of one hundred and twenty (120) days on which he would have been scheduled to work, to which will be added the nunber Of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Company. On the other hand, should the arbitration be delayed at the request of the
Union, the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Union will be deducted fron any days to be paid.
Article 11.03 a) - The first four (4) hours worked in excess of twelve (12) hours in any day shall be paid at the rate of one and
one half (1 1/2) times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in any day shall be paid at twice (2) the regular rate. Hours worked on an assigned day off shall be paid as follows:	the first twelve (12) hours at one and one half (1 1/2)
times the regular rate. Any time allowed and paid as overtime in any working day shall nor be used to compute overtime during the work week and to the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime rates, under one provision, they shall not be considered as hours worked in determining overtime under the same or any other provision.
Article 11.03 b) - work scheduled and performed on Sunday will be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for the first eight (8) hours and double (2) time for all hours in excess of eight (8). Work performed on an assigned day off on Sunday will be paid for at double (2) time rates should the employee have worked sgMy(SO) straight time hours in the pay period (2 weeks) . should he not have eighty (80) straight time hours in the pay period, the first twelve (12) hours worked on his assigned day off on Sunday shall be paid at time and one half (1 1/2) ■
Article 11.05 - Employees shall be allowed a lunch period of twenty (20) minutes, inclusive of said twelve (12) hour period. Such
lunch period will not be changed unnecessarily. However, where necessary for continuous operations, employees will maintain supervision of their equipment and machines during this lunch period.
Article 14.03 . Normal overtime will be paid for:
5. The employee called in to work an extra shift and at ti»* of call he is told that we expect him to work a minimum of twelve (12) hours according to a predetermined schedule and he will be advised at l<>ast four (4) hours before the start of the
regular shift and for the dayshift he will be advised before midnight.
Article if.02 - In addition to the holiday pay mentioned in Paragraph 16.01, employees required to work on a holiday will be paid as follows: 150% of their regular rate for the first twelve (12) hours; 200% of their regular rate for the next four (4) hours; 250% of their regular rate for all hours worked over sixteen (16) hours. However, in the case where employees would have the right to a higher hourly rate for such hours worked in accordance with another provision of the Collective Agreement, they will be paid at such higher hourly rate instead of the rate provided for in this paragraph.
Article 17.02 s) - In case of death in his immediate family, an employee will be allowed two (2) consecutive scheduled shifts, baaed on the day of the funeral, with pay at his basic rate provided he actually loses the two (2) days on account, of such death.
Article 17.Of b) - The number of working days for which jury duty pay shall be paid is limited to a maximum of forty (40) days in any calendar year.
Yours truly,
jS--------------
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
90-22

Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
For the purpose of carrying out the functions and duties of the President of the local union, the Company hereby agrees to grant full time leave to the President of Local 5795 effective as of the signature date and for the duration of the current Collective Agreement, and agrees to pay the Union President of Local 5795 forty (40) straight time hours per week in lieu of time worked. This payment will include all normal benefits.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED!
RANDY COLLINS DATE :__________Qp-htl-lt______
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
ofrxts - tcne<*. * sefv im ottitc
l«ihoo*C(T¥ 'it*rou>*ocAH&-rii«i.seL»i
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L3
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V LL4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	TRANSPORTATION TQR	RB:	ARTICLE lA.lt
The Company will continue its committment to provide transportation to employees affected by Article 11.12.
Yours truly,
-------
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED: DATE:
90-25
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OftiCU - ». M M.T «»rnei i>.ei£c
L<l«OD« CITY MWfOODtA)»&-r*m.li{L*£
P.0. BOX 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Yours truly
D. Seymour Manacjer,
Human Resources
RANDY COLLINS
90-26
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
irficts - »i mu
SFfT II IS •>» EIEC
i 4 I* 4IIO* CITY SWIOtlDUNH-IUll>« EUV E
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
AZ" 1L4
Dear Sir:
The Company will allow employees who enter the Apprenticeship program to maintain their last job i class for displacement purposes at time of layoff. This exception applies only at time of layoff in the trade.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED: DATE: '
90-27
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.0. 3ox 1000
Labrador city, Newfoundland AZ" 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
united Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City. Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
As discussed at negotiations, the Company agrees to meet with the Union, within 90 days of the signature date of the present collective Agreement, to discuss a resolution ta problem anticipated under Article 6.26.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:	iXL-
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:	_______fa" 04 -/?
90-21)
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador city, Newfoundland A2V 2La
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers* of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
In order to provide a standard procedure for handling union claims on the above and to provide for recourse to management prior to possible arbitration, the following has been agreed as appropriate procedure that should be followed in any future problems related to C.W.S, matters:
1.	When the Union alleges that the Company has created a new job, or has changed an existing job without advising the Union, or, that a newly created job or a job change has bean incorrectly assessed, the union will notify the Company C.W.S. Chairman in writing, stating their position. Such notification will include any additions or deletions to the job description as wall an to the factor level determinations and points for the job classification. In the case of new jobs, the Union will outline in writing the rain details of the job so that it will be readily identified.
2.	The Coiipany and Union C.W.S. Committees will meet within sixty (60) 0ays to discuss the claim.
3.	If a Mtisfactory settlement is not reached via 2. above, the matter Will be sent to the C.W.S. referees who shall meet within ninety (90) days of the referral and render a decision within sixty (60) days concerning their agreement oi
disagreement.
4.	If no agreement is reached via 3. above, the Company will install any changes it may wish to make as a result of the discussions and will notify the Union of its final position.
2 -
5.	if the Union wishes, to grieve, it IllUSt do so within thirty (30) days of 4. above setting out its position as specified
in paragraph 7.07 c) of the collective Agreement. Such grievance will be filed at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
6.	If the grievance is not settled in accordance with 5. above, the Union may refer the case to arbitration In the sane manner as a policy grievance in accordance with the Collective Agreement.
7.	The decision at procedure Step 2 or 3 or 6 above shall be effective as of the date when the job was established or the change was installed; or, when a change is added to prior change(s), the decision will be effective a3 of the date of the most recent change in job content. In no event will the effective date be earlier than sixty (60) days prior to the date on which written notification was received.
8.	where the Company initiates the action, the Union has thirty (30) days to indicate disagreement and initiate the procedure outlined in 1.. to 6. above.
9.	Members of the C.W.S. joint committee will not suffer any loss of wages for the time spent at a joint meeting of this committee during their regular working hours.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED! AclJ-v (L*. XJU, RANDY COLLINS
DATE:__________________________
90-29
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OFF'CU - ii (tax
. »l«<CO* CITY NE'*r(X*ICHJ.MD-lHl|.KtLVE
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V 2 LB
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city. Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	PROOF MCHaTBRED RMIBraST SAVINGS FLAM
For the life of the present Collective Agreement, the Company agrees to provide for payroll deduction of employees contributions to a group Registered Retirement Savings Plan, subject to the following conditions:
1} The plan must be with a recognised, nationally known insurance company or corporate trustee.
2) A minimum of 50 employees of the Carol Project must adhere to a plan.
3) The amount to be deducted oust be a percentage of earnings.
4) The pAMibility to adhere to the plan will be allowed any time in t||* year for new employees or for present employees not participating to the plan.
5) The possibility to withdraw from the plan and the option to modify the amount of contribution to the plan will be allowed only once a year at the end of the payroll year and notice to that effect must be given not later than December 15th.
6) The only responsibility of the company is ta mafce the payroll
deductions and to remit same, in conformity with the above, to the insurance company or corporate trustee who will be responsible for issuing all government or tax forms reguired.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
90-30
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
ItlltOOl CITY. ‘ItwroCNOCkKa-flUftE-XEl'YE
P.O. Box 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L3
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V LL4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	BUB BCPDBLI
This will confirm the Company's commitment to meet with the union to discuss proposed changes, other than minor alterations, to the existing bus schedule.
Yours truly,
CONFIRMED:	IW-U
'	RANDY COLLINS
DATE):_________90-04-/?_______
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
90-31
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
Office - i.'.xiuv
IffMlti CH.6HC
. hmdor crrt. snkfot-NouKO-rim skvi
P.0. BOY 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2LS
Mr. Randy Collins President, Local 5795 United Steelworkers Of America 105 Hudson Drive Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT:	"B" fgJQt
The Company agrees to meet with the Union prior to the start of an overhaul with a view to using unemployed bargaining unit employees residing in the Labrador City area. The aim of this meeting ii* to alleviate local unemployment through the provision of short tern work that may arise on overhauls requiring contractors and to accomplish this in a manner which will not disrupt active employees or the Company's operation. Because of these considerations the following special measures apply:
1.	Selection of personnel for the occupations reguired for such overhaul work shall be baaed on seniority among those locally resident employees who leave their name for overhaul work with the Personnel Office.
2.	Active employees cannot exercise seniority in order to avail themselves of this overhaul work.
3.	Seniority provisions including but not limited to layoff and recall notices do not apply to this overhaul work.
4.	Employment in such overhaul work does not add to or detract fro* layoff time stipulated in Paragraph 6.12 v) of the Collective Agreement and the contractual benefits that apply during layoff.
5.	Except as provided by Lav, no benefits arise from vacation, bonuses, transportation or air transportation subsidy , provisions of the Collective Agreement.
6.	A prorata Northern Allowance will be paid to eiApLoyaes for
all straight tine hours, worked up to a maximum of forty (40) hours.
7.	Benefits or eligibility to benefits under the Welfare Plan
(Appendix "F") and the Dental Plan (Appendix "f'-l") apply
during the currency of the overhaul work and terminated as of the last shift worked on the overhaul.
&. The Pension Plan does not apply.
Employees who accept the work may he called upon to perform functions asi agreed at the meeting referred to above. Acceptance or rejection of such short term overhaul work by employees who are listed with the Personnel Office, does not affect
recall rights that apply by virtue of the force reduction that originally placed the employee on layoff.
Yours truly,
CONFIRMED: __Ko____i-. 4. »	___
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:______________Q0-()4~l?____
------
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
I RON ORE, COMPANY OF CANADA
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
This letter is to confirm the agreement reached during negotiations of "special issues" pursuant to Article XX.
After reviewing the issues associated with ArticLe XX the Company agrees with the Union that ouch of the conflict that arises out of this Article result because of a lack of understanding. Co this; effect we are proposing the following procedure to monitor these activities:
1.	That each area (Mine, Hill, Pellet Plant, Common Services) would have a nanageaent and union representative charged with the responsibility of monitoring Contracting Out issues. The management representative will have the responsibility to review with their counterpart all issues associated with the requirement to bring contractors on site, and the work that is sent outside for repair in excess of the itoofl identified in attachment.
2.	Where further discussion 19 required, the area manager will meet with the Contracting Out Committee and the area representatives. Normal application of the Collective Agreement will apply if agreement is not reached at this level.
3.	on an annual basis (January) the Company will sit dotm with the Contracting Out Committee and area representatives and document the work planned for that year that involves Contracting Out. Any additional Contracting Out will bo kept at a ninimuo and will be reviewed in the proposed manner.
4. Training of area representatives on the intent of Points! 1,	2,	3 and the attachment will be done
within 30 days of contract signature.
KNOW CLEARING
The company will, for the life of this contract, strive to carry out heavy equipment work around the Concentrator and Pellet Plant facilities that is normally contracted out. The extent of this commitment is to the limit of available equipment associated with the operation of the blending yard and that can be kept on a cost effective basis to effect work during the winter months. At current production levels this equates to 12 operators. The Company will, under the same conditions, continue the current practice of snow clearing at Tailings and on the Mine road.
WARRANT* WORK
On warranty work pertaining to mobile equipment we will maintain our current practice of having one of our maintenance employees assist the service representative. It is not. our
intention to lease mobile eguipment with a maintenance service agreement.
on other warranty issues, the company maintains the right to hold the supplier/contractor fully responsible for the guality of work/materials supplied. However, the Company recognizes the Union's concern that repair work could be ongoing in certain situations and will limit the contractors' personal responsibility to repair of workmanship to 90 days. After 90 days IOCC, if gualified. will do the required repair and cheirge the contractor accordingly.
FABRICATION WORK
The company intends to continue with its commitment established at the last negotiations which was the inclusion of six thousand welder manhours in our annual operating plan to be assigned to previously contracted out fabrication work.
MAJOR PfcOJlICT/JUraaiLD IfOR_K
The complexity of this issue requires that the Company spend considerable time evaluating the feasibility of establishing a special projects! crew for the pellet Plant and Concentrator vitn the objective of minimizing Contracting Out. Although we feel that there will be many issues that wo will need to address together before the establishment of this crew, the Company recognizes that properly formatted the crew could be used to the benefit of botn parties. The Company commits that on or before September 30, 1990 we will put forward a proposal that details the previsions! we are prepared to make in this regard.
HAULAag TROCK BOESS
All repairs to haulage truck boxes will be done by bargaining unit members; however, the Company maintains the right to purchase new bores when required.
TAILINQ8 PROJBCT IfORK
In the 'railings area, the Company commits to completing the current project work presently being done by Connolly & Tvizell by Kay 01, 1990. future project work will be addressed by the normal Contracting out procedure.
These arrangements do not prejudice the Company's! rights as defined in Article XX of the Collective Agreement.
fours truly
COWTXRHSDi Pycr~-4^ JUUl, Ready Collins
DATE!__________$0 ■ oH -yf_______
90-33
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers, of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
SUBJECT: 
Upon implementation of the Human Resources computerized
job bidding system, the Union and Management has agreed to meet and agree upon a notification procedure regarding expiry of an employee's job bid.
Upon agreement of the procedure, job bids will be valid for a period of twenty-four (24) months.
JfflfO - IC»£M.K SETT ILLS. QCEIEC
mnoo* CITY. Sfi%FOOVOO»Xti_TE»»E.H£l.> E
P.O. BOX 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2L3
'/ours truly
l>. Seymour Manager,
Human Rsources
CONFIRMED:

RANDY COLLINS
DATE:
40-6*1 -It
90-3 4
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
omcti — »u*tAiix ntx itu. Oi;£iic
IAMADO* Cirr. NIWfOOHOU»<&-Tm* HtU>t
P.O. Box 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Hr. Randy Collins President, Local 5795 United Steelworkers of America 105 Hudson Drive Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
Present practice as defined in the current, overtime rules and regulations will apply to work performed by 8-hour, Monday r.c Friday day shift workers on a contractual holiday. '
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED:
DATE:
90-35
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
OfTICES - IU*HUX (ErMLti QUEMC
iA»»*oot city. 'inrxxTHDoirD—m*i hti/v£
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City, KewCoundland A2V 2LB
Hr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers Of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear sir:
Subject:
Recognizing the importance of Safety and Health in the work place and the degree and quantity of training necessary to maintain high standards among safety and environment
representatives, the Company and the Union agree to the following:
1.	The three incunbent unionized safety representatives will continua to occupy these current positions, which shall not be subject, to bumping. All other provisions of the Collective Agreement shall apply to employees in these positions.
2.	Should a vacancy occur, the union shall, appoint a suitable replacement and said replacement shall be
subject to the same provisions as in Ho. 1.
3.	Should an unionized Safety Representative move into this position from a classified job, his name shall remain on the relevant classified seniority list.
4.	tte unionized position of Environmental Technician will become * classified job listed in Article 6.03 a) and will be subject to the normal application of the Collective Agreement.
5.	Due to the responsibility placed upon the persons who hold these positions, the parties agree that neither the Health fi Safety Representatives nor the Environmental Technician will be named to any committee, or appointed to any position, which will affect their ability to direct their Lull time to their respective jobs.
6.	The four unionized positions mentioned in this document shall be paid at Job Class 18 plus additives. Should an employee placed in this position hold a job class higher chan this, the Company will maintain that level.
7.	For the life of this Collective Agreement the Company agrees to continue ita practice of temporary replacements for the Safety Reprenentatives.
Yours truly,
I RON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
0F7ICIJ - IUICAUX 5CFT.ll.ti. iJCtllC
L *1fcADOft CITY *<r*FOC><CCAMC>-rtl*thELVl
p.O. BoK 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2La
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
The Company agrees to continue the current practice of utilizing Local 5795 members in the procurement of Dolomite at the Albert Lake Dolomite Quarry.
Kt further confirms the company's commitment to utilize members of 5795 in the same manner should it activiate the Leila Wynn Quarry.
yours truly,
----
I). Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
CONFIRMED!
RANDY COLLINS
DATE

I RON ORE COM PAN Y OF CANADA
ofrcu - Kuui se»T no o«.ikc
Mr. Randy Collins
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of America
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V 1L4
Dear Sir:
p.o. Box 1000 Labrador City, Newfoundland A2V 2 La
As agreed during negotiations, for the life, of this Collective Agreement, one cent per regular hour worked by bargaining unit employees, will be paid to the Steelworkers' Humanitarian Fund.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Human Resources
COMF1 RHED:
RANDY COLLINS
DATE:___________9t> - C>4-'l<2____
90-38
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
omen - wjixtux
SCTT-aB. OUtMC
uiMAoaacrrr «inrPOVHOij»w&-mii.»iruvi
P.0. BOX 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V 2L8
Mr. Randy Collint
President, Local 5795
United Steelworkers of Anerica
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador city, Newfoundland
A2V 1U
Dear Sir:
The Conpany and the Union agree that the vacation allocation gystee arrived at through the 1990 collective bargaining process will remain in effect for the life of the collective agreement.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Hunan Resources
90-39
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
P.0. Box 1000 Labrador City Newfoundland A2V ?.L8
Mr. Randy Collins
Prasidant, Local 5795
United steelworkers of Anerica
105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland
A2V IL4
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT: mfilMBB I tlCPUll HID_LQWtt TIM Dl'gXBILI'JY
This will confirm that those employees off work on Accident i Sickness Insurance or Long Tera Disability as of March 1, 1990 shall receive the increased ACS and LTD compensation.
Yours truly,
D. Seymour Manager,
Hunan Resources
90-40
INDEX
LOCAL ISSUES
UNITED STl-FLWORKERS OF AMEHICA. I-OCA1. 5795
1,.	Mot Lunches
2.	House Rents
3.	Lunchroom ft	Wash Room Conditions
4.	Food Warming Equipment on Non-mobile Equipment
5.	Fuel Oil Subsidy
LOCAL ISSUE FORM
BARGAINING UNIT:	Local	LOCAL ISSUE NO:	J,
DATE OF MEETING!	DATE; 1990-02-28
STATEMENT OF ISSUE:
a)	Second lunch when working double shift.
b)	Hot or cold beverage with the hot lunch.
c)	Quality of hot lunches, greater selection and posting of menu, COHPANY POS CTION:
An employee who works more than two (2) hours of overtime immediately following his regular shift will receive a hot lunch; if he/she continues to work beyond four (4) hours of overtine a cold lunch will also be provided. Where it is known in advaince that the overtime will be over four (4) hours, both lunches will be delivered at the sane time.
The employee working overtime and who qualifies for a lunch will be given a choice of a hot (coffee or tea) beverage or a cold (soft drink or 1/2 pint of milk) beverage with a hot lunch. With the cold lunch a cold beverage will be supplied.
The menu will allow choice of a hot Am# from two (2) main meals and two (2) alternates.
Kenu selections will be varied and posted every two (2) months.
The Union may select one (1) person to bring problems regarding guality and selection of lunches to the attention of the Labour Relations Superintendent who will arrange a Besting with the supplier where necessary.
If practical, the Coapany will endeavour to have two (2) supplier* available for the supply at lunches.
grp	/,
Company: Ca—~~	*—
Date:________^® ~ ^
90-n
Union
Lb
President
Int. Representative
STATEMENT OP ISSUE: House rents.
COMPANY POSITION:
For the life of the present Collective Agreement, there will
be no increase to monthly rental rates of houses and apartnents rented by enployees in Labrador City.
	— Union: Lo
	President
	Int. Representative
90“f 2	
BARGAINING UNIT:	Local S7S^	LOCAL ISSUE NO:	\
DATE OF HEISTING:	DATE: 1990-03-28
STATEMENT OF ISSU12:
Lunch rooa and vashrooB conditions
COMPANY POSITION:
During ths courts of negotiations, the parting agreed that lunch rooms and vaehrooBS should be properly maintained and equipp-ed in an adequate fashion.
It was further agreed that the maintenance of the lunch room and vashrooas conditions would be subject for dincussion between the parties during the term of the Agreement.
FOCAL TSSUE FORK
BARGAINIMS UNIT:	Local S79S	LOCAL ISSUE NO:	1
DATE OP MEETING:	DATE: 1990 ■ 02 . V.B
STATEMENT OF ISSUE:
Food warning equipment on the non-mobile equipment (shovels t drills i loading pockets) in the Mine area.
COMPANY POSITION:
The Company agrees to maintain food warming equipment presently on the non-iaobile equipment (shovels & drills & loading pockets) in the Hina area.
90-#4
a,. y £.0 fJL+r- ■ President
Int. Representative
LOCAL ISSUE FORM
LOCAL ISSUE NO:	5
DATE: 1990-Q2-2A
STATEMENT OF ISSUE:
Fuel Oil Subsidy
COHPAHY POSITION:
The Company will Maintain the freight subsidy on fuel oil used for heating the personal residences of its employees at Labrador City.
Company
n i o n
Data; ?£>_;__________0^__________-/f
ft, <>■> U—
President
Int, Representative
90-#5
1990
FEBRUARY
S	M T W T F S
S	M T W T F
S M T W T F S
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	V<
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29 30 31_______________
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26 27 28_________________
1	2 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
S M T W T I- S
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30____________________
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31____________
'I 2
3	4 5 6	7 8 9
10	11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
T W 3	4
T F	S
5 6 7
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
9 10 11 12 13 14	5	6	7 8	9 10
16 17 18 19 20 21
23 24 25 26 27 28 30 31_________
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
1
2	3	4	5	6	7 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 I9 20 21 22 mo 24 25 26 27 28 29
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22 23 24 25 26 27 29	30	31
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23*o24*i 25 26 27 28 29
3 4
12	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
l	2 3 4 5 6
8 9 10 11 12 1$ 15 16 17 18 19 20
22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28
12	3	4
5 6 7 8 9 10 1 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	I4	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
*j3<	25	26	27	28	29	30
I
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10 11 12 13 14 M
16 17 18 19 20 21 21
23.30 _24 .25	27 2& 2i
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T W S
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F
1 2 3	4	5	6
7 8 9 10	11	12	13
I4	15 16 17 18 19 20 >1 22 23 24 25 26 27 !8 29 30 31_______________________
1	2	3
4	5	6	7 8 9 10
11	12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
1	2	3	4	5	6
8 9 10 11 12 13 [5 16 17 18 19 20 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
M T W T F
S M T W T F S
M T W T F
1	2	3	4	5
7	8 9 10 11 12
14 15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30
1 2
34567896 10 11	12	I3	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
243125	26	27	28	29	30
12	3 4 5 6
9 10 11 12 13 I5 16 17 18 19 20 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30 31___
12	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31
2	3 4	5 6 7
9 10 11 12 13 14 16 17 18 19 20 21 23 24 25 26 27 28
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
12	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30
1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10 11 12 13 14 15 17 18 19 20 21 22 25 26 27 28 29
JULY
AUGUST
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8 9 10 11 12 13 I4 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
1 2	3	4		1	12 3 4	5
5 6 7 8 9	10	11	2	3 4 5 6 7 8	6 7 8 9 10 11	12
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 2r3o 24-3i 25 26 27 28 29
13	14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 __________________
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
S	M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S
1	2	3
5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 27 28 2$) 30 £.1
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9 10 11 12 13
15 16 17 18 19 20 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30____________________
12	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28 29 30 31
4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22
25	26	27	28	29
12	3	4	5	6
7	3	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28 __________________
1	2	3	4	5	8
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
APRIL.
MAY
JUNE
S M T W T
S	M T V/ T F S
S M T W T F S
1	2
5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
1	2
5	6	7	3	9
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
SMTWTFSiSMTWTFS
S M T W T F S
1 2	1 2 3 4 5 6	12 3 4
8 9	789 10 11 12 13	5 6 7 8 9 10 11
15 15	144 155 166 177 188 199 203	122 133 144 15 15 17 18:
222 233	211 222 233 2U 255 266 277	199 200 211 222 233 244 25E
29 30	28 29 30	26 27 28 29 30 31
3
10
17
2*31
'Good Health
and
Safety habits and practices
are
rewarding for life".