COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
between
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
and
THE UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL 6731
00140 (08)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE..................................4
SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT....................4
MANAGEMENT RIGHT..........................5
RECOGNITION OF THE UNION..................6
PROBATIONARYEMPLOYEES.....................9
SENIORITY................................10
GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE.......................13
ARBITRATION..............................19
MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES....................22
DISCHARGE CASES..........................22
HOURS OFWORK AND OVERTIME PAY............25
SHETPREMTOMS.............................31
WAGES....................................31
REPORTINGAND CALL BACK...................39
VACATION WITH PAY........................41
HOLIDAYS.................................48
LEAVE OF ABSENCE.........................50
SAFETY & HEALTH..........................54
NOTICES..................................61
CONTRACTING OUT..........................62
STRIKES AND LOCK-OUTS....................66
AUTHORITY OFTHE UNION....................67
VALIDITY OF THE AGREEMENT................67
HEADNOTES................................67
LEGAL TEXT...............................67
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT................68
2
THIS AGREEMENT made this 28 day of June, 2007. BETWEEN
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA, a corporation duly incorporated according to the Law to carry on business in the Province of Newfoundland - Labrador hereinafter called “theCompany”
OF THE FIRST PART,
AND
UNITED STEELWORKERS (Local 6731), a voluntary nonincorporated organization of employees hereinafter called “theUnion”,
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS by a certificate issued by the Newfoundland Labour Relations Board, dated the U'day of June, 1965, the Union is certified as the bargaining agent for all warehouse employees employed by the Company at its Carol Project, Labrador City save and except Team Leader and those above the rank of Team Leader, office personnel and employees covered by the order of certification issued to United Steelworkers,(Local 6731) on June 1“, 1965.
NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
PREAMBLE
1.01	-The present Agreement is for the purpose of settingwage rates, hours of work and other working conditions as set out in this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
SCOPE OF THEAGREEMENT
2.01	- The words «employee» or «employees» whereverused in this Agreement shall mean respectivelyany employee or employees included in the decision of the Newfoundland Labour Relations Board dated 1“ day of June, 1965
2.02	- The words "student" or "students" wherever used in this Agreement shall mean respectively any person or persons who have been admitted to a college or university and are employed by the Company during the period from May 1"to SeptemberlS11. This will encompass the period of orientation and training in addition to the performance of bargaining unit work. MT students may be employed to perform bargaining unit work during the normal Christmas period.
2.02	a) - Union and management agree to continue their current commitment to support work term placements for students performing work as part of an educational program. When the students are to perform bargaining unit work, the Union and the Company must agree to the number of work terms, students, and the occupations involved.
4
2.03	a) - Team Leaders, supervisory personnel, employees excluded from the bargainingunit, shall not perform bargaining unit duties where the effect is to deny an employee of the bargaining unit work for which he/she would otherwise be available. It is understood that the similarityof work and office equipment used by both groups creates duplicationof duties.
2.03	a) (i) - In the interest of Security and third-party verification the Company agrees that it is the function of a storeperson to verify and deliver (where applicable) all material procured by Purchase Order, Supplier Contract, Purchasing Card (P-card) or any other method by the Iron Ore Company of Canada or it's employees.
If Team Leaders, supervisory personnel, other employees excluded from the bargaining unit perform work in violation of this paragraph and the employee and the work can reasonably be identified, the Company shall pay a griever working in the same classification in the bargaining unit the applicable standard wage for the time involved or for four (4) hours, whichever is greater. The Union will be advised of such payment.
ARTICLE III MANAGEMENT RIGHT
3.01	- The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects and in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Subject to terms of this Agreement, such rights include but are not limited to the following rights to:
a)	hire, manage, promote, determine qualifications and competencies, demote, discipline for just cause, transfer, assign and direct employees;
b)	issue, enforce, change, or terminate Company policies, and work standards;
5
c)	introduce new or improved production methods or equipment, determine the services and location of plants, scheduling of hours of work and production, training of employees and manage procurement of material, supplies and inventory; and
d)	install, eliminate, change or consolidate operations
3.02	- The Company has the right to make and alter from time to time reasonable rules and regulations to be observed by the employees. New or modified rules and regulations of general application shallbe published ten (10) days after being sent to the Union by registered mail or e-mail. At the request cf the Union a meeting will be held to inform how the rales and regulations will be implemented. This meeting will be held no later than Five (5) days before they are put into effect.
ARTICLE IV
RECOGNITIONOF THE UNION
4.01	- The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the bargaining unit
4.02	- All employees covered by this Agreement must pay dues whether or not they wish to become a member of the Union.
4.03	- The Company and the Union agree that no employee shall in any manner be discriminated against or coerced, restrained or unduly influenced on account of membership or non-membership, activity or lack of activity in any labour organization, or any other discrimination covered in the Newfoundland and Labrador Human Rights Code.
4.04	a) -The Companywill deduct monthly from the earnings of each employee dues authorized by the constitution of the United Steelworkers and remit to the National office of the Union by the IS4 of the month following deduction, with a copy to the local Union.
6
4.04	b) - The Union agrees to indemnify the Company for any recourse, damages or otherwiseagainst the Company for making the above deduction and payments during the term of this
Agreement.	.
4.04	c) - Errors in deductions will be corrected on the next payroll.
4.04	d) - New bargaining unit employees will sign an authorization for the deduction, as per the constitution of the United Steelworkers.
4.04	e) - The Company will furnish the Union with a list of employees who have moved in or out of the bargaining unit upon request. Such list will include all pertinent data.
4.05	- When a Union representative, wishes to have discussions with an employee, the Union representative will make sure that the meeting is scheduled after hours except as permitted by this agreement so that it will not affect Company operations.
4.05	a) -When an employee is asked to attend a meeting where written discipline and/or suspension is intended, he/she will be notified of the intent of the meeting and the employee may arrange to have a Union representative accompany him/her at the employee's discretion.
4.05	b) - The Union Recording Secretary will be copied on correspondence sent to all employees. Where possible, the communicationwill be sent to the Union in advance.
4.06	- Bulletin boards will be provided for posting of notices of meetings and/or officers. Any additional notice requires the approval of management.
7
4.07	a) - During the life of this Agreement, the Company will grant leave of absence without pay to employeesfor the purpose of attending Union courses, conventions, conferences and committee meetings. Such leave, if granted, shall not exceed an aggregate of ten (10) weeks (70 days) inanyyear, and, in order not to interfere with the efficiency of operations, no more than two (2) employees will be granted leave at a time. The Union agrees to give at least one (1) weeks notice in writing to the Company requesting such leave and designating the employees for whom it is desired. Such leave will not be arbitrarily denied. 2111 requests for Union leave of seven (7) days or less will be made to the Team Leader at least one week in advance if possible. If such leave is denied, or if the request is for leave of greater than seven (7) days a discussion will be held between the Union, Operations, and Employee Relations to further discussthe request. Such leavewill not be arbitrarily denied however, operational requirements will have priority.
4.07	b) - Leave of absence without pay will be granted for the purpose of instructing at Union sponsored courses for IOC employees and the time will not exceed an aggregate total of ten (10) weeks per year.
4.08	-Number Not Used
4.09	- The Company will grant leave of absence without pay during the life of this Agreementforthe purpose of working full time for the International Union, the Newfoundland and Labrador Federation of Labour or the C.l.C. under the following conditions:
4.09	a) -not more than one (1) employee may be on such leave at one time;
4.09	b) - the leave must be for a period of not less than two (2) months or for not more than the life of the Agreement;
8
4.09	c) - It is understood that requests for such leaves or extensions thereof will not be arbitrarily denied; however, the efficiency of operationsmust be taken into account.
4.10	- Regular scheduled shifts lost by employees for authorized leave of absence on Union business will count as shifts worked for the purpose of computing overtime. Overtime hours refused by employees on account of Union business will not be debited under the provisions cf Paragraph 11.04.
ARTICLE V
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
5.01	• A probationary employee is one with less than forty-five (4 5) calendar days employment since his/her most recent date of hire. He/she shall have no seniorityrights under this Agreement and the Company shall be free to release such a person.
He/she may discuss with management a complaint, including termination, at a meeting with the assistance of the Union if he/she so desires.
5.02	- If after forty-five (45) calendar days' employment since his/her most recent date of hire, his/her services are satisfactory in the opinion of the Company, the employee's name shall be placed upon the Company seniority list as of the date of his/her first shift since his/her most recent date of hire.
5.03	- If a probationary employee is rehired within one (1) year of termination, he/she will be allowedto count the last accrued period towards completion of his/her probationary period.
9
ARTICLE VI SENIORITY
6.00	-Definitions
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply:
6.00	a) - Seniority - Shall be the length of continuous service in the Labrador City bargainingunit, Local6731.
6.00	b) - Laid off- An employee who does not maintain active employment following a reduction.
6.01	- If employees are to be laid-off the Company will post a notice fourteen (14) days prior to the layoff stating the numbers affected. Failure to give this notice will result in employees directly affected receiving pay for the regular scheduled shifts they would have worked. Any delays of three (3) days or less caused by the displacement procedure or by emergencies or reasons beyond the control of the Company shall not be subject to the grievance procedure. Copy of fourteen (14) days notice to be sent to the Union.
6.01	a) - hi cases of layoff, the junior employee according to 6.00 a) so affected will be laid off.
6.01	b) - In cases cf recall, the procedures in Paragraph6.01 a) will be followed in reverse.
6.01	c) - If more than one employee is hired on the same date they shall be ranked by order of Company seniority and sequence number.
6.02	- Layoff due to curtailment of work shall not constitute a termination provided that the employee notifies the Personnel Office within five (5) days of the date of receipt cf the recall notice advising whether or not he/she intends to accept. If the
10
employee advises that he/she accepts, the employee will be obligated to return to work vjLBnin fifteen (15) days of notice of recall.
6.02	a) - An employee recalled to work for a period of less than forty-five (45) days may refuse such a recall. The employee who refuses such a recall will keep all rights to a subsequent recall. Due to the details involved, the Company will not be liable for any financial obligation as a result of errors arising out of the administration of this paragraph.
6.03	-Termination
An employee shall be terminated for any of the followingreasons:
6.03	a) - if the employee quits;
6.03	b) - if the employee is discharged for just and sufficient cause and is not reinstated pursuant to the provisions of the grievance procedure;
6.03	c) - if the employee is absent without permission for a period of three (3) consecutive scheduled work shifts, which case shall be considered as thoughthe employee quit as of the day before the commencement of such absence, unless the reasons which prevented the employee from requesting such leave of absence are judged valid by the Company.
6.03	d) - if the employee does not comply with 6.02 and 6.02 a)
6.03	e) -if the employee is laid off by the Company due to curtailment of operations for sixty (60)consecutive months;
6.03	f) - if an employee is unable to return to work within thirty-six (36) months of the commencement of his/her noncompensable sickness, injury or other disability, in the case of an employee who has less than two (2) year's service;
11
6.03	g) - If an employee is unable to return to work after exhaustionof Company Long Term Disability benefits in the case of an employee with more than two (2) year's service.
6.04	Employees Transfered Outside the Bargaining Unit
6.04	a) -Aregular employee transferred by the Company from one United Steelworkers bargaining unit in the Company to a different United Steelworkers bargaining unit in the Company, will not be required to complete a new probationary period as a result of such transfer.
6.04	b) - In the event that an employee covered by this Agreement should be transferred to a Staff or Team Leader position outside the bargaining unit, he/she shall retain for a maximum of six (6) months, or two (2) assignments the seniority date or dates previously acquired while serving in such capacity in the event that he/she is transferred back to the bargainingunit.
6.05	Posting of Seniority Lists
The Company will post a senioritylist in suitable locationsevery January 1" and July 1" and provide a copy to the Union. An employee may file a complaint, in writing, to the Personnel office astothe correctnessof his/her seniority date, within thirty (30) days following the first posting of the employee's senioritydate, and, subsequent to this period, the date (corrected f required) shall become final. Subsequent errors will be corrected to the aforementioned final date, and the Company will not be liable for any financial obligationas a result of errors arising out of the administration of these postings until seven (7) days after the filing of the grievances calling attention to the errors.
12
6.06	Special Circumstances
There are special circumstances during which an employee can be reassigned without a reduction:
6.06	a) - The Company will assess, using qualified medical practitioners, employeeswho, due to minor disability,advancing age or other causes, are unable to maintain necessary standards of efficiencyor safety for the occupation. These employees may be moved to some other occupation for which they are qualified. The Company in consultation with the union accommodation committeeand with the advicefrom qualifiedmedical practitioners will discuss such situations with the permission of the employee as they occur.
6.06	b) - An employee whose driver's license is suspended. ARTICLE VII
GRIEVANCEPROCEDURE
7.01	-There shall be a Union GrievanceCommittee,composed of three (3) members of the Bargaining Unit. In dealing with the Company,no more than two (2) members may act on the Union Grievance Committee at any one time.
7.02	- The Union will notify the Company in writing of the names of the Union Grievance Committee members and of any changes that may occur in same. The Company shall not be required to recognize members of the committee until it has been notified in writing by the Union of the names selected.
7.03	-Should a regular employee feel that his/her complaint or problem could result in a written grievance, he/she shall take the followingsteps in order:
13
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Originate at Step	Time Limits to Originate Grievance	Timelimits To hear/ andanswer	Heard by	Maximum Union Rep. (paid regular wages or 1 hr. on own t ime)	Company Rep	Time Limits for .Answer
Step I • Individual or Group'	days	days	Team Leader	Grievance Representative	Company Representatives	in 5 days to hear
Individual or Group' or Policy	days	days to hear plus additional days to answer	Superintendent ordesignate Manager (Policy)	Grievance Representatives	Company Representatives	Included in 10 days to hear plus additional days to answer
Arbitration	Union has 30 days to refer to Arbitration		Rotational list of arbitrators			Arbitrator has 30 Days to answer grievance
* For group grievances -1 grievor will represent the group and can beaccompanied
by n o more than 2 grievance representatives.
7.03	a) STEP 1
Not later than five (5) days following the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance or the employee becomes aware of the situation, he/she will request a Step 1 meeting with their Team Leader, who will arrange to hold a meeting within five (5) days to discuss the matter. A copy of the Step 1 meeting request will be given to the employee and the Team Leader will forward a copy to the Union. When a Step I meeting is scheduled the employee may be assisted by one (1) member of the Grievance Committeeand the Team Leader may be accompanied by another Company official. The grievance shall state the nature of the grievance, articles violated, and settlement sought as clearly as possible on the grievance form provided. The Team Leaderwill issue a signed, dated reply within five (5) days of receipt of the grievance to the employee.
7.03	b) STEP 2
Failing settlement with the Team Leaderin Stepl, the grievance shall be submitted to Employee Relations within a further five (5) days. The Company will inform, when possible, two (2)days in advance but in no case less than one (1) day in advance the Union at Step 2, of the date, place and hour of the hearing of the grievance. Within ten (10) days, the Superintendent and/or their representative will meet each grievor accompanied by no more than two (2) Grievance Committee members, to discuss grievances presented at Step 2. At the same time, the grievor may submit any information relating to the grievance, which may help to clarify the matter. In order to give the matter proper consideration the Superintendent wiil render a decision in writing, stating the reasons, within five (5) days following the meeting in which the grievance was discussed at Step 2. Settlement or withdrawal of a grievance at Step 1 or Step 2 shall not set precedent.
15
7.04	- No Company representative can hear more than one (1) step of the grievance procedure.
7.05	- If the grievance is not settled as a result of the Step 2 meeting, and the grievance is one which concerns the interpretation or alleged violation of the Agreement the grievance may be referred by either party to arbitration as provided in article VIII, however it is hereby agreed that no grievance may be referred to arbitration after a period of thirty (30) days from the date of the decision in writing of the Step 2 answer.
7.05	a) - The Union and the Company further commit that in an effort to settle outstanding grievance files a department grievance review will be held quarterly. This meeting will involve the area General Manager, Employee Relations, Chair and Co-Chair of the grievance committee.
7.06	a) - Infraction reports, including infractions which could result in discharge, will not be issued later than seventy-two (72) hours from the time the Company has determined there is an infraction.
7.06	b) - Notice of disciplinaryaction, including discharge,will not be issued later than fortyeight (48) hours from issuance of the infractionreport.
7.06	c) - In assessing discipline the Company will not consider any infraction of the same nature that occurred more than one (1)year from the current infraction. Should a disciplinary action be reduced through the grievanceor arbitration procedure only the resulting discipline will be recorded in the employee'sfile.
7.07	- Differences arising between the Union and the Company regarding the interpretation or alleged violation of this agreement shall be taken up at Step 2 of the grievanceprocedure and shall be heard by the Manager of Human Resourcesor designate.
16
7.08	- The Company agrees that one (1) grievance committee member or the designated representative for Step 1 meetings, and two (2) grievance committee members or designated representatives for Step 2 meetings, and the employee working during a regular scheduled shift who must leave work to attend a grievance meeting will be paid for such absence from work. Grievance meetings will be held during normal business hours at times that do not interfere with production or the orderly operation of the business. Should it be necessary for an employee to be absent during working hours for the presentation of or representation for a grievance, the employee shall obtain prior permission from the Team Leader; such permission will not be arbitrarily denied.
When Step 1 grievance meetings are scheduled outside of or go beyond the regular scheduled working hours of the grievor or the grievance commiteeperson, one (1) grievance committee-person and the grievor shall be paid one (1) hour at straight time rate.
When Step 2 grievance meetings are scheduled outside of or go beyond the regular scheduled working hours of the grievor or grievance commiteepersons, the two (2) grievance committee-persons and the grievor shall be paid one (1) hour at straight time rate.
7.09	- A group grievance shall be referred to Step 1. For group grievances, only one grievor representing the group will be accompanied by no more than two (2) members of the Grievance Committee at the Step 1 meeting. Such group grievances shall bear the signatures of all employees involved with the grievance.
17
7.10	-The Union and Company may agree to group individual grievances when the facts alleged are identical and the remedy sought is the same. The Union shall select one of the individual grievances and the decision on this grievance will be applied to the other grievances.
7.11	- Should differences arise between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation of the Job Evaluation Plan Manual, or should either party allege that, the other has violated this Manual, the matter shall be taken up at Step2 of the grievance procedure outlined above at the request of either party. For the application of this paragraph the Union's Grievance Committee will be the representatives of the Job Evaluation Plan Committee. If a satisfactory settlement of the dispute is not reached within thirty (30) days, the matter may be referred within thirty (30) days by either party to arbitration as provided in Article VIII below.
7.12	- The party initiating the procedure provided for in this article and in article VIII shall take each step in such procedures within the time limits set forth, or as extended by mutual agreement in writing and, upon failing to do so, the grievance or matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
7.13	- In the event of the absence of either party at any step it shall be permissible at the expiration of the time limits specified for the other party to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure.
7.14	- Saturdays, Sundays and the day a holiday is celebrated shall not be included when determining the time within which any action is to be taken in article VII or article VIII. Any and all time limits fixed by article VII and article VIII may only be extended by mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union.
18
7.15	- No settlement of a personal complaint shall be in violation of this Agreement, nor shall it be used as a precedent with other grievances.
7.16	- It is understood that management may bring forward at any meeting held with the Union Grievance Committee any complaint in respect to the conduct of the Union in its dealings with the Company and if such complaint by the Management is not settled to the mutual satisfaction of the two parties, it may be treated as a grievance filed under the procedures set out in article MI, Step 2 and referred to arbitration in the same way as the grievanceof an employee.
7.17	-Any exercise of the rights and functions in conflict with Management's Rights or any other provisions of this entire agreement inclusive of any appendices or Letters of Intent and Letters of Understanding entered into between the Company and the Union within the duration of this agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE VIII ARBITRATION
8.01	- Both parties to this Agreement agree that the provisions specified in this Agreement are the sole source of any rights the Union might assert in arbitration and only those management rights that are abridged by specific provision of this Agreement are arbitrable. Any dispute or grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violationof this Agreement, which has been properly carried through all the steps of the grievance procedure outlined in Articles VII or X and which has not been settled, will be referred to an arbitrator, at the request of either of the parties hereto.
19
8.02	-Should the parties fail to agree on an arbitrator within five (5) days of receipt of the request for arbitration, the parties shall choose the arbitrator in rotation from the following mutually agreed list of arbitrators:
D. Alcock D. Buffet J. Clarke C.Fagan J. Oakley Scott W. Thistle
8.03	- fin arbitrator unable to act when his/her turn comes up will be replaced by the following person in the list and, except by mutual agreement between the parties will not be used again until his/her name returns in the normal order of rotation.
8.03	a) - Unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Company and the Union, the following time limits will be adhered to by the parties:
8.03	a) i) - It is understood that the hearing at arbitration must commence within thirty (30) days from the date of acceptance by the arbitrator to hear the grievance;
8.03	a) ii) A decision will be rendered by an arbitrator who will also give the reasons in writing within thirty (30) calendar days following the end of the hearing, unless this time limit is extended with the agreement of the parties.
8.04	- The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
8.05	-The arbitrator shall havejurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement so far as shall be necessary to the determination of the grievance and shall not
20
have any power to alter or change in any way the provisions of this Agreement or to substitute any new provisions for any existing provisions, nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Agreement; nor shall any past practices or customs become binding unless they are in writing between the Company and the Union. Where the arbitrator determines that an employee has been disciplined for just cause, he/she may review and modify the penalty imposed.
8.06	-The expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid equally by the Union and the Company.
8.07	- Arbitration cases will be processed at the city in which the grievance was filed unless otherwise mutually agreed. Should there be more than one (1) grievance pending at arbitration at the same time, the Company and the Union may mutually agree to have one (1) or more of these grievances processed at the same arbitration session.
8.08	- Discharge cases shall have preference over other cases submitted to arbitration.
8.09	- The Company and Union representativesfor the arbitration will co-operate in the exchange of information to be introduced at the hearing as early as possible prior to commencement of the hearing.
8.10- Expedited Arbitration
a)	EXPEDITED ARBITRATION PROCEDURE - The Expedited Procedure can only be used by mutual agreement of the parties to the collective agreement.
b)	GENERAL PRINCIPLES - The purpose of developing this expedited arbitration system is to both save cost and time while ensuring fair and reasonable decisions. To that end, presentations made in expedited arbitration should be short and concise and should include a comprehensiveopening statement.
21
c)	ARBITRATORS-An arbitrator will be selected in accordance with the list.
d)	HEARING ■ Where practical, hearings are to be held in Company or Union facilities to reduce costs. Where the parties mutually agree lawyers will not be used to represent either side. In such instancesthe Local Union shall appoint one of its officers or another person to represent the Union, and the Company shall appoint one of the management staff or another person to represent the Company.
e)	AWARD - All decisions of the expedited arbitrator are limited in application to that particular dispute. The award of the expedited arbitrator sets no precedent and is not to be referred to by either party in any subsequent proceeding. The award will be final and binding. The award is to be in written form; it should be a one to two page award settingout brieflythe reasons for the decision. The arbitrator shall render his/her written decision within five (5) days of the hearing.
ARTICLE IX
MANAGEMENT GRIEVANCES Included in Article 7.
ARTICLE X DISCHARGE CASES
10.01	a) -r an employee who has acquired seniorityfeels he/she has been discharged without just and sufficient cause, the case may be taken up as a grievance and processed according to the following provisionswhich shall be taken in order.
22
10.01	b) - If the employee so desires and before presenting his/her case as a formal grievance,he/she may discuss the case with his/her immediate Team Leader with the assistance of a grievance committeeperson. The immediate Team Leader will be accompanied by another Company representative other than the representative responsible for settling the grievance at a higher step.
10.02	- Such grievance (on a form provided by the Company) must be lodged with the head of his/her department or the personnel supervisor or Employee Relations not later than two (2) days after the employee has received a written notice of the disciplinary action taken. The department head will arrange a mutually satisfactory time to meet with the employee to discuss the grievance. He/she may be accompanied by another Company representative (other than a representative responsible for settling the grievance at a higher step) and the employee may be accompanied by the Union Grievance Committee. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard. If a settlement satisfactory to the employee concerned is not reached within two (2) days of receipt of the grievance, the grievance may be presented as follows at any time not later than two (2) days thereafter.
10.03	-The aggrieved employee shall present his/her grievance to the Union Grievance Committee who, if they decide to continue the grievance, will forward it by registered mail or e-mail to Employee Relations for referral to the Manager/General Manager. The Union Grievance Committee and the Manager/General Manager, or some other person designated by him/her, shall meet as promptly as possible and not later than three (3) days from the postmark date of the registered letter or e-mail to consider the grievance. Ait this stage, they may be accompanied by a representativeof the Local Union and/or the International Union if their presence is requested. Other representatives of the
Company may also be present at the meeting. At the request of either party, the aggrieved employee shall be heard. Witnesses either party may require may also be heard and at this time the aggrieved employee may also be in attendance. At this meeting, decisions in writingmade at 10.02 will be presented. The decision of the Manager/General Manager shall be given in writing not later than two (2) days after the meetingwith the Union Grievance Committee.
10.04	- If final settlement of the grievance is not completed within two (2) days after the closing of the meeting referred to in 10.03, the grievance may be referred within ten (10) days by the Union Grievance Committee to arbitration as provided in Article VIII above.
10.05	a) - The party initiatingthe procedure providedfor in this article and in the arbitration article shall take each step in such procedures within the time limits set forth, or as extended by mutual agreement in writing and upon failing to do so, the grievance or matter in dispute shall be deemed to have been abandoned and may not be filed as a new grievance.
10.05	b) - In the event of the absence of the authorized agent or agents of either party at any step, it shall be permissible at the expiration of the time specified in 10.02 to 10,04 for the other party to proceed with the next step of the foregoing procedure.
10.06	- Such grievance may be settled by confirming the management's action in dismissing the employee, or reinstating the employee with compensation for lost time, or by any other arrangement which is just and equitable in the opinion of the conferring parties. If the matter is not settled through the procedure outlined in this article and is taken to arbitration, the arbitrator will have full jurisdiction to uphold or reject the discharge or change the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension and fix the duration of such suspension. In the event that the arbitrator
24
rejects the discharge or changes the discharge to a lesser penalty of suspension,the employee shall be reinstated and paid his/her wages at his/her regular basic rate (less amounts earned by him/her during the time lost) for the time lost since the date of discharge,or for the period of time not covered by the suspension, limitedto the scheduledwork week fora maximum period of one hundred and eighty (180) days on which he/she would hare been scheduled to work on an eight (8) hour shift or one hundred and twenty (120) days on which he/she would have been scheduled to work on a twelve (12) hour shift, to which will be added the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Company. Oh the other hand, should the arbitrationbe delayed at the request of the Union, the number of days that the arbitration was delayed at the request of the Union will be deducted from any days to be paid.
ARTICLE XI
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME PAY
11.01	- The following paragraphs and sections are intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not he construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week, or days of work per week.
11.02	a) - For the purpose only of computing overtime, and not as limitationupon the scheduling of employeesfor work, the work week shall be a period of seven (7) consecutive days commencing with the beginning of the day shift on Monday, and the work day shall be a period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the beginning of the day shift of the plant as scheduled by the Company.
11.02	b) - Where such a twelve (12) hour schedule applies, it isunderstoodthat itwillnotresult in any additionalcost to the Company or loss of regular earnings to the employee over the same period with the same coverage.
25
11.03	a) -8 hour shifts
Thef i t four (4) hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any day or hours w orked in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week or on assigned days off shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/21 times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in any day shall be paid at the rate of twice (2) the regular rate.
Work scheduled and performed on Sunday will be paid at the rate of time and onehalf (1 1/2). Workperfonned on Sunday in excess of eight (8) hours, or in excess of forty (4 O/straighttime hours in the work week will be paid for at double (2) time.
11.03	b)-12 hour shifts
Hie first four (4) hours worked in excess of twelve (12) in any day shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in any day shall be paid at twice (2) the regular rate. Hours worked on an assigned day off shall be paid as follows: the firsttwelve (12) hours at one and onehalf (1 1/2) times the regular rate.
Work scheduledand performed on Sunday will be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for the fist eight (8) hours and double (2) time for all hours in excess of eight (8). Work perfonned on an assigned day off on Sunday wi 11 be paid for at double (2) time rates should the employee have worked eighty (80) straight time hours in the pay period (two weeks). Should he/she not have eighty (80) straighttime hours in the pay period, the firsttwelve (12) hours worked on his/her assigned day off on Sundayshallbe paid at time and one half (1 1/2).
26
11.03	c) -10 hour shifts
The first four (4) hours worked in excess of ten (10) in any day shall be paid at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular rate. Hours worked in excess cf fourteen (14) in any day shall be paid at twice (2) the regular rate. Hours worked on an assigned day off shall be paid as follows: the firstten (10) hours at one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular rate.
Work scheduled and performed on Sunday will be paid for at the rate of time and one half (1 1/2) for the firstten (10) hours and double (2) time for all hours in excess of ten (10). Workperformed on an assigned day off on Sunday will be paid for at double (2) time rates should the employee have worked forty (40) straight time hours in the week. Shouldthe employee not have forty (40) straight time hours in the pay period, the first ten (10) hours worked on assigned day off on Sunday shall be paid at time and one half (11/2).
Any time allowed and paid as overtime in any working day shall not be used to compute overtime during the work week and to the extent that hours are compensated for at overtime rates under one provision they shall not be considered as hours worked in determiningovertime under the same or any other provision.
11.03	d) - In any period of overtime which ends with an incomplete half hour (1/2), that portion of the half hour (1/2) wi II be rounded to a full half hour (1/2) for pay purposes.
11.04	- Overtime hours will be worked on a voluntary basis provided the requirements of the service are met and it will be distributed equitably in rotation. Overtime lists will be based on seniority and a list of overtime worked by all eligible employees will be posted. It is understood that employees who refuse overtime or are unavailable will be debited with the number of hours they would have worked had they accepted or were available.
27
It is also understood that employees who consistently refuse overtime may be temporarily dropped from the eligible list, and may be reinstatedon the list upon request.
11.0	5 - Employees shall be allowed a lunch period cf twenty (20) minutes inclusive of said eight (8) hour, ten (10) hour or twelve (12) hour period and coffee on a reasonable basis. Such periods will not be changedunnecessarily andshallbe discussed with the Union in advance. However, employees will maintain normal warehouse services duringthis lunch period.
11.06	- If an employee reports for work on his/her regular scheduled shift without having been notified previously not to report, and if sufficientworkisnot available,he/she shall be given at least four (4) hours pay for that day at his/her regular hourly rate.
11.07	- Short pays for regularly scheduled shifts vail be rectified and the payment will be deposited vifhin. five (5) business days after the employee has reported the error.
11.08	- Where work is not available due to causes beyond the reasonable control of the Company the employees who would normally have worked will not be paid. The provisions cf this paragraph also apply to Paragraph 11.06.
11.09	a) - For the purpose of ensuring equitable distribution of overtime the Company will review with the Union, at least once per month if necessary through the use of a joint committee, overtime records and methods of recording overtime credits. This committee may also review and revise if necessary:
11.09	a) (i) - existing work schedules to ensure the proper distribution of shifts by day, afternoon, night and shifts off. In the distribution of shifts it is the intention of the parties to respect the structure of the normal week;
28
11.09	a) (ii) ■ proposed changes in schedulingorthe scheduling system;
11.09	b) - Such schedules or changes mentioned in Paragraphs
11.09	a)(i) & (ii) will be posted when possible seventy-two (72) hours prior to the change taking effect.
11.09	c) • Should an employee's shift schedulebe changed without having given him/her at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of the change, he/she will be paid at the rate of double (2) time for hours worked on the first shift of the changed schedule.
RATES OF PAY
29
12 Hour Shift Schedule			
		Monday to	Sunday
		Saturday	(premium)
Daily	0-8 hours	1.0	1.5
Daily	8.01 -12 hours	1.0	2.0
Daily	12.01 + hours	1.5	2.0
Weekly	0-80 hours	1.0	1.5
Weekly	80.01 + hours	1.5	2.0 (if 80 in pay period)
Scheduled Day Off	0 - 8 hours	1.5	2.0 (if 80 in pay period)
Scheduled Day Off	8.01 -12 hours	1.5	2.0 (if 80 in pay period)
Scheduled Holiday	0 - 8 hours	1.5	1.5
Scheduled Holiday	8.01-12 hours	1.5	2.0
Scheduled Holiday	12.01 -16 hours	2.0	2.0
10 Hour Shift Schedule
ARTICLE XII SHIFT PREMIUMS
12.01	- For the purpose of this Article:
12.01	a) - All shifts beginning after six (6:00) a.m. and up to noon (12:00) willbe day shifts.
12.01	b) - All shifts beginning after noon (12:00) and up to eight (8:00) p.m. will be afternoon shifts, for which a shift premium of thirty cents ($0.30)per hour shall be paid.
12.01	c) - All shifts beginning after (8:00) p.m. and up to six (6:00) a.m. will be night shifts, for which a shift premium of forty-five cents ($0.45)per hour shall be paid.
12.02	- Shift premiums shall be computed in overtime.
12.03	-Premium time shall be determined by the shift for which the employee is scheduled.
ARTICLE XIII WAGES
13.01	-The Job Evaluation Plan Q.E.P.) Manual for Occupation Description and Evaluation,herein referred to as «The Manual», is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix <<A» and its provisions shall apply whenever necessary for the purpose of describing and evaluating all new occupations or existing occupations which have been subject to a change in content.
13.02	- The standard rates for each grade shall be the standard rates for all occupations evaluated at such grade and shall so continue for the duration of the salary rate scale.
31
13.03	- The standard rates of pay as set out in 13.04 shall apply to each employee in an occupation according to the grade of the occupation and the employee's service in the occupation.
13.04	-The standard rates of pay of the scale shall be:
32
OCCUPATION	March 1,2007 (1)	Manh 1,2008 (2)	Manhl, 2009 (3)	Manh 1,2010 (4)	Manh 1,2011 (5)
Storeperson	28.64	29.04	29.44	29.89	30.34
05
13.05	- No employee shall be entitled to any salary as set forth in this article unless he/she is ready, able and willing to perform the duties required in his/her occupation.
13.06	- The description and grade evaluationfor each occupation in effect as of the date of this Agreement continue in effect unless:
13.06	a) - the Company changes the occupationcontent to the extent of at least one (1) grade;
13.06	b) - the occupationis terminated or not occupied during consecutive period of one (1) year; in the event of partial or total occupation elimination the remaining work will be distributed among other occupations within the bargaining unit;
13.06	c) - the descriptionand evaluationare changedby mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
13.07	- Whenever the Company establishes a new occupation, the followingprocedure will be followed
13.07	a) - the Company will inform the Union sixty (60) days in advance by written notice of the new occupation to be established and will provide a summary of the main occupation functions;
13.07	b) - a provisional grade for the new job will be determined by the Company and will take effect as of the first day of assignment. The bulletining will be done in conformity with the present Agreement;
13.07	c) - within a trial period of not more than ninety (90) days, the Company will provide a complete description and evaluationof the newjob. The Union or the employeeconcerned may challenge the grade within the thirty (30) days following the trial period. Shall there be no challenge during this time, the grade set by the Company will be considered as established;
34
13.07	d) • shouldthe Campany and the UnionJ.E.P. Committee be unable to agree upon the grade evaluation, the following shall be the procedure:
13.07	d) (1) -the Company shall install the proposed grade and the standard rates for the grade to which the job is thus assigned shall apply as set forth;
13.07	d) (ii)-the UnionJ.E.P. Committeemaywithinthirty (30) days thereafter refer in writing to the two (2) representatives designated in 13.12, an allegation that the job is improperly described or evaluated.
13.08	- If the Company is alleged to have established a new occupation, or changed the occupation content of an existing occupationto the extent of one (1) grade or more, and has failed to develop and submit a new description and evaluation the Union J.E.P. Committee shall notify the Company in writing, specifying its allegations. The Company and the Union J.E.P. Committee shall discuss the matter, after which the Company shall reply in writingto the UnionJ.E.P. Committee’sallegations. If the Company’s reply is not satisfactory, the Union J.E.P. Committee may within thirty (30) days of the date of such reply refer the matter in writing to the two (2) representatives designated in 13.12.
Any change in a occupation grade shall become effective in accordance with 13.07 b) provided, however, that retroactivity shall not apply for more than sixty (60) days prior to the date the UnionJ.E.P. Committee notifies the Company of its allegations.
35
13.09	- When the Company changes an occupation but the occupation content change results in no change of grade, a supplementary record shall be established to maintain the occupation descriptionand evaluation on a current basis and to enable subsequent adjustment of the grade assignment of the occupation for an accumulation of small occupation content changes in accordance with the following:
13.09	a) - the Company will prepare a record of such change to supplement the originaljob description and evaluation;
13.09	b)-such record will be submittedby the Company to the Union J.E.P. Committee. It shall not be necessary for the Union J.E.P. Committee to indicateits agreement with such record. If it is claimed that the Company has incorrectly assessed the job change or that the change or changes in the job, when added to prior change or changes, require a grade change in the job evaluation,the UnionJ.E.P. Committee shall notify the Company in writing, specifying its allegations. The Company and the Union J.E.P. Committee shall discussthe matter, afterwhich the Company shallreply in writingto the Union committee's allegations. If the Company's reply is not satisfactory, the Union committee may within thirty (30) days of the date of such reply refer the matter in writing to the two (2) representatives designated in 13.12. Any change in occupation grade shall be effective as of the date of the most recent change in job content.
13.10	- When and if occupation content changes accumulate to a total of one (1) grade or more:
13.10	a)-the occupation shall be re-evaluatedto the appropriate grade on the basis of such changes accumulation and the reevaluation shall become effective from the date of the most recent change in occupation content;
13.10	b) - the appropriate grade standard rate shall be effective as of the date of such reevaluation;
36
13.10	c)- a new description and evaluation shall be established in accordance with 13.07 embodying such accumulation of occupation content changes.
13.11	- When the Company terminates an occupation, or an occupationisnot occupiedduringaperiod of one (1) year, arecord as to cancellation of the applicable occupation description and evaluation shall be established in accordance with the Manual.
13.12	- The Company and the Union shall each designate a representative to consider referrals submitted under Paragraphs 13.07 d), 13.08 and 13.09.
13.12	a)-The two (2) representatives selected shall meet to deal
with the matter referred to them. Within sixty (60) days after the date of their meeting, the two (2) representatives shall jointly notify the parties hereto in writing of their agreement or failure to reach agreement. Agreement between the two (2) representatives shall be final and binding.
13.12	b) - If the representatives are unable to reach agreement, the Union may, within thirty (30) days of the date of the written notification of the two (2) representatives of their failure to reach agreement, notify the Company in writing of its intention to submit the dispute to arbitration under the provisions of Article VIII. The Union's written notificationshallcontain particulars of the issues in dispute and for the purpose of arbitration shall be consideredas a grievance not adjustedin Step 2.
Correction of Errors
13.13	- Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions and job evaluation or standard salary rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisionsof this Agreement.
37
13.14	- Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege that a grade evaluation inequity exists.
13.15	to 13.42 -Numbersnot used.
13.43	- Effective March 1, 2007 a Northern Allowance of two hundred and forty-seven dollars ($247.00) per month per single status employee and two hundred and sixty-two dollars ($262.00) per month per married status employee wH be paid subject to the following conditions:
13.43	a) - One (1) only Northern Allowance per family will be allowed at the married statusrate.
13.43	b) (i) - Eligible employees must have earnings or be on annualvacation or extended vacation in order to receive Northern Allowance.
13.43	b) (ii) - Annual or extended vacation pay received at layoff or while on layoff or upon termination of employment is not considered as vacation taken or as earningsfor the purpose of Northern Allowance.
13.43	b) (iii) -At time of termination or layoff employees with regular earnings for less than a fill calendar month will receive prorata Northern Allowance for that month based on the number of days in that month to date of termination or layoff dividedby 30.
13.43	c) - Northern Allowance is not considered as earnings for the purpose of computing vacation pay.
13.43	d) - Ai employee will be eligible for Northern Allowance following completion of his/her probationary period and shall be paid on a pro-rated basis.
13.43	e) - Ai employee changing (status] as outlined above must notify the PersonnelOffice of such change.
38
13.44	- Employees retiring or permanently disabled are eligible for relocation benefits of seventeen hundred and fifty dollars ($1750.00) with receipts and seventeen hundred and fifty dollars ($1750.00) cash payment should they relocate outside the immediate area within a maximum period of thirty-six (36) months immediately following their official retirement date.
ARTICLE XTV
REPORTING AND CALL BACK
14.01	-Number not used.
14.02	- Employees called out to work outside their normal and regular hours shall be paid a minimum of four (4) hours at straight time rates or twice (2) the regular rate for actual hours worked on the callout, whichever is the greater. Wok required under the foregoing circumstances will be confined to work necessitatedby the callout. If however, employees are informed before the end of their regular shift to commence work before their next regular starting time, the time will be computed continuouslywith the regular day’s work and the time worked before the regular starting time wi 11 be paid for at the applicable rate.
14.03	-Article 14.02 will be applied on the following basis: «Normal» Overtime will be paid for:
14.03	a) - Continuous hours worked following his/her regular shift.
14.03	b) - All hours worked in continuitywith the start of the next shift, where employee is advised before end of his/her preceding shift.
39
14.03	c) - Work performed on assigned rest days where employee is advised before end of last shift he/she works before his/her rest day.
14.03	d) - Replacing an absentee for a complete shift or part of a shift and the employee will be told who he/she is replacing and the work to be done when called or when reporting to work. The employee on regular annual vacation or extended vacation is not considered an absentee.
14.03	e) -The employee called in to work and advisedat least four (4) hours before the start cf the work and for the day shift he/she will be advised before midnight.
Call-Out time will be paid for:
14.03	0 ■ Subjectto item d) and item h), employees called after leavingthejob. to perfonna specificjob. Wok to be performed will be specified and the employee is expected to work the hours required by the call-out or until he/she is relieved
14.03	g) - Employee called on assigned rest day and who is not advised as in e) above and who is not called as a replacement.
14.03	ll) - Employee called to work for less than full shift and continues working on regular shift without relief (hours prior to regular shift paid as call out).
14.04	-An employee unable to report for his/her regularly
scheduled shift shall advise the Company in accordance with Article 1701 b)	'
40
ARTICLE XV VACATIONWITH PAY
15.01	-Vacations shall be granted through all the year, based on a schedule worked out by Company and Union representatives with the aim of posting such schedule on or before November 30,h. The schedule may be reviewed periodically as the need arises as to the number of employees to be released however, except in the case of unforeseen circumstances,the schedule will not be altered without consent of both parties. The objective is to allow the maximum number of employees vacation in the period of their preference based on the operational requirements of the Company. A copyof the posted schedule will be sent to the Union.
15.02	- Employees shall be allowed annual vacation with pay varying with the number of years of continuous service and prorated with the months actually worked during the year according to the followingscale:
Length of	Maximum Days	%Factor
Continuous Service	Allowed Vacation	of Earnings
After 1 years service	18 days	5.33%
After 2 years service	23 days	6.81%
After 3 years service	28 days	8.29%
After 4 years service	33 days	9.77%
Continuous service shall be defined as commencing on the January 1“ immediately following the employee's most recent date cf hire and will include any time an employee is on layoff from active employment, during which that employee retained and continued to accumulate seniority.
Annual vacation pay shall be computed by multiplying the employee's gross earnings for the preceding payroll year by the appropriate percentage factor outlined above.
41
Employees hired before December 31 will be entitled to vacation with pay varying with the length of their continuous service prorated for months worked between their date of hire and
December 31, in accordance with the scale of the first year.
15.03	- Employees, should they so desire and within the guidelines of this article, may choose to split their annual vacation subject to the following criteria:
15.03	a) - An employee will be permitted to split annual vacation only twice.
15.03	b) -Minimum allowable vacation is seven (7) days.
15-03 c) -Subject to provisions of Appendix «G», the employee will receive their Travel Allowance subsidy on the first calendar portion of their vacation.
15.03	d) - Vacation pay will be paid for each portion of the vacation based on the number of days taken.
15.04	a) - Maximum calendar days shall not be reduced as a result of authorized absences due to Union business. Maximum calendar days shall be reduced for any other authorized leave over one (1) month.
15.04	b) - Maximum days allowed vacation shall be reduced, on a prorata basis, by complete months not worked due to layoff or medical but in no case will the maximum days allowedbe less than fourteen (14) work days. At time of vacation, an employee will be allowed a leave of absence without pay for any vacation time lost due to layoff or medical, if he/ she wishes. However, an employee's medical leave must cover a period of not less than two months during the calendaryear to be prorated.
42
15.04	c) - An annual vacation bonus of one hundred and ten
dollars($110.00)per week or fifteendollarsand seventy-one cents ($15.71) for each day of annual vacation granted will be paid for vacation days taken from October Is' to December 14" and January 16“ to May 31". Hie vacation bonus will also be paid if annual vacation pay is given to an employee at time of layoff, provided such layoff falls in the above mentioned periods.
15.05	-Vacation pay or the equivalentof vacation pay without taking such vacation shall be considered as earnings for computing subsequentvacation pay.
15.06	- Management shall have the option of buyingout unused vacation entitlements with the employee'sconsent. However, all employees must take a minimum of fourteen (14) days vacation per year, except under extenuating circumstances acceptable to the Company. At employee who is on medical may cancel his/her vacation or portion thereof upon returning to work. However the Union will be notifiedof all employeeswho requestto cancel their vacation prior to the Company making such decision.
15.07	a) -Employeeswho are entitled to vacation upon layoff shall receive vacation pay at time of layoff if the employee so specifies or in accordance with a vacation schedule established prior to his/her layoff.
15.07	b)- Employees who are eligible for vacation pay will receive same at the time they are discharged
15.08	a) - Employees with less than one (1) year's continuous service, for vacation purposes will receive, upon a break in continuous service, four percent (4%) of gross earnings since their date of hire. Employees with more than one (1) year's continuous service for vacation purposes will receive, upon a break in continuousservice, four percent (4%)of gross earnings since the date of the pay period nearest to their last hiring
43
anniversary date in addition to vacation pay to which they may be entitled under Paragraph 15.02 or whatever is provided by Law, whichever is greater.
15.08	b) - Employees who retire will receive their regular annual percentage of earnings from the common anniversarydate of December 31“ to their retirement date.
15.09	- An employee who returns from vacation wailL be entitled
to overtime for days worked in the week he/she returns on the same basis as for the same week as if he/she had not been on vacation and had worked his/her regular scheduled week.
15.10	a) - Employees and their immediate dependents will be entitled once per year, provided the employee has acquired vacation rights, to a free return passage Labrador City to Sept-IIes or Schefferville via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway/service provider. At vacation time and for the same purpose the employee will be entitled to free return transportation, as provided by the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway/service provider, for his/her personal automobile and one (1) space in a «car carrier» for his/her personal trailer, motor home, camper, canoe or boat on trailer. In the event that the trailer, motor home, camper, camper pick-up or boat on trailer, exceeds the normal limits of the «car carrier», one (1) space on a flat car will be provided for the trailer, motor home, camper, camper pick-up or boat on trailer. Any charges incurred in excessof 6,000 pounds will be at the employee's expense. For the purpose of this article the personal automobile may be in the spouse's name. Furthermore, each employeewill be entitled to a secondfree return passage for his/her personal automobile from Labrador City to Sept-IIes or Schefferville via Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway/service provider.
44
15.10	b) (i) - Employees on long term disability, Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation and retirees, and their immediate dependents, all of whom must be permanently residing in Labrador City, will be entitled, once per year, to a free return vehicle and passenger pass from Labrador City to Sept-Hes via Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway/senice provider.
15.10	b) (ii) Families of deceasedemployees shall receive the benefits provided under 15.10 b)(i). Such return passage shall continue under the same terms as other benefits entitlement.
15.10	c) -The Company agrees that an employee who is terminated by the Company for medical reasons which prevent his/her further employment by the Company at Labrador City, or who is retired under Subsection 3-6 of the Pension Plan, will be provided with free transportation on the Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway/service provider to Sept-Iles for himself/herself, immediate dependents, personal automobile and household effects and one (1) space in a «car carrier» for his/her personal trailer, as set out in 15.10 a).
15.10	d) - During the term of the current collective agreement, the Company will administerthe provisionsof Paragraph 15.10 a) as follows:
15.10	d) (i) - the space in the car carrier shall not be more than6l/2'X7'X 18' in dimension;
15.10	d) (ii) - the automobile may be replaced by an employee's personal motorcycle or snowmobile with sled and contents:
45
15.10	d) (ill) - should an employee decide to utilize the annual
transportationprovided for under 15-10 a), at onetime duringthe year ratherthan at the time of his/her annual vacation,he/she may do so only for medical leaves of absencesrequiring hospitalization.
15.11	- Extended Vacations
15.11	a) - Each five (5) year period of completed continuous service with the Company qualifies the employee for extended vacation(EV) based onfive(5) weeks ofEV afterfive(5) years of service and nine (9) weeks of EV after ten (10) years of service. Each additional five (5) year period of continuous service, after ten (10) years of service, qualifies the employee for EV based on nine (9) weeks of EV.
15.11	b) -Tlie date of entitlement of the secondEV establishesthe start of the third five (5) year period of service. The start of each subsequent five (5) year period of service is established in the same manner as the third five (5) year period
15.11	c) - For an employee entitled to EV before signature date of the 1981-1984 Agreement
15.11	c) (i) - EV days and pay will be in addition to aimual vacation and shall be added to, paid and taken with an employee's annualvacation;
15.11	c) (ii) - All or any portion of EV days entitlement may be cancelled in the year an employee is scheduled for EV pay; if the employee opts for EV dayshe/she must specify his/her optionfor EV days entitlement at the time of applicationfor annual vacation. Hie employee will receive pay for the full EV entitlement if he/she optednot to take the EV days entitlement.
15.11	d)-For an employeebecoming entitled to EV on or afterthe signature date of this Agreement
46
15.11	d) (i) - EV will be paid in full in the six (6) weeks following the end of the pay period in which the service anniversary date completingthe 5-year period entitling the employee to EV falls, if the employee so desires. Otherwise the employee will be paid in full at the time he/she takes the extended vacation tune;
15.11	d) (ii) - All or any portion of EV days entitlement may be cancelled. If an employee wishes to have EV days, they can be scheduled with any one annual vacation of the five (5) years following EV entitlement; however, the employee must specify his/her optionforEV days entitlement at the time of applicationfor annual vacation and Paragraph 15.11 g) applies.
15.11	e)-EV daysandEV pay willbe calculated in the same manner and will be subject to the same conditions as annual vacation exceptthatafive(5) year base will be used for EV instead of the one (1) year base. Hie maximum number of calendar days allowed EV multiplied by .29606 will establishthe % of eamingsto be granted asEV pay.
15.11	f) - EV will be scheduled in accordance with the vacation scheduling procedures that apply to the bargaining nit. The desires of the individual employee will be taken into account insofar as practicable but final allotment must be approved by the Manager to insure orderly operation.
15.11	g) - Only in the case of termination will the Company be required to allot EV time or pay in excess of 20% of the employees entitledto EV in the calendaryear in question.
15.11	h) - In cases of employment termination due to Technological, Organizational or Operational Changes, Extended layoff, death of an employee, retirement (normal, early, special early, postponed) under the Pension Plan Agreement governing this bargaining unit, employees or beneficiaries of deceased employees so terminated will be entitled to a prorata EV based on
47
the service period completed at such termination date since last previous entitlement date to EV or since hiring date, as the case may be.
15.11 (i) -ServiceBonus:
For the second and each subsequent year of service completed after February 28"', 1979, and for which an employee receives an annual vacation pay, extended vacation pay will be increasedby a 20-hour service bonus. Such servicebonus will be paid at the same time as extended vacation pay and at the standard hourly rate of the regular job held at each service year anniversary date in the applicable period of years preceding the date EV is paid
ARTICLE XVI HOLIDAYS
16.01	a) - For each of the holidays hereafter mentioned each employee will receive a holiday pay equal to eight (8) times the applicablehourly rate for work which the incumbent is regularly assigned, exclusive of shift and overtime premiums, provided that the employee is not absent without leaveon his/her scheduled shift immediately preceding or followingthe holiday:
New Year's Day Good Friday Canada Day Labour Day Christmas Day
St. Patrick's Day Victoria Day Regatta Day RemembranceDay Boxing Day
16.01	b) - The above listed holidays shall be observed on the day they occur. Such holidays are regular scheduled shifts for all employees so scheduled The present practice as defined in the current overtime rules and regulations will apply to work performed by eight (8) hour Monday to Friday dayshift workers. Should a holiday fall on a weekend, for those employees who
48
work a Monday to Friday eight (8) hour schedule, the Company will review its work requirements for the week in question and, if possible,reduce the manpowerrequirements in these departments on the designated Monday or Friday of the holiday. However, should the Company decideto reduce the manpower requirements on a holiday for other than eight (8) hour shift workers, the employees so affected on their regular scheduledshift will be paid holiday pay equal to their regular scheduledshift.
16.01	c) • Notwithstanding 16.01 a) employees on vacation or who are laid off the day following or preceding a holiday shall be entitledto holiday pay.
16.01	d) - To be entitled to holiday pay set out in 16.01 a) an employee must have worked during the course of the two (2) weeks that precede the holiday.
16.02	- In addition to the holiday pay mentioned in Paragraph 16.01, eight (8) hour shift employees required to work on a holiday will be paid as follows: 150% of their regular rate for the first eight (8) hours; 200% of their regular rate for the next four (4) hours; 250% of their regular rate for all hours worked over twelve (12) hours. Employees on a twelve (12) hour shift required to work on a holiday will be paid as follows: 150% of their regularrate for the first twelve (12) hours; 200% of their regular rate for the next four (4)hours; 250% of their regular rate for all hours worked over sixteen(16) hours. Employees on a ten (10) hour shift required to work on a holiday will be paid asfollows: 150% of their regularrate for the first ten (10) hours, 200% of their regular rate for the next four (4) hours, 250% of their regular rate for all hours worked over fourteen (14) hours.
49
16.03	-Holiday pay hours shall be considered as hours worked only to make the hours actually worked after the holiday within the work week (i.e. Monday through Sunday) eligible for overtime. If the holiday falls on a day following the last day worked by the employee in the work week, the holiday pay hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
ARTICLE XVII LEAVE OF ABSENCE
17.01	a) -An employee may be granted a leave of absence upon submitting a written request to his/her Team Leader outlining the reasons for the leave and its length. Approval or refusal of a leave of absence and its length will be made by the Team Leader based on departmental requirements and will be communicated to the employee.Leaves of absence will not arbitrarily be denied. The only benefits accrued during leave will be seniority and those other benefits the collective agreement specifically states will be accrued.
17.01	b) - Employees unable to report to work because of sickness or other valid reasons shall advise their Team Leader directly or leave them a voice mail at least one (1) hour prior to the beginning of the shift so that a replacement may be arranged. An employeewho is absent for reason of sickness for more than three (3) days shall present a medical certificate covering the time lost upon returning to work.
17.01	c) - The Company will administer fit to return to work slips concerning lost time accidents resulting from accidents during working hours, and medical leaves of absence requiring hospitalization in a city other than the city of residence, on the following basis:
50
17.01	c)(i) Accident during working hours:
An employee returning to work following a lost time accident provided the normal procedure was followed in conformity with the rules of the Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation Commission, will report to the Occupation Health Department with proof of physical fitness from his/her attending physician. Should the Company require further evidence of physical fitness through a Company designated physician, the Company will pay for the required examination and will pay the employee at his/her regular rate for scheduled hours lost resulting from such an examination.
17.01	c)(ii) Leave of absence requiring hospitalization:
An employee returning to work after hospitalizationin a city other than his/her city of residence will report to the Occupational Health Department with proof cf hospitalization and proof of physical fitness from his/her attending physician. If the Company requires further evidence of physical fitness, cost of the examination and pay for time lost if any, will be handled as in Paragraph!) above.
17.02	a) - hi case of death in his/her immediate family, an employee will be allowed a maximum of twenty-four (24) consecutively scheduled hours, based on the day of the funeral, with pay at his/her basic rate provided the employee actually loses the time on account of such death.
17.02	b) - The provisions of Paragraph 17.02 a) will apply to an employee who was not scheduled to work due to being on an authorized leave of absence for reason of illness of a member in his/her immediate family which resulted in the death of that member of his/her immediate family during the period of the employee's authorized leave of absence.
51
17.02	c)-Fcr the purpose of Paragraph 17.02 a) "immediatefaini-ly” is defined as wife or husband, daughter, son, stepchild, brother, sister, father, mother, step-father, step-mother, father-in-law, mother-inlaw, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandfather, grandmother and grandchildren of the employee.
17.03	- During the life of this Agreement, to further an employee's educational standard, a leave of absence may be granted without pay to two (2) employees at any one time, who has at least two (2) years seniority in the bargaining unit to attend on a fill time basis, a course of studies of at least six (6) months duration at a recognized educational institute. Employees must submit a letter of acceptance from the institute not less than two (2) weeks prior to the start of the leave requested. Such leave shall at no time exceed the time required to complete the course of study in that academic year and Paragraph 17.01 shall apply. Seniority will be considered in granting leaves of absence, however if the course of studies lasts more than one (1) year, renewal of the leave will be considered ahead of new leaves.
17.04	- Employees are entitled to maternity, paternity or adoption leave without pay for a period of fifty-two(52) weeks or in accordance with applicable legislations and regulations.
17.04	a) - The period of such leave shall count for seniority, and service for accrual of annual and sick leave, but not entitlement to those benefits in respect of the period of such leave. Maternity, paternity or adoption leave of absence will be granted to employees who have acquired seniority in the bargaining unit. Such request for leave shall not be refused by the Company.
52
17.04	b) • Such employees shall be restored to their former positionif work is available and they are capable of performing the work, provided they return to work as outlinedin Article VI. If the Company hues a new employee to Ell a vacancy resulting from a pregnancy or parental leave cf absence such employee may exerciseany seniority rights that apply.
Upon returning from pregnancy or parental leave, the Company will return the employee to the same department,and shift where possible. Movement to a different shift or department will not be done arbitrarily; however, operational requirements will have priority.
JURY DUTY
17.05	-Anemployeewho is summonedforjury duty or serves as a juror or is required to attend upon a court as a witness in a criminal or quasi criminal case is required to lose time, shall be paid for the actual regularly scheduled time lost with a maximum of one (1) basic day's pay at the straight time rate of the position for each day lost, less the amount allowed him/her for jury or court duty for each such day. Subject to the following requirements and limitations:
1)	an employee must provide the Company with a statement from the Court of jury or witness allowances paid and the days on whichjury duty was performed;
2)	no jury duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is entitled to vacation or holiday pay. An employee who is scheduled for his/her vacation while acting as juror may reschedule his/her vacation in a free period;
3)	Minimum of three (3) days notice, when possible, along with copy of the summonsmust he provided to the employeesTeam Leader.
53
ARTICLE XVIII SAFETY & HEALTH
18.01	a) -The Company,the Union and the employeesrecognize their obligations and rights according to the laws in force with respect to matters of safety, health and environment.
18.01	b) -The parties recognize that it is the responsibility cfthe Company to make necessary provisions for the safety, health and environment of its employees at the work place. In their desire to maintain high standards of safety, health and environment at the workplace, the Company and the Union will cooperate in the continuing objective of eliminating accidents and health and environmental hazards and in advocating observance of safety, health and environment rales, procedures and policies.
18.01	c) - The Company and the Union agree that in order to achieve high safety standards, proper attitudes must be developed by all concerned due to the primary role of the human element in any sound accident prevention, industrial disease and environmental programs with visible support from senior management and the union executive.
18.02	a) - The Company recognizes the importance of an Environment, Safety & Health Committee to further safety and promote desirable communications to this effect. An Environment, Safety & Healthy Committee composed of up to two (2) members appointed by the Union and up to two (2) members appointed by Management shall be established. The Union and the Company shall designate their respective Co-Chairs and shall give written notice to each other of their respective Co-Chair and committee members. As far as possible, members should be representative of all work areas.
54
18.02	b) - Inspection tours of Company facilities by the Environment, Safety& Health Committee shall take place monthly or at other intervals as mutually agreed, to seek out unsafe acts and unsafe conditions, and this without loss of pay.
18.03	a) - In the discharge of its functions the committee shall: consider existing practices and rules relating to environment, safety and health, review and formulate appropriate and necessary suggestions for changes in existing practices and rules, recommend adoption of new practices and rules, review and revise proposed new safety, health and environmental programs, review and analyze the cause and means to be taken in case of unsafe acts and conditions, accident statistics and trends as well as noise, dust,fumes,gas, hazardous chemicals,cold and heat reports and make appropriate and necessary recommendations concerning the functions and duties set out above.
18.03	b) - Recommendations of the Environment, Safety and Health Committee together with supporting documentation and reasons shall be submitted to the Manager for his/her consideration in order to provide for the safety, health and environment of its employees during working hours and at all times when legitimately on Company property. The Manager will advise the committeeof the appropriate action to be taken by the Company on the recommendations submitted.
18.04	-Number not used.
18.05	-The Committee shall hold a monthly meeting at a time determined by the Co-chairs ofboth parties. Each Co-chair shall submit a proposed agenda to the other Co-Chair at least five (5) days prior to the monthly meeting. The Company Co-chair will provide the Union Co-chair with minutes of the monthly meeting. Furthermore,should conditions warrant, the Co-chairs, by mutual agreement, may call such meetings as they deem necessary. Members shall not lose their regular earnings while in attendance at the meetings.
55
18.06	- Prior to the monthly meeting, the Co-Chairs, or the designate of each Co-chair, may inspect mutually selected work areas in respect of such matter as: accident investigation follow-up; excessive noise, heat, cold and hazardous chemicals, fumes,dustor vibration as they pertain to employee'shealth and reported unsafe conditions. A report of the inspection shall be prepared by the Company and transmitted to the Union Co-chair setting forth their findings. The Companyagrees to pay up to eight (8) hours per month for regular work hours lost due to such inspections and such noise tests and air samplings as the Union Co-chair or delegate requests under this paragraph and Paragraph 18,09.
18.07	- In the case of accidents which result in disabling injury there will be a fact finding investigation and the Company will immediately, but not later than 24 hours from the time of the accident, notify the Union Co-chair or a member of the Environment, Safety & Health Committee. In the case of accidents which did not, but could have resulted indisabling injury, such investigation will also be carried out if the Co-chair deem it necessary. The Union Co-Chair, or the Environment, Safety & Health Committee designate, may visit the scene of the accident with the Company Co-chair or designate. Each will submit his/her report to the Environment, Safety & Health Committee.
18.08	-At any time a safety hazard develops it may be addressed by the appropriate Union Environment, Safety & Health representative and brought to the attention of the area manager. This person will then advise the Union of the appropriate action to be taken by the Company.
56
18.09	- The Company will continue its program of air samplings and noise testing. Where the Union Co-chair of the Environment, Safety & Health Committee alleges a significant on-the-j ob health hazard due to air pollution or noise, the Company, in the presence of the Co-Chair (orthe regular designateif the Co-chair is not at work), will also make such additional noise tests and air samplings as are necessary. A report based on such additional noise tests and air samplings shall be forwarded to the Environment, Safety & Health Committee.
18.10	a)- Should an employee or a group of employees believe that there exists an unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition with respect to the area in which he/she is working, other than the normal hazards in his/her work or working area, the employee shall have the right to stop working and he/she shall immediately report the condition to his/her supervisor who shall immediately investigate the condition and take steps necessary to correct it:
18.10	b) - If the employee is not satisfied with the decision of his/her Team Leader,he/she shallhavethe rightto be relieved from duty on the job in respect of which he/she has complained and will be assignedto anotherjob at his/her regularrate, orthe rate of the job performed if higher. Should the stoppage of work due to an alleged unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition affect other employees, such employees will be reassigned to other jobs at their regular rates, or the rate of the job performed if higher.
18.10	c) - As soon as possible a Union and a Company representative of the Environment, Health and Safety Committee will be called in by the Team Leader to inspect the alleged unsafe condition. The employee may be called in at the request of a committeerepresentative.
57
18.10	d) - If the representatives agree that the condition was in fact unsafe, the employee shall be reassigned to the job when the unsafe condition has been remedied.
18.10	e) - If the representatives disagree as to the safety of the condition, the Union shall have the right to file a grievance at Step 2 tf the grievance procedure in accordance with Article 7 or request appropriate governmentalintervention. On the other hand, the employee shall have the right to file a grievance at Step 2 of the grievance procedure for wages he/she claims to have lost as a result of the alleged unsafe condition.
18.10	f) -Number not used.
18.10	g) • Pending resolution of the matter, the Company has the right to offer the work in dispute to another hourly employee who will be advised of the refusal by the regular employee to perform the work for safety reasons. If this hourly employee refuses to perform the work in dispute, while awaiting the resolution of the problem by one or the other of the methods set out in e) above, the Company will have the right to continue to have the work performed.
18.10	h) -The Companymay present a grievance in the event that Paragraph 18.10 is subj ectto vexatious or abusive treatment.
18.11	-Protectivedevices,wearingapparel and other equipment necessary to properly protect employees from injury shall be provided by the Company in accordance with Appendix “H” as such practices may be improved from time to time by the Company. The Environment, Health and Safety Committee may make recommendationswith respect to this paragraph.
When the Company introduces new personal protective apparel or extends the use of protective apparel to new areas or issues new rules relating to the use of protective apparel, the matter will be discussed with the members of the Environment Safety &
58
Health Committeein advancein order for the committee to form an opinion as to the adequacy of the protective apparel and with the objectiveof increasing cooperation.
18.12	- The Company shall provide adequate first-aid during working hours.
18.13	a) - If time is needed by an employee during his/her normal working hours to visit the doctor as a result of a work accidentand the time for suchvisit is not compensatedfor under the Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation Act, no loss of pay shall result.
18.13	b) (i) - Employees shall be allowed a complete annual industrial examination which will be carried out in accordance with the prescribed medical examination.
18.13	b) (ii) - The examination may be carried out by the physician designated by the Company or by the physician of the employee's choice. Should the employee not use the services of the physician designated by the Company, the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the complete industrial examination through the Company. Where the employee uses the services of the physician of his/her choice for the industrial examination, the examination results required for employment purposes shall be forwarded to the Company designated physician.
18.13	b) (iii) - The above examinations will be carried out outside the employee's work hours and the employee will be allowed one (1) hour at his/her regular straight time rate for attendance at such examination. The employee will receive an invoice form from the Company. The form will state that the employee has taken the prescribed examination. On receipt of the invoice the Company will pay the doctor's fee up to the agreed amount prescribed for such examination.
59
18.13	b) (iv) - Should the Company require an employee to be examined by the Company designated physician during the employee's regular scheduled shift, no loss of pay shall result.
18.14	a) -Acopy of the Safety Department's report on lost-time accidents and a first-aid station report shall be forwarded to the Union Co-Chair of the Environment, Safety &Health Committee. Such report may be discussed at committee meetings.
18.14	b) - When an employee signs a form prescribed by the Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation Commission, a copy of such form, as submitted by the Company to the Commission,will be made available to the Union upon request.
18.14	c) - When the Company contests a request for indemnitythe Union will be advised of such contestation.
18.15	- During the life of the present Collective Agreement, it is the intent of the Company to provide for eye examinations and prescription safety glasses under the following conditions:
18.15	a) - if the employee does not use the services of the Company optometrist, he/she willbe reimbursed a maximum of forty five dollars ($45.00)for an eye examination, not more than once a year, upon presentation of a proper doctor's invoice;
18.15	b) - the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the safety glasses through the Company twice per year;
18.15	c) - under the same conditions as b) above, the Company will replace safety glasses broken or damaged on thejob.
18.16	a) - Should an employee contract an industrial disease from Company work processes which renders the employee unable to maintain necessary standards of health on the job he/she was regularly performing, the employeewill be moved to
60
some otherjob for which he/she is qualified. The foregoingwill also apply to an employee who contracts an industrial disease for which a permanent partial disability is recognized under the Workplace Health, Safety and Compensation CommissionAct
18.16	b) - If as a result of medical disability an employee is unable to perform certain duties they will be assigned to other duties which they are physically able to perform.
18.16	c) - If there is disagreement, independent of the insurance carrier or WHSCC as to the employee's medical condition rendering the employee unable to perform certain tasks, the employee shall be examined by a physician chosen by the employee from a list provided by the Company. The medical opinion of the third physician after examination of the employee shall decide the matter. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be paid by the Company. Regular wages lost and reasonable expenses incurred by the employee as a result of an examination required by the third physician will be paid by the Company.
ARTICLE XIX NOTICES
19.01	-Any notice in writing which either party desires to give to the other shall be given by registered mail, postage prepaid, or e-mail, addressed as follows:
To the Company:
Manager of Human Resources Iron Ore Companyof Canada P.0. Box 1000
Labrador City, Newfoundlands Labrador A2V2L8
61
To the Union:
Recording Secretary, Local 6731 United Steelworkers 105 Hudson Drive
Labrador City, Newfoundland& Labrador A2V 1L4
19-02 - Any notice so mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date cf mailing. The registration receipt or e-mail confinnation shall establish the date of mailing.
19.03	-Provisions of this Article apply to all Articles having time limits.
19.04	- Either party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
ARTICLE XX CONTRACTING OUT
20.01	- The Company will do work normally performed by the employees of the bargaining unit with its employees as defined in the CollectiveAgreement. Contracting out will be kept to a minimum.
20.02	a)-No employee in the bargaining unit will be laid off or displaced to a lower rated job because of work normally accomplished by the employees in the bargaining unit being contracted out, or such work being performed on site by a contractor. Furthermore, before contracting out such work, the Company will recall, in accordance with 6.05 e), qualified employeeswho are laid off ordisplaced, for such work, provided these employees are available.
62
20.02	b) ■ N) employee working in ajob in the department or departments in which a contractor is employed will be displaced from his/her department,because of the contractor’s work, during the period of time a contractor's employee is working in a similar occupation on site. Employees working in the department or departmentswhere a contractor is employed will be scheduledfor not less than the same number of hours per week as employees in the bargaining unit working in other departments.
20.03	- In accordance with Paragraph 20.04, before the Company finally decidesto contract out work normally performed by the bargainingunit employees,the Companywill provide the ContractingOut Committee with detailed information as set out in Appendix «D» so that the Union membersof the committee can adequately form an opinion as to whether or not such work should or should not be contracted out. Should the scope of the contractor's work be changed during the contract period, the changes will be treated as a new contract.
20.04	-Not less than ten (10) days before the Company finally decides to contract work which is normally carried out by its regular qualified employees, the Company will notify the Union committee in writing. When the Company cannot give the ten (10) days notice, a verbal notice will be given immediately when it becomes possible to do so and confirmedby e-mail.Within five (5) days of the notice providing the detailed information as set out in 20.03, should the Union committee so request, a meeting of the committee will be held to review this information.
20.05	- The Committee mentioned in 20.03 shall be composed of three (3) Union representatives and three (3) Company representatives. If a meeting is desired, the Union committee members shall not lose regular earnings while in attendance at this meeting. Upon request, one (1) member of the Union committee will be allowed four (4) hours per month at his/her regular rate to investigatecontractingout matters in conjunction with a Company representative.
20.06	- Any alleged violation of the provisions of Article XX shall be subject to the grievance procedure and processed in accordance with Article 7.
20.07	-An individualemployee who has been laid off or displaced in violation of the provisions of Paragraph 20.02 may file a personal grievance for the pay he/she claimsto have lost.
20.08	- A contractor working on site under Paragraphs 20.03 and 20.04 will not perform work, normally performed by bargaining unit employees. Should this occur an employee may lodge a grievance at Step II in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.03 and any claim payable will apply from the date the grievance was filed.
20.09-SPECIAL ACCELERATEDARBITRATION PROCEDURE
20.09	a) - Purpose
The purpose of this special accelerated arbitration procedure is to settle expeditiously disagreements relating to contracting out work within the context of Article XX of the Collective Agreement. These provisions are not necessarily related to an announced layoff.
20.09	b) • Nomination of the Arbitrators
Both parties agree to name seven (7) arbitrators who will, be available on request. They must devote the time, necessary to carry out their functionsand responsibilities.
The expenses of the arbitration shall be paid equally by the Union and the Company.
64
20.09	c) - List of Arbitrators
D. Alcock D. Buffet J. Clarke C.Fagan J. Oakley J, Scott W. Thistle
20.09	d) -ArbitrationProcedure
Once a written grievance has been filed accordingto the provision of Article XX, it may be referred to an arbitrator provided for in the accelerated procedure. The following procedure will be followed:
20.09	d) (i) - Once the grievance has been filed, either Co-Chair of the parties' Contracting Out Committee will contact one of the arbitrators in rotation so that he/she may set the grievance hearing as soon as possible. The hearing will take place as soon as the arbitrator has indicatedhis/her availability.
20.09	d) (ii) - The arbitrator will examine the facts and the parties will proceed with their argument. When one or more witnesses are deemed necessary to clarify facts, they will be heard promptly.
20.09	d) (iii) - If the arbitrator deems it advisable he/she may visit the site with one or more representatives of both parties.
20.09	d) (iv) - If objectionsare raised during the hearing and if the arbitrator does not rule on them immediately, he/she will take them under advisement and will rule on them at time of decision.
20.09	d) (v) - The arguments of the parties will be heard during the hearing.
65
20.09	e)- Responsibilities and Duties of the Arbitrator.
20.09	e) (1) - Subject to the foregoing, the arbitrator will render his/her decision on the bench and will confirm his/her decision in writing within five (5) days of the hearing.
20.09	e) (ii) -The authority of the arbitrator is limited to the application and interpretation of the Collective Agreement and to the grievance in dispute.
20.09	e) (iii) - The arbitrator is prohibited from rendering a decision inconsistent with the provisions of the Collective Agreement. The decision will be binding on both parties and shall not create a precedent.
ARTICLE XXI STRIKESAND LOCK-OUTS
21.01	- The Company agrees that there shall be no lock-out during the life of this Agreement.
21.02	- Oh the other hand and for the same reason the Union agrees that there shall be no strike, picketing, concerted slowdown or stoppageof work.
21.03	- The Union further agrees that it will not involve any employee of the Company, or the Company itself, in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and the employees cf such other employer. An employee who holds a Union position at the Company and is granted a leave of absence under the provisions of Article 4.09 is not touched by the above provision in exercising a Union representative function in a difference involving another employer.
66
ARTICLE XXII AUTHORITY OF THE UNION
22.01	- Hie United Steelworkers (Local 6731), and its duly appointed or elected representatives agree that they have authority from the members of the said Union to enter into this Agreement and agree that this Agreement shall be binding upon the same Union and/or its members under the Laws of the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.
ARTICLE XXIII
VALIDITY OF THE AGREEMENT
23.01	- If any provision of this Agreement is void in view of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador, the other provisions cf the Agreement shall not be affected in any way by such nullity.
ARTICLE XXIV HEADNOTES
Number not used.
ARTICLE XXV LEGAL TEXT
25-01 - The English text is the legal text of this collective agreement.
67
ARTICLE XXVI
DURATION OF THE AGREEMENT
26.01	-This Agreement shall become effective on March 1,2007 and shall remain in full force and effect until the 29lb day of February 2012.
26.02	- Within the ninety (90) days preceding the expiration of this Agreement, either party may notify the other party of its desire to negotiate the terms and conditions of a new Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF Iron Ore Company of Canada has caused its corporate seal to be affixed under the hands of its proper officers in that behalf and the duly appointed or elected representatives of United Steelworkers (Local 6731) have hereunto set their hands and seals this 28 day of June, 2007.
IRONORE COMPANY OF CANADA	UNITED STEELWORKERS LOCAL6731
68
APPENDIX & ISSUES
APPENDIX "A".............................70
APPENDIX "B"...........................  71
APPENDIX "C".............................71
APPENDIX “D”.............................72
APPENDIX "E".............................73
APPENDIX "F".............................74
APPENDIX "F-l"...........................75
APPENDIX "F-2" ..........................76
APPENDIX "G".............................77
APPENDIX "H" ............................78
APPENDIX "I".............................82
APPENDIX y...............................83
APPENDIX "K" ............................85
ISSUE #1-STUDENTS........................86
ISSUE #2 - PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING
SHIFT ABSENCE...................89
ISSUE #3 - SEVERANCE PAY PLAN............90
ISSUE #4 - 3 DAY SICKNESSPROVISION.......90
ISSUE #5 - HYDRO RATE....................90
ISSUE #6 -MORTGAGE SUBSIDY...............91
ISSUE #7 - JOBCLASSRATE..................91
ISSUE #8 ■ 10 HOURSHIFTS.................91
ISSUE #9 -CLC EDUCATION COURSE...........92
ISSUE # 10 • WORKPLACE CHANGE
AND CONSULTAHVEPROCESS.........92
ISSUE #11 -VACATIONENTTTLEMENTAND TRAVEL ALLOWANCE BENEFITS FOR RECALLED
EMPLOYEES......................92
ISSUE #12 -LOCAL ISSUES..................93
ISSUE #13 -MEDIATTONREYIEW ..............95
ISSUE #14 -WORKPERFORMANCE REVIEW........95
69
APPENDIX "A'
JOB EVALUATIONPLAN MANUAL
Bar
JOB DESCRIPTION, CLASSIFICATICN
And
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
70
APPENDIX “B
Appendix not used.
APPENDIX “C”
CONSULTATIVEMACHINERY
Appendix not used.
71
APPENDIX “D”
CONTRACTING OUT REQUIREMENT LIST
1.	Description of proposed work:
2,	Manpower(includingspecialskills):
3.	Equipment and/or facilities:
4.	Material:
5.	Planned Starting date:
Planned completion date:
6.	Other remarks:
Signature
72
APPENDIX “E’
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
Iron Ore Company of Canada And QNS&L
Unionized Employees
March 1,2007
73
APPENDIX “F”
HEALTH CARE PLAN
Iron Ore Company of Canada And QNS&L
Unionized Employees
March 1,2007
74
APPENDIX “F-l
ESMALPLAN INSURANCE
Iron Ore Company of Canada And QNS&L
Unionized Employees
March 1,2007
75
APPENDIX “F-2
RETIREMENTPLAN
FOR THE UNIONIZED EMPLOYEES OF
IRON ORE COMPANY OF CANADA
QUEBEC NORTH SHORE &LABRADOR RAILWAY
AND ASSOCIATEDAND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
March 1,2007
APPENDIX “G”
TRAVELALLOWANCE
The Travel Allowance Benefit is provided for employees and their families permanently residing at Labrador City, once per year per family at the time of his/her annual vacation. For married employees, the benefit will be provided for the employee, the spouse and their children. Children are defined as not fully employed children under 18 or who are full time students under 24, The Travel Allowance benefit will be in the amount of $1000 per eligible claimant, 100% of which will be advanced before leaving for annual vacation.
77
APPENDIX “H”
A) - The following protective clothing and equipment
will be provided at Company expense to provide safe job
working conditions:
1.	The Company will supply to all employees leather, rubber and cotton gloves as well as mitts, according to the requirements of their job.
2.	Rubber gloves as used by linepeople or protective leather mitts will be suppliedto electricians.
3-	Leather gloves, jackets, cape sleeves, leg protectors and
welder masks will be suppliedto welders.
4.	Neoprene gloves will be supplied to employees working with acids or strong detergents.
5.	Rubber gloves, lab coats and protective masks will be suppliedto laboratory employees.
6.	Lifejackets will be suppliedto employeesworking where there is danger of falling in the water.
7.	Liners for safety hats till be supplied to employees according to the requirements of their job.
8.	Earplugs or muffs willbe suppliedto employeesaccording to the requirements of their job.
9.	Adequate additional protective clothing (waterproof jackets and pants) or rubber boots will be suppliedto all employees for weather protection according to the requirements of their job.
The above-mentioned items will be replaced as required provided
the worn-out item is returned to the Company.
78
B)	Safely hats:
1.	All employeeswill be supplied a safety hat;
2.	The Company will replace lost hats at employee's expense;
3.	Hats broken, damaged or lost at work vill be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
C)	Facemasks/Respirators:
1.	Face masks or respirators will be suppliedto all employees before working in areas contaminated by dust, gas or fumes;
2.	Face masks or respirators lost will be replaced at employee's expense;
3.	Broken, damaged or lost masks or respirators will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
D)	Safety Glasses:
1.	All employees will be supplied one (1) pair of safety glasses;
2.	The Company till replace safety glasses lost at employee's expense;
3.	Broken, damaged or lost safety glasses will be replaced free, provided they were properly worn or used at the time they were damaged or lost.
79
E)	Safety Locks
Safetylocks and keys used forlock-out procedure will be supplied to all employees required to use same.
AH of the above-mentioned items must be turned in when the employee quits the Company, otherwise he/she will be charged for these items.
F)	Personal Protective Apparel
1.	The Company shall provide, on April first of each year commencing on April 1, 2007, a voucher for a local supplier for the purpose of purchasing approved personal protective apparel. This voucher shall be in the amount of seven hundred and twenty-five dollars ($725.00) for Maintainer Operator Mechanical 2 employees and Maintainer Operator Electrical 1 employees and two hundred and eighty-five dollars ($285.00) for all other employees. There shall be no replacement of lost, damaged or stolen items excepting as provided for by the voucher.
New Hires will be advanced the first year voucher for their occupation following successful completion of their probationary period.
2.	Personal Protective Apparel eligible for procurement with the above voucher shall include:
i)	approved safety footwear
ii)	regular work coveralls
iii)	insulated work coveralls
iv)	industrial work shirts and work pants
v)	fire retardant coveralls for Maintainer Operator Mechanical 2 employees and Maintainer Operator Electrical 1 employees.
80
3.	The Company shall continue its practice of providing apparel washing facilities at the workplace for coveralls only.
4.	The Union President or his/her designate and representatives of the Procurement Department and Human Resources Department shall meet annually for the purposes of reviewing bids and awarding annual supply contracts. The purchase of said protective apparel shall be conducted in a manner so as to maximize available product quality at minimum cost and reduced administrative burden for the Company.
81
APPENDIX “I!
AGREEMENT ON TECHNOLOGICAL. ORGANIZATIONAL OR
OPERATIONAL CHANGES
Maidil, 2007
a2
APPENDIX “J”
EMPLOYMENTBENEFITS AND SPOUSE OR FAMILY STATUS
1.	For the purposes of application of Company employment benefits, the Companywill recognize as spouse, not only legally or religiously married couples, but also upon designation in writing by an employee, filed with the employer, such an employee and their partner, if they have been publicly represented as common law spouses and still are at the time an event occurs that may entitle them to a Company benefit, provided they have been living together.
a)	at least one (1) year, if none of them is still married to any other person, or
b)	at least three (3) years, if one or both of them is still married to another person. If the marital union has not been legally contracted, the spouse will not be considered as such if a period of three (3) months has elapsed during which the spouse has not cohabited.
In case of divorce or annulment of marriage, the spouse will not be considered as such from the date that the divorce or annulment is declared.
2.	Benefits covered under this appendix include Fife and Death or Dismemberment Accidental Insurance, Medical & Hospital Expense Insurance, Pension Plan, Northern Allowance, Travel Allowance, Dental Insurance and any other benefits for which family status is of concern, whether or not the persons are employees and whether or not they are covered or not covered under a collective agreement.
83
3.	Company benefits will be applied on the following principles:
a)	Where both spouses are employed by the Company, it is understood that the Company’s intent in the administration of any employee benefit is to avoid overlapping payments to the spouses and/or the dependents if any.
b)	Any person eligible for a Company benefit as a Company employee is excluded from claiming the same benefit as a dependent of that employee, and neither of them can claim at the same time the benefit as supporting the other as a dependent.
c)	When a benefit is granted as a family benefit such as Travel Allowance, it can be claimed only by one of the spouses and the Company liability will not exceed 100% of the amount payable for the whole family.
d)	Unless spouses that are both employees agree otherwise and notify the Company, a family benefit will be paid to the male employee.
4.	Failure to provide the documentation required to determine dependent status of an employee will result in an employeemaintaining single status.
84
APPENDIX “K”
AGREEMENT ON
SUPPLEMENTARYUNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLAN
March 1,2007
85
ISSUE *1 -STUDENTS
IROV ORE COMPANY OF CANADA .STTDKNT EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
The Iron Ore Company of Canada and the United Steelworkers, Local 579 5/6731, have hereby agreedto the following guidelines should IOC determine that students will be hired.
1.	Eligibility: Although any student can apply for student
program, preference will be given to IOC dependants.
IOC scholarship students will be awarded the first
positions.
a)	This includes dependents of active, LTD, retired or deceasedlOC/QNS&L employeeswho arepennanently residing in Labrador City and who are full time students as stated below.
b)	Students must be in full-time attendance at a post secondaryinstitution.
c)	Studentsmust be in a degree or diploma program.
d)	Students must have been in school full time in the previous two post secondaryterms and be registered for the followingterm.
e)	Students are continuing their studies the following Septemberin a Degree or Diploma.
2.	Selection Process
a)	The Company shall determine the number of student employment positions.
b)	Students must have completed the required documentation and submitted information required from the institution on the forms provided.
86
c)	Three member IOC teams comprised of Operations Representative, HR Representative, and USW Representative Local 5795/6731 will interview and evaluate all eligible applicants based on the competencies. These competencies will be made available to all candidates to review in advance cf the interview process through the IOC website. Where practically possible the student interviews will be conducted in person either at the location cf the student's academic institution or the locale of their permanent residence.
d)	In the event that the interview team is not able to reach consensus on the deselection of a student application, the USW Representative shall have the right to determine that such applicant be placed in the draw. Such determination shall not be made in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. Should Management consider a determination has been arbitrary or discriminatory, the parties agree to expedited arbitration as per Article 8.10.
e)	All eligible student applicants who are selected as per d) above plus those students returning from a preceding period of student employment who received acceptable performance reviews will become part of the student employment pool for that year.
f)	Students from the pool shall be considered for staff type student employment based entirely on merit as determined by the Company during the joint interview and selection process having also taken into consideration the application of that student's educational discipline.
87
g)	Students from the remaining pool who are dependants shall be considered for hourly type student employment based on a random draw process agreed to and conducted jointly by the representatives of the Company and USW Local 5795/ 6731. Such a draw will determine both those students who shall be employed in student positions for that year as well as the order in which students may be employed should additional positions become available.
h)	All students must meet the requirements of a medical assessment and standard physical fitness test or be able to be accommodated by the Company in order to be employed by the Company.
i)	If there are not enough dependants to meet the requirements for student employment in hourly type positions then the Company and the Union shall discuss and agree on a process to be used to select the remainder of the student requirements.
3.	Students’Responsibility
a)	Students must provide their own acceptable Class "A" safety boots.
b)	Students requiring glasses must provide prescription safety glasses in accordance with IOC's standards. Contact lenses are not permitted on the Project.
c)	Students will be required to provide their own personal protective apparel such as coveralls, etc. hard hats, wet suits, rubber boots and gloves will be provided, as required.
88
d)	Students must be available to work the entire period required. Only those who have to leave work prior to the final scheduled shift to attend post secondary institutions which are starting early, would be permitted to terminate at that time. Permission can only be obtained through Human Resources.
e)	Should the student decide not to continue his/her studies, it is the student's responsibility to notify the Iron Ore Company of Canada (Human Resources) as soon as the informationis available.
4.	General
a)	Studentswill be paid a rate equivalentto $ 16.00 per hour. No Union dues villbe required.
b)	Students may be employed by the Company as per the summer and Christmas vacationperiods defined under 15.10 b.
c)	Studentswill be evaluatedperiodically. The evaluation will benefit students as it determines areas in need of improvementfor future employment.
d)	Studentsmay be terminated at any time during this period of employment should they fail to meet Company standards.
ISSUE #2 -PROCEDURE FOR REPORTTNCtSHIFT ABSENCE
89
Letter not used.
ISSUE *3 - SEVERANCEPAY PLAN
In the event there is a permanent shutdown of the Iron Ore Company of Canada, the Company agrees to meet with the Union on this matter and negotiate a severance pay plan.
ISSUE *4 - 3 DAY SICKNESS PROVISION
Effective as of the signature date of the collective agreement an employee absent for sickness for more than three (3) days will receive up to three (3) days pay at his/her regular daily rate for the first three (3) days of sickness not covered by the weekly indemnity provision of the Welfare Plan provided a claim for weekly indemnity benefits is approved and provided this employeewas scheduled to work those three (3) days. This is applicable only to those employees who were part of the bargaining unit prior to September 23,2004.
ISSUE #5 ■ HYDRO RATE
This confirms the Company’s intent to continue to reimburse employees regardless of the ownership of the Power Utility Company, for any hydro rate increases established from the base rate of:
0-20 kWh...............$1.15 Minimum Charge
21-60 kWh..............$0.0278 per kWh
6l-300kWh..............$0.0127 per kWh
Over300kWh.............$0.0115 per kWh
Reimbursement will be in the form of a cash payment in the last pay period of each year.
90
ISSUE *6 -MORTGAGE SUBSIDY
This will confirm the Company's intent to continue the mortgage subsidy policy for existingand new mortgageholders for the life of the Collective Agreement.
EffectiveJanuary 1,1991 allemployees.regardlessof dependent status, will be eligible to apply for the Iron Ore Company of Canada Mortgage Subsidy Program. As of the same date, the program will be amended to provide a maximum of fifteen (15) years' interest subsidy to new participants.
ISSUE, *7 -IOB CLASS RATE
The Company and the Union have agreed on a negotiated rate for the occupation of storeperson.
This confirms our intent to meet throughout the life of this Collective Agreement to review the practicality of continuing
to use the Job Evaluation Plan (J,E.P) for evaluating of new or revised occupations.
ISSUE, #8-10 HOUR SHIFTS
In order to introduce the 10 hour shifts where necessary, the Company has agreed with the Union to a one time trial period after which time a vote by the concerned employees will determine the viability of the shift.
91
ISSUE *Q - CIC EDUCATION COURSE
This will confirm the agreementreached during recentnegotiations regarding the Canadian Labour College. The Company will pay, over the life of the Collective Agreement, twelve hundred and fifty dollars ($1250.00) to the Union should their members attend a recognizedCLC educationcourse.
ISSUE *10 - WORKPLACE CHANGE AND CONSULTATIVE PROCESS
Letter not used.
ISSUE *11 -VACATIONENTITLEMENT AND TRAVEL ALLOWANCE BENEFITS FOR RECALLED EMPLOYEES
A.	Based on the number of weeks worked, employeeswho have earnings and did not take their vacation pay upon layoff will be entitled to vacation and prorated Travel Allowance Benefits in the following year, if recalled.
B.	Prorated Travel Allowance Criteria
1 to 12 weeks worked •	0%
13 weeks worked	25%
14 weeks + worked	25%+5%
for each additional week worked to a maximum of 100%.
C.	Employees must take vacation in order to access Travel Allowance Benefits.
92
D.	The employee, if recalled, will be recalled one week earlier and placed on vacation for that week.
E.	If an employee is scheduled for vacation and then laid off, he/she may request their vacation remain as scheduled.
F.	All other Travel Allowance Benefits criteria are as per Appendix G.
ISSUE *12-LOCAL ISSUES
#1, Hot Lunches
a)	Second lunch when working double shift.
b)	Hot or cold beverage with the hot lunch.
c)	Quality of hot lunches, greater selection and posting of menu.
Employeeswho work more than two (2) hours of overtime immediately following their regular shift will receive a hot lunch if they continue to work beyond four (4) hours of overtime a cold lunch will also be provided. Where it is known in advance that the overtime wll. be over four (4)hours, both lunches will be delivered at the same time. In incidents where a full shift of overtime immediately precedes the employee's regular shift, the employee will be given a hot lunch after he/she has completed the overtime shift and as early as possible into the regular shift. It is understood that hot lunches will not be given whereby either of the shifts is a shift change(T.D. 71 or49).
93
The employee working overtime and who qualifies for a lunch will be given a choice of a hot (coffee or tea) beverage or a cold (soft drink or pint of milk) beverage with a hot lunch. With a cold lunch a cold beverage will be supplied.
The menu will allow choice of a hot lunch from two (2) main meals and two (2) alternates. Menu selections will be varied and posted every two (2) months.
The Union may select one (1) person to bring problems regardingquality and selectioncf lunches to the attention of Employee Relations who will arrange a meeting with the supplier where necessary.
if practical, the Companywill endeavour to have two (2) suppliers available for the supply of lunches.
#2. Apartment Rents
For the life of the present Collective Agreement, there will be no increase to monthly rental rates of apartments presently being rented by IOC employees in Labrador City.
#3. Control of Stockyard by Storepersons
The Company agrees that it is the function of the Storepersons to control all inventory items entering and exiting the stockyard.
#4. Stocking of Warehouse Materials
in Sub-Warehouses Controlledby the Warehouse
The Company agrees that it is the function of the Storepersons to stock inventory items in the sub warehouse currently controlled by the Warehouse.
94
ISSUE *13 - MEDIATION REVIEW
Letter not used.
ISSUE *14-WORK PERFORMANCE REVIEW
This confirms our agreement with respect to employees work performance reviews. In particular, we agreed that IOC currently has a right under the management rights clause of our collective agreement to conduct work performance reviews with employees. The purpose of the work performance review is to provide a framework for ongoing, frank, fair, and honest communications between employees and their team leaders regarding job performance and job satisfaction.
An employee whose performance has been evaluated as “requiring improvement” or “unacceptable” may arrange to have a Union representative present during a follow up meeting which will be held within fourteen (14) days from the initial meeting to review that rating. There shall be no requirement that an employee sign any document regarding their job performance review.
Woikperformance reviews shall be usedforemployeedevelopment purposes only. Work performance reviews, and any written material arising out of these reviews do not constitute discipline, shall not be used as a substitute for discipline, and shall not be relied upon in any way in the discipline of employees.
95
Further, we agree that work performance reviews shall not be used to adversely affect the rights of any employee under this collective agreement, and in particular shall not be used in any manner whatsoever in determining promotions, demotions, vacancies, assignments, layoffs, recalls, force reductions, merit or other wage increases, or any other right in which seniority may be a factor under the terms of our collectiveagreement.
We agree that this letter of agreement forms part of the collectiveagreement between the parties.
While this letter refers to team leader's the parties agree that this letter also applies to all non-bargaining unit employees who conduct work performance reviews.
96
2007
97
2008
S M T W T F S						
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
						
						
APRIL						
S M T W T F S						
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
						
FEBRUARY						
S	M	T	W T		F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	
						
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
						
MARCH
I	MAY	I
S M T W T F S
S M T W T F S						
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
						
JUNE						
S M T W T F S						
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
						
JULY						
S M T W T F S						
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
						
OCTOBER						
S M T W T F S						
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
						
AUGUST						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
NOVEMBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30						
SEPTEMBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
						
DECEMBER						
S M T W T F S						
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
						
98
2009
FEBRUARY						
S M T W T F S						
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
						
						
JANUARY						
S	M	T	W T		F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
						
MAY						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
APRIL						
S M T W T F S						
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
						
AUGUST						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
JULY						
S M T W T F S						
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
						
NOVEMBER						
S M T W T F S						
1	a	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
						
OCTOBEER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
						
99
MARCH
SMTWTFS 1 | 2 I 3 4 ~5 6 7 _8_ 9_ 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
JUNE
SMTWTFS |1 I 2 I 3 I 4 | 5 I 6 7_ _8_ _9^ 10 1112 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
SEPTEMBER
SMTWTFS [ 1 I 2 | 3 I 4 I 5 6_ 7_ _8 _9_ 10 H 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER
SMTW TFS "I 1\2 3 4 5
6_ 7_	9_ 10 H 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
2010
100
2011
MARCH						
S	M	T	W T		F	S
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
						
FEBRUARY						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28					
						
JANUARY						
S	M	T	W T		F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
JUNE						
S M T W T F S						
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
						
MAY						
S M T W T F S						
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
						
APRIL						
S	M	T	W T		F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
						
SEPTEMBER						
S	M	T	W T		F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	
						
AUGUST						
S M T W T F S						
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
						
JULY						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31						
DECEMBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
						
NOVEMBER						
S M T W T F S						
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
						
OCTOBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
101
2012
S M T W T F S						
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
						
						
APRIL						
S M T W T F S						
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29			
						
MAY						
S M T W T F S						
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	a	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31		
						
S M T W T F S						
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
						
						
JUNE						
S M T W T F S						
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
						
FEBRUARY
JULY						
S M T W T F S						
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
						
OCTOBER						
S M T W T F S						
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
						
AUGUST						
S M T W T F S						
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
						
NOVEMBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
				1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	
						
SEPTEMBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30						
DECEMBER						
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31					
102
GOOD
HEALTH, SAFETY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL
HABITS
AND
PRACTICES
ARE
REWARDING FOR LIFE