COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Effective on the 18th day of June 1996 at
Wabush, Labr<ildor
betwen
WABUSH MINES aad
WABUSH LAKE RAILWAY CO. LTD
Clif Mining Company, Managing Agent (hereinafter referred to as the Company")
and
UNITED STEELWORKERS Q F AMERICA LocalG285
(Hereinafter referredto as the “Union')
00141(05)
article 1
PURPOSE OF A QREEMeNT
1.01	It is the intent and purpose of the Parties to
establish, as herein set forth, their full Agreement covering wages, hours of work and other working conditions andto provide procedurefor the prompt and equitable adjustment ofgrievances.
ARTICLE 2
SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT
2.01	This Agreement covers:
A.	All employees of Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining Company, Managing Agent, located atWabush, Labrador, Newfoundland except office employees, medical and safety staff, chemists, guards and security personnel, foremen and those above the ranl< of foreman, students, professiondl and technical employees, cookery and camp employees, janitors, bakery and laundryworkers; and
B.	All employees of Wabush Lake Railway Company, Limited, working on installation, maintenance and operation of the railroad and facilities, except office Workers, guards and securitypeisonnel, foremen and those abovethe rank of foreman, students and professional and technical employees.
2.02	As used herein "students" means a person attending a high school, technical school, college or university, who may be employed by the Company during a regularschool vacation for temporary work, but who shall attain no rights under this Agreement.
i
2.03	Supervisory personnel will not perform production or maintenancejobs normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit except under the following circumstances:
A.	For instruction or training,
B.	In experimentation with respect to process or operation,
C.	Fortesting new machineryor new equipment, or assisting employees in testing repaired machinery or equipment.
D.	In case of emergency affecting the safety of employees, damage to equipment or adversely affecting operations, for such time as is necessaryto overcome the emergency.
E.	Where the work is incidental to supervisory duties.
If a Supervisor performswork in violation of this section and the extent and classification of the work can be established, then the grievor, if he is in that classification, will be paid an allowance equal to the standard straight time rate appropriate to the work performed, for the time actually worked or for four (4) hours, whichever is the greater. If the grievor is not in the classification, as established above, then the employeewho receives the paymentwill be the one who is the lowest on the overtime list in that classification.
A grievance alleging violation of this Section may be filed by the Union directly at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure. In the event such a arievance is appealed to an Arbitrator he shall, if violation of this Section is established, be empowered to order payment of the aforementioned allowance.
2
2.04	It is general policy ofthe,Company not to contract out production or maintenance work that IS normally performed by members of the bargaining unit However, abnormal circumstances may arise that require such contracting out. When the Company contemplates and decidesto contract out production or maintenance work that has not previously been contracted out, it shall give the Union as early written notice as is feasible but no later than twenty (20) days before the contract is awarded providing details of the work to be contracted out When the Company cannot give twenty (20) days notice, a verbal notice will be given immediately it becomes feasible to do so. On receipt of such notice, the Union may request a meeting to discuss the possibility of qualified employees and available equipment starting and completing the workwithinthe required time. Such a meeting may be attended by three (3) representatives ofthe Union and will be held within five (5) days of the notice. The Uniort representatives will suffer no loss of pay for the time spent at such a meeting. Within seven (7) days following such meeting, the Company will advisethe Union df the final disposition of the contract. Further, if the Cbmpany is unable to provide all the details for the work to be contracted out, at the above meeting, it will provide such details to the Union as soon as the information becomes available
In no casewill the Companycontract out production or maintenance work while employees who normally perform that work are laid-off or reduced as a result of a decr^ease in thework tti ey normally performed or that would result ini the reduction or lay-off of such employees. No? employees of any contractor will displace the regular production and maintenance employees
Even though notice from the Company will not be requiredin the case of continuing work which has been contracted out in the past, the Company will notify the
3
Union when a new contract is to be made for work which has been contracted out in the past and will, upon request, meetthe Union concerning such work.
Any allegedviolation of the provisions of this Section or of an agreement between the Parties reached at a meeting to discuss contracting out shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure. Similarly, in the event the Parties fail to reach an agreement at such meeting, the matter will be subject to the Grievance Procedure.
An employeewho has been laid off and not recalled or who is displaced in violation of the provisions of this article may file a grievance for the pay he claims to have lost.
When a contractor performs work on site beyond the scope of work outlined in the aforementioned notice to the Union, an employee may submit a grievance at Step 2 in accordancewith the provisions of paragraph 2:03 of the CollectiveAgreement. If the Company has not taken corrective action within twenty-four (24) hours of having been notified of the alleged violation any daim payablewil apply from the date the grievance was filed.
ARTICLE 3
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES -
3.01	The Union, its officers and representatives at all levels, and all employees are bound to observe the provisionsofthis Agreement. The Company, its officials and representatives at all levels are bound to observe the provisions of this Agreement.
3.02	In addition to the responsibilities that may be provided elsewhere in this Agreement, the following shall be observed.
4
A.	There shall be no discrimination in any manner whatsoever by eitherthe Company or the Union against any employee because of race, sex, creed, color, political affiliation, natural origin, membership or non-membership in the Union, lawful Union activit , personal prejudice or exercising a right granted under law.
B.	No Union activity, including the solicitation of members, shalltake place on Company premises or on Company time, except as provided for by this Agreement.
C.	There shall be no strike, work stoppage, picketing, concerted slowdown, interruption or impeding ofwork.
No officer ior representative of the Union shall authorize, instigate, aid or condone any such activities. No employees shall participate in such activity.
D.	The Union shall not involve any employee of the Company, or the Company itself, in any dispute which may arise between any other employer and his employees
E.	There shall be no lock-outs.
F.	All grievances jshall be considered carefully a11d processed promptly in accordance with the applicable procedures ofArticles 9, 10 and 11 Such shall !be the sole and exdusive procedure to be ptilized in the event any employee believes this Agreement has been violated affto him.
3.03	The Company shall provide bulletin boards in
designated areas for the posting of Union notices
dealing with meetings, election of officers,
6
appointments and committees, social affairs and other non-controversialmatters dealing with the affairs of the Union. No bulletinshall be posted until approved by the Resident Supervisor Human Resources or his designated representative.
ARTICLE 4 MANAGEMENT
4.01	It is the exdusiverightofthe Company to manage the affairs in which it is engaged and to direct the working forces. This right includes the right: to hire, promote, transfer, test; to suspend, demote or discharge for just and reasonable cause; to retire (in accordance with the provisions of the Company Pension Pian) to determinethe number of employees to performthe work; to control and regulate the use of all equipment and to schedule the work; to determine the utilization of all machinery, tools or other labour-savingdevices; all subject only to the provisions of this Agreement.
4.02	In additionto the rights of the Company set forth in thisAgreement, the Company shall retain all inherent rights of management.
4.03	The Company has the full right to make and alter from time to time reasonable rules and regulationsto beobserved by employees. Such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement Copies of rules and regulations required to be observed by all employees, will be furnished to the Union.A copy of al new rules and regulations required to be observed by all employees, will be furnished to the Union at leastseven (7)days priorto posting. Upon request, the Company will meetthe Union to explain the new rules and regulations.
6
ARTICLES
UNION RECOGNITIONAND CHECK-OFF
5.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exdusive bargainingagent for al employees as defined in Article 2 of this Agreement.
5.02	The Comparly agrees that during the tenn of this Agreement, or any renewal thereof, it will deduct in each pay period, in each month, from the earnings of each employee, an amount equal to the monthly dues of Union Members as authorized by the Constitution of the Union The amounts so deducted shall be remitted each pay period to the person designated by the Union, inwriting to the Company, along with the name of any employee whose wages were insufficient to pennit such deduction and the Company shall not be obligated to make such deduction from subsequent wages
5.03	An employee may become a member of the Union or may refrain from becoming a member of the Union. as he so desires.
5.04	Each employee hired on or after the date of execution of thio Agreement shall sign a payroll deduction authorization inthe following fonn:
AUTHORIZATION FOR PAYROLL DEDUCTION
Date________________
I hereby authorise and direct one of the following companies • WABUSH MINES, WABUSH LAKE RAILWAY COMPANY, LIMITED,to deduct each pay periodfrom my earnings an amount equal to the Union dues authorized by the Constitution of the United
7
Steelworkers of America and to remit the amount so deducted to the person designated by the Union in writing to the Company.
Employee'sSignature Payroll# Witness
5.05	The Unionshallindemnifyand save the Company harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or otherforms ofliabiltythatshall arise out of or by reason of action taken by the Company for the purpose of complyingwith the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 6 ABSENCE
6.01	Every employee shallwork as scheduled unless he has:
1.	Asked for and been granted EXCUSED ABSENCE (a period of three (3) consecutiveworking days or less) or,
2.	Made written application on the form provided by the Company and been granted a LEAVE OF ABSENCE (a period in excess of three (3) consecutiveworking days).
Absences requested under 1 and 2 will not, particularly when the relate to a personal emergency, be arbitrarily denied, however, the Company shall have the right to approve or deny the requests and, if approved to determine duration of absences.
8
6.02	Leave of absence without pay may be granted, upon receipt of one (1) weeks notice, to not more than six (6) employees at any one time for attending Union conferences and conventions, providing such leave shall not interfere with the efficiency of the operations. Such leaves shall not exceed any aggregate of twenty (20) weeks in any year.
6.03	The Company shall grant a leave of absence without pay to a maximum of two (2) employees for a period of not morethan one (1) year for the purpose of performing Union, Newfoundland and Labrador Federation of Labour, or Canadian Labour Congress work. The Union agrees to give at leasttwo (2)weeks notice inwriting to the Company requesting such leave and designatingithe employee for whom it is desired. Such leave wiif be extended from year to year thereafter, inwritif'i9, by mutual agreement between the Company andthe Union upto a maximum ofthree (3) years.
6.04	Leave of absence without pay may be granted, upon receipt of two (2) week's written notice, to not more than eight (8) employees at any one time for as long as they are infull time attendance at a recognized Training Institute, in which their course of studies can directly furtherqualify them for work with the Company.
In addition, upon receipt of one (1) weeks written notice, the Company will grant leave of absence without payto not more than two (2) employees at any one time to attend a regularcourse conducted by the Labour College of Canada.
6.05	Except as otherwise provided, an employee while on leave of absence shall not become entitled to or have creditedto him any benefitswhich arise out ofthis Agreement otherjthan his length of continuous service for the purpose of seniority.
9
6.06	An employee required to be absentfrom work to attend the funeral of his father, mother, wife, child, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law.sister-in-law, grandparents or grandchild shall be granted a funeral leave for the time necessary for that purpose. For three (3) days of such leave he shall be paid for eight (8) hours at his straight time hourly rate.
The above shall apply if the employee obtains leave of absence because of sickness in his immediatefamily and death occurs during such leave.
These provisions will also apply if an employee is required to take leave of absence to care for his children atWabush or its immediate area while his wife attends the funeral of one of the relativesspecified.
Before such bereavement allowance is paid, the employee shall, if the Company so requests, provide evidence of attendance at the funeral.
6.07	An employeewho is elected as a member of the House of Assembly of Newfoundland or to the House of Commons will be granted a leave of absencefor a period equalto thetime that he continues as an elected member of either body. Such leave may be extended from term to term upon requestto the Company.
6.08	Maternity leave of absence will be granted to a female employee who has acquired seniority in the bargaining unit. Such leave of absence shall be mandatory and may commence (4) months prior to the anticipated date of birth of the child (but not laterthan eleven (I) weeks beforethe anticipateddate of birth) and shall terminate not later than four (4) months after the actual date of birth but not earlier than six (6) weeks after the actual date of birth. Such employee, upon return to work will be restoredto thejob she held at the commencement of leave of absence providing it is still
10
available and she still qualifies in accordance with Artide 8.
6.09	An employee who is summoned to serve on a criminaljury orto atend court as a witness in a criminal or quasi-criminal case, will be paid an allowanceequal tothediference between the payment he received for each day of such service and the pay he would normally have received had he worked as scheduled on each day of such service. To qualify for such an allowance, an employee mustgive his Foreman at least three (3) days notice of his impending absence and later must provide the Company with Court documentationj^ustifying his absence forjury service or his attendance at court as a witness and verifying any payment he has received for jury service. The foregoing provisions shall also apply where an employee is scheduled to work the midnightto 08 : 00
A.M. shift immediately priorto being required for jury duty or as awitness in responseto a summons for any time during the 8:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. period of that day.
ARTICLE 7
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
7.01	An employee shall beconsidered probationaryfor a period ofsixty (60) days of actualwork. At the end of the probationaryperiodsuchemployee's name shall be placed upon the seniority lists, where applicable, as of the date of commencementofwork for the Company.
7.02	Duringthe period of probation, an employee has no seniority standing and the Company shall not be required to retain him in employment or to reemploy him in the event he is released and such shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
11
7.03	If a probationary employee wishes to discuss a complaint with the Company, he may do so with or withoutthe assistance of a Grievance Committeeman.
ARTICLE8
SENIORITY
8.01	Length of continuousservicewith the Company shall be determined by the date ofthe employee'sfirst employment with the Company or the date of re-employment following tennination under the provisionsof Section 8:09 herein. On or afterthe date of execution ofthisAgreement, employees hired on the same day	be placed on seniority lists in the order of
their hiring times during the day.
8.02	A. Exceptas providedfor in Sections BJ and C} following, length of continuous service in a job shall be detennined by the date of the employee's first day worked in the job following pennanent assignmentto thatjob. Employees havingthe samejob seniority date in ajob shall be placed onjob seniority lists in order of their Company continuous service.
B.	When more than one employee is selectedfrom ajob posting, the employees selected who do perform work in the job following permanent assignmentto it shall havethe samejob continuousservice date as that of the first such employee.
c. An employee in a job in a line of promotion shall have, for each lowerjob in that line of promotion.job continuous service at least equalto that inthe higher job. For all jobs of equal classification in a line of promotion, an employee shall have job continuous service he has in any one of these jobs. However, when a new job is placed"' in a line of promotion,
12
employees in a higher or equal classification in that line will not have greaterjob continuous service than the date ofthe first permanentassignmentto the newjob.
An employeeshallnot suffer any loss ofjob continuous service {gratuities service) acquired through the provisions ofthisiparagraph when ajob is transferred to another line of promotion.
8.03	Lines of promotion have been set upwithin each Departmentand one or more of these lines constitutes a Department Job Group, as shown on appendix "C" ofthis Agreement. Each Trade and Craft Job and any other job not shown on appendix "C" shall be considered to be an individual line of promotion.
8.04	A. There fshall be three Department Labour Pools, one in each of the following Department Job Groups:
Concentrator Job Group Mining Job Group Services Job Group
B.	All jobs classified inJobClass 3 and belowwill be
in the labour pools.
c. In the event ofjob posting, layoff or recall, the Department Labour Pools will constitute a common pool called the General Labour Pool.
8.05	The Company shall post new continuous service lists, based upon the records of the Company as of each April 1 and October 1, setting forth the date of continuous service with the company and the date of continuous service in the lines of promotion for each employee who has attained such continuous service. The employees shall be listed in the order of the dates of their continuous service. When posted, copies of such lists shall be given to the Union.
13
8.06	An employee who believes that his continuous service date or his relative position on a continuous service list is incorrect shall notify the Human Resources Departments writing within four (4) weeks following the date the list is posted. Any error will be corrected and the affected employee so notified. If agreement cennot be reached as to the correctness of a date shown, or as to the employee's relative position on a list, the affected employee may file a grievance directly at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure. Such grievance must be filed within forty (40) days of the datethatthe continuous service lists are posted.
8.07	An employee who is off work on the date a continuous service list is posted shall be entitled to protest a date shown for him or his relative position on the list and to file a grievance if the matter is not satisfactorily resolved, providedthat such grievance is filed within thirty (30) days following his return to active employmentwith the Company.
8.08	Followingsettlementof any grievance under the provisions of section 8:06 and 8:07 and where no protest has been made, the continuous service lists shall be considered binding. The posting of subsequent lists shall not serve to open any question as to the validity of any preceding lists.
TERMINATION
8.09	An employee shall be terminated for any of the following reasons:
A.	Quit;
B.	Discharge;
C.	Retirement:
14
D.	Absencewithout permissionfor a period ofthree (3) consecutive scheduled shifts ofwork, which shall be construed as a quitas of the day before the commencement of such absence, unless reasons which prevented the employee from requesting permission for such absence are judged valid by the Company;
E.	Absence due to non-compensable disability:
1.	For a period in excess of 3 years in the case of an employee having less than 3 years of continuous service atthe time ofthe disability.
2.	Fora period in excess of his length of continuous service for an employee having 3 years to 5 years of continuousservice at the time ofthe disability.
3.	For a period in excess of 5 years for an employee having more than 5 years of continuous service at the timeof the disability.
F.	Absence due to layoff:
I _For a period in excess of 3 years in the cese of an employee having less than 3 years of continuous service at the time of layoff.
2.	Fora period in excess of his length of continuous service for an employee having3 years to 5 years of continuous service at the time of layoff
3.	For a period in excess of 5 years for an employee having more than 5 years of continuous service atthe time of layoff.
G.	Failure to notify the Company within five (5 days of receipt of notice of recall, sent by registered mail to the employee's last address on
15
record with the Company, of his intention to return from layoff or, having so notified the Company, failure to return to work within twelve (12) days following receipt by the Company of the notice that he intends to returnto work.
ESTABLISHING LINES OF PROMOTION
8,1 O Promotional lines as referred to in Section 8:03 are intended to provide channels for purposes of promotion and demotion giving considerationto logical work relationships. It is the objectivethat eachjob in a line of promotion will provide opportunities for each employee to receive on-thejob training and prepare themselves for thejob immediately above in that line of promotion.Where possible, without conflicting with the foregoing objective, the jobs within these lines of promotion shall be in ascending order of standard hourlywage rates.
8.11	If new jobs are established, the Company shall place them in the most appropriate Department Job Group, or if more appropriate, establish a new Department Job Group. In the event the C.W.S. Committee cannot agree on the placement ofjobs in the lines of promotion, the Union may file a grievance at Step No.2 ofthe Grievance Procedurewithin fifteen (15) days of the date the C.W.S. Committee declares that it is unableto reach agreement.
PROMOTION
8.12	For the purposes of promotion, the following factors will be considered:
A.	Length of continuous service,
B.	Physical fitness,
C.	Ability to perform thejob concerned.
16
If two or more employees meet the Company's requirements in factors B) and C) then A, length of continuous service, shall govern.
8.13	A. Vacancies resulting from termination in accordancewith Section 8:09, permanentpromotion or demotion and the creation of new jobs shall be considered as permanent.
B.	Vacancies resulting from absenteeism, illness, injury, suspension or of absence will be consideredas permanentifthey last longer than (15) fifteen shifts.
C.	Vacancies such as those in B preceding, which last less than fifteen (15) shifts, vacancies which are caused by annual vacation and those which exist while permanentvacancies are being filled, shall be considered as temporary.
D.	An employee whose absence has created a permanentvacancy shall be placed in his former job on hisfeturn.
8.14	When there isa requirementfor more employees than havebeen scheduled on a shift, employees of the dassifications, who regularty perform the work involved, will first be given the opportunity to perform the work.
8.15	If the Company decides to fill a permanent vacancy, such vacancy shall be filled, by an employee capable of doirig the job, in the following order of priority:
A.	By recall to the job, in which the vacancy exists, ofthe employee having the mostjob continuous service in the job andwho was reduced from that job or from any other equal or higher job in that line of promotion, providing he is not already in
17
that line of promotion in an equal or higher rated job, or if none:
B.	By the employee with the most Company continuous service currently in a job of equal classification in the same line of promotion and who has expressed his desire to fill such vacancy by completion of a form, furnished by the Company, orwho is in ajob directly below in the same line of promotion, or who has been reducedfrom ajob directly below in the same line ofpromotion, of if none by the employeewith the most Company continuous service, in the next successively lowerjob in such line or who has been reduced from it, or if none;
C.	By job posting under the provisions ofSection 8:18, exceptthat a vacancy in a labour poolor in a trade or craft job shall not be posted.
When an employee who is selectedto fill a permanent vacancy in accordance with B), above is prevented from starting work in his newjob, because of personal reasons,thejob will befilled temporarilyfor 45 calendar days by the next eligible employee in the line of promotion. Ifthe employee is still unable to be assigned to thejob after 45 days, the employee who has been temporarily assigned will be assigned permanently.
8.16	An employee who is not on Mine Equipment or has not previously been trained on Mine Equipment and who believes he has the capacity and physical fitnes to operate Mine Equipment may apply in writing to the Company at any time. Applicants, who meetthe Company's qualifications as listed below, will be selected fortraining on the basis of continuous service when the Company conducts a Mine Equipment Training Course. They must:
18
A.	Hold a •valid driver's license for the Province of. Newfoundland.
B.	Be at least 19 years of age.
C.	Be in	all respects physically fit to
perform the work.
An employee whose performance in such a course is unsatisfactory will be returnedto his regularjob and will no longer be eligible for such training. An employee who completes SO% of the Mine EquipmentTraining course\\il be requiredto complete the training. Upon satisfactory completion of a course, the employee will be returnedto his regularjob, and hewill automatically be considered as having applied to fill a permanent vacancy, in the position for which he was trained, if such a vacancy isfilled in accordancewith section 8:15 orB:18within 2 years. Further, hewill beselectedtofill a vacancy in a poiltion for which hewas trained ahead of any employeewho has nottaken such course or who hasnot been previously assignedto that position. If he is selected to fil the vacancy in accordance with the promotion provisionsofthis Agreement, hewill be assigned to the jcb.
An employee who completes the Mine Equipment Training Course for Production Truck, Rotary Drill Operator, Shovel Operator or Mine Equipment Operator will not be required to complete one of the learner periodsfor either ofthesejobs.
The Company will endeavourto providesuch training in orderto have aiminimum of8 employees qualified to fiU permanentvacancies on Mine Equipment, as of May 1st of each year.
Refreshertrainingwill be providedto those employees who have successfully completed the training course and who have not had an opportunity to fill a vacancy
19
for which they were trained for a period oftwo years.
8.17	An employee who believes that he has the requisitequalifications and abilityfor filling a vacancy in aTrade or Craftjob may make application in writing to the Company at any time, settingforth his experience, knowledge and training in relation to the trade or craft. Such applicantswill be considered when the Company decides to fill such vacancies and will be selected in accordance with the provisionsof Section 8:12.
8.18 A.	When it is necassary to fill a vacancy under 8: 15 C), it will be posted for five (5) days. An employeemayapplyforthejob on a form furnished by the Companywithin this five (5) day period. Within five (5) days following the posting and application period, the Company will post the name of the employee selected and no further selections will be made following the posting of the successful applicants. Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays shall be exduded from the time limits referred to in this paragraph.
An employee not in a labour pool shall only be entitled to make application for an equal or higher ratedjob or, for a job which is in a line having a higher rated job than exists in his current lineof promotion except that:
1.	Any employee may apply for a Helperjob;
2.	An employee may make application for any postedjob if he has been permanently assigned in his current line of promotion for at leastsix (6) months. However, an employee who posts to a lower rated job in his current line of promotion shallthen forfeit hisjob seniority in alljobs which are equalto or higher rated than thejob to which he has posted. Also, an employee who poststo a job in another line in which he has previously established job seniority will not be given credit for any previous seniority date he may have held
20
in that job or in any equal or higher ratedjob in that line.
B.	If an employee, applying for a posted job, has had no opportunity to demonstrate his abilityto perform thejob, his ability to absorb the trainingforthejob, as demonstrated by his work record with the Company, shall be taken into consideration.
C.	A copy of each job posting and the nameofthe applicant selected will be given to the Union.
8.19	A. An employee selected on a job posting for a single vacancy butwho, solelyto meet Company needs, is unableto start work on the newjob while it is being filled on a temporary basis, shall be paid at the higher of his oldtrate, or the rate of the new job for work performed ffter the commencement of the next work schedule following the date of the notice of his selection.
B. If, solely to meet Company needs, an employee selected on ajob posting is unableto start work on the new job on the same date as other employees selected on the same posting, while thatvacancy is being filled on a temporary basis, heshall be paid retroactively at the higher of his old rate or the rate of the newjob forthe period between his acquired job continuous service date, as defined in Section 8:02 B), and his actual performance of work on the newjob.
If it is determined that the above employee will be delayed from starting work on the newjobfor a period in excess of three (3)weeks, then thejobwill be filled on a permanent basis until such time as the employee initially selected:B readyto commence work on the new job. Thetime limitwill commencewith the beginning of
21
the first work schedule following the date of the notice of his selection.
8.20	An employee before proceeding on vacation or leave of absence not exceeding thirty-five (35) days, may make application for the job in which he is interested and which may become vacant during his absence. He shall be considered as an applicant for such job should the job be posted during his absence and provided he meetsthe currentqualificationsofthe job before leaving on vacation or leave of absence.
8.21	If no employee qualified for promotion makes application for a postedjob or trade or craft vacancy, the Company shall be free to fill such job by other means.
8.22	When the Company fills a temporary vacancy it will use itto providetraining for employees in the same line of promotion and fill it in the same manner as in filling permanent vacancies within the lines of promotion (Section 8:15B), subject to the following modifications:
A.	A vacancy shall be filled from among employees on the shift in which it occurs;
B.	In the event a vacancy cannot be filled from within the line of promotion, itwill be filled bythe senior employeefrom the labour pool ofthe Department Job Group concerned, who is presently on the shift in which the vacancy occurred.
If it is necassary to hold over or call out an employee, an employee in the classification where the vacancy exists, who is qualified to fill the vacantjob will be held over or called out, taking into consideration the equitable distribution of overtime.
22
REDUCTION AND LAY-OFF
8.23	A. A reductionwithoutlay-offwill be effected in the following order of priority by applying job continuous service down the lines of promotion in each Department Job Group affected, resulting in each employee being .
1.	Retained in his presentjob or in a job of equal classification within his line of promotion.
2.	Reduced to a lowerjob in line of promotion; or
3.	Returned if he so requests, to the highestjob in another lineof promotion provided his continuous service inthe previousjob allows him to hold that job and he is then able to perform the full requirements of the job
4.	Reduced to the Department Labour Pool. However.en employeein a trade or craftjob may electto beteid off rather than accept reduction to the Department Labour Pool. Hewill be recalled only to vacancies in his trade or in the event he has notbeen recalledto histrade or craftjob and if he desires to return to work after a one-year period he will advise the Human Resources Department in writing as soon as possible but not less than 4 weeks before the date he desires to return to work. He will then be recalled to the Department Labour Pool, provided his seniority allows him to do so. This provision is also subject to the time limits specified in Section 8:09F).
B. In the event of reduction with lay-off, the same procedure will be followed as in paragraph A) preceding, except that:
1.	Each employee likely to be affected by layoff, either directly or through the exercising of his
23
seniority by another employee, will receive a minimum notice of the layoff as follows:
-	7 days if the employee has been recalled or hired for 5 months or less
-	14 days if the employee has been recalled or hiredfor a period in excess of 5 months.
If such notice is not given, the Company will reimburse each employee so affected for eight (8) hours at the rate ofthejob from which hewas reduced multiplied by the number of regular shifts during which he would haveworked had the notice been given.
2.	A reduction as referredto in A 4 preceding, will be to the General Labour Pool defined in Section 8:04 C. instead of to the Department Labour Pool; and
3.	Before a reduction under B)2, preceding is made, an employee whose job continuous service enables himto retainthe samejob in another line of promotion may request to be transferred to thatjob.
4.	Any employee being reduced under 8:23 B.2 may exercise his company continuous service within his Department Labour Pool before proceeding to the General Labour Pool
C.	No employee may attain a higher job dassification as a result of any reduction or lay-off procedure, except as provided in A.3, preceding, and any displaced employee must be able to perform the work in the job to which he reverts throughthe application of the reduction or lay-off procedure.
D.	An employee, reduced to the General Labour
24
Pool, ^tyelect to be laid off instead of displacing another employee, by so notifying the Human Resources Department, m wnting within forty -eight (48) hours (Saturdays, Sundays and excluded) following his being notified of ^such reduction. Failureto so notifythe Company shall be construed as his acceptance of work in the General Labour Pool.
E.	An employee will be laid off from the General labour Pol on the basis of his length of continuousservicewith the Company.
8.24	During atemporary reduction or layoff caused by circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the Company, the provisions of Artide 8 will be waived for a pariod not exuding three (3) ^days (Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays exduded). However, where practicable, senior employees in ^each job shall be given the opportunity to perform any available work in that job, on their shift, within their Department.
8.25	When it is determined by the Company that a reduction or lay-off will ex^ed three (3) days (Satu^cys, Sundays and Holidaysexduded) the work force will be revised as soon as practicable in ^acrdacceWth the provisions^ this Artide. Failureto revise the workforce within five (5) days shall not be subjectto grievance.
RECALL
8.26	A. To a vacancy in a iob abeve a Labour .EaoLnL Such a vacancy will be filled in a^rdance with Section 8:15 A).
B. To vacancies in the General Labeur Pool
Emplcy^son lay^-of be recalled to vacancies in this Pool in order of Company ccntinucus ^^ce, except that	who accept lay-off
25
rather than displace employees in the General Labour Pool, as provided in Section 8:23D), will not be recalled to vacancies in the General Labour Pool until all employees laid off from it have been recalled. Further, an employee reduced from a trade or craft job and who has elected to be laid off as provided in Section 8:23D) will be recalled only to his trade or craft job. Inthe event such an employee has not been recalledto his trade or craftjob and if he desires to return to work after a one-year period he will advise the Human Resources Department in writing as soon as possible but not less than 4 weeks before the date he desires to return to work. He will then be recalled to the General Labour Pool provided his seniority allows him to do so. However, this provision shall be subject to the time limits specified in Section8:09F.
C.	An employee recalledto work for a period of less than thirty (30) days may refuse such a recall. The employee who refuses such a recall, will retain all rights to a subsequent recall.
Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph8:09 g), the employee must advise within 24 hours of his intention to accept or refuse such a recall. If he chooses to accept such a recall, he must report to work as required.
The CompanylNiU not be responsiblefor any claims as a resuit of errors arising out of the administration cf this Article.
8.27	An employee who, by reason of minor disability, advancing age or other causes, is unableto maintain the	standard of efficiency or safety on hisjob
may, after discussion betweenthe Parties, be moved to some other job for which he is qualified and be
26
exempted from the continuous service provisions of this Article.
Article 8:23 (a) 1. (a) 2., and (a) 3. will be utilized prior to giving consideration for other jobs for which the employee maybeiqualified and capable of performing.
8.28	A An employee in a line of promotion may requesttransferto the labour pool of his Department Job Group. If his request is approved by the Company heshallthen forfeit hisjob seniority in alljobs inthe line of promotion from which he has requestedtransfer.
B. When the Company fills a permanent vacancy in a Department Labour Pool it will consider on the basis of Company continuous service, any labourer from another Department Labourpootwho hasexpressed a preference for work inthe poolwherethe vacency exists except that duringthe peakvacetion period only fifty (50) percent of the Mine Department Labour Pool vacancies may be filled in this manner.
8.29	A. An employee may, by completion of a form furnished by the Company, voluntarily relinquish his eligibility:
1.	For recall to ajob outside his line of promotion from whichihe has been reduced.
2.	For recall and promotion for filling permanent vacancieswithin his line of promotion.
3.	For promotion for filling temporary vacancies within his line of promotion.
B. An employee may regain his eligibility within his line of promotion by application on a form provided by the Company, not less than thirty
27
(30) days after his voluntary relinquishment. Eligibilityfor filling temporary vacancies shall be effective immediately on the Company's receipt of such an application; eligibility for and promotion for filling permanentvacancies shall be regained thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the application.
C. An employee who relinquishes his right to recall in accordancewith this Article shall lose seniority in thatjob and in all other equal or higher jobs in that line of promotion.
An employeewho hasnotvoluntarily relinquished his eligibility in accordance with (A) above at the time a vacancy is being filled, shall be considered eligible to fillsuch a vacancy and will be promoted in accordancewith 8:15 A. and B.
8.30	Except as providedfor in thisArticle, no employee may displace another.
ARTICLE9
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
9.01	The purpose of this Article is to establish procedure for discussion and prompt settlement of grievances related to the application and interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement.
9.02	The Union may select a Union Grievance Committee composed of one Committeemanfor each twenty-five (25) regular bargaining unit employees. The Unionshallimmediately advise the Company in writing of the names of those selected and of any changes that may occur. Not more than two Grievance Committeemen may act on the Union Grievance Committee at Step No. 1 and no more than three (3) at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
28
9.03	Itis the purposeofthis Article to settle complaints promptly and no grievance will be processed if the event or circum<!tan^cea on which it is based occurred or originated more than seven (7) days prior to the time the grievanceisfirst presented in wring except in the event of a suspension. In the event of a suspension a grievancewill be processed if it is presentedwithin five (5) days ofthe return to work of the employee who was suspended. A grievance protesting a suspension of ten (10) days or greater that is appealed to arbitration within the specified time limits shall have the same priority as a discharge as outlined in Paragraph 3 of Article 11 :04
9.04	Any employee who believesthatthe Agreement hasbeen violatedwith respectto him shall discuss his complaint with his Foreman, accompanied by a Grievance Committeeman, if he so desires, and there shall be no deduction from their pay for time spent in such discussion. Recognizing the importance of full discussion between the Foreman and the employee in clearing up misunderstandings and preserving harmonious rela1ions, everyeffort shall be made at this pointto settle the complaint. Should the employee feel that his complaint has not been satisfactorily resolved after he has discussed it with his Foreman, he may request and shall receive from his Foreman a signed "Record of Complaint' form in duplicate.
STEP NO. 1
No eartierthan twenty-four (24) hours following receipt bythe employee ofthe "Record of Complaint" form, his complaint may become a grievance and be presented to the aggrieved employee's Department Head in writing, clearly stating the violation being alleged and the adjustment requested. A grievance shall be on a form provided by the Company and shall be signed by the aggrieved employee and by a Grievance Committeeman along with a copy of the "Record of
29
Complaint" form. The Department Head and/or his representatives shall meet with the Grievance Committeemanwithin five (5)clays following receipt of the grievance.
If the circumstances so warrant, the Foreman and/or the grievor may be present.
The Department Head's decision shall be given in writing and a copy thereof returned to the Grievance Committeemanwithin seventy-two (72) hours after the Step No. I meeting. If no appeal is taken from the Department Heads decision within the time limit set forth below, the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the DepartmentHead's decision.
STEPN0.2
If the Department Head's decision is judged to be unsatisfactory, it may be appealed by the Grievance Committeeman within five (S)days of its receipt. The appeal shall be made by completing the grievance form and mailing it to the Company usingthe official notice procedure set forth in Article 19.
The ResidentManager and/or his representatives shall meetwith the Grievance Committeemanwithin ten (•) days following receipt of such appeal to discuss the grievance. A representative of the International Union mayattendthe meeting andwitnesseseither Party may require may be heard.
Within seven (7) days, the Resident Manager's decision shall be given in writing to the Union, unless a definitedate for decision is mutually agreed upon. If no appeal to Arbitration is taken from the Resident Manager's decision within the time set forth in Article It:), the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the Resident Manager's decision.
30
9.05	The Grievance Procedure may be utilized by the Union in proc9'sing a grievance which is not a personal grievance and which alleges a violation or misinterpretation;of this Agreement. Such grievances may be introduqed at Step No. 2 of the Grievance Procedure. In processing such a grievance, the Company and the Union shall observe the specified time limits in appealing and answering.
9.06	Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays recegnized therein shall not be includedwhen determining the time within which any action is to be taken under Articles 9,
10, or 1 I Any and all time limits fixed by this Article or Articles 10 and 11 may be extended 11,1 mutual agreement in writing between the Company and the Union. Any grievance not answered by the Company within the prescribed time limits may be appealed by the Union to the next step.
9.07	Grievance meetingswill be held during working hours and neither a Grievance Committeeman nor a grievor will suffer any los of pay for attendance
To attend a Grievance Meeting within his working hours a Grievance Committeeman or a Grievor must obtain permissionfrom his Foreman to leave his work Such permission will not be refused arbitrarily. Time spent in scheduled Grievance Meetings with the Company during a Committeeman's or a Grievor's regular scheduled shift shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
When Step I and2 Grievance Meetings are scheduled outside or go beyondthe regular scheduled shift of the Grievance Committeeman referredto in 9:02, he shall be paid one (1) hour at straight time rates for such attendance in additionto hours lost during his regular scheduled shift.
9.08	When an employee completes one (1) year of
31
activeservice free of any written disciplinary action, his official previous disciplinary record maintained in the Human Resources Departmentwill not be referred to or considered in establishing any future discipline for him.
When an employee has been disciplined, the Human Resources Departmentwill, upon request, inform the Union President, or the Grievance Committeeman involved of the employee's disciplinary record.
When an employee has been disciplined, the Human Resources Department will send copies of all such written discipline to the Union.
9.09	If the facts alleged in a grievance involving a number of employees are identical and the remedy sought isthe same, a decision on the grievance of one ofthe employees involvedwill be applied to all who are entitled, at that time, to such a decision without the necessity of each filing an individual grievance. -
9.10	When the Company has established that an infraction has been committed by an employee and that disciplinary action is warranted, he will be disciplinedwithin five (5) working days.
ARTICLE10
ARBITRATION
10.01	A grievance concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of the Collective Agreement, which has been properlycarried through all the steps of the grievance procedure described in Article 9 and which has not been settled, may be referred to Arbitration. within twenty-one (21) days following the Company's' Step No. 2 answer. The grievance shall be referredto Arbitration usingthe procedure covering official notices set forth inArticle 20.
32
10.02	Within ten (10) days following receipt of notice that a grievance has been referred to Arbitration, the Parties can agree on the choice of an Arbitrator. If agreement is not reached within this ten (10) day period, the designation of the Arbitrator shall be by rotation from the following roster:
1. Mr. D. Alcock	2. Mr. D. Brown
3. Dr. I. Bruce	4. Dr. L Harris
5. Dr . J. Scott	6. Mr. W. Thistle
10.03	Should a person selected in rotation from the panel be unable to act for any reason, he shall not be asked again until his name comes up again in the normal rotation Order unless mutually agreed upon in accordance witttthe provisions cf Section 10:02
10.04	Should the preceding methods of selecting an Arbitrator fail, the Minister of Labour of the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador will be asked to nominateone
10.05	Upon thirty (30) days written notice, the Company and the Union shall each be entitledto strike one namefromthe Panel of Arbitrators during the term of this Agreement.
10.06	Two (2)or more grievances may be presented to an Arbitrator if the Company and the Union mutually agree.
10.07	Arbitration hearings shall be held in Wabush unless some other place js mutually agreed between the Parties.
10.08	Arbitration hearings shall be held within thirty (30) days following notice to the Arbitrator of his selection and if further hearings are requiredthey shall be held within thirty (30) days following the last meeting. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be
33
forwardedto the Partieswithin thirty (30) days following the last day of the Arbitration hearing. These time limits may be extended by mutual agreement between the Parties.
10.09	The decision of the Arbitratorshall be binding on both Parties.
10.10	The Arbitrator shall have jurisdiction and authority only to interpret and apply the provisions of this Agreement so far as shall be necessary to the determination of the grievance and shall not have any power to alter or change in anyway the provisionsof this Agreement or to substitute any new provisionsfor any existing provisions; nor to give any decision inconsistent with the terms or provisions of this Agreement; nor shall any past practices or customs becomebindingunlessthey are in writing between the Company and the Union.
10.11	No award in Arbitration shall be retroactive beyondfifteen (15) days prior to the date the grievance was first presented in writing. The Arbitration shall have authorityto modify the penalty in a grievance involving the suspension of an employee, but shall have no authority beyond that provided for in Article 11 in a grievance involving discharge.
10.12	The Partieswill jointly bearthe expenses of the Arbitrator.
10.13	No person shall be selected as Arbitrator who has been directly involved in attempts to settle the grievance.
ARTICLE 11
DISCHARGE CASES
11.01	An employee who is discharged shall be so
34
notified in writing by the Company. If the employee considers he has been dischargedfor other than just and reasonableCilUM he may request a hearing the DepartmentHead, or his designated representative within fori)-eight (48) hours d receipt of such notice of discharge.
11.02	A hearing will be held within three (3) days following receipt of the request referred to in Section 11: 01 and within three (3) days after such hearing, a decision as to whether the discharge shall be upheld, modified or revoked shall be rendered in writing bythe Company. The employee may be accompanied at the hearing by a Union Grievance Committeeman and/or representative af the International Union if he so desires.
11.03	Within three (3) days following receipt of the Company's decision, the employee, may, if he considers that he has been unjustly discharged,file a written grievance commencing at Step No 2 of the Grievance Procedure which will be heard within three (3)days.
11.04	If the discharge isappealedto Arbitration, the Arbitrator will have full jurisdiction to uphold or reject the discharge or to reduce the discharge 'to a suspension and to fix the duration of the suspension. lfthe Arbitrator rejects the dischargeor reduces it to a suspension, the employee shall be reinstated and paid for time lost since the date of discharge or for the period oftime not covered by the suspension but in no case shall this period exceed 180 working days, to which shall be added any number of days that the Arbitrationwas delayed by requestof the Company or from which shall be subtractedany numberof daysthat the arbitration was delayed by request of the Union. Such payment shall be the difference between the amountofmoney actually received bythe employeefor work performed by him in each week during the period
35
that hewas offwork due to discharge and the amount that he would have received for each such week for regularly scheduled work had he been continued at work in the job classification that he held at the time of his discharge.
To the extent of time an employee is compensated by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, he shall be paid Northern Allowance, C.O.L.A., Holidays as provided for under Article 16, for which hewould have qualified had he not been discharged.
A grievance protesting a discharge that is appealed within the specified time limits to arbitration shall have priority over other grievances previously appealed to arbitration unlessthe Parties mutually agree otherwise.
ARTICLE 12
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME AND ALLOWED TIME
12.01	This Article is intended solely to define the nonnal hours of work and shall not be construed to be a guarantee of hours of work per day or days of work per week.
12:02 Forthe purpose only of computing overtime and not as a limitation upon the scheduling of employees for work, the work week shall be a period of seven (7) consecutive days commencing with the beginning of the day shift on Monday and the work day shall be a period of twenty-four (24) hours commencing at the beginning of the day shift.
12.03 A. The nonnal week shall consist of five (5) days, of eight (8) hours each, establishing a normal work week of forty (40) hours.
36
B.	As far as is practicable in accordance with good
operating procedures, the company wil endeavourto schedule employees, who are not on a rotating shift basis, to work a five (5) day work week scheduled Monday through Saturday and wil schedule all employees so that their days off are consecutive.
12.04	Daily hours of work shall be consecutive and a lunch period, notto exceed twenty (20) minutes, shall be considered • time worked. Where required, the employee shall •t on the job and the Company shall not be obligated to provide a relief man for such time. An employee who works more than two (2) hours beyond his regular shiftwill be providedwith a hot meal and the time to eat it (not to exceed twenty (20) minutes)will be considered as time worked.
12.05	Weekly work schedules shall be posted no later than noon, Thursday, of the preceding week and no changes shall bernade insuch schedules solely for the purposeof avoiding the payment of overtime rates. If it is later necessary to change his schedule, without having given him at leasttwenty-four (24) hours notice of the change, an employee will be paid at the rate of double time for hours worked on the first shift of the changed schedule.
12.06	Overtime at the rate of time and one-half will be paid for hours worked in excess of eight (8) consecutive hours or hours worked in excess cf forty (40) in any work week or on an employee's scheduled days off. Overtime at the rate of double time will be paid for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours.
Work scheduledand petformedon Sundaywill be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. Work performed on Sundays in excess of eight (8) hours or in excess of
37
forty (40) straight time hours in the work week will be paid for at double time.	.
Any period of overtime which ends with an incomplete half (/RJiour, that portion of the half (1/2) hour will be rounded to a full half (112) hour for pay purposes.
12.07	Any time paid for at overtime rate in any work day shall not be used to compute overtimefor the work week.Tothe extentthat hours are compensatedfor at overtime rates under one provisionthey shall not be considered as hours worked in determining overtime under the same or any other provision of this Agreement.
12.08	Overtime rates shall not apply to time worked by an employee in excess of his regular work day or work week because of a change of shift granted at the employee'srequest.
12.09	An employee who reports for work as scheduled without having been notified not to report, and for whom no work is availablewill be allowed four (4) hours pay at the rate ofthe job for which he was scheduled to report.
12.10	An employee who reports for and actually performswork as assigned on a scheduled shift will be paid for at least four (4) hours, eight (8) hours if he works more than four (4) hours, at the rate of pay for thejob for which scheduled unless he is assigned to a higher rated job in which event he will be paid at the rate of the job performed.
12.11	Provisions12:09 and 12:10 shall not apply ifthe work is not available due to causes beyond the reasonablecontrol ofthe Company and hours, paid for but not worked under these provisions, shall be considered as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
38
12.12	A. AA employee requested to return to work for afull ^extra shift after having left the property and with at least four (4) hours prior notice, and who reports for such work and works as assigned, will be paid at the ^overtime rate oftime and one-half or at the appropriate Holiday er Sunday rate, where applicable, for all hours so worked and shallbe^^the opportunity to work at least eight (8) hours.
B. An employee requested to return to work, after having left the property, other than for his ^scheduled shift, ^th les than four (4) hours prior notice or for less than eight (8) hours work, and who reperts for such work and works as assigned, will be paid at the overtime rate of double time and for at least three (3) hours for ^ch extrawork. Upon being requestedto return to workthe emi^ployewill be informed of the work to be performed and the work required will be confined to work necassitated by the call out. At the completion of said work, the employee, at his disoretion, xmay leavethe job or, if he agrees, be assigned to other work, in which case he will continueto be paid at the rate of double time for so long as the extra work continues, or to the commencement of his scheduled shift.
c. AA employee required to return to work after having left the property, other than for his ^scheduledshift due to an ^^^ancy will be paid atthe c^xtrme rate of doubletime and for at least three (3) hoursfor such work. The nature of the ^^^ancy work will be made known to him and he will not be assigned to other work. For purposes of the Seotion, "emergency work" is defined as that required by a breakdown of equi^pment or facilitiesthat will ^afthe continuity of operations, or other unusual circumstance, such as storm, fire or ^werfailure.
39
12.13	A periodoffive (5)minuteswill be allowed atthe end of an employee's shift for putting away tools, cleaningwork area, washing up and doing othertasks incidental to finishing work, except an employee on continuous operations must remain on the job until property relieved or ifhe has expressed the desire to be relieved, for a maximum oftwo (2) hours.
12.14	Overtime will, as far as practicable, be equitably distributed among the employees in the department who normally perform the work. A record of overtime hours offered in each departmentwill be available for inspection in the Foreman's office and will be sent to the Union at least once every two (2) months. An employee will be charged with overtime work refused, unless given less than one (1) hour's notice of availability of overtime work. Overtime will be worked on a voluntary basis provided that operating requirements are met. However, if an insufficient number of employees accept overtime work, employeeswith the least Company continuousservice shall be assigned.
12.15	An employee, notified during a shift that hewill be required to work overtime beyond the end of the shift beceuse no other qualified employee will accept the overtime opportunity will, if he requires it, be provided with transportation to his residence after he completesthe overtime work.
ARTICLE 13
SHIFT PREMIUMS AND COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (C.O.LA.)
13.01	For purposes of this Article:
A.	All shifts beginning between6:00 A.M. and noon will be day shifts.
40
B.	All shifts beginning between noon and 8:00 P.M. will be afternoon shifts.
C.	All shifts beginning between 8:00 P.M. and 6:00
A.M. will be nightshifts.
13.02	A shift premium of thirty (30) cents per hour shall be paid for any work performed during the afternoon shifts.
13.03	A shift premium offifty (50) cents per hourshall be paidfor any work performed duringthe night shift.
13.04	Any premium pursuantto the foregoing in this Article shall be increased by reason of having been earned in overtime.
COST OF LIVINGALLOWANCE (C.O.L.A.)
13.05	A. Forthe purpose ofthis Agreement:
I a Consumer Price Index" refers to the Consumer Price Index for Canada. All items (1971 =	100), referred to hereafter as
"CP!" published by StatisticsCanada.
b) "Consumer Price IndexBase" refers to the C.P.I. for the month of October, 1995 published in November1994 at419.4.
2.	"Adjustment Days"wil be March 1, 1996, June 1,
1996,	September 1, 1996, December1, 1996, March 1, 1997, June 1, 1997, September I .
1997,	December1, 1997, March 1. 1998, June 1, 1998, September1, 1998 and December1,
1998,	The actual date of each adjustment day shall be the first day of the pay period closestto the adjustment day.
3.	"Change inthe C.P.r is defined as the difference
41
betweentheC.P.I. BaseandtheC.P.I. published for the second calendar month preceding the month in which the applicable adjustment day falls.
4.	The"C.OlA" is calculated as below and, excapt as provided in Sections D), E), F), and G) will be payableforthe quarterly period commencing with each adjustment date.
B.	Effective on each adjustment date, a C.O.L.A. equal to one cent ($0.01) per hourfor each full .30 of a point change in the C.P.I. shall become payable for all hoursworked and for any reporting allowance credited before the next adjustment date. However, such C.O.L.A. shall be reduced by an amount equal to the sum of all prior adjustments, if any, which shall have been folded in the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates pursuantto the provisionsof Sections E), F) and G).
C.	Until folded into the rates pursuant to the provisionsofSections E), F) and G), the C.O.L.A. shall be an "add-on" and shall not be part ofthe employee's Standard Hourly Rateor Salary Rate. Until folded in, such adjustment shall be payable only for hours actuallyworked and for reporting allowance and shall not be included for the computationofvacation pays nor shall it be paid during vacation and it shall be excluded in the calculationofanyotherpay, allowance or benefit.
D.	1. Effective March 1, 1996 a twenty-five cents
($0.25) C.O.L.A. restoration is made for C.O.L.A. not applicable during the period March 1, 1993 through March I ,;1994.
2. Effective March 1, 1996, the $1.88 actual
C.O.L.A. accumulation under the previous
42
agreements (including the $0.25 restoration above) shall continue to be paid as an "add-on"
until it is either eliminated or reduced by a decrease in the C.P.I. or by the folding-in of the balance intothe Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates or by some other means.
E.	Effective March 1, 1996 a maximum amount of thirty cents ($0.30)from the $1.88 C.O.L.A. then payableshall befolded into the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates.
F.	Effective March 1, 1997 a maximum amount of twenty-six($.026) ofthe C.O.L.A. then payable shall befolded into the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates.
G.	Effective December 31, 1998 a maximum amount of one dollar and thirty three cents ($1.33) of the C.O.L.A. then payable shall be folded into the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates.
H.	The actualdate upon which the sums mentioned in paragraphs e), F) and G) shall be folded into the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates isthe first day of the pay period nearest to the date of adjustments, i.e. March 1, 1996, March 1, 1997 and December31, 1998.
I.	Any part of the C.O.L.A. not folded in the Standard Hourly Rates or Salary Rates shall continue to be payable only for hours actually worked, andfor reporting allowance and shall not be indudedforthe computation ofvacetion pays, norshallit be paid during vacation and it shall be excluded in the calculation of any other pay, allowance or benefit.
J.	In the eventthatS^tatistlce Canada does not issue the appropriate C.P.I. on or beforethe beginning
43
of one of the periods referred to in P<2., any adjustment required by the appropriate index shall be effective at the beginning of the next pay period after Indexofficial publication.
K)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in C.P.1. published by Statistics Canada.
L)	The continuance of the C.O.L.A. is contingent upon the availability of the official C.P.I. from Statistics Canada in its presentform and on the present basis (i71=100), unless otherwise agreed upon by the Parties. In the event that such form or basis of the Index is changed, the Parties shall attempt to adjust this Section or, if agreement is not reached, request Statistics Canada to provide appropriate conversion or amendmentwhich shall then be applicableas of the appropriate adjustment day and thereafter.
M)	lfthe C.P.1. dedines, the C.O.L.A. will be reduced or eliminated, as applicable.
ARTICLE 14 WAGES
14.01	The Co-operative Wage Study (C.W.S.) Manual for Job Description, Classification and Wage Administration dated July 14, 1965, hereinafter referred to as "The Manual” is incorporated into this Agreement as appendix "A" and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein. It is understood that inclusion of any jobs or groups ofjobs in the Manualshall not of itself establish existence of such jobs in the operation of the Company and reference to clerical or technical jobs shall not establish that such jobs are within or not within thejurisdiction of the Bargaining Unit.
44
Members of the Union C.W.S. Committee win sufr no loss of pay while attending meetings of the Joint
C.W.S. Committee.
14.02	Eachjob shall be described and clasified and a rate of pay applied to each employee on suchjob in accordance twith the provisions of this Agreement.
45
14.03	A) Effective 8:00 AM., March I ,1996 the Standard Hourly Rate for Job Class 1 shall be sixteen dollars and sixty-seven ($16.97) and the increment between succeeding job classes shall be twenty-six cents($0.26) establishing a Standard HourlyWage as follows:
JOB CLASS	STANDARD HOURLYRATE	JOB CLASS	STANDARD HOURLY RATE
1 $	16.97	13	$ 20.09
2	17.23	14	20.35
3	17.49	15	20.61
4	17.75	16	20.87
5	18.01	17	21.13
6	18.27	18	21.39
7	18.53	19	21.65
8	18.79	20	21.91
9	19.05	21	22.17
10	19.31	22	22.43
11	19.57	23	22.69
12	19.83	24	22.95
NOTE: The above includes a C O L A. fold-in of $0.30 intothe base wage rate.
46
B.	Effective 8:00 AM., March I ,1997 the Standard Hourly Ratefor Job Class 1 shall be seventeen dollars and forty-three cents ($17.43) and the increment between succeedingjob cases shall be twenty-seven cents ($0.27) establishing a Standard Hourly Wage as follows:
JOB CLASS	STANDARD HOURLY RATE	JOB CLASS	STANDARD HOURLY RATE
I $	17.43	13 $	<o o CM
2	17.70	14	20.94
3	17.97	15	21.21
4.	18.24	16	21.48
5	18.51	17	21.75
6	18.78	18	22.02
7	19.05	19	22.29
8	19.32	20	22.56
9	19.59	21	22.83
10	19.86	22	23.10
11	20.13	23	23.37
12	20.40	24	23.64
NOTE: The above includes a base rate increase of $0.20,C.O.L.A. fold-in of $0.26 into the base rate and increase in the job class increment from $0.26 to $0.27
47
C.	Effective 8:00 A.M., March 1, 1998 the Standard Hourly Ratefor Job Class 1 shall be seventeen dollars and sixty-three cents ($17.63) and the increment between succeedingjob classes shall be twenty-eight cents ($0.28) establishinga Standard Hourly Wage as follows:
JOB CLASS	STANDARD HOURLY RATE	JOB STANDARD CLASS HOURLY RATE	
1 $	17.63	13	$ 20.99
2	17.91	14	21.21
3	18.19	15	21.55
4	18.47	16	21.83
5	18.75	17	22.11
6	19.03	18	22.39
7	19.31	19	22.67
8	19.59	20	22.95
9	19.87	21	23.23
10	20.15	22	23.51
11	20.43	23	23.79
12	20.71	24	24.07
NOTE: The above includes a base rate increase of $0.20 and increase in the job class increment from $0.27 to $0.28
4S
D)
JO
CL
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Effective 8:00 A.M., December31, 1998, the Standard Hourly Ratefor Job Class 1 shall be eighteendollars and ninety-six cents ($18.96) and the increment between succeeding job classes shall be twenty-eight cents ($0.28) establishing a Standard Hourly Wage as follows:
STANDARD HOURLY RATE
18.96
19.24
19.52
19.80
20.08
20.36
20.64
20.92
21.20
21.48
21.76
22.04
JOB	STANDARD
CLASS HOURLY RATE
13	$ 22.32
14	22.60
15	22.88
16	23.16
17	23.44
18	23.72
19	24.00
20	24.28
21	24.56
22	24.84
23	25.12
24	25.40
The above includes a C.O.L.A. fold-in of $1.33 into the basewage rate.
49
TRADE & CRAFT ADDITIVE
B. Effective March 1, 1974, employees in the trade or	craft	jobs	described	and	classified	in
accordance with the Manual shall receive an additive of 2 job classes.
Effective March 1,1990, employees in the trade or	craft	jobs	described	and	dassified	in
accordance with the Manual shall receive an additive of2 job classes.
Effective March 1, 1991, employees in the trade or	craft	jobs	described	and	classified	in
accordance with the Manual shall receive an additive of 1 job class.
Effective March 1,1992, employees in the trade or	craft	jobs	described	and	classified	in
accordance with the Manual shall receive an additive of 1 job class.
Notwithstanding these additives, the following shall apply:
1.	The description and dassificetion of such trade or craftjobs shall be carried out in accordance with the Manual;
2.	The additive mentioned above shall be incorporated intothetotal classification ofthejob;
3.	Where a change in an existingjob requires a new description and classification for a job on which the additive has already been applied such job shall be classified in the same manner as that followed priorto the incorporation of the additive and the provisions of 1 and 2, preceding, shall apply.
so
14.04	As of the dates the Standard Hourly Wage Scales become effective, the standard hourly rate for eachjob class shall be the standard hourly ratefor all jobs classified within such job class and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provision of this Agreement.
14.05	Each standard hourly rate established under Article 14:03 shall be:
A)	The established rate of pay for all hours paid for a non-incentivejob.
and
B)	The established hourly base rate and minimum guaranteed rate of pay under any incentive appliedto thejob.
14.06	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of pay for each production or maintenance job, other than a trade or craft or apprentice job shall apply to any employee during such time as the employee is requiredto performthejob.
14.07	Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the established rate of payfor a trade or craft or apprentice job shall apply to any employee during the time the employee is assigned to the respective rate dassifications in accordance with the provisionsof this Agreement.
OUT-OF-LINE DIFFERENTIAL
14.08	The Company shall furnish to the Union a list agreed to by the Company and the Union of employees who are to be paid "out-of-linedifferentials”. Such list shall contain the following information:
51
A.	Name and badge number of incumbent to whom such out-of-linedifferential is to be paid;
B.	Job ofjob on which his out-of-line differential is to be paid;
C.	Job class of suchjob;
D.	Standard hourly rate of such job;
E.	Amount of out-of-linedifferential;
f. Date such out-of-line differential became effective.
14.09	Exceptas such out-of-linedifferential may be
changed by means hereinafter provided, any employee included in the list referred to in Section 14:08, shall continue to be paid such out of-line differential during suchtime asthe employee continues to occupythejob for which the differential was established.
14.10	If an employee with an out-of-line differential is transferred or assigned to a job having a higher standard hourly rate, then the differential shall be reduced bythe amount of the increase in the standard hourly rate.
14.11	If through the exercise of seniority rights an employeewith an out-of-line differential is moved to a job having a lower or equal hourly rate, then the out-of-line differential is cancelled.
14.12	If such employee referredto in Sections 14:10 and 14:1 I shall be returned to the job for which the out-of-line differential was established the out-of-line differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by other means.
52
14.13	When an employee would, in accordance with theterms of this Agreement. be entitled to receive his regular rate, he shall also receive any out of-line differential to which he is entitled.
14.14	Increases in standard hourly rates which result from increases in the increment between job
shall be used to reduce or eliminate out-of-line differentials.
14.15	Except iJr the application of the out-of-line differentials, as called for herein, the terms of this Agreement which govern transfers, promotions and demotionsshall apply.
14.16	In determining out-of-line differentials, no employee shall be listed as an incumbent on more than one job, unless he is regularly assigned to more than onejob.
LEARNER RATES
14.17	Leamerjobs requiring "learner" rates, due to lack of adequate training opportunity provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be negotiated and made a part of this Agreement.
14.18	A schedule of learner rates for the respective learning periods of 520 hours of actual learning experience with the Company on jobs for which training opportunity is not provided by the promotional sequence of related jobs, shall be established at the level of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale for the respectivejob classes. This determination shall be on the basis of the required employment training and experience time specified in Factor 2 of the job dassificetion record ofthe respectivejob as follows:
A.	Code C: Seven (7) to twelve (12) months
53
1.	One learnerperiodclassification at a level two (2) job classes belowthe job class ofthejob;
B.	Code D: Thirteen (13) to eighteen (18) months
1.	A first learner period classification at a level four (4)job classes below thejob class of thejob.
and
2.	A second learner period classification at a level two (2)job dasses below thejob class ofthejob:
C.	Code E and higher: Nineteen (19) months and above-
1.	A first leamer period classification at a level six (6) job classes belowthe job class of the job;
2.	A second learner period classification at a level four (4)job dasses belowthe job class of thejob,
and
3.	A third learnerperiod classification at a level two (2)job classes below the job class of the job.
14.19	Leamerperiods shall apply only tojobs in Job Class 8 and up,excaptwhere the provisionsof Section 14:24 and 14:25 apply.
14.20	The Company shall furnish the Union on the form setforth as ExhibitT" of the Manual, a list djobs agreed to by the Company and the Union as appropriateforthe application of learner rates. Such list shall be attached to this agreement as Appendix "B" and may be added to or deleted from by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union. The schedule of learner rates set forth in Section 14:18 shall apply only to jobs in t his list.
54
14.21	Any employee who has qualified for a job
through a learner schedule shall not be	to
repeatthat learnerschedule.
14.22	Employee's time spent on a job requiring a learner schedule shall be cumulative.
14.23 The established learnerrate of pay for each learner period classificationshall apply in a^rdance with the learnertraining periodsas defined in Section 14:18. However, an employeewhose current rate of payis higherthan the minimum rate of a learnerjob to which he has acceded, shall maintain his current rate, but no higherthan the standard hourly rate ofthejob being learner until such time as the rate for the applicable learner period classification is equal to or ex^eds his present rate.
14.24	The Company, at its discretion may apply a learner rate to a learner on any job where another employee other than a learner is on thejob, provided the learner rate applied is:
A.	Inthe case of an employee hired, for the learning job, the standard hourly rate for Job Class2; II'
B.	In the case of an employee transferred from anotherjob in the Plant, the lower figure of:
1.	The standard hourly rate of the job from which transferred, or
2.	The standard hourty rate ofthejob being learned.
14.25	The learner provisions set forth in Section 14:24 shall apply:
A. For a period oftime suffidentto learnto do the job, provided that such period shall at no time exceed 520 hours;
56
B.	To fiHjobvacancies or anticipatedvacancies; and
C.	In accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement for filling vacancies. _
TRAINING OF EMPLOYEES FOR TRADE OR CRAFTJOBS
14.26	Employees who possess the necessary qualifications and ability shall be eligiblefor training for
res^pective trade or craftjobs. Such employees shall be selected in accordance with the provisions which applyforfilling ofjob vacancies. Employees who meet the above criteria will be given preference over candidatesoutsidethe Company when such vacancies are filled.
14.27	Employees training through apprenticeship courses in a given trade or craft shall commence their training atthe beginning of the first 1040-hour period unless assigned to a higher 1040-hour period. Thereafteratthe successful condusion of each training period of 1040 hours of actual training experience with the Company they shall be advanced to the succeeding period. Each apprentice shall be paid the standard hourly rate appropriateto the periodto which he is assigned.
14.28	Employees enrolled for training through apprenticeship courses in a giventrade or craft shall, upon satisfactory completion of the apprenticeship course, be assigned to the standard rate of the respectivetrade or craft.
14.29	The established apprentice rate of pay for each apprenticetraining period classification shall apply to an employeeduring a period in accordance with the
56
apprentice training periods, as provided in Section 14:27. Rate changes as determined by the apprentice training periods. shall be made at the beginning of the pay period closestto the completion of the respective training period.
14.30	An employee's progression through the Schedule of Apprenticeship Training upto the starting rate classificationfor the respective trade or craftjob shall be determined by his qualifications and ability, which determinaiionshall be made atthe conclusion of each training period of 1040 hours of actual training experience, in a manner that is fair, equitable and appropriate to the respective period ofapprenticeship training.
14.31	An employeetraining through apprenticeship course shall be initially assigned to that period of the Schedule of Apprenticeship Training which is appropriate to his accumulated training and experience.
14.32	Employees assigned to training through an apprenticeshipcourse in a given trade or craft shall be furnished by the Company with a list indicating the prescribed schedule ofwork processes and organized related instructionwhich apply to each period of such apprenticeshiptraining, togetherwith the requirement standardswhich must be fulfilled in order to qualify at each period oftraining.
14.33	Inthe event an employee assignedto training through an apprenticeship course fails to qualify for progression atthe condusion of any 1040-hour training period, the Company at such time shall indicate in detail to such an employeethe reasonforsuch failure and advise and instructsuch employee in an attemptto enable him to succeed at the conclusion of the next 1040-hour training period.
57
14.34	Inthe event an employee assigned to training through an apprenticeship course fails to qualify for progression atthe condusion of any 1040-hourtraining period, such employee shall repeat the 1040-hour training periodfrom which he failedto qualify.
14.35	An employee assigned to training through an apprenticeship course who consecutively fails to progress at the conclusion of two 1040-hourtraining periods shall be subject to removal from such apprenticeshipcourse.
14.36	An employeewho has ben removed from an apprenticeship course, as provided in Section 14:35 shall exercise any seniority rights he may have accumulated.
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
14.37	Ifan employee shall be assigned temporarily for the Company's convenienceto ajob other than his regularjob, when work is availableto the employee on his regularjob, he shall receive the established rate of pay for the job performed or for his regular job, whichever is higher. Such an employee assigned to a higher ratedjob during a work day will be paid at the higher ratefor the balance of that day even though he returnedto his regularjob during that day.
GENERAL
14.38	Any mathematicalor clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions ofthis Agreement.
14.39	Exceptas otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee covered by this Agreement to allege th at wage rate inequity exists.
58
14.40	An employee who attends dassroom training
outside working hours will be paid one {1) hour at straighttime rates for each hour in attendance at such formal classroom training. Such hours will not be construed as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime, In the case of voluntary training, the Company will make every reasonable effort to scheduletraining on day shift or on an employee's day
Off.
ARTICLE 1S VACATIONS
15.01	An eligible employee will receive an annual vacation in accordancewith the following schedule:
Length of	Total Days
Continuous Service	of Vacation
After 1 year	18
After 2 years	23
After 3 years	28
After 4 years	33
15.02	To be eligiblefor vacation an employee must be actively employed by the Company since his last continuousservice anniversary date, unless he has not been so actively employed becauseof injury or illness for which he is receiving Workmen's Compensation payments.
15.03	Vacation pay shall be calculated by multiplying the appropriate calculation factor listed below by the employee's earnings accumulated in the last calendar year (January 1st to December 31st) prior to his vacation except that vacation pay for an employee's first vacation taken after one year of continuous service will be calculated by multiplying the appropriatefactor
59
(5.33%) by the employee's earnings accumulated during the first year of his continuous service.
Years of
Vacation Pay
Continuous Service Calculation Factor
15.04	A. Vacationsshall be granted throughout the year and consideration will be given to individual requests for the time that the vacetion will be taken. Although the final allotment of vacetion time shall be determined by the Company a Joint Vacation Committee will be established which will serve as a forum for discussion on vacation allotment, including individual requestsfor the timethatthe vacetion will be taken.
B. Employees taking annual vacation inthe periods of January 16th to May 31st and October 1 stto December 14th will receive an Annual Vacation Bonusof$55.00 perweekor$7.86 perday. This bonus shall not be considered as earnings in celculating the amount of any other employee benefit. Effective March 1, 1982 the above rates are increasedto $110.00 perweek of$15.71 per day.
15.05	It isthe desire ofthe Company and the Union that every employee entitled thereto shall receive a vacation. An employee shall not be entitled to any paymentin lieu of avacetion unless the Company, due to operating requirements and employment conditions, shall arrange, with the censent ofthe employee, that he shall nottake such vacation or portion thereof in which case the Company shall pay to him an allowance equivalent to his vacetion pay in lieu of such vacation.
After 1 year After 2 years After 3 years After 4 years
5.33% 6.81 r/o 8.29% 9.77%
60
15.06	An employee, eligible for vacation pay, will such pay when he is laid off, if he so ^requ^ests,
or ten (10) days before proceeding on authorized vacation.
15.07	An employee less than a full year's service since his last anniversary date will, upon termination of employment, receivefour (4) percent of his earningssince his last anniversary date.
15.08	In consideration of the fact that no road connects Wabush with a Provincial Highway System, the Company win, once per an employee's vacation anniversary year, at the time of annual vacation, providefree rail transportation to Sept-lles and return:
A.	For him and his immediatefamily, and
B.	For his motorcycle or car and attached trailer or camper or boat on trailer. Size and or weight limitations for these attachments will be established by the Company on a reasonable basis, e.g. notto exceed 23' in length.
The Company will require adequate proof of transportation of an employee and his family. Provisions for the transportation referred to in B) precedingwill depend upon proof ofshipment either at the time of the employee's travel or at the time of his family's travel if he has taken vacation prior to his family's vacation, but has not then shipped his automobile and/or attachments. lfthe employee d^ not requestthe ^benefit outlined inA above atthe time of his Annual Vacation, he may do so at any time during his anniversary year.
An employee who does not transport his automobile and/or attachmentsfrom Wabush to Sept-lles but who transportsthem from Sept-lies to Wabush on his return from authorized annualvacation will also be eligible to
61
receivefree railtransportation for them to Wabush.
In addition to the benefits outlined above, an employee may obtain a second voucher in any anniversary year for the pu^^es oftransportingeither his motorcycle or car or boat or snowmobilewith sleigh to Sept-lles and return.
15.09	Once in each year in which he is eligible for vacation, the Company will provide free air transportation from Wabush to St. John's and return, or its equivalent in cash to each employee and dependent members of his immediatefamily (overthe age of 2) residing in Wabush. Dependent members of hisimmediatefamily wil be defined as wife and not fully employed children (under 18 or who are full time students under24).Thiswill be provided atthe time he takes his vacation and, in the case of the cash equivalent, ifthe employee failsto return to work from vacation, halfwill be repaid by the employee.
The spouse of an employee who marries, while on vacation, at a location at least as far distant as Sept-lles, wil be providedwith free air transportation or its equivalent in cashfrom St. John's to Wabush.
No person is entitled to more than one ( lq)nefit underthis Section in any calendar year.
VACATION EXTENSIONS
15.10	Each employee shall be entitled to an extension offive (5) weeks to his next regularvacation taken following completion of his first five (5) years of continuousselVice and an extension of nine (9) weeks to his next regularvacation taken following completion of his nextfive (5) years of continuous service and nine (9) weeks to his next regularvacation taken following any subsequent additionalfive (5) years of continuous servicethereafter.
62
Forthe second and each subsequent year of service completed after March 1, 1979, and for which an employee receives an annual vacation pay, extended vacation pay will be increased by a 20-hour Service Bonus. Such Service Bonuswill be paid at the same time as extended vacetion and at the standard hourly rate of the regular job held at each service year anniversary date in the applicable period of years preceding the date Extended Vacation is paid.
15.11	Vacetion Extension pay shall be calculated by multiplying the appropriate calculation factor listed below by one-fifth (1/5) of the employee's earnings accumulated during the five (5) year period of qualification for the Vacation Extension.
Years of	Vacation Extension
Continuous Service Calculation Factor
After 5 Years	10.36%
After 1 O Years	18.65%
After each five (5) Years	18.65%
in Excess often (10) Years
15.12	An employee's Vacation Extension shall be added to and taken with the first regular vacation following the completion of the five (5) year period entitling him to the Vacation Extension. However, if operating requirements warrant it, the Company may schedule such extension in the year following entitlement. Further, the Company will consider a request for the taking of any portion of the Vacetion Extension up to a maximum oftwo periods during the period following entitlement to it and before his next entitlement for Vacation Extension is established.
15.13	An employeewho would otherwise be entitled to a Vacation Extension in any year may, at the time vacation allotments are established and with the
63
permission of the Company, refuse one or more week(s} of such Vacation Extension and continue to work as scheduled. In this event, he shall be paid for such refused Vacation Extension weeks as though he had taken such weeks as vacation.
15:14 An employee on layoff shall recaive any Vacation Extension to which he is entitled upon completion of the required number of years of continuous service.
15.15	In the event of histermination of employment,
an employee will receive any Vacation Extension to which he is then entitled.
ARTICLE 16 HOLIDAYS
16.01	Each employee shall recaive, for any of the holidayssetforth in Section 16:02, a holiday allowance equalto the numberof hours in the normal work day at thetime the holiday is observed times the straighttime hourly rate which he received, or would have received had he worked, on such holiday, providing the following criteria are met:
A.	The employee is not absent without permission on hislastscheduled working day preceding and his first scheduled working day following the holiday, unless reasons for such absence are judged valid by the Company.
B.	He performs work or is on vacation in the pay period in which the holiday is observed.
16.02	Whenever used in this Agreement, the term "holiday" means one of the following days:
64
NewYear's Day St. Patrick's Day Good Friday Victoria Day Dominion Day
Labour Day Remembrance Day
Christmas Day
Day After Christmas Day
Civic Day *
The Union will give 30 days notice of the date of observance but not later than June 15th of each year. Otherwise the Company will set the date. The holiday will not be scheduled in any week when another holiday is scheduled in that same week.
16.03	In addition to holiday allowance provided in 16:01, the employees who are requiredto work on a holiday shall be paid, in addition to the shift premiums provided by this Agreement, as follows:
-	150% of their regular rate for the first 8 hours;
-	200% of their regular ratefor the next4 hours;
-	250% of their ratefor all hoursworked in of 12.
However, in the event an employee would earn a higher rate of pay for such hours worked, under another provision of this Agreement, he shall be paid that higher rate in lieu of the rates provided in this Section.
16.04	Hours for which holiday allowance is paid shall beconsidered as hours worked only to makethe hours actuallyworked after the holidaywithin the work week eligible for overtime. If the Holidayfalls on a day following the last day worked by the employee in the work week, the holiday allowance hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
65
16.05	Any employee who is instructed to work on a holiday and fails to do so shall not receive holiday allowance.
ARTICLE ir SAFETY AND HEALTH
17.01	The Companywill make reasonableprovision for the safety, health and hygiene of employees during working hours an<twill continueits present practice of supplying protective clothing and safety accessories when required in order to adequately protect employees from injuries and industrial disease in accordance with recognized present efficient practices or any improved methodwhich could be instituted from time to time by the Company or following recommendationsfrom the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
17.02	The Company, the Union and the employees recognizetheir obligations and rights under existing law with respect to matters of safety and health at work. The Company and the Union will cooperate in the objective of eliminating accidents and health hazards and in promoting the observance of safety rules and policies.
The Parties recognizethat it is the responsibility of the Companyto make necessary provisionsfor the safety and health of its employees at work.
17.03	The Company recognizes a Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee comprised of six (6) members named by the Company and six (6) employees named by the Union, the latterto represent the following Departments:
66
Services
Concentrator
Mine
1	Electrician
2	Members 2 Members I Chairman
The Union shall inform the names of the employees appointed by the Union, one of whom will be the Chairman of the Employee Health and Safety Committee. The Company shall inform the Union of the names ofthe Members appointed by the Company to the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee.
For each Department named there may be an employee alternate who may act in the absence of one ofthe regular employee members.
17.04	A. Once each month the Joint Occupational Heath and Safety Committee shall meetto carry out its function which shall be to study and make recommendationsfor the promotion of the health and safety of employees; to consider existing practices and rules relatingto safety and health; to review and revise proposed new safety and health programs; to review accident statistics, trends, frequencies, causes and the way to prevent same, as well as dust sampling, toxic gases, exhaust fumes, hazardous chemicals, heat problems and noise level reports; to review the findings of the monthly inspection tour and discuss any item which may appear on the meeting agenda. The Company will provide the Chairman of the Employee Health and Safety Committee with minutes of the monthly meetingwithin forty-eight (48) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays) following this meeting.
B. Should particular circumstances arise which require attention before the next regular meeting of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee, the Employee Safety Committeeman ofthe Departrnentinvolved may request a special
67
meeting with his Department Head. The Department Head, or his Representative, and a Representative of the Safety Department shall meet with the Employee Safety Committeeman who has requestedthe meeting and who may be accompanied by the Chairman ofthe Employee Safety Committee or his designee in order to discuss and to solve the problem and if required, proceed to an inspection ofthe area involved.
17.05	A. Should an employee believe that there exists an unsafe, unhealthy or dangerous condition with respectto the area in which he is working, other than the normal hazards in his work orworking area. he shall have the right to stop working and he shall immediately report the condition to his foreman who shall immediately investigate the condition and take steps as appear necessaryto correct it.
B.	If the employee is not satisfiedwith the decision of his foreman, he shall have the right to be relievedfrom his duty in respect ofwhich he has complained, and hewill be assignedto another job.
C.	As soon as possible,the Foreman involved will inform his superior who will call two (2) representatives of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee (the Employee Safety Committeeman of the Department concerned and a Representative of the Company Safety Committee) in order to inspectthe alleged unsafe condition.
D.	If the two (2) representatives agree that the conditionswere infact unsafe, the employee shall not be reassigned to the job until such unsafe condition has been remedied.
E.	Ifthe two (2) representatives disagree as to the
68
safety of the condition, the Union shall have the right to present a grievance at Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure as set out in Article 9 or request appropriate governmental intervention. The employee shall also have the right to file a grievance at Step 2 of the grievance procedure forwages he claimsto have lost as a result of the alleged unsafe condition.
F.	Pending resolution ofthe matter, the Company may offerthe work in disputeto other Bargaining Unit Employees, providedthey are advised ofthe prior refusal. If these other employees refuse to perform the work in dispute, the Company retains the rightto havethework performed.
G.	Following the final decision on the matter, the Company ^maytake disciplinary aofion againstthe employee who abuses his rights under this Article.
17.06	The schedule of monthly inspection tours prepared t:1ythe ^Safety Departmentwill be presentedto the Joint OccupationalHealth and Safety Committee at the regular monthly meeting. The Employee Safety Committeeman for the area, along with the Electrical Safety Committeemanwhen required,will be invitedto accompany the Safety Inspector who conducts the inspection of his particular area. After the tour, a copy of the Safety Inspector's Report will be given to the Safety Committeeman.
17.07	Time spent by a member of the Employee Safety Committee in attending a meeting of the Joint Committee, inspection tours or investigations as provided for under 17:04, 17:05, 17:06 and 17:08 during his schedule hours of work, will be considered as time worked. A member of the Employee Safety Committee who participates in such activities outside hisscheduledhoursofwork or an employee requested
69
by the Company to act as a witness at an accident investigation outside his scheduled hours ofwork, will be paid for time so spent, to a maximum of four (4) hours, at hisstraighttime hourly rate.
17.08	A. When the Company conducts a formal investigation into a lost time or potentially serious accident, the Chairman of the Employee Safety Committee or the member representing the Department involved shall be advised and may participate. The Chairman of the Employee Safety Committeemayvisitthe scene of the accidentwith the ResidentSupervisor ■ Safety or his designee. Copies of the report ofthe above investigation will be given to the Employee Safety Committee or the member representing the Department involved of the aforementionedaccidentwithin seventy-two (72) hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays).
B.	When the Company conducts an immediate investigation into an accident in which an employee has sustained personal injury, the Chairman ofthe Employee Safety Committee, or in his absence the Union President and the member representing the Department involved, will be invitedto be present.
17.09	The Company will continue its scheduled periodicin-plant sampling and noisetesting. Results of these samplings and tests will be presented and discussed atthe Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee Meeting. When the Chairman of the Employee Safety Committee or his designeefollowing representation from the area ,Employee Safety Committee Memberalleges a significant on job health hazard dueto air pollution, or noise, he or his designee may requestthat additional samplings ortests be taken and may be presentfor such additionalsamplings and tests if so requested. Special reports based on such additional samplings and tests shall be given him for
70
discussion and study at the Joint Occupational Health and ^Safety Committee Meetings. In the case where the Company uses radiation devices or materials of known toxicvalue, special measures shall be taken so that the Union and all employees involved in their usage or having to work in proximity be fully informed as to the necessary precautions to be taken to ensure their safety and health.
17.10	The existing safety devices and practices of the Companyfor the purpose of protecting the employees from injury, accident, or unhealthful conditions of work during their working hours shall be continued subject to such improvementor changes as the Companyfrom time to time may deem advisable. The Employee Safety Committee may make any recommendations it deems appropriate relative to improvements or changes to such safety devices and practices.
When the Company introduces new personal protective apparel or extends the use of protective apparel to new areas or issues new rules relatingto the use of protectiveapparel, the matterwill be discussed by the members of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee in advance in order for the Committee to form an opinion as to the adequacy of the protective apparel and with the objective of increasing cooperation.
17.11	The Companywill paythe cost of providing safety glassesfor an employee who requires corrective lenses. Such glasses must be ordered through the Company and shall be to Canadian Standards Association approved specifications.
When an employee's corrective safety lensesbecome pitted, scratched or otherwise damaged on the job, to a point where wearing of them would represent a dangerto him, the glasses, to the extent necessary.will be replaced on the following basis:
71
A.	The Company will pay the full replacement cost but not morethan once every six (6) months;
B.	The Companywill pay halfthe replacement cost when new lenses are required within six (6) months of new lenses having been provided.
The cost of examination for prescriptionswill at all times be assumed by the employee concerned.
17.12	An employee's annual medical examination will be carried out in accordance with the standards prescribed by the Company designated physician.
The examination may be carried out by the Company designated physician or by a physician of the employee's choice. Should the employee not use the services of the Company designated physician, the Company will pay an amount up to the cost of providing the complete examination through the Company. Where the employee uses the services of the physician of his choice for this annual medical examination, the examination results required for employment purposes shall be forwarded to the Company's designated physician.
An employee undergoing his annual medical examination will be paid one {ltl)ur at his standard hourly rate. When a second appointment is necessary for such examination, an additional hourwill be paid. Shouldthe Company require an employeeto undergo his annual medical examination from the Company designated physician during the employee's regular scheduled shift, he shall suffer no los of Pay.
17.13	A. Should an employee contract an industrial disease from Company work - processes which renders the employee unable to maintain necessary standards of health on the job he was regularly performing at the time it is determined by a medical
72
doctor and confirmed by a Company designated physician that he has an industrial disease, the employee will be moved to some other job for which he is qualified.
The foregoing will also apply to an employee who contracts an industrial disease, from Company work processes or who sustains a Company compensable injury, for which a permanent partial disability is recognized under the Workmen's Compensation Act.
E. Should the Company offer the employee, in accordance with the Collective Agreement, an equal orhigherratedjobforwhich he is medically qualified, hewill acceptthe job offered.
C.	Should the Company not offer the employee an equal or higher rated job, the employee will be treated as being reduced and paragraph 8:23 a) will apply.
D.	Ifthe employee istreated as being reduced, the Companywil maintainthe differenca between the rate of the regularjob held and the rate of the highestjob in which the employee could qualify medically and in accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement.
E.	I an employee whose rate is maintained as set out in 17:13 refuses or accepts ajob, for which hequalifies medically and in accordancewith the terms of the Collective Agreement, the amount required to maintain his rate shall be reduced by the increase in the standard hourly rate of the job refused or accepted as outlined in 14:10.
F.	Any disagreement as to the employee's medical condition rendering the employee unable to perform ajob under the terms of 17:13 shall be examined by a third physician, chosen promptly
73
by the employee's physician and the Company designated physician. The medicalopinion of the third physician after examination of the employee and consultation with the other two (2) physicians shall decide the matter. The fees and expenses of the third physician shall be shared equally by the Company and the Employee. Regularwages lost and reasonable expenses incurred, by the employee, to be examined by the third physician will be paid by the Company.
17.14	When an employee signs a form prescribed bythe Workmen's Compensation Board, a copy ofthe form, as submitted by the Company to the Board, will be sent to the Union.
The Company will inform the Union of any contested Workmen's Compensation Board claims.
ARTICLE 18
NORTHERN ALLOWANCE
18.01	A. Effective March 1, 1990, a Northern Allowance will be paid to eligible employees as follows:
1.	Married employees-$245.00 per month;
2.	Single employees-$230.00 per month.
B.	Effective March 1, 1991, a Northern Allowance will be paid to eligible employees as follows:
1.	Married employees - $270.00 per month;
2.	Single employees-$255.00 per month.
C.	Northern Allowance will be calculated and paid on a bi-weekly basis.
74
D.	To be eligible for Northern Allowance an employee must:
1.	Having completed his probationary period, his eligibility will commence at the beginning of the pay period immediately after such completion;
2.	Be a regular employee throughout the pay period concernedand haveworked or been on vacation or vacation extension in that pay period. Vacation including extendedvacation,taken at the time of or during lay-offshall not be considered vacation for the purpose of this Section.
E.	It shall be the responsibility of the employee to notify the Company in writing of any change in status that affects the amount of his Northern Allowance.
F.	Northern Allowance shall not be considered as earnings in calculating the amount of any other employee benefits.
G.	Employees who break their continuous service are eligible to receive Northern Allowance to which they are entitled on the pro-rata of hours worked in the pay period in which they terminate their employment
ARTICLE 19
COOPERATIVE COMMITTEE
19.01	The Resident Manager and/or his representative will meetthe Oficers of Local 6285 of the United SteelworkersofAmerica forthe purpose of discussing problems of mutual interest related to the operation ofthe plant.
75
An agenda, listing the subjects to be discussed, shall be prepared priorto such meetings. Within seven (7) daysfollowing receiptof an agenda, the Company shall suggest a date for the meeting which shall, where practicable, be held between 9:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M.
ARTICLE 20 NOTICES
20.01	Any Notice in writing required by this Agreement orwhich either Party desires to give to the othershall be registered, postage paid, addressed as follows:
To the Company:
Wabush Mines Cliffs Mining Company Managing Agent Wabush, Labrador,
Newfoundland, AOR
Attention: Human Resources Department To the Union:
The Secretary, Local Union No. 6285 United Steelworkers ofAmerica Wabush, Labrador Newfoundland, AOR IBO
20.02	Any noticesso mailed shall be deemed given as of the next business day after date of mailing. The registration receipt shall establish the date of mailing.
20.03	Either Party may change its address for service of notices at any time by notice as above mentioned.
76
ARTICLE 21
VALIDITY OF AGREEMENT
21.01	If any provisions of this Agreement is null and
void in view of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act of the Province of Newfoundland, the other provisionsoftheAgreementshall not be affected in any way by such nullity.
ARTICLE 22
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
ThisAgreement shallbecome effective June 18, 1996..I # and shall remain in full force and effect until March 1,IA 1999 and from year to year thereafter unless written notice of intention to terminate or amend this Agreement is given by either Party to the other, not morethan ninety (90) days and not lessthan thirty (30) days beforethe date of termination ofthis Agreement. INWITNESSWHEREOFthe Parties hereto have duly executed this Aareementthis 18th davof June 1996.
FOR:	FOR:
UNITED STEELWORKERS WABUSH MINES OF AMERICA	Cliffs Mining Co
Local Union6285	Managing Agent
WABUSH LAKE RAILWAY
M. Bouzanne
R. Pynn
Human Resources Administrator
G.	Mercer	L. Slaney, Resident
Resident Supervisor Human Resources
77
C. Wagg	N.Johnson Resident Manager
J. Skinner President	J. McGrath Director Human Resources
R. Collins Staff Representative Robert Young Sub-District Director	D. Lebel General Manager
78
UST OF ^LEARNER JOBS
JOB REQUIRING LEARNER RATE							
STANDARD CODE	STANDARD TITLE	MONTHS FACTOR 2	JOB CLASS	NO.OF LEARNER PERIODS	520HOURS FIRST PERIOD	520 HOURS SECOND PERIOD	520HOURS THIRD PERIOD
285	BLASTER	7 -12	10	1 1 8			
406	CONDUCTOR	19-24	14	1 1			12
404	EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	13-18	10	1	8		i
210	^^LIC CRANE OPER.	7-12	9	1	7		
400	LOCOMOTIVE ENGI^NEMAN	19-24	15 k	1			14
312	MINE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	13-18	10	1	8		
147	MOBILECRANE OPERATOR	13-18	12	1		10	
22	PIT AffiNOANT	7-12 1 9		1	7		
296	1 PRODUCTION LOADER OPER.	19-24	14	1 1			12
228	ROTARY DRILL OPERATOR	13- 18	11	2 1		7	9
275	SHOVEL OPERATOR	25 - 30 1 17		3	11	13	15
298	TRUCK DRIVER PRODUCTION	7-12 | 11		1	9		
APPENDIX “B'
MINING
PROO. L^OADER
			
	PROD,TRUCKORtVER | \ MINEEQUPMEl>IT 29B 111 1312 OPERATOR 10		
BLASTER | 285 10l		|	
CPITATTENDANT ]
______.______d
ROTARY DRill I 298 ,, |	
	
	
APPENDIX "C
40	L<OCO\IIOTIVE ENGINEMAN
	1		
	CONDUCTOR
406	14
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR!
404___
^^^MTOR 171 REPAIRMAN 10			FINAL PRODUCT 1 221 ATTENDANT 1 221 10 1
			1		
W^^OUSEMAN 4»
MILL / TAILINGS |	PIPE TURNER/ |
AmNDANT A1	TRACKMAN |
220 ^^^9|	169 071
SAMPLER TESTER
ANALYST
APPENDIX ‘C'
SERVICES
BOILER OPERATOR I
BOILER AffiNDANT |
iw_______________10I
MOVILECRANE I 210 OpERATOR 91
	
HYDRAULIC CRANE 1 210 0PERATOR A	
	
SERVIC i99 DRr	:TRUCK 1 IVEl *1
LABOUR POOL
APPENDIX “C
APPENDIX ”D"
PENSION PLAN
FOR BARGAININGUNIT EMPLOYEES (LOCAL6285)
OF WABUSH MINES CLIFFS MINING COMPANY MANAGINGAGENT AND
WABUSH LAKE RAILWAY COMPANY LTD
AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE MARCH 1, 1996
83
APPENDIX "E"
INSURANCEAGREEMENT
FOR BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES (LOCAL 6285)
OFWABUSH MINES CLIFFS MINING COMPANY MANAGINGAGENT AND
WABUSH LAKE RAILWAY COMPANY LTD
AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE JUNE 18, 1996
a4
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	EXERCISE OF SENIORITY
DURING REDUCTION WITH LAYOFF SITUATION
This will confirm our agreement reached during negotiations for the renewal of our 1996-1999 Collective Agreement.
The Parties agree that notwithstandingthe provisions of Article 8, an employee affected by a permanent reduction with lay-off situation in accordance with Article 8:23 may exercise his company continuous service to displace an employee with the least Company continuous service in a Job Class 11 classification or lower, priorto being laid off.
Further an employee who has previouslyworked in a job above Job Class 11 may exercise his Company continuous service to displacethe employee with the least Companycontinuous service in any such job prior
85
to being permanently laid off provided he is still capable of performing such job.
provision will also apply to an employee already in a labour pool, who is being laid off as a result of reductions as outlined above.
The provisions outlined in this letter shall not apply in the case of a vacation shutdown of six weeks duration or less.
For the Union:	For the Company:
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union6285
86
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION BENEFITS
This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiations Re: the benefits outlined in Article 15:08.
The Company does not i ntendto withdrawthis benefit duringthe life of the Agreement.
For the Union:
R . Collins
Staff Representative
Forthe Company:
D.Lebel
General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.WA, Local Union6285
87
LETIER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT: TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
The Parties recognizethe importance of lesseningas much as reasonably possible the effects of technological change upon the job security and the earnings of an employee having seniority who may be displaced from his/herjob as a result of such change.
The Companywill notifythe Union as far in advance as practicable but no laterthan sixty (60) days in advance of any technological change which may cause displacamentof employeesfrom their jobs. This notice shall indicatethe approximatedatethe change will be in effect, the nature of the change, and the approximate number of employees affected. The Company will meet and inform the Union of the planned change and will, if requested, hold further meetings with the Union for the purpose of discussing
88
general matters of mutual concern as to the interests of displaced employees. The Parties will also meet as far in advance as practicable prior to the time that the technological change is to take place to discuss methods to minimize the unfavourable effects of the technological change with respect to such displaced employees.
In order to reduce the impact of displacement from a job due to technological change, an eligible employee will be entitled to assistance in accordance with the following:
A.	DEFINITION
Technological change shall mean the automation of equipment, or the mechanization or automation of duties, introduction of new equipment, or the replacement of existing plant equipment with new equipment.
The displacement of an employee from a job description for any reason(s) not specified in the immediately preceding paragraph shall not be considered to be a displacement because of technological change.
B.	ELIGIBILITY
An employee, in order to be eligible for an Earnings Supplement, must:
(1)	have 2 or more years ofsewice, and
(2)	be permanently displaced from ajob due to a technological change which directly or indirectly caused his/her displacement from that job description and,
(3)	have been a permanentoccupant ofthejob
89
from which he/she is displaced throughout the ax(6) months immediately preceding the date that such displacement occurred and have worked on such job for a minimum of 520 ours, unless he/she was preventedfrom working during such six (6) month period by reason of justifiable absence or authorized leave of absence, in which event he/she must have worked a minimum of 520 hours on suchjob duringthe priorsix (6) month period, and
(4)	remain in the employment of the Company during the benefit period and,
(5)	acceptthejob with the highest rate ofpayto which he/she is entitled and qualified to receive under the terms of the Collective Agreement during the benefit period and continue to accept assignment to any job with a higher rate of pay during the term of the benefit period.
C.	EARNINGS SUPPLEMENT
Foreach pay period during the benefit period to which an employee is entitled as provided in D below, an eligible employee will be paidthe greater of:
(1)	his/her actual earnings during such pay period, or
(2)	the earnings supplement benefit for such period. The earnings supplement will be calculated by multiplying the applicable Standard Hourly Ratetimes the actual hours worked by such employee during the pay pariod. The applicants Standard Hourly Rate will be the Standard Hourly Rate of the job from which the employee was displaced
90
providedthat he/she had been a permanent occupantof such job for the period specified in B3. above.
0.	DURATION - EARNINGS SUPPLEMENT
(1)	An eligible employee will be entitled to have his/her earnings maintained in accordance with C. above for a period of 39 pay periods.
(2)	The period oftime during which an employee will be eligible to receive an Earnings Supplementwill commence atthe beginning of the pay period in which the employee became eligible and shall continue for each subsequent censecutive pay period thereafter as provided in DI above.
(3)	Any pay period, during the whole of which an employee is absent from work solely due to sickness or injury and so certified to the Company, and is not entitledto any payment from the Company during such pay period, shall not be counted and the benefit period shall continue for the remainder of its unexpired term commencing with the pay period in which the employee returnsto work or would have returned to work following such sickness or i njury, providedfurtherthat such employee remains in the employment of the Company.
(4)	Any pay period during which, either in whole or in part, an employee is absent from work for any reason other than sickness or injury, shall be considered as part of the consecutive period of time.
91
E.
TRAINING
If an eligible employee requires training or retraining, the Company will, subject to operating requirements and the availability of trainingopportunities, offer such training or retraining on a job in his/her department which would potentially provide as closely as possible the job classification level which he/she held before his/her displacement.
F. GENERAL
My dispute which mayarise regardingthe application of this Letter of Agreement to eligible employees may be discussedwith the Company by representatives of the Union, atthe request of either Party.
In the event of a disagreement concerning the interpretation or application of this agreement, a grievancemay be p^^itedat Step 2 of the Grievance Pr^ocedureprovidedfor inthe CollectiveAgreement. If the disagrementis not resolved, the grievance may be submitted for arbitration.
^The effective date of this Letter ofAgreement is June iMaas,-----------------------------------------
Forthe Union:	For the Company:
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union6285
92
LEITER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	TRAINING, CONCENTRATOR
JOB GROUP
This will confirm our agreement reached during negotiations for the renewal of our Collective Agreement 1996-1999.
The present agreement establishes the provisions of :raining employees in the Concentrator Job Group prior :o fillingjobvacancies.
JOBS COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT & MINIMUM TRAINING TIME NEEDED
Concentrator Repairman	(171) -	48 Hours
=inal Product Attendant	(221) •	108 Hours
\/lill TailingsAttendant	(220) -	120 Hours
\nalyst	(362) -	84 Hours
Sampler Tester	(168) -	60 Hours
’ipe Turner Trackman	(169) •	40 Hours
Equipment Operator	(404) -	96 Hours
93
Only trained employees will be assigned to fill vacancies in the jobs listed.
Training, excluding classroom training, will be given by working the minimum required number of hours with a qualified employee on the job, and under normal circumstances such training will be done on a continuous basis, however, in no case will a training session be less than 6 hours. Whenever overtime is necessaryto meet these objectives, itwill be offered to the qualified employee and not to the employee being trained. The employee being trained will be paid the rate of pay of the job for which he is being trained.
An employeewho wishes to refusethetraining outlined above orwho wishes to cancel after having completed less than 50% of the training as provided for in this letter, may do so by relinquishmentof his eligibility for promotion or recall as outlined in Article 8:29 a) of the Collective Agreement.
Once an employee receives the training for ajob listed above his relinquishmentfor promotion as provided foi in 8:29 a) of the CollectiveAgreementwill not apply in the case of promotion for filling temporary vacancies.
For the Union	For the Company
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union 6285
94
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM
REQUIREMENTS
This will confirm our understanding on the posting of apprentice openings.
The following requirements will be maintained for entrance into the Company Apprenticeship Training Program:
Maintenance Mechanic - Grade XII plus 1 Year Trade School
Welding	- Grade XII plus 1 Year.
Trade School
Automotive	- Grade XII plus 1 Year
Trade School
95
Machinist	Grade XII plus 1 Year Trade School
Electrical	Grade XII plus 1 Year Trade School
For the Union	Forthe Company
R. Collins Staff Representative	D. Lebel General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union 6285
96
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	PAID TIME FOR CHAIRMAN OF
EMPLOYEE SAFETY COMMITTEE
This will confirm our agreement reached during negotiations for the renewal of our Collective Agreement 1996-1999.
In addition to the provisions of Article 17 of our Collective Agreement in respect to the above mentioned subject, the Chairman of the Employee Safety Committeewill be granted a maximum of thirty-six (36) hours per month with no loss of pay to participate in safety related activities outside the property of the Company.
Furthermore, the hours listed above may be used to accompany a Government Safety Inspector on official tours on the Company property.
97
An additionaltwenty-four (24) hours per month will be granted with no loss of pay for the purposes of accompanying a Company Representative in environmental activities related to the monitoring of dust levels in the plant.
For the Union	For the Company:
R. Collins Staff Representative	D. Lebel General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union6285
98
LETTER OFAGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	SCHEDULING CF EMPLOYEES
DURING SHUTDOWNS IN EXCESS OF FOUR DAYS
This will confirm our understanding reached during negotiationswith ree^tf to the selection of employees for work duringshutdoons in excess offour days.
Whenever possible, work requirementswill be filled the employeewith the greatestjob continuousservice in the classification required.
When such a shutdown is a vacation shutdown employeeswil be offered the available work in order of their job continuous service, until the work requirements have been met. Should insufficient employees accept the opportunity to work, employees with the leastjob continuousservicewill be assigned.
99
For the Union
Forthe Company
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union6285
100
LEITER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	SCHEDULING OF EMPLOYEES
DURING SHUTDOWNS OF FOUR DAYS OR LESS
This will confirm our understanding reached during legotiations with respectto the selection of employees 'or work during shutdowns of four days or less.
Whenever possible, work requirementswill be filled by :hedassifiedemployees on the shift in which it occurs.
However, ifthere is a requirementfor labourers during ashutdown offour days or less, itwill be offered to the senior employees inthe Department concerned.
When there is a requirementfor a dassified employee :o work, it will be offered to the senior employee in that ;lassification on the shift in which it occurs.
101
If insufficientemployees accept the opportunityto work on a given shift, and before the junior classified employee is forced to work, it will be offered to employees in the same classification on the other shifts.
However, in no case will an employee from another shift be offeredthe work if it results in the payment of overtime.
For the Union	Forthe Company
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J, Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union 6285
102
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	JOB COMBINATION AND JOB
ELIMINATION
This confirmsthe Company's intent with respectto Job Combination and Job Elimination.
When two or more jobs are combined and a new classification is established as a result of such a combination, the new job shall be filled by senior employees in the jobs being combined.
The remaining employees inthejobs being combined shall be granted seniority in the new job and will be reduced in accordance with Article 8:23 of the Collective Agreement.
Employeeswho haveworked in any of the jobs being combined, but are not incumbents at the time of combination, shall be grantedjob seniority in the new
103
job effective the date it is first filled and shall be considered to have worked in the job for the purpose of applyingthe provisionsof Artide 8:23 A.3.
When a job is eliminated and the functions ofthe job being eliminated are added to an existing job, the incumbents in the job being eliminated will be granted job seniority as of the date that the new duties were added to the existing job and shall have rights as outlined in 8:23 A.3.
Forthe Union	Forthe Company
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative . General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union6285
104
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	TRAINING - CONDUCTOR AND
ENGINEMAN
The present agreement establishes the provisions of training employees for the jobs of Conductor and Engineman in the Concentrator Job Group.
Jobs Covered by This Agreement and Minimum Training Time Needed
CONDUCTOR	-	200 Hours
ENGINEMAN	-	200 Hours
Only	trained employees	will	be	assigned to	fill
vacancies in thejobs listed.
Training, excluding classroom training, will be given by .vorking the minimum required number of hours with a
105
qualified employee on the job, and under normal circumstances such training will be done on a continuous basis. When (^overtime is necessary to meet these objectives, it will be offered to the qualified employee and notto the employee beingtrained. The employee beingtrained will be paidthe rate of pay of thejob for which he is beingtrained.
An employee who wishesto canceltraining for thejob ci Conductor and Engineman, after having completed less than 50% of the required training, may do so by relinquishmentof his eligibility for promotion as outlined inArtide8:29 a) of the Collective Agreement.
Once an employee r^^^the trainingfor either of the above jobs, his relinquishment for promotion as providedforin8:29 a). ofthe CollectiveAgreementwill notapply inthe case of promotion for filling temporary and permanentvacancies.
For the Union
R. Collins
Staff Representative
Forthe Company
D.	Lebel
General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local Union6285
106
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company.	'
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referred to as the Union.
SUBJECT:	12 HOUR SHIFTS
This confirms our understanding with respect to the mplementation of a 12-hour shift schedule for employees who are assignedto a seven-day rotating shift schedule. The Company agrees to implement such schedule on the basis that it does not cost the Company any additional monies.
For employees working a twelve-hour shift schedule, the Parties agree that the following amendments shall oe appliedto the current Collective Agreement (19961999).
S.06 An employee requiredto be absentfrom work to attend the funeral of his father, mother, wife, child, :>rother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-haw, sister-in-law, grandchildren or grandparents shall :>e granted a funeral leave for the time necessaryfor :hat purpose. Fortwenty-four hours of such leave, he shall be paid at his straighttime hourly rate.
107
6.09 An employee who is summoned to serve on a criminaljury or to attend court as a witness in a criminal or quasi-criminal case, will be paid an allowance equal to the difference between the payment he received for each day of service and the pay he would normally have received had he worked as scheduled on each day of such service. To qualify for such an allowance, an employee must give his Foreman at leastthree (3) days notice of his impending absence and later must provide the Company with Court documentation justifying his absence for jury service or his attendance at court as a witness and verifying any payment he has received forjury service. The foregoing provisionsshall also applywhere an employee is scheduled to work the 20:00 to 08:00 shift immediately priorto being required forjury duty or as a witness in responseto a summons for any time during the 08:00 to 20:00 period of the day.
7.01	An employeeshall be censidered probationaryfor a period of forty-two (42) days of actual work. At the end of the probationary period such employee's name shall be placed upon the seniority lists, where applicable, as of the date of commencement ofwork for the Company.
8,13 B. Vacancies resulting from absenteeism, illness, injury, suspension or leave of absence will be considered as permanent if they last longer than 1 0 shifts.
C. Vacancies such as those in B) preceding,which last lessthanten (•) shifts, vacancies which are caused by annual vacation and those which exist while permanent vacancies are being filled shall be considered as temporary.
11.04	lfthe discharge is appealed to arbitration,the Arbitrator will have full jurisdiction to uphold or ta
108
reduce the discharge to a suspension and to fix the duration ofthe suspension. lfthe Arbitrator rejects the discharge or reduces itto a suspension, the employee shall be reinstated and paid for time lost since the date of discharge or for the period of time not covered by the suspension but in no case shall this period exceed 120 working days, to which shall be added any number of daysthatthe Arbitration was delayed by request of the Company or from which shall be subtracted any number of days that the arbitration was delayed by request of the Union. Such payment shall be the difference between the amount of money actually received bythe employee for work performed by him in each week during the periodthat hewas off work due to discharge and the amount that he would have received for each such week for regularly scheduled work had he been continued at work in the job classification that he held atthe time of hisdischarge.
12.03	A. The normalweek shall be established by the work schedule.
12.04	Daily hours ofwork shall be consecutive and two (2) lunch periods, not to exceed twenty (20) minutes each, shall be considered as time worked. Where required,the employee shall eat on thejob and the Company shall not be obligated to provide a relief man for such time. An employee who works more than two (2) hours beyond his regular shift will be provided with a hot meal and the time to eat it (not to exceed twenty (20) minutes)v.\11 be considered as time worked.
12.05	Weekly work schedules shall be posted no laterthan noon, Thursday, of the precedingweek and no changes shall be made i n such schedules solely for the purposeof avoiding the payment of overtime rates. If it is later necessary to change hisschedule, without havinggiven him at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of the change, an employee will be paid at the rate of double time for the first eight (8) hours of the changed
109
scheduled. The remaining scheduled hours will be paid at straighttime.
12.06 Overtime at the rate of time and one-halfwill be paid for hours worked in excess of twelve (12) consecutive hours or hoursworked on an employee's scheduled days off. Overtime at the rate of doubletime will be paid fat hoursworked in excess of sixteen ( 16) consecutive’ hours. Overtime will not be paid on the basis of hours worked in a week.
Work scheduled and performed on Sundaywill be paid for atthe rate of time and one-halfforthe first eight (8) hours andatthe rate ofdoubletime for hours worked in excess of eight (8), exceptthat an employee who is scheduled and works 84 straight time hours in a pay period will receive double time for hoursworked on a scheduled Sunday off during that pay period.
Any peried of overtime which endswith an incomplete half (1/2) hour, that portion of the half hour will be rounded to a full half (1/2) hourfor pay purposes.
12:10 An employee who reports for and actually performswork as assigned on a scheduled shift will be paid for at least four (4) hours, eight (8) hours if he works morethan four (4) hours,twelve (12) hours if he works more than eight (8) hours, atthe rate of payfor thejob forwhich scheduled unless he is assignedto a higher rated job in which event he will be paid at the rate of the job performed.
12:12 A. An employee requestedto return to work for a full extra shift after having left the property and with at leastfour (4) hours prior notice or who is requestedto provide shift reliefwith less than four (4) hours prior notice, and who reportsfor such work and works as assigned, will be paid at the overtime rate of time and one-halfor at the appropriate Holiday or Sunday work
110
rate, when applicable, for all hours worked and shall be given the opportunityto work at least twelve (12) hours.
B. An employee requested to return to work, after having left the property other than for his scheduled shift or shift relief, with less than four (4) hours prior notice or for lessthan twelve (12) hours work, and who reportsfor such work and works as assigned, will be paid atthe overtime rate of double time and for at leastthree (3) hours for such extra work. Upon being requested to return to work the employee will be informed of the work to be performed and the work required will be confined to work necessitated by the call out. At the completion of said work, the employee, at his discretion, may leave the job or, if he agrees, to be assigned to other work, in which case he will continue to be paid at the rate of double time for so long as the extra work continues, or to the commencement of his scheduled shift.
13.01	Forthe purposes ofthis Article:
V	aU shifts beginning between 6:00 A.M. and Noon
will be day shift.
3. Ail shifts beginningbetween 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. shall be night shifts.
13.02	Not applicable.
13:03 A shift premiumoffifty (50) cents per hourwill >e paid for all hours worked during the night shift.
14:37 If an employee shall be assigned temporarily or the Company's convenienceto ajob other than his egularjob, when work is available to the employee on iis regularjob, he shall receivethe established rate of >ay for the job performed or for his regular job
111
whichever is higher. Such an employee assigned to < higher ratedjob during a work day will be paid at the higher rateforthe remainingportionofthe first eight (8 hours of the shift even though he returned to hie regularjob during that period. Should the employee work at the higherratedjob ii excess of the first eigh (8) hours he shall be paid at the higher rate for the balance of the shift.
16:01 Each employee shall receive, for any of the
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Minin!
Company, Managing Agent am Wabush Lake Railway Cornpan: Limited, hereinafter, referred to a! the Company.
and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America Local 6285, hereinafter referred t< as the Union.
SUBJECT:	CONTRACTING OUT
This will confirm our understanding reached durini negotiations for the renewal of our Collective Agreement 1996-1999.
1.	When a contractor is awarded a contract ti perform work on site, every effort will b< made to have the contractor hire laid ol Wabush Mines' employees providingthey an capable of performing the worl requirements.
2.	The Company will assign Bargaining Un Employeeswith Service Representativeswhi are performing maintenance work 01 equipment under warranty provisions However, priority assignments on productioi equipment may arise from time to tim' whereby employees are required to bi
118
assigned to the priority work. Upon completion of this work, the employee will be reassignedwith the Service Representatives.
3.	Should further information be required, following discussions provided for under Article 2:04, a Committee of two (2) representatives from each Party will be established to deal with the matter. The Company will delay itsfinal decision until the Committee has completed discussions and made its recommendations.
For the Union
For the Company
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local 6285
119
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Between
On one part:	Wabush Mines, Cliffs Mining
Company, Managing Agent and Wabush Lake Railway Company Limited, hereinafter, referred to as the Company. and
On the other part: United Steelworkers of America, Local 6285, hereinafter referredto as the Union.
SUBJECT:	SCHEDULING OF 12 HOUR
SHIFT
This confirms our understanding reached during negotiationswith respectto scheduling of employees.
The Companywill not change the work schedule of an employee working on 12 hour shifts, in the middle of a pay period, when such change will result in an employee working two consecutive 60 hour work weeks in the same pay period.
When it is necessary to change an employeefrom a day shift scheduleto a 12 hour schedule, such change will also be done at the beginningof a pay period, ifthe changeotherwise results in an employeeworking more than 84 hours in the pay period.
For the Union	For the Company
R. Collins	D. Lebel
Staff Representative	General Manager
J. Skinner, President U.S.W.A., Local6285
120