FRONT COVER

\ff£ [0 \gj
*«•	hi£.
. .. j...
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

between
HUDSON BAY MINING AND SMELTING CO., LIMITED
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AREOSPACE WORKERS, FLIN FLON LODGE No. 1848;
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS,
LOCAL UNION No. 1405;
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS, LOCAL UNION No. 451;
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL UNION No. 1614;
BROTHERHOOD OF PAINTERS AND ALLIED TRADES,
LOCAL UNION No. 1497;
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION No. 828;
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF BRICKLAYERS AND ALLIED CRAFTSMEN,
UNION No. ' 1 of MANITOBA
EFFECTIVE 01 OCTOBER 1987
and
00159 (02)
2
ASSOCIATION OF FLIN FLON TRADES - CBA ARTICLE INDEX
Article
Number	List of Articles	Page
1	Preamble ............................................................. 8
2	Recognition .......................................................... 9
3	Management Rights ................................................... 10
4	Union Security ...................................................... 11
5	Union Representation	**f*****-**'-<4■€•*■<■ *«-«•*a*.***.**'*>*:.fi*\	12
6	Safety and Health ................................................... 14
*	Letter #1
7	Seniority ........................................................... 17
*	Letter #2, #3, #4
8	Reduction and Restoration	of	Forces ............................... 20
*	Letter #5
9	Hours of Daily, Weekly and Overtime Work ............................ 23
*	Letter #6, #7, #8
10	Reporting Allowance ................................................. 26
11	Rates of Pay ........................................................ 27
*	Letter #9, #10, #11, #12, #13, #14
12	Wage Study .......................................................... 30
*	Letter #15
13	Benefit Plans ......................................................  31
14	General Holidays .................................................... 35
*	Letter #16, #17, #18
15	Vacations with Pay .................................................. 36
*	Letter #19
16	Leave of Absence .................................................... 39
*	Letter #20
17	Apprentices ......................................................... 42
*	Letter #21, #22, #23
18	Construction Projects ............................................... 44
*	Letter #24, #25, #26, #27, #28
19	Miscellaneous Provisions ............................................ 45
*	Letter #27, #29, #30, #31
20	No Discrimination ................................................... 48
21	Discharges and Suspensions .......................................... 49
22	Grievance Procedure ................................................. 50
23	Arbitration ......................................................... 52
24	No Strikes, No Lockouts ............................................. 53
25	Duration of Agreement ............................................... 54
Signing Authorities ................................................ 55
Schedule "A"	  57
Schedule "B"........................................................ 66
Letters of Understanding ........................................... 74
Appendix "B" ............................•.......... 106
ASSOCIATION OF FLIN FLON TRADES - CBA
SUBJECT INDEX
	Page
Adoption Leave Arbitration Arbitrators Agreement, Duration Apprentices -	Bonus -	Committee -	Industrial Mechanic Trade -	Payment -	Working Alone	41 52 52 54 42 43 12 95 42 96
Benefit Plans -	Death Benefit Plan -	Group Life Insurance Program -	Health Plan -	Pension Plan -	Sick Benefit Plan Bereavement Leave Bulletin Procedures	34 32 32 31 33 46 17
Callouts Change in Operating Methods Clothing Allowance Committees	24 21 45
-	Apprentice -	Departmental Advisory -	Departmental Safety & Health -	CWS - Flin Flon -	CWS - Snow Lake -	Grievance -	Labour-Management -	Mine Production -	Negotiating -	Plant Safety & Health -	Suggestion Contracting Out Construction Projects Co-operative Wage Study (CWS) Copper/Zinc Price Bonus Cost of Living Allowance Crossing of Trades	12 12 14 30 30 13 13 13 12 15 13 45/104 44 30 84 28 105
Death Benefit Plan Dental Plan Discharges Drug Plan Duration of Agreement ■	34 32 49 32 54
TRADES - 2
	Page
Education Leave	39
Employee Assistance Program	74
Evaluation, After 1-Year Employment	49
Grievance Committee	13
Grievance Procedure	50
Group Life Insurance	32
Health Plan	32
Holidays	
- General	35/90/91/92
- Pay for General Holidays	35
- Regular Vacation	36
- Regular Vacation Bonus	36
- Regular Vacation Pay	36
- Regular Vacation Splits	36
- Regular Vacation Table	37
- Special Vacation	38
- Special Vacation Splits	38/93
Hot Meals	25
Hours of Work, Daily, Weekly, Overtime	23
- Changes in Shift	24
- Changes of Rest Days	24
- Shift Schedules	23
- Shift Workers	23
Job Amalgamation ■	89
Job Posting	17
Jury Duty	27
Lay-off Procedures	20/78
Leave of Absence	
- For Adoption	41
- For Bereavement	46
- For Education	39
- For Maternity	41
- For Paternal	41
- For Political	40
- For Union	39/94
Management Rights	10
Maternity Leave	41
Mileage Allowance	24
Miscellaneous Provisions	45
Namew Travel	101
No Discrimination	48
No Strikes, No Lockouts	53
Occupation Classification	27/86
Overtime	23/24/25/79/80/81
TRADES - 3
Paternal Leave	Page 41
Pension Plan	31
Plant Progression Lists	17
Preamble	8
Rates	
- B & A Gas Licence	88
- Card Rate	21
- Cost of Living Allowance	28
- Hazard Pay	46
- Overtime	23/24/25
- Overtime - Meal Allowance	25
“ Overtime - Rest Days	24/79/80
- Pay for Work on Rest Days	24/79/80/81
- Pressure Welding Ticket	87
- Power Engineers, 1st & 2nd	83
- Rates of Pay	27
- Red Circle Rates	21
- Saturday Premium	27
- Schedule "A" - Job Classes	57
- Wage Scale	65
- Service Premium	28
- Shift Differential	27
- Snow Lake Premium	29
- Sunday Premium ,	27
- Swingman on Normal Day Off	80
- 2-job Class Additive	82
- Wage Study	30
Recall	20
Reduction & Restoration of Forces	20
Reporting Allowance	26
Right to Refuse	15
- Booklet - Appendix "B"	106
Safety & Health	14
Salaried Supervisors Working	46
Saturday Premium	27
Seniority	17
- Bulletins	17
- Graduate Electrician	75
- List	18
- One-year Evaluation	49
- Plant Progression List	17
- Preferred Work Location	77
- Probationary Employee	17/49
- Request for Transfer	18/21
- Students	17
- Train Line Progression	76
Service Crews	102
Service Premium	28
TRADES - 4
Pa9e
Shift Differential	27
Shift Scheduling	23
Sick Benefit Plan	33
Signing Authorities	55
Snow Lake Premium	29
Snow Lake Referrals	32
Snow Lake Travel	100
Special Participating Groups	33
Spruce Point Travel	103
Suggestion Committee	13
Sunday Premium	27
Suspensions	49
Technological Change	21
Temporary Assignment	20/21
Tools	45
Transfer Request	18/21
Travel Allowance	46
Union
-	Bulletin Boards	45
-	Certifications	- Schedule "B"	66
-	Recognition	9
-	Representation	12
-	Security	11
-	Shop Stewards	12
Wages	65
Work Outside Plant	99
1
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the 1st day of October 1987,
BETWEEN
HUDSON BAY MINING AND SMELTING CO., LIMITED
or its successors
(hereinafter called the "Company")
OF THE FIRST PART
--and--
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, FLIN FLON LODGE No. 1848;
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS,
LOCAL UNION No. 1405;
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS, LOCAL UNION No. 451;
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL UNION No. 1614;
BROTHERHOOD OF PAINTERS AND ALLIED TRADES,
LOCAL UNION No. 1497;
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION No. 828;
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF BRICKLAYERS & ALLIED CRAFTSMEN,
UNION NO. I OF MANITOBA;
(hereinafter called the "Union" or "Unions", as the context requires)
OF THE SECOND PART
Article 1
PREAMBLE
1.01	In becoming parties to this Agreement, the signatories recognise a
strong mutual interest in the safe and economic operation of the mines and plants with due care and attention for quality of output, protection of property and the maintenance of satisfactory wages, hours and standards.
It is further recognized that this Agreement will be the principal instrument by which is achieved the above aims, the disposition of disputes and the preservation of traditionally good relationships.
Both the Labour and Management representatives charged with the task of its administration request the active co-operation and continuing good will of each and every Company employee.
Whenever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement it shall also mean the feminine gender, unless the context requires otherwise.
9
Article 2
RECOGNITION
2.01	In accordance with the "Certifications" granted the Unions by the Wartime Labour Relations Board (National) and the Canada Labour Relations Board under dates of January 12, March 2, March 3, and March 5, 1945, April 19, 1952 and August 8, 1967, respectively, the Company recognizes each of the Unions therein named as the exclusive representatives for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect of rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment for the employees of the Company as designated in Schedule B such bargaining rights to apply to all designated employees on the Company's properties at and in the vicinity of Flin Flon, Manitoba. The Company's mining properties near Hanew Lake and Snow Lake, Manitoba, are deemed to be in the vicinity of Flin Flon, Manitoba for the purposes of this Agreement.
Article 3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
3.01	The Union recognizes that it is exclusively the function and right of the Company to direct the working forces, to make and alter
from time to time reasonable rules to be observed by the employees, to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend or lay off employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause.
3.02	The Union further recognises the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and
responsibilities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the sole and exclusive prerogative of the Company to decide on the location of its plants and mines, the products to be mined and/or processed, the schedules of production, the methods of mining and processing used, the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, operating techniques, methods, machinery, equipment and supplies and to exercise jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery and tools.
3.03	The Company agrees that the exercise of management rights and powers under this Article is subject to the terms of this
Agreement, and any such exercise of rights in conflict with provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to Grievance Procedure.
Article 4
UNION SECURITY
4.01	Every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a conditidn of cont inuing employment, pay to the appropriate Union an amount
equal to that Union's constitutional monthly dues. The Company will deduct such amount from the employee's pay on the second pay day of each month.
4.02	Deduction of monthly Union dues will cease when an employee is permanently transferred to an occupat ional c las s if icat ion not
listed in Schedule "8".
4.03	The Company will transmit to the authorized representative of the appropriate Union the total monthly deductions of Union dues,
listing the employees by name from whose pay such Union dues have been deducted. The Company will, at the time of making such payment to each Union, list the additions to and deletions from the previous month's listing, noting the reasons for such additions or deletions.
4.04	The Company shall also advise the affected Unions of all transfers, promotions or demotions of those employees covered by
Union Certifications as listed in Schedule "B".
4.05	The Company will, on or before March 1st of each year, furnish to each employee a statement of the total monthly dues, which have
been deducted from such employee's pay cheques and remitted to the Union during the preceding calendar year.
UNION REPRESENTATION
The Unions shall name and the Company shall recognize the following:
Shop Stewards—
(i)	Stewards shall be distributed throughout the departments in a reasonable manner.
(ii)	The Union may establish for each department a Committee
consisting of the stewards of such department for the purpose of meeting with the department superintendent and his immediate assistants. For purposes of this clause, the maximum number of stewards from the Trade Unions that may attend such meeting will be as follows:	for the Snow Lake
operations - 2; Smelter, Fuel and Precipitators Department -2; Powerhouse Department - 2; Surface Department - 1; Mechanical Department - 7; Electrical Department - 3. The President of the applicable Local Union may attend these meetings at the request of that Union or the Company. Each Committee shall be entitled to meet monthly to discuss matters pertaining to its department. These Committees shall not have the right to alter, amend or change any of the provisions of this Agreement.
In the event that new plants or mines are put into production during the life of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Unions and the Company shall mutually agree on the number of additional stewards to be recognised for the purpose of meeting with the department superintendent and his immediate assistants.
(i)	Negotiating Committee--Composed of eleven (11) employees who shall meet with Company representatives for the purpose of negotiating amendments or a renewal of this Agreement.
Union representatives who are not employees may attend these meetings
(ii)	The duly appointed Joint Bargaining Committee, 1987, of
the Unions is recognised by the Company as the Gaining Agency on behalf of the respective Unions,
Apprentice Committee—There shall be an apprentice committee with equal representation from the Unions and the Company. Each trade for which the Company has an employee(s) under an apprentice contract(s) may be represented on this committee.
(d)	Grievance Committee—Composed of a number of employees as agreed upon by the parties, except that no more than five (5) employees (one (1) of whom shall be a Shop Steward) shall meet at any one time with the Company representatives to deal with matters as outlined in the Grievance Procedure.
(e)	Combined Labour-Management Committee—
(i) Composed of a number of employees as agreed upon by the parties to deal with matters as outlined in Article 5.01
(e)	(ii).
(ii) Either party may discuss with the other matters which are
not contractual but are of mutual interest to the harmonious relations between the Company and the employees. Only the Committee shall be present at such meetings with Company representatives except that Union representatives who are not employees may attend these meetings.
(f)	Additional	Voluntary Fund	Committee--As	per Pension	Plan
'	Agreement.
(g)	Suggestion	Committee—The	Suggestion Committee may be maintained
and it is	mutually agreed	to give every	support and	consideration
to this Committee. The Committee shall be constituted on the basis of equal representation of labour and management. The Trade Unions 1 representatives shall consist of two (2) representatives from the Service Departments and shall be appointed by the Unions. The Committee shall be advisory and consultative and shall concern itself exclusively with suggestions for the improvement of efficient production and safety.
(h)	Mine Production Commit tee—Composed of a number of employees as agreed upon by the parties, who shall meet with the Mine Superintendent as mutually agreed, to deal with problems and complaints arising out of the operation of the current Mine Incentive Bonus System.
5.02	The Unions shall supply the Industrial Relations Manager of the Company with a list of all Union stewards and the areas they
represent and all Committee members of the Committees referred to in this Agreement when appointed or replaced by the Unions, and upon receipt of such notification they shall be recognized by the Company. The Company shall supply the Unions with a corresponding List of Company representatives.
5.03	The members of the above Committees shall be paid for any time spent during their regular working hours including incentive bonus
while conferring with the Company at all meetings convened between the parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Committee members and shop stewards shall continue to be paid for any time spent during their regular working hours in accordance with present practices.
Article 6 *
SAFETY AND HEALTH
6.01	The Unions and the Company shall co-operate in continuing and perfecting the safety measures now in effect or in introducing
addic ional measures.
The Parties undertake to give full support to these objectives by promoting a safety consciousness and a personal sense of responsibility.
The Company agrees to distribute the safety rules to its new employees and instruct all employees on safe working practices and further instruct its supervisors in regard to maintenance of such practices.
6.02	In recognition of the common concern of the Company and the Unions in the area of safety and health, joint Safety and Health
Committees shall be established.
(i)	The Company agrees to recognise departmental Safety and Health
Committees established for each department. For the purposes of this clause, the Snow Lake Area operations shall be considered as one department and the Committee shall consist of up to eighteen (18) members, up to three (3) to be appointed by the Trade Unions from among the employees in the department and up to nine (9) to be appointed by the Company. Hamew Lake would have a committee which shall consist of up to four (4) members, one (1) to be appointed bv the Steel Workers Union, one TIT to be appointed by 'the Trade Unions and up to two (2) to be appointed by the Company. The Powerhouse Department Committee shall consist of four (4) members, up to two (2) to be appointed by the Trade Unions from among the employees in the department and up to two (2) to be appointed by the Company. The Smelter, Fuel and Precipitators Departments shall be considered as one department and the Committee shall consist of six (6) members, one (1) to be appointed by the Trade Unions from among the employees in the department and up to three (3) to be appointed by the Company.
The Mechanical (including Painters and Carpenters), Surface and Electrical Departments shall be considered as one department and the Committee shall consist of up to ten (10) members, up to four (4) to be appointed by the Trade Unions from among the employees in the department and up to five (5) to be appointed by the Company, one of whom shall be a Safety Department representative. The Committees shall make a monthly inspection of the work areas in which employees from their departments are working. These Committees, monthly or more frequently if mutually determined to be necessary, shall confer with the Department Superintendent concerned and a member of the Safety Department or a member of the Environmental Control Department. A report of such meeting shall be forwarded to the General Manager and the Union and all Committee members.
(ii) The Company shall recognize a Plant Safety .and Health Committee comprised of two (2) local Union staff representatives and five (5 ) employees, three (3) of whom shall be representatives from the United Steel Workers of America and two (2) of whom shall be representatives from the Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions and an appropriate number of Company represent at ives including at Least one manager. The Plant Safety and Health Committee shall meet quarterly for the purpose of reviewing the departmental Safety and Health Committees' performance and such other matters as agreed to by the Committee.
6.03	The Company agrees to provide a minimum of sixteen (16) hours of training each contract year for the departmental Safety and Health
Committee members who are members at the time such training is given.
Such training shall be provided at the Company's discretion in sessions from two (2) to eight (8) hours duration. Such training may be given at a regular monthly meeting, Training will be arranged in consultation with the Plant and Departmental Safety and Health Committees. At the Commit tees1 discret ion, resources at the disposal of the Unions, may be used to complement such training sessions.
6.04	The members of the above committees shall be paid for any time spent during their regular working hours including incentive bonus
while conferring with the Company at all meetings convened between the parties as well as safety tours with Mines' Inspectors for which leave has been granted by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Committee members shall continue to be paid for any time spent during their regular working hours in accordance with present practices,
6.05	The Company accepts the responsibility to make adequate and reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees
during the hours of their employment provided that in all events employees shall obey all rules and regulations published by the Company in this regard.
(a)	Subject to subsection (b) herein, any employee may refuse to work without fear of reprisal when he has reasonable cause to believe that to do the work would constitute an unusual danger to the safety of himself or another employee.
(b)	Where an employee takes unfair advantage of this section for frivolous reasons, he may be subject to such discipline as is considered appropriate by the Company.
6.06	' In the event of a serious accident which has resulted in a
critical or fatal injury to an employee, a member of the department Safety and Health Committee from the department in which the accident occurred shall be notified as soon as possible. After the inspections required by law have been completed he may be accompanied to the scene of the accident.
6.07	Where an employee, after he has commenced work in any day or shift, suffers an industrial accident which, in the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner, prevents him from continuing at work, he will be paid at his regular rate of pay, plus any applicable shift premium and Sunday premium, for the balance of the time he would have worked in that day or shift, had that accident not occurred.
6.08	In any case where subsequent to his Last date of hiring, the Company requires that an employee undergo a medical examination or
obtain a medical certificate as a condition of his employment with respect to a job, other than a medical examination or certificate required by Law or the usual Doctor's Certificate of Fitness for Work for employees, the Company will, if any such examination takes place outside the employee's regular working hours, pay such employee at his basic rate for any time spent on such examination.
* See Letter of Understanding #1 - Employee Assistance Program - P-74
17
Article 7 ***
SENIORITY
7.01	In all cases of upgrading, downgrading, increase or decrease in forces, the following factors shall be considered:
(a)	Length of continuous service.
(b)	Ability, skill and physical fitness.
(c)	If, when the Company is considering the merits of persons involved in this Article, the factors of ability, skill and physical fitness appear to be relatively equal, length of continuous service shall govern. Length of continuous service will be based on Company service rather than Department service.
7.02	All new or rehired employees shall be employed as probationary employees for a period of forty (40) straight-time working shifts.
Probationary employees shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure in all matters and during the probationary period an employee shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged without notice at any time at the sole discretion of the Company and any such discharge shall be deemed to be for just cause. An employee terminated during his probationary period would be entitled to review under the grievance procedure up to and including Step 3.
7.03	Students- hired temporarily for the period between semesters will continue to forego seniority rights if their period of employment
should extend past the probationary forty (40) straight-time working shifts. However, if such probationary employee becomes a permanent employee his seniority shall revert back to his date of hire.
7.04	(a) Plant Progression Lists now in operation may remain in operation, but shall be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement. When Plant Progression Lists are not in effect, permanent occupational vacancies above the beginner level in the Department will be bulletined within the Department. Within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the expiration date of the bulletin, the Company shall choose the successful applicant, if any, and place him in the vacancy. The name of the successful applicant for every such vacancy shall be posted on the bulletin board on which the notice of such vacancy was posted and a copy of such bulletin will be forwarded to the appropriate Local Union. With respect to vacancies so filled the seniority date of the successful applicant ahall be noted. However, nothing in this Article shall be read or construed as preventing the Company from hiring skilled employees to fill such vacancies where current employees do not possess adequate ability, skill and physical fitness.
18
(b)	Preference shall be given to an employee according to his seniority, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability and skill of the employee to fill the normal requirements of the job.
(c)	Successful bidding on job bulletins under this clause shall be limited to three (3) per calendar year.
7.05	The Company shall maintain Seniority Lists for the Department. A copy of such list shall be posted every three (3) months. Two (2)
copies shall also be provided to the Unions.
7.06	Where a Statute of Canada so provides, an employee shall maintain and accumulate seniority during service in the Armed Forces of
Canada.
7.07	Before filling vacancies in a department or a plant with new employees, full consideration shall be given to any qualified
employees who have requested a transfer to the department in which the vacancy exists.
An employee wishing such transfer shall file a written "Request for Transfer" application form with the Employment Office at Flin Flon or the General Office at Snow Lake. An employee's application shall Lapse one (1) year after the date of filing but may be renewed from year to year at his request. However, in no event may an employee have more than three (3) such applications on file at any one time. The Company shall maintain a file of such "Request for Transfer" application forms. Quarterly,■ at the request of the Union, the Personnel Superintendent or designated representative shall meet with a representative of the Union to review any outstanding requests for transfer.
The above procedure is not necessary when an employee is transferring from one section to another within the same department.
If an employee is transferred there shall be a probationary period of thirty (30) calendar days in which the employee or the Company may effect his re-transfer to his former department and job. Any employee who may have been appointed by bulletin or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer shall thereupon revert to his former job.	.
7.08	If an employee is transferred from one section to another within the same department there shall be a probationary period of thirty
(30) calendar days in which the employee or the Company may effect his re-transfer to his former sect ion and job. Any employee who may have been appointed by bulletin or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer shall thereupon revert to his former job. Past practice with respect to moves within Plant Progression Lists shall remain in effect.
19
7.09	In the event that the Company selects employee(s) to be moved to a job which causes such employee(s) to change their permanent residence from either Flin Flon operations or Snow Lake operations, the selected employee(s) within the particular occupation required shall be given the right to refuse the move subject to the availability of Less senior employee(s) in the same department and with relatively equal ability, skill and physical fitness to fill the job.
*** See Letter of Understanding #2 - Graduate Electrician - P- 75
#3 - Train Line Progression - p- 76 #4 - Preferred Work Location - P- 77
Article 8 *
20
REDUCTION AND RESTORATION OF FORCfeS
8.01	Whenever a reduction of force or a reduction cf hours is necessary, the Company shall give seven (7) calendar days' notice,
or seven (7) days' pay in lieu of such not ice, except in the case of temporary reductions due to breakdown, accident, or other emergencies making such notice impossible.
8.02	In all cases of curtailment of operations, layorf procedures shall be determined in consultation with the Unions. In all cases of
reduction in the plant forces (other than temporary lay-off not to exceed two (2) weeks resulting from accident, breakdown or other emergency) the Company shall Lay off the employees affected in the inverse order of their Company seniority ranking except in those cases where certain specialized skills and capabilities are required to fill the normal requirements of the job.
8.03	Employees laid off shall keep the Company advised of their address or forfeit their right to consideration when the working force is
again restored. Notice of restoration shall be given to the employee not less than ten (10) days prior to his recall date by one of the following met hods :	(i) to the employee personally, or (ii) by leaving a message at
the home of the employee or (iii) by mailing it to him at his last known address by registered-mail. The Secretary of the Union will be advised of the method used to try to contact the employee and whether or not the method was aocceaafial.
8.04	If any employee has followed the above procedure, he shall not lose his seniority status because of a lay-off, but his continuous
service record shall not be lengthened more than one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days during such lay-off.
8.05	An employee who has been recalled after being Laid off for any reason outlined in this Article and who has previously completed
the probationary period outlined in Article 7.02 shall not be considered a probationary employee.
8.06	An employee who, for the convenience and benefit of the employee, is temporarily assigned or transferred to andther department at
his request instead of being laid off due to lack of work, breakdown of machinery, or other like cause, shall be paid while so employed as fol lows :
(a)	If the regular rate of pay for the job in the department to which he is transferred or assigned is higher than the employee's regular pay, he shall receive such higher rate provided he can perform the job to the standard normally required.
(b)	If the rate of pay for the job in the department to which he is transferred is less than the employee's regular Dav, he shall be paid a red circle rate.
21
8.07	An employee who has been temporarily assigned or transferred under Article 8.06 shall if an additional employee is required in the
department from which he was transferred have the right to transfer back
ahead of other employees who have not worked in that department, provided
he files a written "Request for Transfer" application form.
8.08	(a) If an employee is temporarily assigned to a job by the Company he shall receive the rate for the job or his regular straight-time hourly rate, whichever is the greater. This rate also applies to General Holidays if the General Holiday falls within the period of that temporary assignment. Should such temporary assignment exceed thirty (30) calendar days' duration the employment card rate of the employee will be changed to the rate of the assigned job for the duration of the temporary assignment.
(b) Senior employees shall receive preference for temporary assignments, provided these employees are on the same shift and are capable of doing the work. In cases of temporary assignments extending beyond forty-two (42) calendar days in cases of vacation relief, or thirty (30) calendar days in all other cases, the preference will be given to the senior employee available regardless of shift, provided this employee is capable of doing the work. Ihis provision will not apply to any subsequent vacancies resulting from the above.
8.09	In this Article,
(a)	(i) "Card rate" means the rate shown on the time card for the
job occupation into which an employee has been placed and as it appears on his time card.
(ii) "Red Circled" means a special wage rate.
(iii) "A change in operating methods adopted by the Company"
means a change of operating methods of a similar nature to those for which red circled rates were paid since 05 March 1972.
(b)	If an employee is downgraded by the Company into a classification of work paying a Lesser wage rate than the regular wage rate of the job from which he was downgraded at that time, because of technological change as defined in Division IV, Section 149 of the Canada Labour Code, or due to a change in operating methods adopted by the Company, the employee shall maintain his "card rate" at the time of downgrading which shall be "red circled". If such employee is subsequently placed into a "card rate" which equals or exceeds his "red circled" rate, he will be removed from the "red circled" rate and paid that "card rate".
(c)	Red Circle differentials shall be reduced or eliminated by any increase resulting from an increase in the increment between job classes.
22
(d)	It is a condition of Article 8 that any employee affected by it be required to accept any training the Company offers him and that he accept any other higher "card rate" job offered to him by the Company through assignment, or promotion and that he be an applicant for any higher "card rate" job in hi.s department that is posted.
(e)	The Company shall give one hundred twenty (120) calendar days notice prior to introducing technological chance as described in Article 8.09 (b).
(f)	The provisions of this Article are intended to assist employees affected by any change described in Article 8.09 (b) to adjust to the effects of the change.
Cg> The provisions of the Canada Labour Code, Divis ion IV, Sect ions 150, 152 and 153 do not apply, during the termi of this Agreement to the Company and the Onions.
(h) If an employee notifies the Company that he wishes his employment to be terminated rather than be downgraded as a result of a change in operating methods adopted by the Company as defined in Art icle
8.09	(a) (iii) or Technological Change as now defined in The Canada Labour Code, and if such notification is given within fourteen (14) calendar days of that downgrading, the Company shall terminate his employment and pay him severance pay of one week's pay of forty (40) straight hours for each year of the employee's continued service, up to a maximum of ten (10) weeks.
* See Letter of Understanding #5 - Severance Option while on Lay-off
- P-78
Article 9 ***
23
HOURS OF DAILY, WEEKLY AND OVERTIME WORK
9.01	(a) This Article provides the basis for the calculation of any payment for overtime, and shall not be read or construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or a guarantee of days of work per week. A week means the period between midnight on Saturday and midnight on the immediately following Saturday. A day means a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
(b) The Company agrees to post work schedules for jobs in each department.
9.02	(a) Standard rates shall be paid to all hourly paid employees on a basis of a forty (40) hour week as agreed between the Company and the Unions. A standard work day is eight (8) hours with time and one-half (li) being paid for all overtime, except that hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day or forty (40) per week to accomplish the regularly scheduled change of shifts or work schedules will not be considered overtime. If an employee is required to make a change of shift in a pay period other than those necessary for regularly scheduled change of shifts or work schedules, in which the interval is eight (8) consecutive hours or less, the hours worked during that change of shift shall be paid at overtime rates.
(b) Any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in a work day at overtime rates will not be considered as time worked in the forty (40) hour work week for the purposes of determining the payment of further overtime.
9.03	(a) Shift workers will be required to work any combination of four (4) shifts to be known as the day shift, (starting times between 6:00 a.m and 12:00 Noon), the afternoon shift, (starting times between 12:00 Noon and 6:00 p.ra.), the night shift,
(starting times between 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.> and the graveyard shift, (starting times between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.). On continuous shift operations, each employee shall be allowed a reasonable lunch period, which period shall be considered as time worked.
(b)	Day workers will normally begin work at 8:00 a.m. Day workers will be given a lunch period of one-half (i) hour per day, but such lunch period shall not be considered as time worked. It is recognised that in order to maintain efficient operations, certain day workers must begin work earlier or later than 8:00 a.m.
(c)	Shift schedules now in effect will remain in effect and if it should become necessary to change these schedules or to establish new schedules, the Company shall, after consulation with the Unions, give seven (7 ) calendar days' notice of the new or changed schedules.
9.04	(a)Changes in Shift
An employee shall be given 24 hours' notice in the event of a change in his shift. Where 24 hours' notice is not given, employees shall be paid at the overtime rate for the first shift
(b)	Notice Required on Change of Rest Days
In the event that an employee is assigned to a joo which changes the employee's scheduled rest days from the job he presently occupies, overtime rates shall be paid for work performed on such rest days for the first week only of the work schedule of the new job, :if sufficient notice is not given by instructing the employee to that effect: (or by posting) prior to the scheduled rest days of the job'he presently occupies. For the purpose of this Article, sufficient notice shall mean the greater of two (2) calendar days or a number of days equal to the number of rest days of the work schedule for the job he presently occuoies.
(c)	Pay for Work on Rest Days
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 9.04 (b) overtime rates shall be paid to employees for work performed at the i.equest of the Company on the first and subsequent rest day (s) desigrated for the job which he presently occupies. The provisions of this jaragraph shall apply also to General Holidays or days observed in lieu.
9.05	(a) If an employee has completed the schedulec nours of work for
his shift and is called in for overtime work, he shall receive pay for the full time so worked plus one (1) hour, except that he shall receive pay for a minimum of four (4) hours. However, this provision of "plus one hour" shall not apply in aituations as described in Article 9.06.
(b)	A steady day worker who is called out wittnin ten (10) hours
of his next regularly scheduled shift shall be paid for the call out as per Article 9.05 (a). In this situation he shall have the opt ion of not reporting for any port ion of the first i our (4) hours of his next regularly scheduled shift, with no pay for the hours not so worked. In addition, if the call out occurs between 12 midnight and 4:00 a.m. an additional payment of S25.00 shall be made to the employee.
(c)	The Company shall endeavor to provide trarsportat ion to outlying mines to all employees called out , pursuant to
Article 9.05 (a). In the event that the employee is required to use his own vehicle .when called out to work at outlying mines Che Company agrees to pay its normal mileage allowance of 22k per kilometre.
(d)	In the event an employee is called out to perform overtime
work under Article 9.05, and he completes the work for which he was called, he will not be assigned additional work unless the nature of that additional work is such that it would have otherwise warranted a callout on its own account.
9.06	Overtime rates shall be paid to employees for all pre-arranged
overtime worked before the regular starting time of any shift or are held after the end of a shift of eight (8) hours for the time worked in excess of eight (8) hours.
25
9.07	Where an employee works more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours at the request of the Company, he shall be entitled to an eight
(8) hour rest period. If his regular shift is scheduled to commence before the expiration of an eight (8) hour rest period he will be permitted to remain at rest for said period and will be paid his regular rate for the hours of his regular shift which fall within said rest period and for the remainder of his regular shift which he works he will also receive his regular rate of pay. Where an employee is directed by his supervisor to work on that part of his regular shift which falls within the said rest period he shall be paid at overtime rates on his base rate for those hours so worked. if not so directed the employee will remain at rest for an eight (8) hour period.
9.08	No employee shall be required to work more than six (6) hours, which includes two (2) hours' overtime, without being allowed a
reasonable lunch period on Company time. Should such employee work an additional three (3) hours overtime, he shall be provided with an addit ional lunch period. For such overtime which is unscheduled, the Company shall supply to the employee a hot meal or at the Company's or employee's request, a meal allowance of $9.00 shall be paid in lieu of a hot meal.
9.09	Special arrangements in regard to hours worked and other conditions on isolated jobs may be made by mutual agreement
between the Union and the Company.
9«10 After completing unscheduled overtime work, an employee has the right to request transportation home and the Company will supply such transportation.
9.11	When overtime work is scheduled by the Company it shall distribute such work as evenly as practicable among the employees in the
working group and for this purpose it shall take into consideration the preferences of the employees and the availability of the employees in the same group who can do the work.
9.12	With respect to the payment of overtime rates, an employee shall not be entitled to more than two and one-half (2*) times his
regular rate of pay for time worked on General Holidays (including General Holiday pay) or more than one and one-half (l£) times his regular rate of pay for time worked on other days, although such time may be overtime under more than one provision of this Agreement.
*** See Letter of Understanding #6 - Overtime on Rest Days - P- 79
#7 - S wingman	- P- 80
#8 - Banked Overtime	- P-81
Article 10
REPORTING ALLOWANCE
10.01	When the Company fails to inform an employee before his departure
for work, by notice or otherwise, that work will not be available and the employee, in good faith, reports for work on schedule and finds there is no work for him, he shall receive four (4) hours' reporting allowance at his regular rate. Such four (4) hours shall not be included in working hours which may entitle the employee to overtime pay. The provisions of this clause shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed to inform his foreman or such other supervisors designated by the Company for this purpose, at least seventeen (17) hours prior to reporting to work, of his intention to return to work.
10.02	When an employee returns to work after an absence and after having
complied with all Plant Regulations concerning returning from such absence , is instructed to return home and report to work on another shift, he shall be paid four (4) hours' reporting allowance at his regular rate. However, such four (4) hours shall not be included in working hours which may have entitled the employee to overtime pay. However, should the Company have succeeded in notifying the man of his non-requirement before his departure for work, such employee shall not be entitled to reporting allowance.
Article 11 ******
RATES OF PAY
11.01	The Company agrees to pay the wage rates as contained in
Schedule "A" which is part of this Agreement.
New Job Classification
11.02	The Company will consult with the Unions regarding Union
jurisdictions with respect to any new occupational classifications established by the Company.
11.03	A shift differential shall be paid for all hourly paid employees
on the following basis:
Afternoon Shift Night Shift . . .
Graveyard Shift
Effective 01 October 1988:
Afternoon Shift .......................... 30	cents	per	hour
Bight Shift .............................. 35	cents	per	hour
Graveyard Shift .......................... 35	cents	per	hour
Any shift starting between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 Noon	will be classed as
day shift. Any shift starting between 12:00 Noon and 6:00 p.m. will be classed as afternoon shift. Any shift starting between 6:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. will be classed as night shift. Any shift starting between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. will be classed as graveyard shift.
11.04	Sunday premium pay of one dollar ($1.00) per hour shall be paid
to all hourly rated employees for each hour worked on Sunday.
11.05 Saturday premium pay of fifty (50t) per hour shall be paid to all
hourly rated employees for each straight-time hour worked on Saturday.
25 cents per hour 30 cents per hour 30 cents per hour
11.06	Employees required to serve on Jury Duty shall be paid the
difference between the straight-time day shift earnings they would have earned and the amount they received for Jury Duty subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Employees must notify their Department Supervision within . forty-eight (48) hours after receipt of notice of select ion for Jury Duty or on his next regularly scheduled shift;
(b)	Any employee called for. Jury Duty who is temporarily excused from attendance at Court must report to work as soon as possible; and
(c)	In order to be eligible for such payment the employee must furnish the Industrial Relations Department with a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date, time served and the amount of pay received,
28
11.07	(a) A Cost of Living Allowance will, if applicable, be paid to each employee as set out below. This allowance will be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items - base; 1971 ■ 100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as the "CPI") and will be calculated as follows:
(b)	The CPI published for August 1987 shall be compared with the CPI published for Auqust 1988 and the allowance shall be one cent (It) per straight-time hour worked, during the period 01 July 1988 to 30 September 1988, for each zero point thirty-five (0.35) point increase by which the August 1988 CPI exceeds the Auqust 1987 CPI by more than 10%. Such allowance shall be paid as a lump sum payment on the first pay period immediately following the publication of the August 1988 CPI.
(c)	The CPI published for August 1988 shall be compared with the CPI published for August 1989 and the allowance shall be one cent (U) per straight-time hour worked, during the period 01 July 1989 to 30 September 1989, for each zero point thirty-five (0 .35) point increase by which the August 1989 CPI exceeds the Auqust 1988 CPI by more than 10%. Such allowance shall be paid as a lump sum payment on the first pay period immediately following the publication of the Auqust 1989 CPI.
(d)	The CPI pobliahed for Auqust 1989 shall be compared with the CPI published for August 1990 and the allowance shall be one cent (It) per straight-time hour worked, during the period 01 July 1990 to 30 September 1990. for each zero point thirty-five (0.35) point increase by which the Auqust 1990 CPI exceeds the Auqust 1989 CPI by more than 10Z. Such allowance shall be paid as a lump sum payment on the first payperiod immediately following the publication of the Aagnat 1990 CPI.
(e)	The amount of the Cost of Living Allowance in effect at any time shall not form part of the employee's straight-time hourly rate and will only be paid for straight-time hours worked and will not be included for the calculation of vacation pay.
(f)	No adjustment retroactive or otherwise shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any CPI published by Statistics Canada.
(g)	The continuance of the Cost of Living Allowance shall depend upon the availability of the CPI calculated on its present basis and in its present form.
11.08 Each employee with at least one (1) year seniority will be paid a service premium of thirty cents (30t) in addition to his basic
rate for each straight-time hour worked by him. This service premium
shall not form part of the employee's straight-time hourly rate and will
only be paid for straight-time hours worked and will not be included for
the calculation of vacation pay.
29
11.09	An employee working in Snow Lake will be paid a premium of twenty cents	in addition to his basic rate for each straight-time
hour worked. This premium shall not form part of the employee's straight-time hourly rate and will only be paid for straight-time hours worked.
****** See Letter of Understanding #9 - Two Job Class Additive - P-82
#10 - Power Engineers - 1st & 2nd Class
- P-83
#11 - Copper/Zinc Price Bonus - P- 84 #12 - Occupation Classification - P- 86 #13 - Pressure Welding Ticket	- P- 87
#14 - B S A Gas Licence	- P- 88
30
Article 12 *
WAGE STUDY
12.01	The Co-operative Wage Study Manual (herein referred to as "the
Manual"), which was Appendix "A" to the previous Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Unions, shall be incorporated into this Agreement as APPENDIX "A" and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein.
12.02	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation,
establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected.
12.03	Except as otherwise provided, no employee shall be entitled to
allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
12.04	There shall be a committee known as the "Flin Flon CWS Committee"
consisting of three (3) employees one (1) of whom will be appointed by the Trade Unions to represent the Unions and at least three (3) individuals appointed by the Company to represent the Company and there shall also be a committee known as the "Snow Lake CWS Committee" to review Trades jobs at Snow Lake consisting of two (2) employees appointed by the Unions one (1) of whom will be appointed by the Trade Unions to represent the Unions and at least two (2) individuals appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its representatives from time to time.
12.05	Meetings of the CWS Committees will be held quarterly.
12.06	Leaves of absence shall be granted to Union representatives on
the CWS Committees to the extent required for handling job descriptions and job classifications during the required stages to administer the Manual. Time lost by the Union representatives on the CWS Committees shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such Union representatives , plus any applicable premiums, excluding incentive bonuses, but the Company may atany time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse of the privilege.
12.07	If the Company and the Unions fail to reach agreement upon any
job description, classification or assignment to job class through the procedure provided in the Manual, such matter shall constitute a difference between the Company and the Unions to which Article 22.07 (c) applies and if no agreement is reached at that stage shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with Article 23.
* See Letter of Understanding #15 - Job Convention for Amalgamated Jobs
- P-89
31
Article 13
BENEFIT PLANS
13.01	The Company agrees to continue to provide or to commence to provide
the following benefits as set out and summarized in this Article.
13.02	Pension Plan
The employees covered by this Agreement will receive the benefits of a non-contributory pension plan in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in a separate agreement between the Unions and the Company. The Pension Plan Agreement provides for:
—Basic pension of $18.00 per month times years of service, payable at 58 years of age and 30 years service.
—Supplementary pension of $13.00 per month times years of service, payable at 58 years of age and 30 years service, until age 65.
Effective 01 October 1988:
—Basic pension of $19.00 per month times years of service, payable at 58 years of age and 30 years service.
—Supplementary pension of $13.00 per month times years of service, payable at 58 years of age and 30 years service, until age 65.
Effective 01 October 1989:
—Basic pension of $20.00 per month times years of service, payable at 58 years of age and 30 years service.
—Supplementary pension of $13.00 per month times years of service, payable at 58 years of age and 30 years service, until age 65.
In addition, the Company will continue to provide for:
—Past pensioners who retired prior to 01 October 1970, to receive $40.00 per month increase.
--Past pensioners who retired between 01 October 1970 and 30 September 1973, to receive $30.00 per month increase.
--Past pensioners who retired between 01 October 1973 and 30 September 1976, to receive $20.00 per month increase.
-•-Past pensioners who retired between 01 October 1976 and 30 September 1979, to receive $10.00 per month increase.
32
13.03	The Group Life Insurance Program is to be continued, with the
insurance coverage amended to provide for:
—$30,000 life insurance for all employees.
—$20,000 group non-occupational accidental death and dismeabermemt.
—$2,000 life insurance for employees retiring on or after 01 October 1987.
13.04	Health Plan
The following services will be provided under the Health Plan:
(a)	Private and semi-private accommodation outside the principal operation of the Plan, if authorised by the medical supervisor; and
(b)	Basic Dental Plan to be continued for employees and dependents and Special Participating Groups and dependents, to include routine examinations as frequently as every six (6) consecutive months, X-rays, fillings other than inlays or crowns, extractions, oral surgery, cleaning and scaling, fluoride treatment and peridontal care and to include Restoration Service (Blue Cross Plan C) on a 50% coverage basis for services used, and Orthodontic Service (Blue Cross Plan D) on a 50% coverage basis for services used.
The Orthodontic benefit coverage is limited to a $1,000 lifetime maximum per individual. This benefit applies to dependents where treatment begins prior to the 17th birthday.
(c)	The Association will provide drugs, prescribed by the attending Association physician, excepting household remedies, such as the following:
Absorbant cotton, adhesive plaster, talcum powder, boracic acid or ointment, castor oil, cod liver oil, cathertics, epsora salts, plain gauze, bandages for home use, lime water, milk of magnesia, Vaseline, mineral oil, tincture of iodine, olive oil, disinfectants and vitamins unless the patient has clinical signs or symptoms of vitamin deficiency.
(d)	Ambulance service to the hospital will be provided if in the judgment of the attending physician, it is necessary.
(e)	The cost of accommodation and transportation will be paid by the Association for referral as an outpatient of an employee or his dependent from Snow Lake to Plin Flon or from Snow Lake to The Pas. If the employee or his dependent is hospitalized, accommodation will be paid for one family member. Transportation cost will be paid at twenty-two cents (22t) per kilometre.

Transportation cost at bus rates covering the second and subsequent trips on any one case of other referrals will be paid by the Association. Necessary ambulance costs will be paid by the Association. The trustees, under special circumstances and in their sole discretion, have the power to advance such expense to a member provided satisfactory arrangements are made regarding repayment.
(f)	Physiotherapy Services.
(g)	Blood Donor Services.
(h)	A member or his registered dependents, while on business or vacation beyond the vicinity of the principal operations of the Company, will continue to enjoy the benefits as provided by the Health Plan.
Coverage is provided as follows:
Scheme "A" employees are employees who have dependents residing in the vicinity of the principal operations of the Plan.
Scheme "B" employees are employees who have no dependents residing in the vicinity of the principal operations of the Plan.
Special Participating Groups
(a)	Pensioned employees who were members at the date of their normal retirement provided they continue to reside in the vicinity of the principal operations of the Plan.
(b)	The widows and dependent children, if any, of deceased members . providing that such widow does not re-marry or become an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries, and she and the dependent children, if any, continue to reside in the vicinity of the principal operations of the Plan.
Provisions of benefits will be administered so as to be consistent with the regulations and benefits of the present Health Plan.
13.05	The payment to the Hudson Bay Mining Employees' Health Association
for health services will, be an amount sufficient to provide the agreed services to the employees and their dependents.
13.06	Sick Benefit Plan
Effective 01 October 1984, the Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Employees' Sick Benefit Plan will provide benefits as follows:
(a)	$35.00 per day for each of the first ten (10) lost work days. A
minimum claim shall be for five (5) lost work days. Claims extending beyond ten (10) lost work days will be paid as follows:
34
(b)	the greater of $60.00 or the amount required to maintain registration with the Unemployment Insurance Commission as a Wage Loss Insurance Plan per day for each lost work day in the next fifteen (15) weeks, followed by:
(c)	the greater of $60.00 or the amount required to maintain registration with the Unemployment Insurance Commission as a Wage Loss Insurance Plan per day for each lost work day in the next fifteen (15) weeks for employees not eligible for UIC benefits. Those employees eligible for UIC benefits in this period must collect same in lieu of payments from the Sick Benefit Plan, followed by:
(d)	$35.00 per day for each lost work day in the next twenty (20) weeks.
(e)	After 52 weeks all employees will receive $25.00 per day for each lost work day.
13.07	The payment to the Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Employees' Sick
Benefit Plan shall be an amount sufficient to provide the agreed services to the employees.
13.08	Death Benefit Plan
Company agrees to continue to administer the Death Benefit Plan, but without Company participation. Members of the Plan will have three (3) dollars deducted from their pay on the death of a Plan member. The employees' contributions will form the basis of benefits under the Plan.
35
Article 14 ***
GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	Eight (8) hours straight-time shall be paid to all hourly rated
employees not required to work on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, August Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day and the second Monday in June in each year of this Agreement, provided they comply with the regulations of this Article 14.
14.02	All hourly rated employees other than those referred to in Article
14.04	required to work on the eleven (11) General Holidays listed in Article 14.01 shall be paid for the first eight (8) hours or less of such work at the rate of one and one-half di) times his regular rate of pay and in addition, he shall be paid holiday pay in an amount equal to his regular rate of pay for eight (8) hours and he shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2i> times his regular rate of pay for all hours in excess of eight (8) hours worked by him on that General Holiday.
14.03	No hourly rated employee is entitled to pay for any General
Holiday as specified in Article 14.01 unless he has worked or was on paid vacation during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the General Holiday.
14.04	No hourly rated employee is entitled to pay for any General
Holiday as specified in Article 14.01 if a General Holiday occurs in the first thirty (30) days of employment. Any such employee required to work on such General Holiday shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half (U) times his regular rate of pay for the time worked. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein, upon completion of the first thirty (30) consecutive days of continuous employment with the Company, the said employee shall receive all unpaid General Holiday pay for any General. Holiday that occurred during the first thirty (30) days of employment.
14.05	No employee is entitled to pay for any General Holiday, as
specified in Article 14.01, on which he was absent without leave after being scheduled to work on the General Holiday.
14.06	Where a General Holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled
day off and he is not required to work that day, he shall, subject to the provisions of this Article 14, be granted a holiday without pay immediately preceding the time of and in conjunction with his next annual vacation.
*** See Letter of Understanding #16 - General Holiday - Substitute Day
- P-90
#17 - General Holiday on Monday - P-9l #18 - General Holiday - Extra Day - p-92
Article 15
VACATIONS WITH PAY
15.01	Vacation anniversary dates for all employees will be the first
day of January. A new or rehired employee will have his vacation with pay entitlement for his first vacation calculated according to the number of calendar days he was on the payroll from date of hire or rehire to 31 December.
15.02	(a) Employees with one (1) to five (5 ) years, inclusive, of
continuous service will receive vacation pay based on 0.4% of their previous calendar year's earnings for each day of paid vacation.
(b)	For employees of over five (5) years of continuous service the rate per day that will be granted for vacation allowance will be calculated using an eight (8) hour day and the employee's normal rate of pay at the time of his or her vacation, including any production bonuses. Rate of pay being received as a result of temporarily filling in on other than the employee's normal work will not be considered as his or her normal rate of pay.
(c)	Pursuant to 15.02 (b) where employees are working on individual production bonus or contract work at the time of taking their vacation, the allowance per day will be calculated by dividing the total bonus of the previous twelve (12) pay periods by the total number of hours worked.
(d)	In addition to the vacation pay as described in this Article 15.02 there shall be added to the vacation pay of any employee an amount of $17 .00 for each working day of regular vacation granted and taken under Article 15.08.
15.03	When any of the eleven (11) General Holidays as listed in
Article 14 falls during an employee's vacation with pay, such vacation with pay shall be extended by one (l) day, subject to the other provisions of Article 14.
15 .04 Vacations, at the employee's request, may be split as outlined below:
1 year ................................ no splits
2nd to 5th year ....................... 1 split
Over 5th year ......................... 2 splits
Additional splits may be granted at the discretion of the department.
15.05	Employees will arrange with their department supervision as to the
dates they will be granted vacations. An endeavour will be made to meet the desire of the individual employee, but management reserves the right to so arrange vacations that the work will be as little affected as possible. Where necessary to give preference as to times for vacations, employees with the longest Company service record will be given such preference. A senior employee may designate his entire vacation for one continuous unbroken period. In the event that he chooses to split his vacation, his second choice may only be designated after more junior employees have designated their first choice.
15.06	It is desired that vacation be taken each year but employees may
under special circumstances, accumulate their vacation periods,
Any request to accumulate vacations must be in writing to the department superintendent stating reasons for the request. Decisions respecting such requests will be made by Company Management.
15.07	If an employee leaves the service of the Company or his employment
is terminated, he shall be paid a sum proportionate to the service he has completed in the qualifying period. Should his employment be terminated by his death, such sum shall be paid to his estate.
Regular Vacation
15.08	The following is the hourly rated employees' table for vacations
based on forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours per day, five (5) work days per week:
Vacation		
Anniversary	Hourly Rated Employees'	
Date	Vacations Due With	Pay
1st	10 working days as 15.01	per
2nd	11 working days	
3rd	12 working days	
4 th	13 working days	
5eh	15 working days	
6ch	15 working days	
7th & 8th	16 working days	
9th & 10th	17 working days	
11th & 12th	18 working days	
13th & 14th	19 working days	
15th to 19th incl.	21 working days	
20 th	22 working days	
21st	23 working days	
22nd	24 working days	
23 rd & over	25 working days	
15.09	Hourly rated employees will have the option of reducing the
length of their vacation to the accumulated number of paid vaca-t icn cfeys. Any such option should be stated at the time vacations are arranged in each department.
Special Vacation
15.10	During the life of this Agreement each employee who completes
three (3) years of continuous service since the date of his most recent hiring or since the date he last became entitled to a special vacation with pay under the previous Collective Agreement between the Company and the Unions, whichever is later, shall become entitled to three (3) weeks of special vacation with pay.
15.11	Vacation pay for special vacations will be paid as outlined in
Article 15.02 on the basis of a five (5) day, forty (40) hour
week.
15.12	The Company reserves the right to grant special vacations only at
such times and in such amounts as the Company in its sole discretion may determine. Consideration will be given to special requests from individual employees.
15.13	Should an employee who is entitled to any special vacation with
pay fail, for any reason, to take the same within three (3) years after becoming entitled thereto, or should he retire or otherwise cease to be employed by the Company or die before taking same, the Company will, in lieu of granting such special vacation, pay to such employee or to his estate should he have died, the special vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such special vacation immediately prior to the third (3rd) anniversary of his becoming entitled thereto or immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death as the case may be.
15.14	In determining the length of a special vacation, a week shall
mean five (5) working days.
15.15	The allocation of vacations with pay under the provisions of the
regular vacation plan shall have priority over the allocation of special vacations hereunder.
* See Letter of Understanding #19 - Special Vacation Splits - P-93
39
Article 16 *
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
16.01	When the requirements of the plant or plants will permit,
employees, for satisfactory cause or circumstance, will be granted leave of absence for a limited period and under the following conditions:
(a)	Application for leave of absence shall be made in writing to the department superintendent stating full particulars , including length of intended leave of absence and reason, except in the case of leave of absence of less than seven (7) calendar days, in which case oral application may be made.
(b)	An employee granted leave of absence for a period not exceeding one hundred and fifty (150) calendar days shall retain his seniority status and seniority shall accrue to him during his absence.
16.02	When the requirements of the plant or plants will permit, the
Company shall grant leave of absence without pay for work of an official nature for the Unions as follows:
(a)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon written application, the Company shall grant extended leave for the duration of this Agreement to one (1) employee acting as Union Representative for the Unions. One (1) additional employee, as shall be mutually agreed upon, shall be granted extended leave for a minimum period of three (3) months to act as Union Representative. Seniority shall accrue during such leave.
(b)	Upon written application, no less than one (1) week in advance, the Company will grant to employees leave of absence without pay, provided the numbers of employees absent at any one time shall be mutually agreed upon. Such leave of absence without pay will not be unreasonably withheld.
(c)	When leave is granted to an employee under Article 16.02 (a) he will not accrue vacation entitlement or vacation pay.
16.03	Where an employee wishes to further the possibility of his
advancement with the Company by taking a full-time course of1 training, the Company may, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant him a leave of absence without pay provided that:
(a)	He has at least one (1) year seniority.
(b)	No such leave will be for a period exceeding ten (10) months unless extended by the Company,
(c)	The number of employees on such leave from any department at any one time shall not in the opinion of the Company interfere with the requirements of operations in that department.
16.04	When leave is granted to an employee under Article 16.03 he shall
be permitted, if he wishes, to continue his entitlement to benefits under all but not less than all of the following five (5) plans in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plans:
(a)	Revised Retirement Pension Plan
(b)	Group Life Insurance Plan
(c)	Health Plan
(d)	Sick Benefit Insurance Plan
(e)	Death Benefit Plan
provided he pays to the Company such amount as the Company considers reasonable towards the cost of these five (5) plans. For each month the employee remains on the payroll immediately following such leave the amount charged to him toward the cost of the five (5) plans will be forgiven on a pro-rata basis over a period in months equal to the period the employee was absent on such leave.
16.05	If an employee on leave granted under Article 16.03 fails to main-
tain regular attendance at the course of training for which that leave was granted, for reasons other than justifiable absence, his employment may be terminated by the Company.
16.06	Subject to Article 16.05 the period of leave granted under
Article 16.03 shall be counted in determining the employee's seniority.
16.07	Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Agreement, an
employee , while on educational leave in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.03, shall be entitled to vacation leave commensurate with his years of service and vacation pay of 2% of his previous years wages for each week of vacation entitlement or proportion thereof.
16.08	Upon written request by the individual concerned, the Company
shall grant leave of absence without pay to any employee elected to or campaigning for his own election to the Manitoba or Saskatchewan Legislature or the House of Commons of Canada. Such leave shall be for a maximum period of two (2) months in the case of campaigning, or in the case of his election, for 3 period equal to the time that he continues as an elected member of either the Provincial Legislature or the Federal House of Commons.
16.09	If elected, an employee granted leave under Article 16.08 shall
not participate in the Company's benefit programs while on such leave, and the leave granted shall not be counted in determining the employee's seniority.
41
16 .10 Maternity Leave
(a)	An employee may advise her immediate supervisor in writing, with confirmation from a qualified medical practitioner stating the expected date of delivery, that she is pregnant and wishes to have leave of absence. Provided the application for such leave is given to her immediate supervisor at least four (4) weeks prior to the day on which she intends to commence the leave, the Company shall grant her a maternity Leave of absence without pay for the period of seventeen (17) weeks, six (6) weeks of which shall be taken immediately following the date of her delivery. if delivery takes place Later than the expected delivery date shown on the application, the seventeen (17) weeks Leave may be extended by a number of days equal to the days between the expected and actual dates of delivery.
(b)	The Company may require a pregnant employee to commence a maternity leave of absence without pay at such time as she cannot, in the Company's opinion or in the opinion of a qualified medical practitioner, perform the normal duties of her job. In the event that such a requirement results in six (6) weeks of the leave not remaining after the delivery, she will be granted the full six (6) weeks after the delivery. In any event, a pregnant employee will be required to commence maternity leave of absence without pay at Least eleven (11) weeks before the expected date of her delivery.
(c)	In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of the six (6) week period immediately following the date of delivery, referred to in Clause 16.10 (a) because of medical complications arising out of her pregnancy and/or delivery, she shall be granted an extension of up to six (6) months in her maternity leave of absence without pay, provided she makes application to her supervisor at least one (1) week prior to the expiration of her leave.
(d)	The Company may at any time require an employee on maternity leave or entitled to maternity leave pursuant to this Article, to provide certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and actual date of her delivery.
In addition, prior to the employee returning to work from a maternity leave of absence such an employee may be required by the Company to present the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner that she is able to perform the normal duties of her job,
16.11 Child Care Leave
Where an employee has or will have the actual care and custody of a new-born child or adopts a child, such employee shall be granted (in accordance with Sections 59.2 and 59.3 of the Canada Labour Code) an unpaid leave of absence of up to twenty-four (24) weeks.
* See Letter of Understanding #20 - Union Leave - P- 94
42
Article 17 ***
APPRENTICES
17.01	The Company agrees to register Apprentices under the Province of
Manitoba Apprenticeship & Industrial Training Division of the Department of Labour or the Province of Saskatchewan Apprentice Standards Division of the Department of Labour. Present apprentices who qualify for registration will be registered by the Company in one of the two Provinces and the registration fee will be paid by the Company.
17.02 The length of apprenticeship shall be three (3), four (4) or five
(5) years depending upon the trade. The Company, subject to approval by the Manitoba Apprenticeship 6 Industrial Training Division of the Department of Labour or the Province of Saskatchewan Apprentice Standards Division of the Department of Labour, may reduce the regular period of apprenticeship training where it is satisfied that an apprentice has received equivalent training or experience in his trade outside the Company's apprenticeship programme. Upon the successful completion of a period of apprenticeship training, an apprentice will, subject to the requirements of operations, be employed at the graduate tradesman's rate in the trade for which he is apprenticed and for this purpose the job bulletin provisions of this Agreement shall not be applicable. The Company agrees to advise an apprentice at least twelve (12) months prior to his expected graduation date whether or not he will be employed at the graduate tradesman's rate in the trade for which he apprenticed.
17.03	Apprentices registered by the Company shall be paid by the
Company twenty-five (25) hours per week at their regular hourly rate while attending such government sponsored Apprentice Training Course in related trade theory, provided the employee successfully completes such Apprentice Training Course.
17.04	Subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement, apprentices
removed from the apprenticeship programme will be offered other employment.
17.05	No rules and regulations regarding apprenticeship training shall
conflict with the provisions of this Agreement. In case of conflict, the provisions of this Agreement shall apply.
17.06	Overtime hours worked by an apprentice shall not be used to
reduce the period of apprenticeship but may be used in arriving at the total number of hours required per year.
17.07	An apprentice, who has faithfully and satisfactorily completed
his term of instruction will, in consideration thereof, receive from the Company a signed certificate setting forth that he has completed his term of apprenticeship. In addit ion, each such apprentice shall
43
receive a bonus of $100 .00. This bonus is offered solely as an inducement to apprentices to fully and satisfactorily complete their contracts and it is understood that no part thereof shall be deemed earned until the contract has been fully and satisfactorily completed. Each employee who completes his apprenticeship with the Company on or after 01 October 1979 will receive $1,000 after one (l) year as a journeyman tradesman with the Company.
17.08	The starting wage rate for an employee who is accepted by the
Company as an apprentice and is then receiving a wage rate higher than the starting rate for his apprenticeship shall not have his rate reduced below the "twelve (12) months" rate.
*** See Letter of Understanding #21 - Industrial Mechanic Trade	- P- 95
#22 - Apprentices Working Alone	- p- 96
#23 - 2nd Class Power Engineer Bonus
- P- 97
Article 18 *****
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
18.01	When an employee is assigned to work on a construction project
outside of his normal working area, Article 18.02 and 18.03 shall
apply.
18.02 If, in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary for an employee
to reside in other than his normal place of residence, the Company will supply free board and room and free transportation from a Company designated place to and from the job. The employee will travel to and from the job on his own time, subject to Article 19.09, and work a full shift.
Subject to the provisions of Article 9.02, employees working under this Article 18.02 may work on the basis of a 48-hour week.
18.03	If, in the opinion of the Company, it is not necessary for an employee to reside in other than his normal place of residence, the Company will not supply free board and room, but the Company will supply transportation from a Company designated place to and from the job. The employee will travel to and from the job on his own time, subject to Article 19.09, and will work a full shift.
***** See Letter of Understanding #24 - Material Pickup
#25 - Designated to Work
#26 - Snow Lake Travel #27 - Namew Lake Travel #28 - Service Crews
-	P-98
Outside Plant
-	P-99
-	P- 100
-	P- 101
-	P- 102
Article 19 ****
45
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
19.01	Personal tools broken in service or lost in inaccessible places
shall be replaced by tools of equal value by the Company, unless an investigation by the Company and the Union, proves that the wear or breakage or loss was due to the employee's carelessness or neglect.
19.02	The clothing allowance now in effect shall not apply to employees
of a service department assigned to any plant for regular duty. Employees assigned to the plants for temporary duty shall be recompensed for damage to clothing only when such damage and amount are approved by the department superintendent.
19.03	It is agreed that Union bulletin boards may be used for Union
notices only, but it is understood that no political or non-Union contentious materials will be posted. Union bulletin boards will be provided in designated lunch rooms and Company operated cafeterias.
19.04 The Company will give to all employees a copy of this Agreement.
19.05	There will be no Union activity on Company time except that
necessary in connection with the handling of grievances and the enforcement of this Agreement; but nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prohibit the officers of the Union, who are also employees of the Company, from looking after the matters of membership dues, initiation fees, assessments and solicitation of membership, provided it is done after working hours or during non-compensable lunch hours and does not interfere with the operation of the plant.
19.06	Without restricting Management Rights as set out in Article 3 of
this Agreement, all working conditions now established by practice and negotiation and now in effect shall remain in force insofar as they are consistent with this Agreement.
19.07	(i) The Company agrees that the Unions have an understandable concern over "contracting-out" by the Company because of its effect upon such matters as job opportunity for the employees.
The Company will therefore, having due regard to the availability of equipment, engineering, skills, manpower, supervision and services, and to operating efficiency and to the time required to do the work, use its best efforts to reduce the amount of future production or maintenance work to be ”contracted-out" during this Agreement as compared with the amount carried out during the previous Collective Agreement. The Company further agrees that, on the request of the Unions, it will meet with the Unions at each semi-annual anniversary of the date of this Agreement to review, and to enable the Unions to make representations with regard to the Company's "contracting-out" practices during the preceding six (6) month period. The Company agrees that no employee shall be demoted , laid off or discharged as a direct result of work being contracted out by the Company.
46
(ii)	Salaried supervisors whose regular jobs are not in this Agreement shall not work on any jobs which are included in this Agreement except for the purpose of training, giving instruction, experimenting , protecting the safety of employees or equipment, periods of production difficulties or in emergencies when regular employees are not reasonably available.
19.08	Where the departmental Safety and Health Committee and the depart-
ment superintendent agree that work is of an exceptionally hazardous nature, employees engaged in this type of work shall receive a bonus of fifteen cents (15i) per hour, over and above their regular rate, such bonus to be paid for not less than one (1) full shift. This shall not apply to mining operations or rigging crews.
19.09	The Company will continue its present practice of supplying free
transportation to and from a Company designated point to all outlying mines and other projects unless special arrangements are made under Article 9.09.
Where an employee is required by the Company to travel in excess of 45 minutes each way to or from a Company designated point and the outlying job site, outside the time of his regularly scheduled shift, a travelling allowance will be paid. Such travelling allowance will be the number of hours in excess of 45 minutes each way multiplied by his regular rate of pay.
19.10	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 19.09 and in lieu of
those provisions the present special travel arrangement in respect-of travel to and from Flin Flon and Snow Lake will remain in effect for the duration of this Agreement.
19.11	(i) A maximum bereavement leave of ten (10) calendar days will be
granted to an employee, commencing on the day of the death of his spouse, son or daughter, in order to attend the funeral. For each day the employee was regularly scheduled to work during such leave he shall be paid his regular rate of pay for eight (8) hours.
(ii) A maximum bereavement leave of three (3) scheduled working days will be granted to an employee, upon the death of his mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, spouse's grandmother and spouse's grandfather, and any relative permanently residing in the employee's household or with whom the employee resides , in order to attend the funeral. In this situation the bereavement leave will be extended by two (2) scheduled working days if the employee attends the funeral outside Manitoba and Saskatchewan. For each scheduled working day of such leave of absence the employee shall be paid his regular rate of pay for eight (8) hours.
47
(iii)	In the event that an employee's bereavement leave overlaps or occurs during his vacation period his vacation time will be extended by the number of days that his bereavement leave encroaches on it.
(iv)	To qualify for bereavement leave pursuant to 19 .11 (i) , 19.11 (ii) or 19 .11 (iii> the employee shall notify his immediate supervisor as soon as possible following the bereavement.
**** See Letter of Understanding #27 - Namew Lake Travel.	_	P~	101
#29 -	Spruce Point Travel	-	P-	103
#30 -	Contracting Out	-	P-	104
#31 -	Crossing Trades	-	P-	105
48
Article 20
NO DISCRIMINATION
20.01	The parties mutually agree that there shall be no discrimination by either of them or by any of the members of the Unions against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in any labour organization or by reason of sex, race, national origin, colour, religion or physical disability.
Article 21
49
DISCHARGES AND SUSPENSIONS
21.01	The following procedure shall govern in all cases of suspension
and discharges:
(a)	The Company shall have the right to suspend or discharge any employee for sufficient and just cause;
(b)	When an employee is suspended, discharged or given a written warning while at work, a steward from his department shall at tend while that employee is being so disciplined. An opportunity will be given to the steward to discuss the circumstances surrounding the suspension, discharge or written warning, with the superintendent or his representative, during the discipline procedure; and
(c)	The employee and the steward in attendance will receive a written copy of the suspension slip or discharge letter. Also, the appropriate Union shall be advised promptly in writing by the Company of the reason or reasons for such suspension or discharge.
21.02	If any employee feels that he has been unjustly suspended or
discharged, he shall have the right of appeal through the Grievance Procedure at Step Two. Such appeal must be filed in writing by the Union with the Company within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of notification of suspension or discharge and, unless so filed, the right of appeal shall be lost.
21.03	Should it be found upon investigation that an employee has been
unjustly suspended or discharged, such employee shall be immediately reinstated in his former position without loss of seniority rating , and shall be compensated for all time lost in an amount equal to his average earnings during the pay period next preceding such discharge or suspension, less any money earned by the employee during the period of discharge or suspension.
21.04	All new employees shall be engaged for a probationary period of
forty (40) straight-time working shifts. During this probat zonary period an employee shall be considered as being employed on a trial basis and may be discharged without notice at any time at the sole discretion of the Company and any such discharge shall be deemed for just cause.
An employee terminated during his probationary period would be entitled to review under the grievance procedure ap to and including Step 3.
21.05	Any employee with more than one (1) year's seniority may once
annually request a formal evaluation from his supervisor. The written evaluation will include items such as attendance, disciplinary action, promotability and attitude to work and safety.
Article 22
50
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
22.01	Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the
employees from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort will be made to settle such grievance without undue delay. All grievances, in order to settle them as quickly as possible, will have to be submitted to the Company representative within fourteen (14) calendar days of the occurrence of the incident which gave rise to the grievance and shall be dealt with as hereinafter provided.
22.02	Step (1)—Any employee with a personal grievance must take the
matter up with his foreman accompanied by a Union steward of his choice from his own department.
22.03	Step (2)—-Failing satisfactory settlement within five (5) calendar
days after presentation at Step (1), the Chief Steward or steward shall meet with the Department Superintendent and present the case to him with the grievor, if desired. Such meeting with the Department Superintendent shall take place within seven (7) calendar days of completion of Step (1).
22.04	Step (3)—Failing satisfactory settlement within seven (7)
calendar days after Step (2), the Grievance Committee shall present the matter to the General Manager or his designated representative within seven (7) calendar days thereafter. The Union Represent at ive or Business Agent may be present at this step. The grievor and/or a department representative may also be in at tendance. Such meeting with the General Manager or his designated representative shall take place within ten (10) calendar days of notification or at a time mutually agreed upon.
22.05	Step (4)—If settlement is not made within seven (7) calendar days
under Step (3), the Grievance Committee may refer the grievance to an Arbitration Board within thirty (30) calendar days after the answer in writing in Step (3) has been given, but not later. The Grievance Committee shall notify the Company as soon as possible within the aforesaid thirty (30) calendar days of its intention to refer the matter to an Arbitration Board.
22.06	Grievances other than a personal grievance that concern the inter-
pretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement may be initiated by the Unions and shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of this Article beginning at Step (3).
22.07	(a) Personal grievances shall be presented in writing to the
department superintendent in Step (2) in Article 22.03.
(b) The department superintendent's reply to the Step (2) grievance shall be in writing.
51
(c) Grievances other than personal grievances shall be presented in writing by the Grievance Committee to the General Manager in Article 22.06.
22.08	If it should be found inexpedient to carry out promptly the
clauses of this Article, due to absence of a Company official from the vicinity, a substitute may be appointed by the Company with full power to effect settlement of grievances, or the step of Grievance Procedure in which said official is concerned may be eliminated from the procedure.
Article 23
ARBITRATION
23.01 If the Company and the Union are unable to settle any grievance in the manner provided in Article 22, that grievance may be referred to an Arbitrator selected in rotation fro* the panel of individuals set forth below:
Jack M. Chapman, Q.C. Martin H. Freedman, Q.C. G. Campbell MacLean, Q.C. Louis Plantje Gerald D. Parkinson
If any individual of the above panel, who having been requested in his turn to act as an Arbitrator, shall be unable or unwilling to act within a reasonable time, he shall not again be requested to act as an Arbitrator until his name comes up again on the regular rotation of the panel.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and the Union may agree to the election of appointees and put the grievance before an Arbitration Board consisting of one (1) appointee of the Company, one (1) appointee of the ' Union and a third member to be selected from the above panel and that member shall be chairman of the Arbitration Board.
23.02	Unless otherwise agreed between the Company and the local Union concerned, arbitration hearings will be scheduled to be held in Flin Flon.
23.03	The Arbitrator shall render his decision as to the matter in
‘dispute within thirty (30) calendar days of the arbitration hearing and shall remain seized as to the matter for a period of ninety (90) calendar days from the receipt of the award by the parties for questions of interpretation and clarification.
23.04	The Arbitrator or the Arbitration Board shall proceed with all
dispatch to hear and determine the grievance.
23.05	The decision of the Arbitrator or the decision of the
Arbitration Board shall be in writing and delivered to the parties hereto. The decision shall be final and binding upon the parties, subject to the condition that the decision shall not, without the consent and approval of the parties, rescind or amend any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement, but shall be in accord with the scope and terms hereof.
23.06	The Arbitrators, in giving their decision, shall, state whether
it is to have retroactive effect and from what date it shall take
effect.
23.07	The Union and the Company agree that each party is responsible
for the cost of its own appointee, if applicable, to the Arbitration Board, and further agree that the cost of the Arbitrator shall be shared equally by both parties.
Article 24
NO STRIKES, NO LOCKOUTS
24.01 In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement
for the settlement of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Unions agree that, during the duration of this Agreement, they shall not declare, authorize or engage in any strike, sit-down, slow-down or any suspension of work, nor shall the Company engage in any lockout in the Flin Flon and Snow Lake areas.
Article 25
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
25.01 This Agreement shall become effective as of 01 October_ 198?
and shall remain in effect until and including 30 September 1990 and shall be automatically renewed thereafter for successive periods of twelve (12) months unless either party requests the negotiation of a new agreement by giving written notice to the other party not less than thirty (30) calendar days and not more than sixty (60) calendar days prior to 30 September 1990 or not less than thirty (30) calendar days and not more than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of any automatic renewal of this Agreement.
EXECUTED at Flin Flon, Manitoba this 18th day of January 1988 HUDSON BAY MINING AND SMELTING CO., LIMITED
Per: ________________________________________________________
L.	R. Nilsen - President & Chief Operating Officer
Per: ________________________________________________________
D. C. Powell - Manager of Maintenance & Services
Per: ________________________________________________________
K. J. Encwistle - Industrial Relations Manager
Per:
M.	J. Ross - General Manager - Flin Flon Operations
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, FLIN FLON LODGE No. 1848
Per: _____i___________________________________
G. R. McBratney - President
Per: _________________________________________
B. B. Humphreys - Recording Secretary
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL UNION No. 1405
Per: __________________________________________
J. W. Urechko - President
Per: __________________________________________
J. J. Szocs - Financial Secretary
Per: __________________________________________
M. R. Dansereau - Steward (Flin Flon)
Per: __________________________________________
B. L. Charron - Steward (Snow Lake)
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS,. BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS, LOCAL UNION No. 451
Per: _______________________________
K. C. Stelnicki - President
Per:
A. E. Kozar - Steward
UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL UNION No. 1614
56
Per: _________________________________________
A. W. Bailey - President
Per: _________________________________________
D. S. Broughton - Recording Secretary
BROTHERHOOD OF PAINTERS AND ALLIED TRADES, LOCAL UNION No. 1497
Per: __________________________________________
Alexander Graham - President
Per: __________________________________________
M. G. Kish - Recording Secretary
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION No. 828
Per: _________________________________________
D. F. Hogarth - President
Per: _________________________________________
V. A. MacDonald - Recording Secretary
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF BRICKLAYERS & ALLIED CRAFTSMEN, UNION No. I OF MANITOBA
Per: ___________________________
T. M. Gibney - Steward-
ASSOCIATION OF FLIN FLON TRADE UNIONS
Per:
K. C. Stelnicki - President
57
SCHEDULE "A"
MINE
Occupation	job class
Carpenter (Certified) 20 Carpenter (Standard) 18 Carpenter (Intermediate) 16 Carpenter (Start) 14 Crane Operator Mobile 12 Crane Operator Mobile Learner (2nd) 10 Crane Operator Mobile Learner (1st) 8 Electrician (Certified) 23 Electrician (Standard) 21 Electrician (Intermediate) 19 Electrician (Start) 17 Electrician Apprentice (8th period) 19 Electrician Apprentice (7th period) 17 Electrician Apprentice (6th period) 15 Electrician Apprentice (5 th period) 12 Electrician Apprentice (4th period) 9 Electrician Apprentice (3rd period) 7 Electrician Apprentice (2nd period) 5 Electrician Apprentice (1st period) 3 Electrical Helper 7 Heavy Duty Mechanic (Start) 15 Heavy Duty Mechanic (Intermediate) 17 Heavy Duty Mechanic (Standard) 19 Heavy Duty Mechanic (Certified) 21 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (1st period) 3 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (2nd period) 5 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (3rd period) 7 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (4th period) 9 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (5th period) 11 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (6th period) 13 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (7th period) 15 Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentice (8th period) 17 Hoistman (Double Drum) 14 Machinist (Certified) 21 Machinist (Standard) 19 Machinist (Intermediate) 17 Machinist (Start) 15 Maintenance Mechanic (Certified) 21 Maintenance Mechanic (Standard) 19 Maintenance Mechanic (Intermediate) 17 Maintenance Mechanic (Start) 15 Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (6th period) 17 Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (5 th period) 15 Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (4th period) 13 Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (3rd period) 10 Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (2nd period) 6 Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (1st period) 3 Mechanical Trades Helper 7 Pipefitter (Certified) 20 Pipefitter (Standard) 18 Pipefitter (Intermediate) 16 Pipefitter (Start) 14 Power Station Attendant 13 Utilities Serviceman (Certified) 21 Utilities Serviceman 19
58
MILL ( SNOW LAKE)
Occupation
Electrician (Certified)
Electrician (Standard)
Electrician (Intermediate)
Electrician (Start)
Electrician Apprentice (8th period) Electrician Apprentice (7th period) Electrician Apprentice (6th period) Electrician Apprentice (5th period) Electrician Apprentice (4th period) Electrician Apprentice (3rd period) Electrician Apprentice (2nd period) Electrician Apprentice (1st period) Instrumentation Mm (Certified) Instrumentation Man (Standard) Instrumentation Man (Intermediate) Instrumentation Man (Start)
Instrumentation Man Apprentice (8ch period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (7th period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (6th period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (5th period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (4th period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (3rd period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (2nd period) Instrumentation Man Apprentice (1st period) Maintenance Mechanic (Certified)
Maintenance Mechanic (Standard)
Maintenance Mechanic (Intermediate) Maintenance Mechanic (Start)
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (6th period) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (5th period) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (4th period) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (3rd period) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (2nd period) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (1st period)
SMELTER
Bedding Bin Craneman Brakeman (Molten Slag) Converter Craneman Fuming Plant Craneman Motorman (Molten Slag)
Job Class
23
21
19
17
19
17
15
12
9
7
5
3
23
21
19
17
19
17
15
12
9
7
5 3
21
19
17
15
17
15
13
10
6 3
9
9
17
16
12
MACHINE SHOP
59
Occupation	Job Class
Blacksmith	(Certified)	20
Blacksmith	(Standard)	13
Blacksmith	(Intermediate)	16
Blacksmith	(Start)	14
Blacksmith	Special Trainee (6th period)	16
Blacksmith Special Trainee (5th period)	14
Blacksmith Special Trainee (4th period)	12
Blacksmith Special Trainee (3rd period)	9
Blacksmith Special Trainee (2nd period)	g
Blacksmith Special Trainee (1st period)	3
Boilermaker/Welder Foreman Hourly (Certified) 25 Boilermaker/Welder Forman Hourly (Dual	26
Certification)
Boilermaker/Welder Foreman Hourly (Dual	27
Certification) P/T
Boilermaker/Welder Foreman Hourly	24
(Uncertified - Qualified in Both Trades) Boilermaker/Welder Foreman Hourly	25
(Uncertified - Qualified in Both Trades)
P/T
Boilermaker/Welder Foreman Hourly	23
Boilermaker/Welder Foreman Hourly P/T	24
Boilermaker/Welder (Certified) P/T	22
Boilermaker/Welder (Dual Certification)	22
Boilermaker/Welder (Dual Certification) P/T	23
Boilermaker/Welder (Certified)	21
Boilermaker/Welder (Standard) P/T	20
Boilermaker/Welder (Standard)	19
Boilermaker/Welder Standard (Uncertified	20
-	Qualified in Both Trades)
Boilermaker/Welder Standard (Uncertified	21
-	Qualified in Both Trades) P/T
Boilermaker/Welder (Intermediate)	17
Boilermaker/Welder (Start)	15
Boilermaker/Welder Apprentice (6th period)	17
Boilermaker/Welder Apprentice (5th period)	15
Boilermaker/Welder Apprentice (4th period)	13
Boilermaker/Welder Apprentice (3rd period)	10
Boilermaker/Welder Apprentice (2nd period)	6
Boilermaker/Welder Apprentice (1st period)	3
Boilermaker Trades Helper	7
Burner	11
Cathode Fabricator	12
Floorman Boss	10
Floorman	8
Foundry Man	16
Foundry Man Special Trainee	(6th	period)	14
Foundry Man Special Trainee	(5th	period)	12
Foundry Man Special Trainee	(4th	period)	10
Foundry Man Special Trainee	(3rd	period)	7
Foundry Man Special Trainee	(2nd	period)	5
Foundry Man Special Trainee	(1st	period)	3
Foundry Helper	8
60
MACHINE SHOP - continued
Occupation	Job Class
Hammer-man	a
Machinist	Foreman Hourly (Certified)	25
Machinist	Foreman Hourly	23
Machinist	(Certified)	21
Machinist	(Standard)	19
Machinist	(Intermediate)	17
Machinist	(St$rU	15
Machinist Apprentice (8th period)	17
Machinist Apprentice (7th period)	15
Machinist Apprentice (6th period)	13
Machinist Apprentice (5th period)	11
Machinist Apprentice (4th period)	9
Machinist Apprentice (3rd period)	7
Machinist Apprentice (2nd period)	5
Machinist Apprentice (1st period)	3
Maintenance Mechanic Foreman (Hourly)	25
(Certified)
Maintenance Mechanic Foreman (Hourly)	23
Maintenance Mechanic (Certified)	21
Maintenance Mechanic (Standard)	19
Maintenance Mechanic (Intermediate)	17
Maintenance Mechanic (Start)	15
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (6th period)	17
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (5th period)	15
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (4th period)	13
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (3rd period)	10
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (2nd period)	6
Maintenance Mechanic Apprentice (1st period)	3
Mechanical	Trades Helper	7
Oiler	7
Pipefitter	Foreman Hourly (Certified)	24
Pipefitter	Foreman Hourly	22
Pipefitter	(Certified)	20
Pipefitter	(Standard)	18
Pipefitter	(Intermediate)	16
Pipefitter	(Start)	14
Pipefitter	Apprentice (10th	period)	18
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 9th	period)	18
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 8th	period)	16
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 7th	period)	14
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 6th	period)	12
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 5th	period)	10
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 4th	period)	8
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 3rd	period)	7
Pipefitter	Apprentice' ( 2nd	period)	5
Pipefitter	Apprentice ( 1st	period)	3
Radial Drill	Press Operator	12
Rubberworker	14
Rubberworker Special Trainee (6th period)	12
Rubberworker Special Trainee (5th period)	10
Rubberworker Special Trainee (4th period)	8
61
MACHINE SHOP “ continued
Occupation
Rubberworker Special Trainee (3rd period) Rubberworker Special Trainee (2nd period) Rubberworker Special Trainee (1st period) Rubberworker Helper Stock Tender
SMELTER POWERHOUSE
Fuel Precipitator Man Fuel Precipitator Operator Fuel Precipitator Man Helper Fuel Plant Operator Fuel Plant Helper Power Engineer 1/C Certificate Power Engineer Interim 2nd Class Power Engineer 2/C Certificate Power Engineer Interim 3rd Class Power Engineer 3/C Certificate Power Engineer Interim 4th Class Power Engineer 4/C Certificate Power Engineer Interim Helper Power Engineer Helper Powerhouse Mechanic (Certified) Powerhouse Mechanic (Standard) Powerhouse Mechanic (Intermediate) Powerhouse Mechanic (Start) Powerhouse Handyman Powerplant Utility Man shift Engineer lat .class______ ^
Shift Engineer Interim 2nd Class Shift Engineer 2nd Class Shift Engineer Interim 3rd Class Shift Engineer 3rd Clas3
PAINT SHOP
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Painter
Foreman Hourly (Certified) Foreman Hourly (Certified)
(Standard)
(Intermediate)
(Start)
Special Trainee (6th period) Special Trainee (5th period) Special Trainee (4th period) Special Trainee (3rd period) Special Trainee (2nd period) Special Trainee (1st period) Helper
Job .Class
6
5 3
6
10
14 12
7
11
B
25
23
21
17
15 13 11
9
7
21
19
17
15
10
7
27
25
23
19
17
24
22
20
18
16
14
16
14
12
9
6
3
6
62
CARPENTERS & CONSTRUCTION
Occupation	Job Class
Bricklayer Foreman Hourly (Certified) 24 Bricklayer Foreman Hourly 22 Bricklayer (Certified) 20 Bricklayer (Standard) 18 Bricklayer (Intermediate) 16 Bricklayer (Start) 14 Bricklayer Special Trainee (6th period) 16 Bricklayer Special Trainee (5th period) 14 Bricklayer Special Trainee (4th period) 12 Bricklayer Special Trainee (3rd period) 9 Bricklayer Special Trainee (2nd period) 6 Bricklayer Special Trainee (1st period) 3 Bricklayer Helper 7 Carpenter Shop Foreman Hourly (Certified) 24 Carpenter Shop Foreman Hourly 22 Carpenter Foreman Hourly (Certified) 24 Carpenter Foreman Hourly 22 Carpenter (Certified) 20 Carpenter (Standard) 18 Carpenter (Intermediate) 16 Carpenter (Start) 14 Carpenter Apprentice (8th period) 16 Carpenter Apprentice (7th period) 14 Carpenter Apprentice (6th period) 12 Carpenter Apprentice (5th period) 10 Carpenter Apprentice (4th period) 8 Carpenter Apprentice (3rd period) 7 Carpenter Apprentice (2nd period) 5 Carpenter Apprentice (1st period) 3 Carpenter Helper 7
SURFACE & TRANSPORTATION
Brakeman (Head) 14 Brakeman 10 Crane Operator (Mobile) 12 Crane Operator (Mobile) Learner 2nd 10 Crane Operator (Mobile) Learner 1st 8 Dispatcher 16 Locomotive Engineer 14
63
ELECTRICAL
Occupation	Job class
Electrical Foreman Hourly (Certified)	27
Electrical Foreman Hourly	25
Electrician (Certified)	23
Electrician (Standard)	21
Electrician (Intermediate)	19
Electrician (Start)	17
Electrician Apprentice (8th	period)	19
Electrician Apprentice (7th	period)	17
Electrician Apprentice (6th	period)	15
Electrician Apprentice (5th	period)	12
Electrician Apprentice (4th	period)	9
Electrician Apprentice (3rd	period)	7
Electrician Apprentice (2nd	period)	5
Electrician Apprentice (1st	period)	3
Electrician Helper	7
Instrumentation Foreman Hourly	(Certified)	27
Instrumentation Foreman Hourly	25
Instrumentation Man	(Certified)	23
Instrumentation Man	(Standard)	21
Instrumentation Man	(Intermediate)	19
Instrumentation Man	(Start)	17
' Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(8th	period)	19
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(7th	period)	17
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(6th	period)	15
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(5th	period)	12
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(4th	period)	9
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(3rd	period)	7
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(2nd	period)	5
Instrumentation Man	Apprentice	(1st'	period)	3
Lineman (Certified)	23
Lineman (Standard)	21
Lineman (Intermediate)	19
Lineman (Start)	17
Lineman Apprentice	(8th	period)	19
Lineman Apprentice	(7th	period)	17
Lineman Apprentice	(6th	period)	15
Lineman Apprentice	(5th	period)	12
Lineman Apprentice	(4th	period)	9
Lineman Apprentice	(3rd	period)	7
Lineman Apprentice	(2nd	period)	5
Lineman Apprentice	(1st	period)	3
Lineman Helper	7
Sub Station Operator (Relief)	19
Sub Station Operator Helper	8
Assistant	Sub	Station	Operator	15
Assistant	Sub	Station	Operator	Learner	3rd	13
Assistant	Sub	Station	Operator	Learner	2nd	11
Assistant	Sub	Station	Operator	Learner	1st	9
ELECTRICAL - continued
Occupation	Job Class
Winder (Certified)	20
Winder (Standard)	18
Winder (Intermediate)	16
Winder (Stirtl	14
,Winder Apprentice	(8th period)	16
Winder Apprentice	(7th period)	14
Winder Apprentice	(6th period)	12
Winder Apprentice	(5th period)	10
Winder Apprentice	(4th period)	8
Winder Apprentice	(3rd period)	7
Winder Apprentice	(2nd period)	5
Winder Apprentice	(1st period)	3
SECURITY & SERVICES
Repairman (Utility)	12
65
WAGE SCALE
! CLASS	01 OCTOBER 86	01OCTOBER 87	01 OCTOBERl
1	$10.39	$11.39	$11.94
2	10.57	11.58	12.135
3	10.75	11.77	12.33
4	10.93	11.96	12.525
5	11.11	12.15	12.72
6	11.29	12.34	12.915
7	11.47	12.53	13.11
8	11.65-	12.72	13.305
9	11.83	12.91	13.50
10	12.01	13.10	13.695
11	12.19	13.29	13.89
12	12.37	13.48	14.085
13	12.55	13.67	14.28
14	12.73	13.86	14.475
15	12.91	14.05	14.67
16	13.09	14.24	14.865
17	13.27	14.43	15.06
18	13.45	14.62	15.255
19	13.63	14.81	15.45
20	13.81	15.00	15.645
21	13.99	15.19	15.84
22	14.17	15.38	16.035
23	14.35	15.57	16.23
24	14.53	15.76	16.425
25	14.71	15.95	16.62
26	14.89	16.14	16.815
27	15.07	16.33	17.01
28	15.25	16.52	17.205
29	15.43	16.71	17.40
30	15.61	16.90	17.595
31	15.79	17.09	17.79
01 OCTOBER 89
13.29
13.49
13.69
13.89
14.09
14.29
14.49
14.69
14.89
15.09
15.29
15.49
15.69
15.89
16.09
16.29
16.49
16.69
16.89
17.09
17.29
17.49
17.69
17.89
18.09
18.29
18.49
66
SCHEDULE "B"
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited for whom representatives of the INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS, FLIN FLON LODGE No. 1848 are certified as collective bargaining agents:
MINING:
Machinist (Certified)
Machinist (Standard)
Machinist (Intermediate) 'Machinist (Start)
Utilities Serviceman (Certified) Utilities Serviceman Pipefitter (Certified) Pipefitter (Standard)
Pipefitter (Intermediate) Pipefitter (Start)
Maintenance Mechanic (Certified) Maintenance Mechanic (Standard) Maintenance Mechanic (Intermediate) Maintenance Mechanic (Start) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentices Heavy Duty Mechanic (Intermediate) Heavy Duty Mechanic (Certified) Heavy Duty Mechanic (Start)
Heavy Duty Mechanic (Standard)
Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentices
MILLING (SNOW LAKE):
Maintenance Mechanic (Certified) Maintenance Mechanic (Standard) Maintenance Mechanic (Intermediate)
MECHANICAL PLANT:
Machine Shop
Machinist Foreman (Hourly) (Certified)
Machinist Foreman (Hourly) Machinist (Certified)
Machinist (Standard)
Machinist (Intermediate)
Machinist (Start>
Machinist Apprentices Radial Drill Press Operator Pump Operator and Pipeline Patrolman - Cliff Lake
Pipe Shop
Pipefitter Foreman (Hourly) (Certified)
Pipefitter Foreman (Hourly) Pipefitter (Certified)
Foundry
Foundryman
Foundryman Special Trainee
Maintenance Mechanic (Stare) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentices
Floorraan Boss Floorman
Stock Tender
Maintenance Mechanic Foreman (Hourly) (Certified)
Maintenance Mechanic Foreman (Hourly) Maintenance Mechanic (Certified) Maintenance Mechanic (Standard) Maintenance Mechanic (Intermediate) Maintenance Mechanic (Start) Maintenance Mechanic Apprentices Mechanical Trades Helper
Pipefitter (Standard) Pipefitter (Intermediate) Pipefitter (Start) Pipefitter Apprentices
Foundry Helper Laborer
67
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited for whom representatives of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL UNION No. 1405, are certified as collective bargaining agents:
MINING:
Electrician (Certified) Electrician (Standard) Electrician (Intermediate) Electrician (Start> Electrician Apprentices Electrical Helper Hoistman (Double Drum)
Instrumentation Instrumentation Instrumentation Instrumentation Crane Operator Crane Operator Crane Operator
Man (Certified)
Man (Standard)
Man (Intermediate) Man (Start> (Mobile)
(Mobile) Learner 1 (Mobile) Learner 2
MILLING (SNOW LAKE):
instrumentation Man (Certified) Instrumentation Man (Standard) Instrumentation Man (Intermediate) Instrumentation Man (Start) Electrician (Certified)
SMELTER:
Converter Craneman Fuming Plant Craneman
POWERHOUSE:
Coal Pulverizer & Cottrells
Fuel Precipitator Man Precipitator Operator Fuel Plant Operator
SURFACE AND TRANSPORTATION:
Locomotive Engineer Head Brakeman Brakeman Dispatcher
Electrician (Standard) Electrician (Intermediate) Electrician (Start) Electrician Apprentices
Bedding Bin Craneman
Motorman (Molten Slag) Brakeman (Molten Slag)
Fuel Precipitator Man Helper
Fuel Plant Helper
Laborer
Crane Operator (Mobile) Crane Operator (Mobile) Learner 2
Crane Operator (Mobile) Learner 1
6a
ELECTRICAL:
Electrical Foreman Hourly (Certified) Electrical Foreman Hourly Electrician (Certified)
Electrician (Standard)
Electrician (Intermediate)
Electrician (Start)
Electrician Apprentices Electrician Helper Instrumentation Foreman Hourly (Certified)
Instrumentation Foreman Hourly Instrumentation Man (Certified) Instrumentation Man (Standard) Instrumentation Man (Intermediate) Instrumentation Man (Start) Instrumentation Man Apprentices Lineman (Certified)
Lineman (Standard)
Lineman (Intermediate)
Lineman (Start)
Lineman Apprentices
Lineman and Electrical Helper
Winder (Certified)
Winder (Standard)
Winder (Intermediate)
Winder (Start)
Winder Apprentices Sub Station Operator Sub Station Operator (Assistant) Sub Station Operator (Assistant) Learner 3
Sub Station Operator (Assistant) Learner 2
Sub Station Operator (Assistant) Learner 1
Sub Station Operator Helper Sub Station Operator (Relief)
69
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited for whom representatives of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF BOILERMAKERS, IRON SHIP BUILDERS, BLACKSMITHS, FORGERS AND HELPERS, LOCAL UNION No. 451, are certified as collective bargaining agents:
MECHANICAL PLANT:
Boiler Shop
Boilermaker/Welder Foreman (Hourly) (Certified)
Boilermaker/Welder
(Hourly)
Boilermaker/Welder
Boilermaker/Welder
Boilermaker/Welder
Certification)
Boilermaker/Welder
Certification)
Foreman
(Certified) (Certified) P/T (Dual
(Dual
P/T
Blacksmith Shop
Blacksmith (Certified) Blacksmith (Standard) Blacksmith (Intermediate)
Boilermaker/Welder (Standard) Boilermaker/Welder (Standard) P/T Boilermaker/Welder (Intermediate) Boilermaker/Welder (Start> Boilermaker/Welder Apprentices Boilermaker Trades Helper Flooraan
Cathode Fabricator Burner
Blacksmith (Start) Blacksmith Shop Helper Hammerman
70
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited for whom representatives of the UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL UNION No. 1614, are certified as collective bargaining agents:
MINING:
Carpenter (Certified)	Carpenter (Intermediate)
Carpenter (Standard)	Carpenter (Start>
CARPENTERS AND CONSTRUCTION:
Carpenter Shop Foreman (Hourly) (Certified)
Carpenter Shop Foreman (Hourly) Carpenter Foreman (Hourly) (Certified)
Carpenter Foreman (Hourly)
Carpenter (Certified) Carpenter (Standard) Carpenter (Intermediate) Carpenter (Start) Carpenter Apprentices Carpenter Helper
SECURITY AND SERVICES: Repairman Utility
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co. Limited for whom representatives of the BROTHERHOOD OF PAINTERS AND ALLIED TRADES, LOCAL UNION No. 1497, are certified as collective bargaining agents:
PAINTERS:
Painter Foreman (Hourly)
(Certified)
Painter Foreman (Hourly)
Painter (Standard)
Painter (Intermediate) Painter (Start)
Painter Apprentices Painter Helper
MECHANICAL PLANT: Rubber Shop
Rubberworker
Rubberworker Special Trainees
Rubberworker Helper
72
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited for whom representatives of the INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL UNION No. 828, are certified as collective bargaining agents:
MINING:
Power Station Attendant
POWERHOUSE:
Turbines, Air and Heating
Shift Supervision Engineer (Relief) 1st Class
Shift Supervision Engineer (Relief) 2nd Class
Shift Supervision Engineer (Relief) 3rd Class
Shift Engineer 1st Class Shift Engineer 2nd Class Shift Engineer 3rd Class Power Engineer 1st Class Power Engineer 2nd Class
Power Engineer 3rd Class Power Engineer 4th Class Power Engineer Helper Power Plant Utility Man Powerhouse Mechanic (Certified) Powerhouse Mechanic (Standard) Powerhouse Mechanic (Intermediate) Powerhouse Mechanic (Start) Powerhouse Handyman Laborer
73
Classifications of employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited for whom representatives of the INTERNATIONAL UNION OF BRICKLAYERS AND ALLIED CRAFTSMEN, UNION No. 1 OF MANITOBA are certified
as collective bargaining agents: CARPENTERS AND CONSTRUCTION:' Bricklayer Foreman (Hourly) (Certified) Bricklayer Foreman (Hourly) Bricklayer (Certified) Bricklayer (Standard)	Bricklayer (Intermediate) Bricklayer (Start) Bricklayer Special Trainee Bricklayer Helper
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #1
To the Unions:
The Company agrees to continue with the Employee Assistance Program for the duration of this Agreement.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #2
To the Unions:
Further to discussions with the Joint Bargaining Committee 1985 regarding moves to different work locations for graduate electricians in Flin Flon, it is agreed that notices will be posted to advise of vacancies in a particular work location. The purpose of such notices will be for the graduate electrician to indicate his preference to move to the vacancy and since such moves are not considered to be an upgrading or downgrading and the rate of pay does not change, Article 7 .01 does not apply.
The Company will determine who will be moved or assigned to the vacancy and, in making such determination, will consider factors such as:
i)	the work requirements in each work location, and
ii)	the relative skill, ability and physical fitness of the employees to fulfill such requirements, and
iii> the graduate seniority including time served as an apprentice with the Company since his most recent date of hire, of any electrician who has answered the notice.
If, in the opinion of the Company, there is not a suitable candidate for the vacancy from those who have applied to the not ice, or if no one has applied to the notice, then the Company will select the employee to be assigned.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
76
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #3
To the Unions:
Re:	Surface and Transportation Department Train Line Progression
Consistent with the present practice, any permanent vacancy for the job of Brakeman will be filled by the bulletin procedure as outlined in Article 7.04 (a).
However, due to training and safety considerations, movement within the train line progression will follow the procedure outlined below, which is an exception to Article 7:
i) Each successful candidate for the Brakeman's bulletin will be assigned a progression seniority. His progression seniority will start from the date he is permanently assigned to the job of Brakeman.
ii) Employees presently in the progression line will be assigned progression seniority dating from their permanent assignment to the job of Brakeman.
iii)	Future movement within this progression line will be determined by progression seniority.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
77
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - H
To the Unions:
Trades occupations with more than one permanent work location in Departments 11, 60 and 67 will have a method which allows tradesmen to express their preferred work location(s) for permanent assignment.
When filling permanent vacancies the Company will endeavour to meet the preferences of the employees concerned according to their graduate seniority, subject to the following:
(1)	The Company's work requirements at any of the work locations. These
requirements may change during the course of the year.
(2)	The relative skills and abilities of the employees involved. The Company
must be able to balance what the Company deems to be the skills of the employees to the requirements of the various work locations.
(3)	The Company also reserves the right to temporarily move employees from
time to time from their permanent work location in order to:
(a)	Maintain familiarity of the various work locations among as many
tradesmen as the Company deems necessary.
(b)	Carry out installations or repairs where extra manpower is required
to complete the work on a timely basis.
(c)	Provide for absences due to vacations, sickness, sudden terminations
or any other Like cause.
It is understood that assignments within the permanent work location known as the Outside Floor Mechanics shall be handled as they have been historically and shall not be subject to the terms of this Letter.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
78
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDIHG - #5
To the Unions:
During 1987 bargaining the Company and the Unions agreed that tradesmen displaced from their jobs may elect "voluntary lay-off" instead of a job in an operating department or severance under article 8.09 (h) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
It is understood between the parties that a tradesman electing "voluntary layoff" will do so under the following terms:
1)	Seniority will cease accumulating after one hundred and twenty (120) calendar days.
2)	Entitlement to all benefits will cease at time of "voluntary lay-off".
3)	It is understood an employee on "voluntary lay-off" may at a later date elect to receive severance under Article
8.09	(h) and terminate his employment.
4)	Tradesmen who elect "voluntary lay-off" will have rights to recall to any future opening in their trade in accordance with their relative seniority. Notwithstanding the foregoing, displaced tradesmen who remain on the payroll to accept a non-trades job will have first right to any future openings in their trade regardless of their relative seniority to those who have elected "voluntary lay-off".
It is understood that the terms of' this letter will not apply to a tradesman who is removed from his job at his own request or as a result of his inability to perform the normal requirements of his job.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K.C. stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #6
To the Unions:
The following clarifies the understanding of the parties with respect to Article 9.04 (b):
The intent of Article 9.04 (b) is to provide overtime rates of pay (in cases where sufficient notice is not given) for the first block of rest days only that the employee would have received had he remained on his previous job .
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) 1. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #7
To the Unions:
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 9.04 (b), in the case of the swingraan in the Powerhouse, if he is required by the Company to work on a normally scheduled day off, he shall receive overtime rates of pay. If a similar position is established in another department, the employee will be paid in the same manner.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UHDKRSTAHDIBG - #8
To the Unions:
This will confirm the agreement reached between the parties that during the term of the Collective Agreement, individual Unions and Departments may enter into agreements to "bank" overtime. Any agreement reached will contain the following provisions:
1.	At an employee's request, he will not be paid for overtime worked, and in lieu of payment the time will be banked on an hour-for-hour basis.
2.	Banked time will be taken at a time mutually agreed between the employee and his supervisor and paid at the employee's straight time hourly rate. If the employee chooses not to take his banked time, such hours will be paid at the overtime rate at which they were earned.
3.	The maximum time to be banked at any one time will be twenty-four (24) hours.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
82
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #9
To the Unions:
Further to our discussions with the Joint Bargaining Ccmmit tee, 1987, towards concluding a Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Company agrees to continue to pay a two (2) job class additive for journeymen tradesmen with Provincial or Interprovincial Government Certification. It is understood that this certification may have been attained through successfully completing a Government approved apprenticeship program; through examination; or without examination (Grandfather Clause).
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Asociation of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #10
To the Unions:
Further to our discussions with the Joint Bargaining Committee, 1987, towards concluding a Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Company agrees to continue to pay a two (2) job class additive for employees holding current 1st and 2nd Class Power Engineering certificates issued by the Manitoba Department of Labour.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
84
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #11
To the Unions:
This will confirm our agreement with respect to the payment of a Copper/zinc Price Bonus to employees, as set out below.
This Bonus will be based on the combined average realized price per pound of copper and zinc published by the Company in Canadian dollars for the periods ending March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st (hereinafter called the "Combined Average Realized Price").
If the Combined Average Realized Price for any quarter during the life of this Contract is $1.68 (Trigger Price which may be reduced by the quarterly average realized price of gold) or more, each employee who is on the payroll on the date the quarterly Combined Average Realized Price is published will receive a lump sum payment in an amount equal to the number of hours worked by him in that quarter multiplied by the appropriate bonus.
The relationship between Combined Average Realized Price and Bonus shall be as follows:
Combined Averaqe Realized Price	Bonus
$ 1.68 (Triqqer Price)*	$0.05
1.69	0.10
1.70	0.15
1.71	0.20
1.72	0.25
1.73	0.30
1.74	0.35
1.75	0.40
1.76	0.45
1.77	0.50
Etc.	Etc.
* The "Trigger Price" of $1.68 will be lowered in any particular quarter by one cent (It) for each full $25.00 Cdn./oz. that the quarterly average realized price of gold exceeds $420.00 Cdn./oz.
Example:	If the average realized price of gold for a quarter is
between $445 .00 - $469.99 Cdn./oz., then the trigger price for that quarter will be $1.67 for copper and zinc.
If the average realized price of gold for a quarter is between $470.00 ^ $494.99 Cdn./oz., then the trigger price for that quarter will be $1.66 for copper and zinc.
Note:	The Trigger Price will not be adjusted upward regardless
of the quarterly average realized price of gold.
All payments, if applicable, will be made as soon as possible following the publication of the quarterly Combined Average Realized Price.	.
The Copper/Zinc Price Bonus will cease to be in effect 30 September 1990 with the final bonus payment, if applicable, being made as soon as possible following the publishing of the Combined Average Realized Price of copper and zinc for the quarter 01 July 1990 to 30 September 1990.
This Bonus, if 'applicable, shall not form part of the employee's straight time hourly rate and will only be paid for hours worked during any particular quarter and will not be included for the calculation of vacation pay.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #12
To the Unions:
If the parties cannot mutually agree as to whether a new occupational classification should or should not be within the scope of their Collective Bargaining Agreement, either party may apply to the Canada Labour Relations Board to have the Board make the determination.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance 6 Services
(signed) K. C. SCelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
87
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UHDERSTAHD1HG - #13
To the Unions:
A Boilermaker/Welder who is in possession of the following current tickets will receive a one job class additive per ticket:
1)	Pressure welding ticket - 60/10
2)	Pressure welding ticket - 70/18
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Fliii Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #14
To the Unions:
A Pipefitter who is in possession of the following current licences will receive a one job class additive per licence
1)	"B" gas licence
2)	"A" gas licence
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
89
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #15
To the Unions:
RE:	SPECIAL ALLOWANCE - JOB AMAT-GAMATTffla
Daring 1987 bargaining the Company and the Unions agreed that a special allowance of one job class would be paid if, as a result of job amalgamation, the CWS evaluation of the amalgamated job does not result in a minimum one job class increase above the highest classified job being amalgamated and the following criteria are met:
(i)	two or more job descriptions are combined into one or more job descriptions and one or more job descriptions are terminated, and
{ii) the primary function(s) of the terminated job(s) become part of the primary £nnctioa(a) of the remaining job(s), and
(iii) as Che resale of the amalgamation less employees are required to do the work.
It is understood that if technological change were to eliminate most of a job's duties and the remaining duties were added to another occupation, or a job were terminated and its duties spread amongst a large number of jobs or incumbents, the special allowance would not apply.
The special allowance will not form part of the CWS evaluation or classification bat will remain a separate allowance.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
90
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #16
To the Unions:
Notwithstanding the terms of Article 14, at a department's discretion an employee who is required to work on a General Holiday may be allowed to take a substitute day off without pay at a mutually acceptable time (normally in conjunction with his next annual vacation).
An employee wishing to take a substitute day off mast make written application within seven (7) calendar days of such General Holiday.
A substitute day must be taken within one year of the General Holiday for which it was granted.
(signed) D.C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Fliu Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #17
To the Unions:
When a General Holiday falls on a Monday, which is an employee's regular day of rest, the Company agrees to consider making special arrangements for particular groups of employees, in order that they may enjoy an extra day off by an extension of one day to their regular days of rest. However, the Company is not required to pay overtime rates for any hour worked in excess of forty (40) in one (1) work week where those excess hours are a result of the abovenoted arrangements.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnieki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #18
To the Unions:
An employee, affected by Article 14,06, upon making written application within seven (7) calendar days of such General Holiday, may mutually agree with his Supervisor to take such holiday without pay at some other time.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C, Stelaicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #19
To the Unions:
Further to our special vacation scheduling, the practice will continue to be that an employee will be allowed to split his special vacation entitlements as long as special vacation bookings will be for a minimum of five (5) working days.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #20
To the Unions:
Further to Article 16.02 (a) it is understood that such leave may be for the purpose of International Union business and in these cases such employee will be required to pay the Company's cost of carrying him on the payroll in addition to the employee's regular contributions and he will not accrue vacation entitlement and vacation pay.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stalnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #21
To the Unions:
The parties agree and recognise the existence of two agreements entered into between the Unions and the Company during the period of the previous Collective Agreement which will continue with full effect during the currency of the present Collective Bargaining Agreement.
1.	An agreement dated 11 September 1975 whereby the Company agrees to implement the Miner Trade into Company operations at Flin Flon and Snow Lake.
2.	An agreement dated 26 June 1974 whereby the Company agrees to implement the Industrial Mechanic Trade into Company operations at Flin Flon and Snow Lake. It is agreed that effective 01 October 1979 that the length of the Industrial Mechanic Apprenticeship shall be three (3)
years.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “ #22
To the Unions:
It is not the Company's intention to have an apprentice work alone to such an extent that it is a detriment to his training. Notwithstanding the above while an apprentice is assigned the responsibility of a maintenance or construction job, or the direction of other apprentices by the Company, or is responsible for the maintenance function of an operating unit such as a Mine for a minimum of one (1) full shift, he shall receive a rate of pay not less than the starter rate of pay for the trade in which he is an apprentice, for all such shifts worked. The minimum of one (1) full shift requirement will be waived in cases of call outs.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #23
To the Unions:
Effective the date of signing, each employee who subsequently attains his 2nd Class Power Engineering certificate issued by the Manitoba Department of Labour shall receive a bonus of $100.00. In addition, he will receive $1,000.00 after one (1) year as a 2nd Class Power Engineer with the Company.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stalnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
lly instructed to pick up :he start of his normal shift The words "equipment or . t''-'ls.
& Services
n Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #25
To the Unions:
Departmental service crews who after having reported to their normal place of work are assigned to a work place outside the main Flin Flon and Snow Lake plant areas during the first half of their shift and remain there for the balance of their shift shall work a straight eight (8) hours including a paid lunch period. It is understood that return transportation to their normal place of work will be on Company time.
It is further understood that the present practice affecting employees being temporarily designated to a work place outside the main Flin Flon and Snow Lake plant areas and travelling on their own time will remain in effect when in the opinion of Company management it is deemed necessary or advisable.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
100
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #26
To the Unions:
Further to negotiations with the Joint Bargaining Committee, 1987, towards concluding a Collective Bargaining Agreement effective 01 October 1987 the Company has agreed to resubmit Letters of Agreement regarding past practise of providing transportation to Snow Lake. It is, therefore, the intention of the Company that the following travelling arrangements will be continued:
Flin Flon employees sent to Snow Lake for a temporary period would be paid an amount equal to two and a half (2^) hours of straight-time pay to cover the transportation for themselves and their personal tools to Snow Lake and an additional amount equal to two and a half (2^) hours of straight-time pay to cover the transportation for themselves and their personal tools from Snow Lake when they return from the completion of a temporary job. The employees would be expected to be at Snow Lake, ready for work at the start of the shift, with their personal tools, and would work a full shift on the day they were returning to Flin Flon. The Company could reserve the right to use other means of transportation outside of the above when, in the sole opinion of Company Management it was necessary or advisable. The Company further agrees to provide the equivalent of return bus fare, Flin Flon to Snow Lake, for each weekend during the said temporary period that does not coincide with the date of transportation at the commencement and completion of the said temporary period.
The above terms and conditions will also apply to Snow Lake employees sent to Flin Flon for a temporary period.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #27
To the Unions:
HE:	NAMEW LAKE
It is agreed between the parties that Article 18 will apply to employees working at Hamew Lake following the construction phase.
Further to Article 19.09, it is agreed that the travel time from Flin Flon to Eaaew Lake will be deemed to be ninety (90)minutes. The travel allowance of forty-five (45) minutes per trip shall be paid bi-weekly to eligible employees.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - *28
To the Unions:
Subject to Article 19.09 and Article 18, departmental service crews who have places of work designated outside the main Flin Flon and Snow Lake plant areas, respectively, shall work a straight eight (8) hours, including a paid lunch period.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C« Stalnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #29
To the Unions:
Further to Article 19.09, the Company agrees that the travel time from Snow Lake to Spruce Point will be deemed to be fifty-five (55) minutes. The travel allowance of ten (10) minutes per trip shall be paid bi-weekly for eligible employees.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K« C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #30
To the Unions:
This will confirm our discussions during the 1987 bargaining that the Company will consult with the President(s) of the affected Union(s) prior to awarding a contract which would result in an outside firm having its employees work on Company property. The Union(s) will receive written notification of the successful firm once that decision is made.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C. Stelnicki
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
01 October 1987
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - #31
To the Unions:
Further to our discussions during 1987 bargaining, the parties agree to the establishment of a joint committee for the purpose of reviewing proposed changes in the scope of work to be performed by individual trades. As a general guideline, it is agreed that an employee may be expected to perform duties which are reasonable and practicable in order to expedite the work. Such committee will be comprised of the President of the Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions, the President(s) of the involved trade(s) and respective Company representatives, and will meet as often as necessary in order to discuss such changes.
Reconnendationa from the coaaiccee will be given full consideration prior to changes being implemented. In the event that the recomendationa of the committee are not mutually agreeable by the parties, the employee(s) involved will not be disciplined for refusing to do work outside his normal duties.
It is further agreed that no employee will be laid off or displaced as a direct result of combining or augmenting jobs.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
(signed) K. C, Stelnictci
President
Association of Flin Flon Trade Unions
106
APPENDIX "B"
RIGHT TO REFUSE PROCEDURE EFFECTIVE 12 AUGUST 1987
As a result of the 1984 negotiations, a tripartite committee consisting of Company Management, United Steel Workers of America and the Association of Flin Flon Trades was established to design and implement a training program to deal with the administration of the terms of Article 6.05 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement,
The Company and the Unions will continue to perfect and maintain a safe and healthy work environment which can only be achieved through the co-operation of all members of the workforce.
The enclosed definition and situations have been designed and agreed to by both Company and the Unions and will form the basis of a "Right to Refuse" Company policy.
(signed) D. C. Powell
Manager of Maintenance & Services
107
ARTICLE 6.05 RIGHT TO REPOSE
DEFINITION
Where an employee of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co., Limited has reasonable cause to believe that:
A)	his or her use or operation of the equipment will result in a danger
to that employee or another employee, or
B)	a condition in or associated with the work place could cause a danger
to the employee,
that person aay refuse to use or operate the machine, device or thing or to work in the place.
* Canada Labour Code refers to danger as:
"Any hazard or condition that could reasonably be expected to cause injury or illness to a person exposed thereto before the condition or hazard can be corrected."
LIMITATIONS
Au employee may not refuse to work if:
A)	the employee's refusal puts the life, health or safety of another
person directly in the danger, or
B)	the perceived danger is inherent in the employee's work or is a
normal condition of employment.
Where an employee takes unfair advantage of the Right to Refuse, for frivolous reasons, he may be subject to such discipline as is considered appropriate by the Company.
SITUATION #i
(Both employee and supervisor agree something exists that would constitute a danger. The situation is resolved between employee and supervisor).
Step 1:	Employee should contact immediate supervisor immediately and
explain the reasons why he/she believes that the task is dangerous.
Step 2:	A visual investigation should take place, at that point, between
ianediafce supervisor and employee.
Step 3:	A safe solution is agreed upon and the matter is rectified to
the satisfaction of employee and supervisor which would allow employee to return to work, or perform the new task at his own free will.
108
SITUATION #2
(Employee and supervisor cannot come to an agreement, but the matter is
resolved to the satisfaction of the employee by the senior supervisor of
the area, the appropriate Safety Committee representative and a Safety
Department representative).
Step 1:	Employee should contact immediate supervisor immediately and
explain the reasons why he/she believes that the task is dangerous.
Step 2:	A visual investigation should take place, at. t-hat point, between
imediate supervisor and employee.
Step 3:	If satisfactory conclusion does not occur, employee should be
reassigned to another job, preferably in the imediace area but must be available pending any further investigation.
Step 4:	The incident is recorded.
Step 5:	If immediate supervisor is attempting to fill the job that was
previously refused by another employee, the employee contacted must be informed that another employee has refused to do the job and the reasons for refusing must be given.
Step 6:	Since the situation cannot be resolved between the immediate
supervisor and the employee, it is now referred to senior supervision (e.g. Foreman, Assistant Superintendent), the appropriate Union Safety Coomittee representative and the Safety Department. This group may consult with the Department Superintendent and the matter will be resolved at this point to the satisfaction of the employee.
Situation #3
(Employee and supervisor cannot come to agreement. Also, the matter has not been resolved to the satisfaction of the employee by the senior supervisor of the area, the appropriate Safety Conmiccee representative and a Safety Department representative; however, Government Inspection Branch rules in favour of the employee).
Step 1:	Employee should contact inmediate supervisor immediately and
explain the reasons why he/she believes that the task is dangerous.
Step 2:	A visual investigation should take place, at that point, between
iomediate supervisor and employee.
Step 3:	If satisfactory conclusion does not occur, employee should be
reassigned to another job, preferably in the immediate area, but must be available pending any further investigation.
Step 4:	The incident is recorded.
Step 5:	if immediate supervisor is attempting to fill the job that was
previously refused by another employee, t*ie emPl°yee contacted must be informed that another employee has refused to do the job and the reasons for refusing must be given.
109
Step 6:	Since the situation cannot be resolved between the immediate supervisor and the employee, it is now referred to senior supervision, the appropriate Union Safety Committee representative and the Safety Department.
Step 7;	If, after consultation with the Department Superintendent, the matter has still not been resolved to the satisfaction of the employee, the problem will be referred to the appropriate Government Inspection Branch. The employer and the employee shall each notify the Government Inspection Branch and the employee, or another employee selected by the employee who refused to work, must be available during the investigation.
Step 8:	Where the Government Inspection Branch representative decides ' that the use or operation of a machine, device or thing, would constitute a danger to the health or safety of an employee or that a condition exists in a place that would constitute a danger to the health or safety of an employee, he shall give such direction as he considers appropriate, and an employee may continue to refuse to use or operate the machine, device or thing or to work in the place until the directive is complied with or until it is varied or rescinded.
SITUATION #4
(Employee and supervisor cannot come to agreement. Also, the matter has not been resolved to the satisfaction of the employee by the senior supervisor of the area, the appropriate Safety Commiccee representative and a Safety Department representative; however, the Government Inspection Branch rule in favour of the employer).
Step 1:	Employee should contact immediate supervisor immediately and explain the reasons why he/she believes that the task is dangerous. .
Step 2:	A visual investigation should take place, at that point, between immediate supervisor and employee.
Step 3:	If satisfactory conclusion does not occur, employee should be reassigned to another job, preferably in the immediate area, but must be available pending any further investigation.
Step 4:	The incident is recorded.
Step 5;	If immediate supervisor is attempting to fill the job that was previously refused by another employee, the employee contacted must be informed that another employee has refused to do the job and the reasons for refusing must be given.
Step 6:	Since the situation cannot be resolved between the immediate supervisor and the employee, it is now referred to senior supervision, the appropriate Union Safety Committee representative and the Safety Department.
110
Step 7:	If, after consultation with the Department Superintendent, the
matter has still not been resolved to the satisfaction of the employee, the problem will be referred to the appropriate Government Inspection Branch, the employer and the employee shall each notify the Government Inspection Branch and the employee, or another employee selected by the employee who refused to work, must be available during the investigation.
Step 8:	Where the Government Inspection Branch representative decides
that the use or operation of a machine, device or thing would not constitute a danger to the health or safety of an employee, or that a condition does not exist in a place that would constitute a danger to the health or safety of an employee, an employee is not entitled to continue to refuse to use or operate the machine, device or thing or to work in the place, but he may, by notice in writing given within seven days of receiving notice of the decision, require the Government Inspection Branch representative to refer his decision to the Canada Labour Relations Board, and thereupon the Government Inspection Branch representative shall refer the decision to the Canada Labour Relations Board.
Ill
VISIT
UNION HEADQUARTERS LABOUR TEMPLE
63 Church St., Flin Flon, Manitoba
ASSOCIATION OF FLIN FLON TRADE UNIONS Phone 687-7123
WELCOME TO THE HOUSE OF LABOUR