AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
BOUDEN WESTMIN (CANADA) LTD. MYRA FALLS OPERATIONS
(hereinafter called the “Company”) AND
CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS LOCAL 3019
(hereinafter called the “Union”)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article ■■
1.......
2.......
3	......
4	......
5	......
6	......
7	......
8	......
9	......
10	.....
11 .....
12......
13	.....
14	.....
15	.....
16	.....
17	.....
18	.....
19	.....
20	.....
21 .....
22......
23	.....
24	.....
25	.....
26	.....
Appendix
Appendix

Definition.........................Page
Preamble................................$
Employees Covered by This Agreement.....4
Union Recognition.......................
Term of Agreement..................
Rights Reserved to Management......
No Discrimination..................
Lockouts or Strikes................
Union Activities on Company Time...
Bulletin Board.....................
Leave of Absence...................
Safety.............................
Seniority, Lay-offs, and Recall..........32
............42
............48
............49
............51
............56
............59
12
13
14 16 17 21
Settlement of Dispute...............
Wages...............................
Hours of Work.......................
Overtime and Special Pay............
Statutory Holidays..................
Vacation ............................
Pension, Health & Welfare................64
Underground Contract Committee...........69
Union Security...........................71
General Provisions.......................74
Apprentices and Training.................76
Technological Change......................84
Bus Transportation.......................85
Red Circling.............................86
Wage Schedule “ A........................87
“A-Job Classifications...................88
“B" - Entry Level Positions..............90
Page 2
alters of Agreement:
Camp Accommodation.............
Discrimination and/or Harassment.
Camp Committee.................
Assignment of Work.............
Hot Meals for Mill Crews.......
Employee Evaluations...........
91
92
94
95
96
97
Letters of Intent:
Printing of Collective Agreement..................98
Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance..............99
30Year Retirement Supplement.....................101
Early Retiree Benefit Coverage...................103
Increase Pensions Paid for Current Pensioners... 104
Union Health and Safety Representative...........105
Funding of Pension Benefits......................107
Benefit Booklets.................................108
Extended Health Coverage for Retirees over 65 .. 109 Entry Level Positions........................ 110
Page 3
Article 1 PREAMBLE
The parties to this Agreement recognize it is in their mutual interest to promote, as fully as possible, conditions of safety to the employee, economy of the operation and protectionof property. These conditions can best be maintained by harmonious relations between the Company and the employees and by the settlement, in an amicable manner, of all disputes which may arise. The Company and the employees shall cooperate fully for their mutual benefit.
Article 2
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
2.01	Employee Defined
The term employees as used in this Agreement shall include all hourly rated employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies covered by the certificationwho are engaged in mining, treatment and transportationoperations related to the Myra Falls Operations of the companies except those employees in a confidential, supervisory, technical, executive, security or clerical capacity.
The term supervisory as applied to employees as herein designated includes (without restricting the generality of the expression) foreman, shift bosses, and employees of the companies who have the authority to hire or discharge.
Words in this agreement imparting the masculinegender shall be understood to also apply to female employees.
Page 4
2	Temporary Promotion to Staff
An employee who is replacinga member of staff to meet the needs of the operation in such circumstances as vacation replacement or special projects for a temporary period up to a maximum of sixty (60) consecutive calendar days, shall be considered a member of staff. Upon completion of such a temporary period he shall return to the group classification that he left.
In the case of promotion to staff, the employee will cease to accumulate seniority after sixty (60) calendar days, but will retain his previous seniority should he return to the bargaining unit.
Hourly employees who may be used under the terms of this clause will be chosen for their qualifications and will be termed designated employees.These employees will not be required to administer discipline. These individuals will be approved by the Mine Manager and their names will be supplied to the Union. The Company will provide the Union the dates and names of employees who work as a designated employee on a monthly basis.
The time restrictions in this clause may be waived by mutual consent of the Company and the Union under special conditions.
2.03	Students
The Company may employ students in reasonable numbers from time to time, provided that no employee shall be demoted, laid off, discharged, or have his recall delayed to make place for a student, nor shall promotion within the bargaining unit be adversely affected.
Page 5
Article 3
UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Certification
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions; and the Company will continue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Supervisor Working
The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of foreman to perform work which is currently being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except under emergency conditions, the purpose of training, instruction, or for metallurgical research.
It is understood that the working foreman (supervisor) shall attempt at all times to have a member of the bargaining unit assist him in any emergency. An emergency shall be defined as a major disruption in production, or where there is danger to life or limb.
3.03	Contracting Out
The Company will not contract out work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except to make the operation more efficient, and will not do so if it has the result of layoff or reducing the rate of pay of employees who have the ability to perform the work.
Page 6
)r to contracting out, consideration by the Company will given to utilizing employees on layoff. An employee recalled under this clause will not receive notice of further layoff ,but will return to layoff status at the conclusion of the work assignment. It is understood that the Company will determine whether the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work. Greater consideration will be given to longer-term assignments. The Company will review each situation on its own merits.
The Company shall endeavour wherever possible and practical to have it's sub-contract work performed by a union shop. When the Company decides that the contracting out of work on site is necessary the Union will be so advised a minimum of fourteen (14) days in advance. When the contract has been awarded the Union will be advised in writing a minimum of seven (7) days in advance of the work start date.
The written advice shall contain the following information:
1.	Name of subcontractor
2.	Nature of the work to be contracted.
3.	Approximate number of subcontractor's employees.
4.	Approximate duration of the job.
5.	Union affiliation if applicable.
The parties to this agreement recognize that under certain emergency situations the time limits mentioned above can be waived.
3.04	Paid Education Leave
The Company agrees to pay into a special CAW Leadership
Page 7
Training Fund three cents ($0.03) per hour per employe! all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Such leave will be for the upgrading of employee's skills in all aspects of trade union functions. Payment shall be made on a quarterly basis into the trust fund established by the National Union CAW, effective August 15th, 1997.
Cheques should be made payable to:
The Company agrees to pay into the CAW Social Justice Fund, the purpose of which is to providefinancial assistance to such entities as food banks, registered Canadian charities, internationaldevelopment and relief measures to assist innocent victims of droughts, famines, and other dislocations.
Subject to the following conditions, the Company will make quarterly contributions to such a fund equal to one cent ($0.01) for each straight time hour worked.
The Company will make these quarterly payments provided that:
1.	the Union maintains the fund as a non-profit corporation under the Canada Corporations Act, and ensures that all necessary steps are taken to maintain the corporation in proper legal standing and that all
CAW Leadership Training Fund CAW Family Education Centre RR#1, Port Elgin, Ontario NOH 2C0
3.05	Social Justice Fund
Page 8
requirements of the Act are met;
2.	the Union maintains the registration of the non-profit , corporation underthe IncomeTax Act of Canada in good
standing;
3.	the Union maintainsa favourable IncomeTax Rulingfrom the Federal Department of National Revenue that all contributionswhich the Company makes to the non-profit corporation are tax deductible;
4.	the Union provides the Company with annual audited financial statements of, and summaries of each year's donations made by the non-profit corporation;
(a)	the objects, by-laws and resolutions of this non-profit corporation should limit it to making the following types of financial contributions:
(b)	contributionsto other Canadian non-partisan charities that are registered by the Canadian InternationalDevelopmentAgency (CIDA), or any successor body that performs like functions,
(c)	contributions to any Canadian or international non-partisan efforts to which other Canadian charitiesthat are registered under the Income Tax Act are also making contributions, or
(d)	contributions to any non-governmental and non-partisan development group recognized by CIDA and registeredas a charity underthe Income Tax Act.
Page 9
Article 4
TERM OF AGREEMENT
4.01	Term
This Agreement shall be in force for the period from-Auaust 15, 2000 to and including August 14. 2003. Thereafter, the agreement shall continue in full force and effect from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend the agreement at the expiration of any yearly period is given by either party. Subsections 50 (2) & (3) of the Labour Relations Code of B.C. are excluded from operation under this Agreement.
4.02	Status During Negotiations
During any period when negotiations are being conducted between the parties for the renewal of this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
(a) The Union commences a legal strike;
(p) The Employer commences a legal lockout; or
The parties enter into a new or further agreement.
4.03	Effective Date
Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and conditions of this agreement shall become effective from the date of signing of the Collective Agreement by both parties.
Page 10
Article 5
RIGHTS RESERVED TO MANAGEMENT
5.01	Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement provided; however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees. Changes made to rules and regulations shall be posted and a copy of such changes sent to the local Union.
5.02	Obligation to Operate
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties, or any part thereof.
5.03	Rights to Hire, Discharge and Select
The Company shall have the right to hire, discipline, demote and discharge employees for proper, just and reasonable cause. The selection of lead hands and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the Company's decision.
Page 11
Article 6
NO DISCRIMINATION 6.01 No Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of his legitimate activities as a member of the Union.
The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part or by any members towards any employee of the Company.
The Parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia as per Letter of Agreement - Discrimination and/or Harassment.
Page 12
Article 7
LOCKOUTS OR STRIKES
7.01	Prohibition Against Work Stoppages
The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union, not any representative of the Union, nor any employee shall in any way authorize, encourage, or participate in any strike, walk-out, suspension of work, or a slow-down against the Company during the life of this Agreement.
7.02	Pickets Lines
Noemployee(s) will be subject to disciplinary action nor will action be taken against the Union if an employee or employees honour a lawful picket line as permitted under the Labour Code of British Columbia.
Page 13
Article 8
UNION ACTIVITIES ON COMPANY TINfE
8.01(a) Union Officers & Meetings
Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen will be designated in writing by the Union to the Company. For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives, the Grievance Committee will consist of not more than three (3) members as designated by the Union.
When the legitimate business of a Grievance Committeeman or Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen require him to leave his job or department, he shall first receive permission from his foreman or department supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regular working hours.
8.01(b)	Meetings
Meetings between the Company and the Union will be held during working hours. Such meetings will be scheduled at the convenience of the Company, the Union and the employee.
8.01(c)	Union Meetings
The Union will be allowed access to facilities at the mine for the purposes of conducting meetings. Subject to the requirements of the Operations, the Company shall grant a maximum of two (2) Union Officials, as outlined in Article 10.03, time off work to attend any one meeting. Employees scheduled to work will not be given permission to attend the foregoing meetings.
Page14
Union must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, as to the date and time of the meeting and the names of Union Officials to attend.
8.02	Union Access to Property
A Union representative or representatives shall be permitted entry to the Company's property subject to the decision of the Company as to the number of such representatives to be granted such entry at any one time. Such Union representative or representatives shall be granted permission to use camp and cookhouse facilities, but the Company reserves the right to determine on what basis and for what period of time such permission shall be granted.
8.03	Pay For Union Business
The Company agrees to pay the Union the amount of $3300.00 per month for the purpose of conducting Union business.
8.04	Grievance Committee Chair
In the event the Grievance Committee Chair does not have a dayshift job, the Company and Union agree to assign the Grievance Committee Chair to the next posted job for which he is qualified. If the employee is posted to a lower paid job heshall retain his hourly rate of pay. If the new posted job receives underground production bonus, the Grievance Committee Chair will be paid his normal underground production bonus, up to a maximum of the rehab bonus rate, for time spent at the mine site conferring with the Company on grievance matters.
Page 15
8.05	Union Office at Mine
The Company agrees to make available at no cost to the Union, an office space for the exclusive use of the Union on the ground floor of the main administration building. This office will be utilized by all Union officials (i.e. President, Grievance Chair, and OHSC Co-chair).
Article 9
BULLETIN BOARD
9.01
The Company agrees that bulletin boards and distribution boxes will be made available in the Dry(s), H-W and Lynx surface shops, Powerhouse, Spit, Cookhouse and Concentrator for Union purposes, provided that the use of the boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union. All notices must be approved and signed by a member of the Local Union Executive. The Union agrees that the bulletin boards will not be used for any matters not relating directly to Union business.
Page 16
Article 10
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Union Officers Right to Leave of Absence
An employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union necessitating a leave of absence, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided that it does not exceed a period of three (3) years upon making proper application in writing to the Company. Such leave will be renewed on written application by the Union.
10.02	Time Spent on Leave
The time spent as a delegate of the Union or on other authorized leave of absence for Union purposes as set forth in
10.01	of the Article shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority standing or vacation time entitlement.
The Company shall not be required to grant this leave to more than a total of three (3) persons and no more than one (1) from each department at the same time and for not more than a total for all persons of seven hundred and eighty (780) working days in one (1) year.
10.03(a) National & International Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend National or International gatherings will be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Not more than four (4) employees from any one department or seven (7) employees in total from all departments may take such leave at any one time.
Page 17
The Union must give the Company three (3) working c notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, of suc!? leave.
Not more than a total of one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a year need be granted for this purpose and no individual leave will exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days.
10.03(b) Local Union Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend local union gatherings including negotiations, labour arbitrationsor committee meetings with the Company will be granted leave of absence without pay for this purpose.
10.04	Employee Leave
Any employee, on written notice setting forth good cause, may, at the discretion of the Company, be granted a leave of absence without pay. Such leave may be extended when similar notice setting forth good cause is supplied. Whenever a leave of absence or extension is granted or denied, the employee shall be notified in writing. The Company agrees to consider such requests in an equitable manner and such leaves shall not be unreasonably withheld.
10.05	Bereavement Leave
In the case of death in the immediate family of any employee, the Company will grant the employee a paid leave of absence of three (3) regularly scheduled shifts, provided the leave is taken within seven (7) calendar days of the death.. If the employee attends the funeral at a place other than Vancouver Island, he will be granted a total of four (4) days paid leave of absence.
Page 18
nediate family shall mean Mother, Father, Spouse, Chil-uien, Stepchildren, Brothers, Sisters, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Grandparents and grandchildren.
One (1) extra day leave of absence, with pay, and one (1) extra day leave of absence without pay, will be granted if the employee attends the funeral at a place outside British Columbia.
The above leave days will only be granted if the Company is notified of the leave requirement.
10.06	Absenteeism
Recognizing that excessive absenteeism by employees creates staffing and scheduling problems, the Parties agree:
(a)	The Company will institute a 24 hour per day phone-in message service. Employees are required to phone in at least one hour prior to the commencement of their shift, to inform the Company they will not be reporting for work and the reasons for same.
(b)	Where an employee demonstrates a pattern of absenteeism such as repeated Mondays, Fridays, etc., the Company will give written notice to the employee inclusive of documentation of the said pattern, with a copy of same to the Union. Such notice will require the employee to provide a medical certificate for any future incidents or repetition of such pattern until an employee has gone six (6) clear months without repeating the pattern. The Company will pay any medical costs associated with such a request.
Page 19
10.07	Court, Jury Or Fire Fighting Duty
If an employee is summoned or subpoenaed for jury selection or jury duty or as a witness, or conscripted for fire fighting duty, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence with pay, which will be the difference between his regular pay and the monies received. The employee must provide the Company with a statement of payment. In such cases of absence, employees must provide the Company notificationwithin three (3)working days of absence. In case of fire fighting, if notification is not possible, the fire fighting certificate will be accepted in lieu of written notification.
10.08	Maternity/Parental Leave
Maternity and Parental Leave will be granted as per the Employment Standards Act of British Columbia.
10.09	Educational Leave
Consistent with Company operating needs, the Company will consider an employees request for educational leave for up to one (1) year without pay. The employee must apply for the leave in writing at least two (2) months prior to the requested start of the leave. The employee will provide the Company with written confirmation of registration from the educational institution.
Page 20
Article 11 SAFETY
11.01	Occupational Health and Safety Committee
The following terms and conditions will apply for the Occupational Health and Safety Committee:
11.01(a) Purpose of Occupational Health & Safety Committee
The purpose of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee is to encourage all employees to share a common goal of improving health and safety in the workplace.
The Committee provides a mechanism through which workers can contribute and provide insight into the formulation of health and safety policies and programs, the assessment of equipment and processes, ergonomics, and the setting of safety goals and objectives.
The Committee will promote an atmosphere of co-operation and will strive to reach consensus on health and safety issues and make recommendations which are agreed to by the entire committee.
The Committee will conduct monthly inspection tours and subsequent meetings, review past inspections, review accident and near miss investigation reports and minutes of previous meetings, make recommendations to correct hazardous conditions, investigate all unsafe conditions and promote compliance with relevant government legislation affecting health and safety at the mine. The Committee will be involved in the design and delivery of occupational health
Page 21
and safety training and awarenessprogramsfor all employ to minimize adverse workplace impacts om employ^ health.
11.01(b) Structure Of Joint Health & Safety Committee
The committeewill be composed of equal representationfrom the Company and the Union and shall be representative of the areas in which they work. Therefore, the structure of the Committee is as follows:
COMPANY
Company Safety Committee Chairman (safety department)
Mine Department representative (2) Lynx (1)
H-W (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
Union
Union Safety Committee Chairman Mine Department representative (2) Lynx (1)
H-W (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
Page 22
)1(c) Responsibilitiesof O.H.S.C.
The Committee shall carry out the legislative responsibilities
mandated under the Mines Act Code of B.C,
In addition, the Committee shall collectively work to provide advice and insight into the resolution of workplace health and safety issues through activities such as:
i)	review of health and safety programs, goals and objectives
ii)	review of accident investigations and injury statistics
11.01(d) Monthly Inspection Tours
Monthly inspections will be conducted in each area by the Company Chairman (or his designate), Union Chairman (or his designate) and the appropriate representatives from the department concerned (one (1) from the Company, one (1) from the Union); except an employee from the spit, appointed by the Union, together with a representative of the Company will conduct monthly safety inspections of the spit area.
The Committee shall inspect as many locations in the mine as the Committee deems appropriate.
After the completion of the inspection tour, those representatives conducting the tour will meet with the management representative responsible for that area to discuss the findings of the inspection. The inspection tour representatives will complete an inspection tour report outliningtheir findings and the remedial action to be taken and forward to the Committee for review at the monthly meeting. Safety
Page 23
hazards noted during inspection tours will be corrected wi 30 days or by the date agreed by the O.H.S.C.
11.01(e) Meetings of the O.H.S.C.
The Committee will meet once a month to review and make recommendations related to:
i)	inspection tours	
H)	accident investigations	
iii)	safe work practices, methods and	procedures
lv)	health and safety training	
v)	health and safety concerns raised and management	by employees
11.01(f)	Minutes of O.H.S.C. Meetings	
The secretary of the Committee will prepare minutes of the monthly meetings which will be signed by both co-chairmen. A copy will be sent to the following:		
I)	Mine Manager	
ii)	Union President	
iii)	Department Heads	
iv)	District Mines Inspector	
v)	Post on bulletin boards	
vi)	National Union	
Page 24		
D1(g) Recommendationscf the O.H.S.C.
Where immediate compliance cannot be accomplished, the Company shall ensure that the recommendation has been complied with by the next Occupational Health and Safety Committee meeting. Where compliance cannot be accomplished by the next monthly meeting of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee, the Company will document in writing, with copies to the Union Safety Committee Chairman, the reasons for non-compliance along with future plans for compliance.
11.01(h) Notification of Joint Investigations
The Company and Union agree that it is of the utmost importance to ensure that all lost time accidents, near miss incidents and/or dangerous occurrences are thoroughly investigated in the interests of future prevention. Therefore all lost time accidents, near miss incidents and/or dangerous occurrences will be jointly investigated by the designated union and management personnel from the Occupational Health and Safety Committee who shall have access to any and all information available and equipment necessary in the completion of the investigation and will be copied with all reports and findings resulting from such investigations.
Joint investigation reports will be signed by both Committee co-chairmen and a copy sent to the following:
i)	Mine Manager
ii)	Union President
iii)	District Mines Inspector
iv)	Post on bulletin boards
Page 25
11.01(1) Accidentand Near-Miss InvestigationRepc
These reports shall contain the following:
(a)	The place, date and time of the incident;
(b)	The names and job titles of persons injured, if applicable;
(c)	The names of witnesses;
(d)	A brief description of the incident;
(e)	A statement of the sequence of events which preceded the incident;
(t) The identificationof any unsafe conditions, acts or procedures which contributedin any manner to the incident;
(g)	Recommended corrective actions to prevent similar occurrences;
(h)	The names of the persons who investigated the incident.
11.01(j) Right to Accompany Inspectors
Where a government inspector conducts an inspection at the mine, and that inspection is directly related to the health and safety of the employees, a Union safety committee representative may, at the Union's discretion, accompany the inspector on his tour.
Page 26
?n such an inspector arrives at the mine the Company s...all notify the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate. Should the inspector submit a written report related to such an inspection, a copy of same shall be provided to the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate.
11.01(k) Access to Log Books
The OHSC will have access to log books kept for maintenance and safety of equipment and all hourly employee time sheets for the purpose of performing their duties.
11.01(1) Disclosure of Information
The Company will notify the Union of hazardous substances or chemicals used at the mine. Wherever possible, the following would be included with notification.
(a)	The chemical breakdown;
(b)	Proper handling techniques; and
(c)	Necessary training for safe handling.
11.01(m) Time Spent by an Employee
The time so spent on any of the aforementioned items in article 11.01, necessitating loss of time by employees delegated by the Union, shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time plus an amount equal to the employee's normal underground production bonus, if applicable. Production bonus will only be paid to employees who normally receive production bonus. Under no conditions will overtime rates be paid.
Page 27
11.01	(n) Education and Training
The Company and the Union agree that all employees receive sufficient training in order that they may perform their work in a safe manner and minimize adverse workplace impacts on employee health.
11.01(o) Other Relevant Legislation
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provision of the Collective Agreement pertainingto occupational health and safety, the Mines Act or relevant legislation that is superior to the foregoing shall take precedence.
11.02	Employee Obligation
Employees must obey all safety rules and report at once any unsafe practice or condition to their supervisors for correction as quickly as practicable.
11.03(a) Safety Protection Equipment Supplied
The Company will supply safety protection equipment to its employees as required. Company supplied safety equipment will be as follows:
Eye protection (non-prescription)
Hard hats Hearing protection Dust respirators Miner's belt Safety belts and lines Tag out locks
Lineman's gloves and boots Painter's masks Aprons and face shields
Page 28
Safety asbestos gloves Welder's leathers Slickers , Gloves
11.03(b) Replacement of Safety Protection Equipment
Upon presentation of safety protection equipment which is no longer serviceable due to normal wear and tear, the Company will provide new items as required.
11.03(c) Boots, Coveralls & Slickers
The Company will provide employees the following items as required through a program as determined by the Company:
i)	Coveralls
The Company will provide a coverall program that will provide mechanical and millwright employees with a maximum of five (5) pair of coveralls in the system per week, and all other employees with a maximum of three (3) pair of coveralls in the system per week .
ii)	Boots
Employees will be provided with one (1) pair of rubber safety boots every six (6) months. Employees may purchase additional rubber safety boots at cost less fifty (50) percent.	v
Employees may choose the option of purchasing approved leather safety boots in lieu of their rubber safety boot issue. The Company will reimburse the employee for the
Page 29
cost of the leather safety boots, to a maximum of $1 per year, upon proof of purchase.	*
11.03(d) Prescription Safety Glasses
The Company will provide prescriptionsafety glasses to those employees who require them. Prescription safety glasses will be replaced upon proof of prescription change or damage. Prescription safety glasses will be supplied through a programme as determined by the Company.
11.04	Injured Worker	Provision
An employee who is injured during working hours and who is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at their regular rate of pay.
Such employee shall be provided with transportation to their doctor or hospital and to their home.
11.05	P.C.B.’S
No employee will be required to work on equipment where he will have direct contact with P.C.B.’s.
11.06	Gas Testers
Gas Testers shall be available to all operators as required by the Mines Act for testing underground mobile equipment and mobile headings. In addition, other employees may obtain gas testers on a sign out basis from the Company. These shall be returned to the Company at the end of the shift.
Page 30
77 Access lor Union Safety Committee Chairman
The Company agrees that the Union Safety CommitteeChair-man or his designate shall have access to all areas of the mine. When legitimate safety concerns require him to leave his job he shall first receive permission from his supervisor. Such permission shall not unreasonably be withheld. In the event of an emergency, he will inform the Safety Department of his intentions.
11.08	Driving From Mine Site
No employee working in excess of ten (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period will be permittedto drive a company vehicle from the mine site. Prior to agreeing to work the overtime, the employee shall be notified of whether or not transportation will be provided. In the event that transportation i s not provided, camp accommodation shall be provided.
11.09	Workers' Compensation	Claims
The Company and the Union agree to advise the other party as to the nature of any protestor appeal relative to W.C.B. claims. The Company agrees further that any protest to any employee's claim shall be separate from the workers' compensation forms.
11.10	Access to Medical Records
The Company agrees that an employee shall have access to their first aid/medical records.
Page 31
Article 12	i
SENIORITY, LAY-OFFS AND RECALL
12.01	seniority Defined
Seniority is established on the basis of the individual's continuous service with the Company according to the records of the Company. The parties recognize that job opportunity shall increase in proportionto the length of company service.
12.02	Probationary Period
Seniority of each employee covered by the Agreement will be established after a probationary period of two hundred and forty (240) scheduled working hours.
During this 240 hour probationary period, the employer may terminate an employee's employment for performance which in the opinion of management, is inadequate.
The parties may agree to extend the probationary period.
The Company will notify the Union within three (3) working days of the termination of any employees under this provision.
All probationary employees shall receive a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarization and safety orientation on their new job. The Union will be provided an opportunity to meet and address new employees during this period of time.
Page 32
)3 Temporary Hires
A person originally hired by the Company to exercise a special .trade or skill or to participate in a special assignment of work may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or assignment comes to an end. The employee, however, will receive two (2) weeks notice in writing of such lay off or pay in lieu of notice or portion thereof. Employees hired under this clause are covered by the entire Collective Agreement with the exception of Article 12.
It is not the intent under this article to avoid the hiring of regular full time employees when such are justified for ongoing regular work. The “special assignment” designation will not be used to avoid the above but only be utilized for assignments not in the normal compliment.
12.04	Application Of Seniority
All promotions, transfers, filling of vacancies, layoffs and rehiring after layoffs will be done strictly in accordance with the principlesset forth in 12.01 provided the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work required. The Company will consider an employee's request for work assignments within their job classification. One of the considerations will be seniority.
12.05	Maintenance of Seniority 12.05(a)
Seniority will be accumulated and maintained for one (1) year during:
Page 33
Occupational injury;
Illness or non-occupational injury;
Authorized leave of absence;
and will be maintained thereafter subject to Article 12.05 (c). 12.05(b)
Seniority will be maintained and accumulated during:
i)	Absence due to lay-off up to twelve (12) months with less than three (3)years seniority.
Ii) Absence due to lay-off up to eighteen (18) months with three (3) to five (5) years seniority.
iii) Absence due to lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months with more than five (5) years seniority.
12.05(c)
Seniority will be maintained for four (4) years from the date of absence due to authorized leave of absence, injury or illness. Employees granted leave for Union business (Article 10.01) will retain their seniority for the duration of the leave.
12.05(d)
During periods of accumulating and/or maintaining seniority, the benefits to the Collective Agreement that apply are outlined under Article 19.
Page 34
.05(e)
Seniority standing will be lost if an employee:
' i) voluntarily quits
ii)	is discharged for cause and is not reinstated
iii)	is recalled to work and does not report within the limits as per Article 12.14
jV) is absent and the seniority retention period has elapsed as per Article 12.05 (b) or 12.05 (c)
v) is absent without permission for a period of four (4) consecutive scheduled shifts of work, unless the employee provides a reasonable excuse for the absence.
12.06	Job Postings
If it is determined that a job vacancy exists as described under Appendix "A",Job Classifications, and it is to be filled, the following procedure shall apply:
All job vacancies expected to last thirty (30) working days or more (except those created by vacation, illness or injury to a maximumof three (3)months) will be made known by posting on Notice Boards for eight (8) consecutive days excluding Statutory Holidays. The posting will include the following:
i)	‘location of job vacancy
ii)	shift
iii)	job classification
iv)	rate of pay
Page 35
The successful job applicant will be placed in the post job as soon as possible. The Company and Union win review situations when the employee has not been placed in the posted job within one (1) month of the close of posting.
* Location means the following specific work areas within the Myra Falls Operations- Underground HW, Underground Lynx, and Underground Price, Mill, Surface, and Discovery Terminal. The specific work location indicatedon job posting only representsthe initialwork assignment. Subsequent work requirements for the job may require the employee to work in any work area of the Myra Falls Operations.
12.06(b)
Vacancies will be filled as per Article 12.04 from among the applicants who apply within the time during which the notice is posted and from those applicants who have pre-bid as per Article 12,06 (c).
A successful applicant shall have a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarization in the new job and to demonstrate that he has sufficient ability to perform the work required. At any time during the period of familiarization the employee may elect to return to his previous job classification.
12.06(c)
An employee, prior to leaving or during vacation or authorized leave (including absences for illnessor injury) will have the rightto pre-bid on up to two (2) upcoming position vacancies on a form provided by the Company and shall be considered a candidate for the vacancy as herein provided. Successful pre-bid candidates must accept the job if they are awarded the posting.
Page 36
.07	Time Required In Posted Positions
An employee who has been hired or has successfully bid on a job posting will not be eligible to bid on another job posting for six (6) months.
The Company and Union may agree to waive the time restrictions by mutual agreement.
12.08	Temporary Vacancies
The Company is not required to consider seniority in the case of non-permanent promotions not in excess of thirty (30) working days or in the case of non-permanent demotions not in excess of seven (7) working days. Such periods may be extended by mutual agreement.
An employee occupying a job on a temporary basis shall, when his occupancy of the temporary job ends, return to his previous job classification.
The Company will give first consideration for such job vacancies to persons who have applied for job training for the job in question under Article 12.08.
12.09	Return To Previous Position
A temporary move from one job classification involving no change in rate shall not be considered as a promotion or demotion. If an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness, accident or authorized leave, but is not transferred, he shall on his return be restored to the job and location within the job classification that he previously held.
Page 37
12.10	Lay Off
In the event of a reduction of employment levels (except in the event of a temporary layoff as per Article 12.12) the Company will layoff in inverse order of Company seniority within affected classifications.
An employee displaced from his classification may displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or another position, provided he has sufficient abilityto perform the work required, or elect to be laid off from the Company.
Employees shall be provided a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarization and to demonstrate that they have sufficient ability to perform the work required.
Apprentices shall be laid off in accordance with their seniority within their trade group.
Should an apprentice not have the seniority to retain employment within his trade group, he may elect to exercise his seniority to displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or a position he has the ability to perform the work required.
The Company and the Union shall meet no laterthan one (1) month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Employees must exercise their rights under article 12.10 within seven (7) working days of being informed of such displacement or they will be deemed to have elected lay off.
Employees shall maintain recall rights as per Article 12.05(b) and 12.13.
Page 38
ployees may opt to receivethelr earned vacation Kdy in the week precedingthe layoff
12.11	Notice of Lay off
The Company agrees to provide employees affected with notice of lay off as per the Employment Standards Act of B.C. or failing such notice pay in lieu thereof or a portion thereof at the employee's basic hourly rate of pay.
12.12	Temporary Lay Off
During a temporary reduction or lay off caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the provisions of Article 12 will be waived for a period not exceeding three (3) days. Any available work in these circumstances will be assigned to the senior employee on the shift involvedwho is capable of performing such work.
The parties may agree to extend the period of time to be waived.
12.13	Recall
When it is necessary to increase the forces, employees on recall will be re-employed as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off. Employees are eligible for recall to the positions from which they were laid off or reduced from or to any entry level position, provided they have sufficient ability to perform the work required.
It shall be the responsibilityof the laid off employee to notify the Company of any change to their current address and telephone number. Such notification shall be by registered mail.
Page 39
The Company will notify laid off employees of the date recall by registered mail at the last known address on ii.~ with the Company. In the event that an employee fails to report to work within fourteen (14) days after receipt of.the registered notice, the employee shall lose the right to reemployment.
12.14	Permanent Layoff, Shutdown or Closure
In the event an employee is permanently laid off as a result of:
i)	a permanent shutdown of the Company's operation or a department thereof;
ii)	Closure or partial closure of the mine;
iii)	A re-organizationofthe Myra FallsOperationsthat results in a reduction of the work force;
employees will be laid off as per Article 12.11.
The Company agrees to provide employees affected with notice as per Article 12.12.
The Company and the Union shall meet no later than one month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Employees may opt to defer collection of their severance pay and retain recall rights as per Article 12.05 (b) and 12.14. Employees may elect to be paid severance in lieu of recall rights any time during the recall period or be paid severance when his recall rights expire.
Page 40
ligible employees who elect to be paid a severance, will be paid the greater of four calendar weeks of basic hourly rate of pay or $800.00 per year of service calculated to the nearest full month of service from his most recent date of hire.
To qualify for this severance payment, the employee must be actively employed, on vacation or in receipt of Worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits. Employees on long term disability will not qualify for severance but shall continue to receive long term disability benefits under the terms of the long term disability plan.
Employees, upon receipt of severance payment, will have severed the employee/employer relationship and forfeited any and all rights under the Collective Agreement, including the right to recall.
The Company will make available the services of the Industrial Adjustment Service to employees affected by a permanent layoff.
12.15	Seniority Lists
The Company will prepare seniority lists of all employees and present them to the Union within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement. These lists will be posted and the Company will notify the individual involved and the Union of any revision of seniority.
Said lists will commence with the most senior employee, carry on downwards to the most junior employee, and contain the following information:
(a)	Employee's name and payroll number;
Page 41
(b)	Employee's starting date;
(c)	Employee’s regular classification ►
Probationary employees will also be shown in the same manner. Additional revised lists will be furnished to the Union every three (3)months and be posted on the bulletin boards in all departments.
12.16	Disabled Employees
The Company and Union may mutually agree to waive the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement to place a permanently disabled employee who is unable to return to or retain their normal job as the result of a work related injury or illness. This is providedthata position is available that meets the needs of the operation and the abilities of the employee.
Article 13
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE
13.01	Grievance Procedure
The Parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their foreman as soon after they originate as possible.
Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regardingthe interpretation of a violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
Page 42
Parties recognize that the employee may have a Union representative present during any disciplinary discussions if the employee so requests.
s
13.02	Step 1
Within ten (10) days after the alleged grievance has arisen, or within ten (10) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may present the grievance either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee's satisfaction within three (3)days, the employee may proceed to Step 2.
13.03	Step 2
Within five (5Jdays from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his steward and a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his Department Superintendent. The Department Superintendentshall reply in writing within two (2) days of the presentation of this grievance under Step 2. Failing satisfactory settlement at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
13.04	Step 3
Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee, accompanied by the Grievance Committee, may take the matter up with the Manager or his delegate. The Union Grievance Committee, may be accompanied by a representative of the Union. Prior to submission to the Manager
Page 43
there shall be a written statement outlining the nature of grievance, the remedy sought and the section or Sections . the Agreement, which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement, within five (5) days byj;he Manager, either party may, on giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the other Party, refer the dispute to arbitration.
13.05	Dismissal, Suspension &	Group Grievances
Grievances involving the dismissal or suspension of an employee(s) and grievances of a general or group nature may be initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure provided they are submitted within ten (10) days of the time the dispute arose.
13.06	Company Grievances
The Company shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of an alleged violation of the Agreement to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to a Board of Arbitration constituted in accordance with this Agreement.
13.07	Time Limits 13.07(a)
In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Page 44
If the Union does not proceed to the next step within the time
limits provided, the grievance shall be considered as dropped and cannot be re-opened.
If the Company does not reply within the time limits provided, the grievance shall automatically advance to the next step of the grievance procedure.
13.07(c)
Time limits for initiating steps two and three for employees working the 4 x 4 shift will be extended to eight (8) days.
13.08	Time Off for Grievances
If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must receive permission from his foreman or shift boss. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
13.09	Single Arbitrator
It is agreed between the Parties that in the case of any arbitration, if both Parties agree, the case will be handled by a single arbitrator as follows:
(a)	The arbitrator shall be chosen within five (5) working days following receipt of a written notice to arbitrate. He shall be chosen by the Patties from a panel listed by letter of mutual agreement and after the first choice the next and subsequent choice will be in order of listing.
Page 45
(b)	If either party in the case of any given dispute doi not wish to submit that particular dispute to a single arbitrator, the arbitration procedure for that dispute will revert to the three man arbitration proae-dure as outlined.
(c)	The single arbitrator shall proceed under the same collective agreement conditions as set out for the three (3) man arbitration and will have the same powers.
13.10	Arbitration Boards
If either party wishes the dispute to be heard by a three (3) man board rather than a single arbitrator, the Board shall consist of three (3) members: one (1) to be selected by the Company, one (1) by the Union and a third mutually acceptable person who shall act as chairman to be chosen from the same panel.
In the event that the Union and the Company are unable to agree upon the selection of the third member of the Board, the Industrial Relations Council of British Columbia shall be requested to appoint such a third member. The decision of the Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof in respect to an interpretationor alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the Parties, but in no event shall the Board have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect.
Each Party shall pay the expense of the member of the Board of Arbitration chosen by it and all expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its case, provided that the Parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
Page 46
11 Working During Disputes
In the meantime, and in all cases while disputes are being
investigatedand settled, the employee or employees and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension must continue to work until a final decision has been reached, but where an employee or employees has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled. If the claim be made within five (5) working days that an employee or employees has or have been unjustly discharged, the case shall be dealt with according to this Article and if it's proven that he or they have been discharged without proper cause, he or they shall be reinstated.
13.12	Arbitrators Listed
13.12(a)
Arbitrators will be selected from the following list by rotation:
1.	Colin Taylor
2.	David McPhillips
3.	Nicholas Glass
13.12(b)
Either party to this agreement has the right to remove the name of one arbitrator from the above list during the term of this agreement. Removal requires, however, a minimum of thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
Page 47
13.12(c)
The rotation selection can be altered by mutual agreement between the parties. In the event of a termination arbitration, the next available arbitrator will be selected.
Article 14 WAGES
14.01	Wages Rates
The wage rates listed in Wage Schedule "A” and thejob classifications listed in Appendix A are agreed upon by both parties and are part of the Collective Agreement.
14.02	New or Changed Job Classifications
If any new job classifications are established, or if there is a significant change in the job classification(s) set forth in Appendix ''A,or if any job classification(s) have been overlooked in this Wage Schedule "A,t h e parties hereto are agreed to negotiate a rate for the Job(s) in question.
If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, then the dispute will be settled through the Grievance and Arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
14.03	Lead Hands
A lead hand premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour will be paid to employees specifically designated to lead two or more employees on special jobs or on trades crews.
Page 48
04	Qualification for Journeymen
To qualify for the journeyman rate the employee must have a
recognized Canadian Provincial Certificate in the trade for which he was hired.
14.05	Pay Days
Wages will be paid by bank deposit every second Friday and employees will be provided with an itemized statement of same.
Article 15 HOURS OF WORK
15.01	Work Week Defined
The work week shall be the period between 11:30 p.m. on Sunday evening and 11:30 p.m. on the succeeding Sunday evening. The Company agrees to use its best endeavour to place as many employees as practicable on a Monday to Friday work week.
15.02	Coffee Breaks
All employees will be allowed a reasonable opportunity for a coffee break, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, twice during each shift. These coffee breaks shall be arranged so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
15.03	Dry to Dry
In the case of all underground employees within the jurisdic-
Page 49
tion of this Agreement, eight (8) hoursfrom Dry to Drysh constitute a shift.	■>
In the case of all surface employees on non-continuous pp-erations, eight (8) hoursfrom 7:30 AM to 3:30 PM, on the job, shall constitute a shift. A paid thirty (30) minute lunch period shall be provided during the shift. The lunch period shall be taken so as not to interfere with normal work sequences. Employees may utilize up to a maximum of 15 minutes at the end of their shift for clean up. The amount of clean up time taken depends on whether the employee showers or not.
15.04	Continuous or Semi-ContinuousShifts 15.04(a)
In continuousor semi-continuousoperationsthe hours of work shall consist of a scheduled average forty-two (42) hours per week.
15.04(b)
Hours of work for employees required for full twenty-four (24) hour coverage on seven (7) days per week shall be for (4) shifts of twelve (12) hours rotated among the employee and they will be provided room and board at six dollars ($6.00) per working day. The same charges shall apply to employees on “standby” required to stay at the camp.
15.05	Changes to Shift Schedules
Notice of any change in regular shift schedule must be given to an employee by Thursday of the week previous to the week of the schedule change, except in the event of
Page 50
lacement for an employee absent without sufficient notice an/or emergency situations. Notice must be sentto the Union of any change of schedule involving four (4) or more employees in any one (1) department. In the case of continuous operation, notice will be given by the second last working day of the working cycle prior to the change of regular shift.
15.06	Rest Between Shifts
An employee shall be entitled to eight (8) hours rest between his regular shifts. Should such an employee be recalled to work before such eight (8) hours elapse (a call-out), the employee shall be considered as still on his previous shift and shall be paid at overtime rates as per Article 16,06.
In the event that an employee’s regular shift begins before the prescribedeight (8) hours has elapsed since the end of a previous work period, he shall not report to work until the eight hours has elapsed. The employee shall be paid regular wage rates for those hours between the start of the regular shift and the end of the prescribed rest period. Such payment will be conditional upon the employee reportingfor work and completing the shift following the end of the rest period.
Article 16
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
16.01	Time and One-Half Defined
One and one-half (1 1/2) the employee’s rate shall be paid
Page 51
for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week atiu for all work performed on an employee’s regular designated day of rest.	.
16.02	Double Time Defined
Double the employee's basic rate shall be paid for all work over eight (8) hours on days of restand all work overten (10) hours in one (1 )day.
16.03	Continuous or Semi-continuous Shifts
Those employees whose schedule averages forty-two (42) hours per week as per Article 15.04 shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) times their rate for all time worked in excess of an average of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week (i.e. two (2) hours per week). In addition, one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled hours per day or on a regular assigned day of rest. Double the employee's basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest. For employees thus affected, the Union hereby agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the Labour Board for approval of a work schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
16.04	Standby Time
Electricians and mechanics who are required to stay in camp on standby time shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at overtime rates over and above the daily wages to which they were otherwise entitled.
Page 52
,05 Overtime Pyramiding
$
Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours
worked.
16.06	Call-out
An employee reporting to work on a call-out shall be paid at applicable overtime rates for hours actually worked or four hours straight time whichever is the greater.
In the event that the employee is called out from town, he shall receive an additionalone (1) hours pay at straight time. This paragraph shall not apply when an employee is asked before completing his regular shift to continue work beyond the end of that shift.
16.07	Overtime Meals & Camp Charges
An employee who works overtime that is expected to last more than two (2) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift may elect to choose one of the following:
i) an established unpaid lunch break and a hot meal
or
jj) a paid fifteen (15) minute break and a meal voucher in the amount of twelve dollars ($12.00). The break shall be arranged so as not to interfere with the normal work sequences.
If an employee continues to work six (6) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift, an additional meal voucher of the same value will be provided.
Page 53
An employee who works unscheduled overtime will be pi vided with camp accommodations, if required at no extra cost.
16.08	Reporting Pay
An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available will be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular base rate.
An employee who is in transit to work on company supplied transportation and who is unable to report for work due to circumstances beyond his control and where no alternative transportation is provided will be eligible for four (4) hours pay at straight time. To be eligible for this payment the employee must submit his name and payroll number to the vehicle driver who makes the decision that the transportation provided cannot proceed to the work site.
16.09	Rate Retention
If an employee is transferred to a higher or lower paid job for four (4) hours in anyone (1) day he shall be paid at the higher rate for the full shift that day. An employee transferred to a higher paidjob for less than four (4) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the higher rate for the time so employed if it is not less than one (1) hour but shall otherwise be paid his usual basic rate.
The above shall not apply to job assignments for the purpose of training under supervision.
16.10	Weekend Premiums
A premium of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour
Page 54
]r the applicable base rate will be paid for all time worked , regularly scheduled shifts falling on Saturdays and Sundays. This premium shall not apply for hours worked at overtime rates.
16.11	Shift Differential 16.11(a)
It is mutually agreed by the Parties hereto that an additional fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift differential will be paid to all employees for all work performed on afternoon, twilight and midnight shifts.
16.11(b)
Shift differential rates will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime.
16.12	Tool Allowance
All journeyman, apprentices and trades helpers shall receive thirty cents ($0.30) per hour worked as a tool allowance. Tool Allowance will not apply to overtime shifts.
16.13	Irregular Shifts
Employees traveling and working	irregular eight (8) hour shifts
or on call-outs that do not coincide with the bus service will receive a subsidy of forty dollars ($40.00) per working shift.
16.14	Fair Distribution of	Overtime
The Company agrees to fairly distribute overtime opportunities among those employees within the classifications willing to work overtime.
Page 55
Article 17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
17.01	Statutory Holidays Defined
All work performed on the following days shall be compensated for at two and one half (21/2) times the base rate:
B. C. Day
17.02	Floaters
After completion of one (1) year's service, each employee will be entitled to two (2) floating holidays per year, subject to the same limitations as in Article 18.04. This will remain in effect only until such time as an additional statutory holiday has been declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments. At that time, the entitlement will be reduced to one (1) floater per year.
This must be applied for at least five (5) working days prior to the required time off for continuous operations and at least two (2) working days prior to the required time off for all others. It is understood and agreed that floating holidays must be taken or be paid out at the end of the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
Page 56
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
Victoria Day Dominion Day
13 Pay for Statutory Holidays
Employees not working on the holiday set out in 17.01 of this Article shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
17.03(a)
When a holiday falls on a regular assigned day off, the next scheduled shift will be considered as the holiday for the employee concerned.
17.03(b)
To qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday.
17.03(c)
An employee unable to work his scheduled shift or shifts due to personal sickness will qualify for statutory holiday pay by presentingto the Timekeeper a medical certificate duly signed by a doctor stating the employee's illness prevented him from working his scheduled shift. This medical certificate must be provided within ten (10) calendar days of their return to work.
The Company will pay statutory holiday pay to disabled employees for any such holiday occurring during the first thirty (30) calendar days of the disability. No statutory holiday pay will be paid for any statutory holiday occurring subsequent to this thirty (30) day period. This shall include all employees receiving W.C.B, or other wage loss benefits.
Page 57
17.03(d)
An employee who qualified for pay for a holiday under this Article, and who does not work on such holiday, shall receive his regular pay on the basis of his regular base rate (exclusive of shift differentials, overtime, bonuses, holiday or other premiums) as on the normal shift worked by him immediately prior to such holiday. An employee so qualifying shall not be entitled to such pay if he does not work on a holiday after having been required by the Company to work and having agreed. If an employee so qualifying does work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay under this section unless he works at least a part of his assigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half (2 1/2) times the base rate as provided in Section 17.01 of this Article, and for the remaining hours of the shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
17.03(e)
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, under no conditions shall any time be paid at a rate greater than two and one-half (2 1/2) times the base rate.
17.03(f)
When a statutory holiday falls during an employees vacation, the employee is entitled to an additional vacation day without pay, if he so requests prior to his vacation.
Page 58
Article 18 VACATION
18.01 Annual Vacations
Employees will receive vacation and be paid for the vacation in accordance with the following schedule.
Years of Continuous Service	Vacation Period	Vacation Pay
Less than one (1) year	4% gross earnings	
One (1) year but less than eight (8) years	Three (3) Weeks	6% gross earnings
Eight (8) years but less than fifteen (15) years	Four (4) Weeks	8% gross earnings
Fifteen (15) years and over	Five (5) Weeks	10% gross earnings
It is understood and agreed that vacations must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
18.02	Bonus Vacation
18.02(a)
Employees with five (5) or more years of service will receive an additionalthree (3) weeks bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for
Page 59
the previous year.
18.02(b)
For each five (5) year period, the employee will receive an additional three (3) week bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for that previous year.
18.02(c)
All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next five (5) year anniversary.
18.03	Number on Bonus Vacation
To maintain continuous, uninterrupted operations, the Company will schedule, on a seniority basis, the number of employees on bonus vacation not to exceed:
Ten (10) employees from underground Six (6) employees from Plant Department Two (2) employees from the Mill Two (2) employees from the Spit One (1) employee from the Warehouse
18.04	Vacation Shutdowns 18.04(a)
Where practicalthe company may schedule a vacation shutdown of all or part of its operations for up to three (3) weeks. A notice will be posted in all departments by February 15th if the Company intends to schedule a vacation shutdown.
Page 60
04(b)
The Company maintains the right to schedule various parts of its operation during the shutdown. The employees necessary for these operations will be selected from those employees in the required job classifications who have indicated their desire to work during the shutdown according to Company seniority. Where there is an insufficient number of employees indicating their desire to work, selection will be made in reverse order of Company seniority. Employees who work during the shutdown will take their vacation at a later mutually agreed upon time. The Company will give a three (3) month notice when work will be required during the shutdown.
18.04(c)
Vacations in excess of the three (3) week shutdown for which employees may be eligible shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance and taken at mutually agreed upon time that will allow for the maintenance of an adequate work force.
18.05	Vacation Scheduling
18.05(a)
The Company will accept vacation applications from January 1st to March 15thfor the period April 16 to October 31st. Applications will be accepted from September 1st to October 15thforthe period November 1st to April 15th. Vacation applications will be on a form to be supplied by the Company and agreed to by the Union.
Page 61
The Company will post approved vacations by April 15tK the summer period and by October 31st for ther1 winter period. The foregoing is subject to the following criteria:	
i)	Vacations are allotted by company seniority.
ii)	An employee at his option can elect to use a combination of regular and bonus vacation when applying for vacation, but the amount can not exceed the regular vacation allotment for that year.
iii)	Floaters cannot be used to displace another employee's vacation time.
iv)	Regular vacation may be taken in any multiple of complete days from one (1) to the total number of vacation days owed.
v)	Journeymen, tradesmen, apprentices or trades helpers shall not limit others in different trade occupations for vacation assignment purposes.
vi)	After March 15th and October 15th any remaining vacation time (for each respective period) can be applied for by an employee and will be allocated on a first come first serve basis. Senior employees cannot displace a less senior employee who has an approved vacation.
18.05(b)	
The Company agrees that once an employee's vacation has been scheduled, it will not be changed except for valid operational requirements; or if the employee has transferred to a different job at his request; or in the case of unforeseen	
Page 62	
/rating difficulties. Valid operational requirement or un-ureseen operating difficultieswill be determined by a senior Company official. Should the employee suffer a loss through non-refundable deposits or other increased travel costs for similar arrangements due to such a determination by management, with prior approval, the Company will reimburse such loss.
18.06	Vacation Pay 18.06(a)
All hourly employees will receive their earned vacation pay on the payday immediately following their anniversary by separate bank deposit with an itemized statement. If the employee so requests, the Company will issue a manual cheque for regular vacation pay to those employeeswho take their vacation if the anniversary date comes either before the next payday or during their vacation.
18.06(b)
Bonus Vacation pay directly proportional to the time being taken will be paid in advance of the vacation with an itemized statement.
Page 63
Article 19
PENSION, HEALTHS. WELFARE
19.01	Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered with the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia (regular medical coverage). Such employees must be full time day rate employees and both Company and employees agree to comply with the Medical Services Plan regulations at all times.
19.02	Insurance Policies
The Company agrees to pay one hundred (100%) of the premium cost for all employees covered by Group Life Insurance Policy and a Sickness and Non-compensable Accident Benefit Insurance Policy (19.02(b)). The coverage will be as follows:
19.02(a)
The Group Life Insurance coverage will be Seventy thousand dollars ($70,000), effective on date of hire. Effective August 15, 2001 coverage will be seventy two thousand dollars ($72,000). Effective August 15, 2002 coverage will be seventy four thousand dollars ($74,000).
In addition, Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be Seventy thousand dollar ($70,000), effective on date of hire. Effective August 15, 2001 coverage will be seventy two thousand dollars ($72,000). Effective August 15, 2002 coverage will be seventy four thousand dollars ($74,000).
Page 64
02 (b) Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
The Company agrees to pay 100% of the cost of premiums to provide a Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan. New employees will be eligible for coverage upon completion of the probationary period.
The plan will provide eligible employees with benefitsfor lost time during periods of disability, commencing on the first day of an accident or hospitalization (including day surgery or administered medical treatment) and the fourth day of sickness, and continuing for a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
The maximum benefit payable underthis plan will be $500.00 per week. The Company agrees that the current benefit payment will not be reduced during the term of this agreement.
19.02	(c)
Any employee who receives Weekly Indemnity and is subsequently paid by W.C.B. or I.C.B.C. shall returnthe equivalent of the Weekly Indemnity payments to the Company.
19.03	Dental Plan & Extended Health 19.03(a)
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiumsfor employees registeredwith the Medical Services Association (dental care plan and extended health benefits).
Dental Plan A, basic services payment of claims to be at
Page 65
eighty percent (80%); coverage in Plan B, with payment ing at sixty percent (60%); and PlanC, with payment beiny at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum of $2,500.00 per eligible family member. Eligible family members is interpreted as employee, spouse, and dependent children.
19.03(b)
Employees to be covered by Medical Services Association must be full time day rate employees and must be registered with Medical Services Association.
19.03(c)
Effective August 15, 2000 the Company will implement a vision care program that will providea maximumof$100 every two (2) years to an employee or members of an employee's immediate family (spouse and dependent children).
19.04	Long Term Disability
The Company agrees to pay one hundred (100%) percent of the cost of premiums for a Long Term Disability Plan that will provide a benefit of thirteen hundred dollars ($1,300) per month, less any benefits payable from Workers' Compensation for an employee unable to work due to illness or accident as defined by the insurance carrier.
Eligible employees would be those who have completed one (1) year’s full employment.
There shall be a fifty-two (52) week waiting period before payments commence and they will continue to the earlier attainment of sixty-five (65) years of age or date of recovery.
Page 66
is benefit is deemed as two years own occupation.
19.05	Pension Plan
Effective August 15, 2000
$47.00 per month per year of continuous service
Effective August 15, 2001
$48.00 per month per year of continuous service
Effective August 15, 2002
$50.00 per month peryear of continuous service
It is agreed that retirementwill be the last day of the month in which the employee celebrates his sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
The Company agrees to provide a spousal survivor's benefit of 60% of the earned benefit. This benefitappliesshouldthe employee die before attaining the age of sixty-five (65).
Employees with less than two (2) years continuous service will not be vested. After two (2) years of continuous service the employee will be vested one hundred percent (100%).
On his termination the employee has the rightto convert his vested pension to an RRSP, if permitted by pension regulations.
In the event of permanent mine closure, or a reduction of production in anticipation of mine closure, the full value of the pension benefit earned by each employee to date of termination will become vested and payable regardless of length of service. The Company will apply any interpretation of this provision in a fair and equitable manner;
Page 67
The employee wili oe eligible for normal retirementbene after thirty (30) years of continuous service or age sixty-five (65) which ever comes first.
19.06	Health &Welfare Coverage
19.06(a) Employee Laid Off
Employees who are laid off shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for three (3) months following the month in which the lay off began.
19.06(b) Employees on Leave of Absence
Employees who are on authorized leave of absence shall continue to receive current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the three (3)monthsfollowingthe month in which the absence began.
Employees who have been granted an authorized leave of absence for Union business as per Article 10.03 (a), shall continue to receive all insurance benefitsas per Article 19.01 for a maximum of twenty-one (21) calendar days following the first day in which the absence began.
After that time, the employee will make arrangements with the Company to pay the coverage.
19.06(c) Non-Work related Injury or Illness
Employees who are absent due to injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and
Page 68
D.&D) for three (3) years from the commencement of the aosence.
19.06(d) Cancellation of Insurance Benefit Coverage
Should an employee cease to be disabled as a result of a work or non-work related injury or illness and chooses not to return to work, or should an employee take alternate employment, the Company's obligation to maintain Health and Welfare coverage shall cease.
Employees who are on such continuous coverage must keep the Company informed of their current address and employment status. Medical, Extended Medical and Dental coverage are not available to non-residents of British Columbia. Full coverage is not available to those in the employ of another employer. Failure to keep the Company informed of the current address and employment status will result in the cancellation of benefit coverage.
In no event will benefits continue past the age of sixty-five (65).
Article 20
UNDERGROUND CONTRACT COMMITTEE
20.01	Recognition of Bonus Committee
The Company shall recognize a contract committee consisting of three (3) Union members. Such members shall be qualified by experience and the committee shall concern itself exclusively with matters relating to incentive contracts.
Page 69
20.02	Meetings
The Contract Committee, the Mine Superintendent and the Contract Engineer will meet monthly to discuss underground contracts and bonus. The purpose of such meetings is to solve problems of mutual concern. A spirit of cooperation is essential.
20.03	Disputes
In the event of a dispute over contract prices or contract conditions, said dispute shall be presentedto the Contract Committee and the Company Management for settlement.
20.04	Contractual Obligation
The Company will maintain an underground bonus system. While bonus rates may be adjusted as conditions warrant, the Company will not arbitrarily reduce bonus rates.
20.05	Training Bonus
The Union and the Company recognize that training functions may disrupt the daily routine and could therefore affect incentive bonus payments. Further it is agreed that those involved in the training will be protected from loss of bonus.
Page 70
Article 21 UNION SECURITY
21.01	Assignment of Dues
The Company shall honour a written assignment of dues to the Union.
21.02	Form of Assignment
An assignment pursuant to Section 21.01 of this Article shall be in the following form:
TO:	BOLIDEN WESTMIN (CANADA)	LIMITED
I hereby authorize you to deduct from my wages and pay to the
CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS, LOCAL 3019, dues as established bythe CAWLOCAL3019 Constitutionand By-Laws, per month beginning with the month of:
_______________, 19
and/or such monthly dues per month or additional assessments as the Union Constitution and/or by-laws from time to time provide, and I hereby authorize and request you, without further authorization or requests from me to deduct and remit to the Union such other amounts:
CLOCK NO.
EMPLOYEE'S NAME___________________ (SIGN)
Page 71
21.03	Remittance of Dues
Unless the assignment is revoked in writing and delivered to the Company, the Company shall remit the dues deducted to the Union at least once a month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each	deduction.
21.04	Revocation
If an assignment is revoked, the Company shall give a copy of the revocation to the Union.
21.05	Limit of Company Responsibility 21.05(a)
Notwithstanding any provisionscontained in Section 21.01,
21.02	and 21.03 of this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees, dues or assessments of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
21.05(b)
The Company agrees to deduct once each month from the earnings of every employee covered by this Agreement the sum of monthly dues as may be fixed constitutionally by the Union.
21.06	Effective Date
The said deductions shall commence at the effective date of these sections, and in the case of each assignment by an employee entering the employment of the Company subse-
Page 72
nt to the effective date of the sections with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
21.07	Dues as Condition of Employment
The Company shall during the life of this Agreement, deduct as a condition of each employee in the Bargaining Units continued employment, an amount equal to the Union dues from the first pay cheque due in each calendar month to each such employee and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the month following the month in which such deduction is made to the Financial Secretary of the Union. The Company will, at the time of making each such payment to the Financial Secretary of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted.
21.08	Union Membership 21.08(a)
As a condition of employment, each new employee will join the Union on his/her first day of employment.
21.08(b)
All employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and all employees who join thereafter shall remain members of the Union as a condition of continuing employment during the term of this Agreement.
21.08(c)
Those employees who are not members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and do not want to join are not affected by (b) above.
Page 73
Article 22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
22.01	Reprimands & Suspensions
A written reprimand given by the Company to an employee will be signed by him and by the Shop Steward concerned, as an acknowledgementof its receipt, and a copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the Union immediately and shall be subject to the grievance procedure. When a reprimand or disciplinary action involves suspension from work for a day or longer, and if such suspension involves an employee who normally commutes, the notice of his suspension will be given to him the day before his suspension is to commence. This is to prevent the employee traveling to the mine on a given day and not being allowed to work that day. After the period of six (6) clear months has elapsed from the date the reprimand was issued, all reference to the reprimand will be stricken from the records. The Company will give written reprimands within three (3) working days of the occurrence of the event provided that there is reasonable access to the employee.
22.02	Moonlighting
The Company and the Union agree that the practice commonly known as 'moonlighting” is wrong in principle. The term “moonlighting” for the purpose of this clause shall refer to a full-time employee who regularly makes a practice of working for another employer for a substantial number of hours during the week.
(a) When this practice affects or conflicts with Company business or the employee's ability to perform
Page 74
his normal duties, it shall be cause for reprimand or dismissal.
(b) When this practice affects or conflicts with the Union policy, the Company agrees to co-operate with the Union re: reprimand or dismissal.
22.03	Printing of Agreement
The Company and the Union will have printed, in pocket size books, copies of this Collective Agreement. The Company will pay the cost of printing. Every employee will be provided with a contract book and one hundred (100) copies will be provided to the Union. The books will be printed at a Union Shop.
22.04	Medical Examinations
An employee will receive two (2) hours pay for a medical examination as required for continued employment with the Company.
22.05	Day, Week, Month & Year Defined
References of days, weeks, months, or years shall be understood to mean calendar days, weeks, months, or years, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
Page 75
Article 23
APPRENTICES AND TRAINING
23.01 Joint Workforce Training Committee (JWTC)
To maintain a viable competitive position in the global market place, the Company and the Union agree that all employees should receive sufficient training inorder that they may perform their work in a safe and productive manner. Thiscommitmentcan bestbeexpressedthrough the mutual efforts of the JWTC. The JWTC recognizes the benefits of utilizing hourly employees to train other employees where appropriate.
The purpose of this committee is to oversee training in the areas of the mine, mill, surface and maintenance, and make recommendations to improve and promote training in these areas.
The committee will be composed of four (4) representatives from the Company and four (4) representatives from the Union, being representatives of the mine, mill, surface and maintenance. The committee will be coordinated by a Company Chair and a Union Chair. Sub committees will be formed to represent the four different areas of the mine operations. The committees will meet periodically as required.
Page 76
02 Training Priorities
The Company and the Union agree that there must be a systematic method in determining training requirements. Training requirements fall into four categories. Immediate Needs Back Up Needs Within Job Classification Progressive Training
23.02(a) Immediate Needs
In situations where new equipment or technology is introduced into the operation, creating an immediate training need in order to maintain efficiencies, employees currently performing the job function where the training need arises will be given first opportunity for training.
23.02(b)	Back Up Needs
In situations where immediate needs have been met and there is a need to provide back up employees, employees who have performed or are currently performing the job function will be selected from within the job classification as per 23.03,
23.02(c)	Within Job Classification
In situations where immediate and back up needs have been met, other employees within their job classification will be eligible to receive training as per 23.03.
Page 77
23.02(d) Progression Training
Insituations where employeeswould liketoadvancetheir personal skill levels in order to qualify for futureyob opportunities, those employees will be eligible to receive training as per 23.03.
23.03	Training Eligibility
Based on recommendations from the JWTC, the Companywill determinethe minimum numberoftrained back up employees required in each job function. The “in-house trainer” requiring instruction will be included in immediate training as an additional trainee.
Employees can submit a “Request for Training” form to the JWTC identifyingtheirtraining preferencesonasemi annual basis. Requests will be reviewed and then scheduled on a training plan grid based on the employee’s seniority. Employees will not be eligible to receive training until they have met pre-requisite qualifications as determined bythe JWTC.
Employees will receivetheir regular rates of pay while training in another classification except that employees substituting for an absent employee shall receive the rate for the job.
23.04
The JWTC shall determine successful completion of training programs. This determination shall be in a fair and equitable manner. After an employee is deemed qualified to perform all aspects of the
Page 78
, he shall be paid at the rate of the job at such times he is actually performing the job.
23.05	Miner Training
23.05(a)
The intent of this program is to train and qualify employees as safe and certified miners.
23.05(b)
Selection for miner training will be based on criteria as outlined in Article 12.06.
23.05(C)
Stope school training is considered to be the 1st step in the miner training program and will be for a period of three (3) months to be trained in basic mining and safety skills. This assignment is referred to as Miner Trainee 1, paid Job Class 3.
23.05(d)
Upon successful completion of stope school as determined by the JWTC, the employee is assigned as a Miner Trainee 2 for a period of nine (9) months paid Job Class 4.
23.05(e)
Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 2 term as determined by the JWTC, the employee is promoted to Miner Trainee 3 where he remains for a period of one (1) year paid Job Class 5.
Page 79
23.05(f)
Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 3 term as determined by the JWTC, the employee would then have in his possession a Miner's Certificate. The employee is then eligible to post on the miner's classificationprovidedthere is a vacancy.
In the event that an employee has completed the training program but there are no miner position vacancies or the individual is not the successful applicant of a posting, the employee would return to his position prior to entering the program. This employee would then be eligibleto bid on any subsequent postings.
23.05(g)
The employee who demonstrates a lack of sufficient ability while in the miner training program will be returned to the position he held prior to entering the training program.
23.06	Mill Operator Training
23.06(a)
The intent of this program is to develop a fully trained, qualified and safe work force of Mill Operators. Opportunities for training can be requested as per article 23.03 The JWTC will develop and administer the Mill Operating Training Program.
23.06(b)
Successful completion of a training segment will qualify the employee to receive a job class rate one level higher than his present regular rate.
Page 80
)7	Surface Equipment Operator Training
23.07(a)
The intent of this program is to develop a fully trained, qualified and safe workforce of surfaceequipmentopera-tors. Opportunities for training can be requested as per article 23.03. The JWTC will develop and administer the Equipment Operator Training Program.
23.07(b)
Incidental costs required inthetraining process such as licenses, examination time etc. will be borne by the Company. This must be approved in advance by the Company.
23,08	Apprenticeship Training
23.08(a) Apprenticeship Training Opportunities
Opportunities for an apprenticeship shall be made known through the job posting procedure.
23.08(b) Apprentice Wage Rates
Apprentice hourly wage rates shall be as follows:
On Entry Job Class 2
After 1st Year Successful Completion Job Class 3
Page 81
After 2nd Year Successful Completion Job Class 5
After 3rd Year Successful Completion Job Class 7
After 4th Year Successful Completion Job Class 8
Upon certification/To Certified (Journeyman’s Rate) Job ClasslO
Rate increases are contingent upon successfully passingthe apprenticeship board's examination and completion of the prescribed training hours for the year. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date. Reasonable allowances for vacation and other non-trades related work are inherent in the number of training hours required.
23.08(c) Apprentice Schooling
During the periods of apprenticeship schooling, the apprentice shall apply for any available government allowance. The Company shall provide an allowance equal to the difference between the apprentice's regular straight time earnings and the amount of government earnings, provided that documentation of successful completion and attendance are provided by the apprentice to the Company.
The Company will reimburse apprentices for the cost of text books required by the apprenticeship board for the course outlined in the apprenticeship training curriculum.
Page 82
08(d)
Any apprentice who fails any year of his apprenticeship on two (2) successive opportunities shall be removed from the apprenticeship training program.
23.08(e)
An employee who achieved their apprenticeship while employed by the Company is not eligible for apprenticeship training until at least five (5) years from the date of achieving their journeyman status unless there are no other successful applicants as per Article 23.08(f)
23.08(f)
To qualify for an apprenticeship, an applicant must have:
j) Grade 12 or equivalent and
ji) A pre-apprenticeship certificate or its equivalent or two years of related experience in the applied trade.
23.08(g)
In the event of a dispute concerning the equivalence of a pre-apprentice training course, the parties agree to use the results of a recognized pre-apprenticeship training exam as an equivalency test.
Page 83
Article 24
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
24.01	Company Rights - Automation
The Union acknowledges that the Company has the exclusive right to install, at any time, mechanical, electronic or other types of automated equipment.
24.02	Technological Change Defined
For the purposes of this Article, “Technological Change” means:
(a)	The introduction by the employer cf a major change in his equipment or material from that equipment or material previously used by the employer in his work, undertaking, or business, and/or
(b)	A major change in the manner in which an employer carries on his work, undertaking, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
24.03	Notice of Change
The Company shall notify the Union not less than one (1) month in advance, or give as much notice as is practical, of intent to introduce technological changes which involve the discharge or laying off of employees.
24.04	Meeting with Union
Inthe event of a pendingtechnological change, the Company Page 84
‘ladvise the Union of such change at the earliest opportunity <...d meet with the Union to discuss the ramificationsof such technological changes as soon as practical.
24.05	Displacement of Employees
Where an employee who has at least one (1) year of service with the Company is displaced from hisjob by reason of technological change, and where a vacancy exists for which he might qualify by training, he shall be entitled to such training at the Company's expense, provided that he has the necessary basic education and abilities to absorb such training to equip him for the operation of new equipment or procedures. The period of such training shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
24.06	Severance Pay
Employees who have at least one (1) year of service with the Company who are discharged or laid-off because of technological change are entitled to severance pay under article
12.15	of this Agreement.
Article 25
BUS TRANSPORTATION
25.01
The Company shall provide employees with a bus transportation service to the mine site, at no charge to the employees.
The Company agrees to maintain the current quality of bus service in terms of seating comfort and temperature control.
Page 85
Article 26
RED CIRCLING/OUT OF LINE DIFFERENTIAL 26.01(a)
Employeeswho would suffer a reduction in their basic wage rate as a result of the introduction of Schedule “A” appended to this Agreement, shall have their basic wage rate “Red Circled” in accordance with this article.
These employees shall continue to be paid the basic rate applicable to their job classification as at March 31, 1993. They shall not be eligible to receive any negotiated increases until their red circled rate becomes equal to or less than the standard rate for their classification, as set out in Schedule “ A appended hereto, after which their red circling shall come to an end and they shall be paid the standard rate for that classification.
26.01	(b)
Employees with a red-circle designation will receive an Out-of-line Differential equal to $0.30 per hour. Effective January 01.2001. such employees will rpreiufi $0.45 per hour.
The Out-of-line Differentialwill end when employees' job class rate as per Wage Schedule “ A becomes equal to or exceeds the corresponding red-circled wage rate.
Employees who had lost their red-circledesignation due to a lay off or job posting will have their red-circled rate re-estab-lishedin their currentjob classification. Employeeswill maintain red-circled designation during any future lay off or job postings that occurs during the life of this agreement.
Page 86
HE SCHEDULE “A”
The following wage rates will be applied during the term of the agreement.
WAGE SCHEDULE “A”
The following wage rates will be applied during the term of the agreement.
Job	Yearl	Year 2 Year 3
Class 15AUG00	01JAN01
1	18.50	18.69
2	19.39	19.58
3	20.27	20.47
4	21,14	21.35
5	22.04	22.26
6	22.91	23.14
7	23.81	24.05
8	24.68	24.93
9	25.57	25.83
10	25.57	26.13
15AUG01 15AUG02 18.97	19.34
19.88	20.28
20.78	21.20
21.67	22.11
22.59	23.05
23.49	23.96
24.41	24.90
25.30	25.81
26.21	26.74
26.88	27.77
Page 87
APPENDIX “ A
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS Job Class	Job Classification
1	Surface Labourer
2	Apprentice Bucker/Core Splitter Spare Mill Operator Underground Labourer
3	Apprentice 1 Bit Grinder Bus Driver Diamond Drill Helper Equipment Operator 1 Trades Helper Miner Trainee 1
4	Cagetender
Mill Crusher Operator
Deckman
Fillman
Front End Loader Pumpman
Timberman's Helper
Trackman's Helper
Trammer
Warehouseman
U/G Crusher Operator
MinerTrainee2
Page 88
5	Apprentice 2 Equipment Operator 2 Miner Trainee 3 U/G Heavy Equipment Operator
6	Cablebolter Diamond Driller Shaftman Timberman Trackman Filter Operator
7	Concentrate Truck Driver Equipment Operator 3 Powerhouse Operator Miner Apprentice 3
8	Floor Operator Apprentice 4 Hoistman
9	Control Room Operator Journeyman
10	Journeyman
	Page 89
APPENDIX “ B” ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS
Bucker/Core Splitter Bit Grinder Surface Labourer Diamond Drill Helper Timberman's Helper Trackman's Helper Cagetender Trades Helper Equipment Operator 1 Underground Labourer Deckman Fillman
U/G Crusher Operator Pumpman Trammer Warehouseman Spare Mill Operator Mill Crusher Operator
Page 90
Letter of Agreement
Subject:	Camp Accommodation
Employees assigned a camp room prior to April 1st, 1990 will be “grandfathered in their current room assignment status at six dollars ($6.00) per working day for the term of this agreement. This room assignment will permanently change if either of the following events occur:
1.	The employee voluntarily changes to shared status.
2.	The employee comes off shiftwork through a legitimate reorganization and at some future date bids back onto a position which requires camp accommodation.
It is understood that all employees new to the camp will be assigned room on a shared concept at no cost. Employees who enter into shared accommodation concept (single bed) are exempt from room charges.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 91
Letter of Agreement
Subject: Discrimination and/or Harassment
The Company and the Union agree that discrimination and/ or harassment of any employee by reason of race, colour, creed, religion, age, marital status, sexual orientation, or disability is absolutely prohibited. Every employee has the right to work in an environment of mutual respect, free from intimidation, discrimination, and sexual harassment. Actions contravening this policy will constitute grounds for discipline.
1.	At any stage in this procedure an employee may seek as assistance and/or involvementof a company or union representative.
2.	An employee who feels subject to discrimination and/or harassment should make every effort to tell the offending party to stop such behaviour, prior to proceeding under the complaint procedure.
3.	Complaint Procedure:
If the problem is not resolved through discussion between the individuals concerned, then the employee who alleges harassment, or a representative on behalf of the employee may contact a Human Resources representative who will:
(i)	thoroughly investigate the matter jointly with a union representative, and
(ii)	maintain a strict degree of confidence with the employee concerned, and
(iii)	take appropriate action to resolve the problem.
(a)
Page 92
(b)	In the event the problem is not resolved under (a) above, the employee, the union representative and Human Resources representative may refer the matter in the form of a third stage grievance to the Mine Manager who will determine appropriate action to be taken.
(c)	The Local Union may contact the National Representative to investigate such matters. The National Representative shall have full disclosure of all relevant information.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 93
Letter of Agreement Subject:	Camp Committee
The Company agrees to recognize a camp committee as selected by the Union for the duration of this Agreement. The purpose of this committee is to bring to the attention of the Company, items of concern of the Union surrounding the camp facilities.
Meetings will be held with the management representative responsible for the camp to discuss and resolve the issues raised by the committee. For the purpose of meetings with the Company, the committee will be limited to a maximum of 3 persons.
The Company agrees to maintain the current recreation facilities and entertainment systems for employees staying in camp.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 94
Letter of Agreement
Subject: Assignment of Work
It is a matter of Company policy that the assignment of work is to be done in a fair and equitable manner.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 95
Letter of Agreement
Subject:	Hot Meals for Mill Crews
The parties agree that the past practice regarding the provision by the Company of hot meals for Mill 4x4 Production and Maintenance crews shall continue for the term of this Agreement.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW. LOCAL3019
Page 96
Letter of Agreement
Subject:	Employee Evaluations
In the event the Company implements a program of employee evaluations,the evaluations or any part thereof shall not form or be part of an employee's disciplinary record.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000,
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 97
Letter of Intent
Subject:	Printing of Collective Agreement
The Company and the Union commit to timely “proofing” of the Collective Agreement document, such that new Collective Agreements will be distributed to employees within sixty (60) days of ratification.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 98
Letter of intent
Subject:	Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance
Benefits derived from this allowance are in addition to benefits provided for by the government's pension plan, employment insurance plan, and the Westmin Hourly Pension Plan.
In order to be eligible for benefits in accordance with this provision, an employee must be at least sixty (60) years of age and have at least twenty (20) years of continuous service. Employeeson disability benefits (Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, WCB) are not eligible for benefits under this provision. The benefits in accordance with this provision will be as follows:
Effective August 15, 2000, the Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance will be $20.00 per month per year of continuous service (to a maximum of 30 years) payable fothe earlier of age 65 or death.
The employee will continue to be provided the following medi-cal/insu ranee benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
MSP - Basic Provincial Medical MSA - Dental & Extended Health Life Insurance - $12,000
Page 99
These medical/insurance benefits are subject to the pr sions of the collective agreement in effect at the-time of tirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 100
Letter of Intent
Subject:	30 Year RetirementSupplement
Benefits derived from this supplement are in addition to benefits provided for by the government’s pension plan, employment insurance plan, and the Westmin Hourly Pension Plan.
Effective August 15, 2000, those employees retiring with 30 or more years of continuous service will receive an additional payment from the general revenues of the Company to bring their total monthly retirement benefit to $2,800. Effective August 15, 2002 the benefitwill be $3,000. This additional payment is payable to the earlier of age 65 or death.
The employee will continue to be provided the following medi-cal/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
■	MSP - Basic Provincial Medical
•	MSA - Dental & Extended Health
•	Life Insurance - $12,000
These medical/insurance benefits are subject to the provisions of the collective agreement in effect at the time of retirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations.
Page 101
Employees on disability benefits (Weekly Indemnity, Lc Term Disability,WCB) are not eligible for benefits,under t... provision.
Dated this 22nd day cf September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 102
Letter of Intent
Subject: Early Retiree Benefit Coverage
(a)	Future Early Retirees
Employees who have elected early retirement under the Westmin Hourly Pension Plan and have not yet reached age 65 will be eligible to receive the following medical/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
•	MSP - Basic Provincial Medical
•	MSA - Dental & Extended Health ■ Life Insurance-$12,000
(b)	Past Early Retirees
The above benefits will also be provided d employees who previously elected early retirement and have not yet reached age 65.
(c)	Commencement of Benefits
The above benefits will be provided as soon as possible after ratification of the Collective Agreement bearing in mind the retirees must be available to enroll in the plans.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 103
Letter of Intent
Subject:	Increase Pensions Paid for Current
Pensioners
Effective August 15, 2000, the monthly benefit rate for current pensioners will be increased to $27.00 per month per year of continuous service. The pension calculation will be based on the same adjustment factors used at the time of retirement (e.g. early retirement reduction, optional form amounts).
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000 COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 104
I	Letter of Intent
Re: Union Health & Safety Representative
The Company and the Union agree that It is in the interest of all concerned to promote and maintain a safe and healthywork environment. In order to effect a thoroughly understood and accepted health and safety program for employees, it is agreed that joint and cooperative methods will be encouraged. To this end, the Company agrees to establish a Union Health & Safety Representative position at the mine for the duration of this Agreement.
The Union Health& Safety Representativewill be selected by the Union and shall be qualified in terms of knowledge of health and safety programs, rules, regulations and practices, and possess good communications and leadership skills.
The Union Health & Safety Representativewill reportto the company Safety & Training Supervisor and will be expected to perform to similar standards as company safety personnel in continuing and improving measures for the prevention of accidents and elimination of health hazards. He/she will undertake to give full support to these objectives by promoting safety consciousness and a personal sense of responsibility among all employees. He/she will also perform the duties of the Union Occupational Health& Safety Committee Co-Chair as described in Article 11 of this agreement.
The Union Health & Safety Representativewill spend 2 consecutive weeks per month performing these
Page 105
health & safety duties which will encompassthe moni safety tours and OHSC meeting. If the Committee Cv-Chair’sjob receivesunderground production bonus, the CommitteeCo-Chair will be paid his normal underground production bonus, up to a maximum of the rehab bonus rate, for time spent during these two weeks.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000,
FOR THE COMPANY	FOR THE UNION
Page 106
Letter of Intent
September 21, 2000
CAW, Local 3019 P.O. Box 98
CAMPBELL RIVER, BC V9W 4Z9
Attention: Claude Pelletier, President Local 3019
Re:	Funding of Pension Benefits
This letter will confirm that the Company will fund the Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance and the 30-Year Retirement Allowance outside of the registered Westmin Hourly Pension Plan, and as such funding will be made from its general revenues. Notwithstanding, the Company commits to continue ongoing benefit payments beyond the term of the Collective Agreement, and in the event of a labour dispute or cessation of mine operations.
Yours truly,
Boliden Westmin (Canada) Limited Myra Falls Operations
Dave Keiver
Human Resources Superintendent
Page 107
Letter of Intent
September21, 2000
CAW, Local 3019 P.O. Box 98
CAMPBELL RIVER, BC V9W 4Z9
Attention: Claude Pelletier, President Local 3019 Re:	Benefit Booklets
The Company undertakesto provide employees with a copy of a benefit booklet outlining the various Health & Welfare benefits contained in the Collective Agreement within 3 months of ratification of the agreement.
Yours truly,
Boliden Westmin (Canada) Limited Myra Falls Operations
Dave Keiver
Human Resources Superintendent
Page 108
Letter of Intent
Subject:	Extended Health Coverage for Retirees
over age 65
The Company agrees to pay to the Union the following monies:
September 1, 2000	$10,000
August 15, 2001	$10,000
August 15, 2002	$10,000
for the purpose of enabling the Union to assist retired employees of the Company, over age 65, with an extended health package.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 109
Letter of Intent
Subject: Entry Level Positions
The Company and Union agree to have the Joint Workplace Training Committee review the entry level positions listed in Appendix B. The JWTC will make recommendations to the Company and Union by March 31 2001.
Dated this 22nd day of September, 2000.
COMPANY	CAW, LOCAL3019
Page 110
Index
A
Page
Absenteeism..........................................19
Apprentice..........................................81
Apprenticeship Training.............................81
Arbitration..........................................45
Assignment of Work...................................95
B
Benefits
-	Booklets.....................................108
-	Cancellation of...............................69
-	Dental........................................65
-	During Sickness or Injury.....................69
-	Life Insurance & AD&D.........................64
-	Long Term Disability..........................66
-	Medical Services..............................64
-	Weekly Indemnity..............................65
Bereavement Leave....................................18
Boots, Coveralls & Slickers..........................29
Bulletin Board.......................................16
Bus Transportation...................................85
C
Call-out.............................................53
Camp
-	Accommodation.................................91
-	Charges.......................................53
-	Committee.....................................94
Closure cf Mine......................................40
Coffee Breaks........................................49
Contracting Out.......................................6
Court, Jury..........................................20
Coveralls............................................29
Page 111
D
Disabled Employees
Discipline.........
Discrimination.....
Disputes...........
Dry to Dry.........
E
Early Retirement...
Employee Defined...
Entry Level Positions Evaluations........
F
Fire Fighting Duty.........
Floaters...................
G
Gas Testers................
General Provisions.........
Grievance Committee Chair Grievance Procedure........
H
Health & Welfare Coverage. Plot Mealsfor Mill Crews Flours of Work..........
I
Injured Worker Provision
Insurance Policies......
Irregular Shifts........
.... 42 .... 74 12,92 ... 70 .... 49
.... 99
.... 4
...90
.... 97
20
56
30
74
15
42
68
96
49
30
64
55
Page 112
Job Classifications.......................
Job Postings..............................
Joint Workforce Training Committee (JWTC)
Jury Duty...................
Journeyman Qualifications....
L
Lay Off.....................
Lead Hands..................
Leave of Absence............
-	Benefits During......
-	Court Duty, Fire Fighting
-	Maternity/Parental..
-	Paid Education Leave....
-	Union Leave.........
Lockouts....................
Long Term Disability........
M
Management Rights...........
Medical Examinations........
Moonlighting...'............
N O
Occupational Health and Safety Committee
Overtime Meals & Camp Charges.............
Overtime Pyramiding.......................
Overtime & Special Pay....................
Out of Line Differential..................
Page 113
<X If) CD O CD	COODCDCOOOONCOCO	t— LO ^	i- CO CO t- CD
00 CO Is- CM ^	CO^t-COCMOJOJt-t-CO	d-- r*-	C\J lO LO LO 00
P
P.C.B.’s.......................
Pay Days.......................
Pension Plan...................
-	Benefits.................
-	30 Yr. Supplement........
-	Current Pensioners.......
■ Ext. Health for Retiree's.
-	Funding of Benefits......
-	Voluntary Early Retirement,,
Pickets Lines..................
Printing of Agreement..........
Probationary Period............
Promotion to Staff.............
Premiums.......................
Q
R
Recall........................
Red Circling/out of line differential
Reporting Pay.................
Reprimands& Suspensions.......
Rest Between Shifts...........
S
Safety...................
Seniority................
Seniority Lists..........
Severance Pay............
Shifts...................
Shift Differential.......
Social Justice Fund......
Standby Time.............
Statutory Holidays.......
Page 114
. 30 . 49 :67
39
86
54
74
51
21
32
41
85
50
55 8
52
56
‘c
.;es..............................................13
students ............................................  5
Supervisor Working.....................................6
T
Technological Change Defined..........................84
Temporary Hires.......................................33
Temporary Vacancies...................................37
Term..................................................10
Tool Allowance........................................55
Training..............................................76
Transportation........................................70
-	Buses..........................................85
-	Company Vehicles...............................31
-	Injured Worker.................................30
-	Irregular Shifts...............................55
U
Underground Contract Committee........................69
Union
-	Activities on Company time.....................14
-	Health & Safety Representative................105
-	Office at Mine.................................16
■ Pay for Union Business..........................15
-	Recognition.....................................6
-	Security.......................................71
V
Vacation..........
Vacation Scheduling Vacation Shutdowns
W
Wage Schedule" A .. Wages Rates.......
59 61
60
87
48
Page 115