THIS AGREEMENT
Made at Campbell River in the Province of British Columbia, and effective this thirty first day of March, 1990
BETWEEN
WESpi/IIN
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED
MYRA FALLS OPERATIONS
(hereinafter referred to as the “COMPANY” OF THE FIRST PART)
AND
C.A.I.M.A.W.
LOCAL 19
OF THE SECOND PART 00162 (03)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article No.
1	Preamble ..................................
2	Employees Covered by this Agreement .......
3	Union Recognition .........................
4	Term of Agreement .........................
5	Rights Reserved to Management .............
6	No Discrimination..........................
7	Lockouts or Strikes .......................
8	Union Activities on Company Time ..........
9	Bulletin Board.............................
10	Leave of Absence...........................
11	Safety ....................................
12	Seniority, Layoffs and Rehires ............
13	Settlement of Dispute .....................
14	Wages......................................
15	Hours of Work and Overtime ................
16	Shift Differential ........................
17	Statutory Holidays ........................
18	Vacation ..................................
19	Health and Welfare ........................
20	Underground Contract Committee.............
21	Union Security ............................
22	General Provisions ........................
23	Apprentices and Training...................
24	Special Allowances.........................
25	Technological Change ......................
Wage Schedule “A”...............................
Appendix “A” - Entry Level and Posted Positions.
Appendix “A" - Lines of Progression ............
Appendix “B" - Equipment Operator Classifications ..
Letter of Understanding -Vans for 4 x 4 ........
Letter of Intent - re. Camp Committee ..........
Letter - re. Assignment of Work.................
Letter - re. Distribution of Gear...............
Letter - re. Improvements to Camp Accommodations
Letter - re. School Textbook Reimbursement .....
Letter - re. Union Meeting in Camp..............
Memorandum of Agreement - Signature Pages.......
Page
....1
...2
...4
...6
....7
.... 8
...9
.... 10 ... 11 .. 12 ... 16 ...24 ...32 .. .37 ...39 .. .43 .. .44 ... 47 .. .51 .55 .. .56 .. .59 ...61 .. .66 ...67 .. .69 .. 71 ...73 . . .74 .77 ...78 ...79 ...80 ....8 1 . .82 ...83 . .84
ARTICLE 1
PREAMBLE
The parties to this Agreement recognize itis in their mutual interest to promote, as fully as possible, conditions of safety to the employee, economy of the operation and protection of property. These conditions can best be maintained by harmonious relations between the Company and the employees and by the settlement, in an amicable manner, of all disputes which may arise. The Company and the employees shall cooperate fully for their mutual benefit.
ARTICLE 2
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
2.01	Employee Defined
The term employees as used in the Agreement shall include all hourly rated employees of Westmin Resources Limited and its subsidiary companies covered by the certification who are engaged in mining, treatment and transportation operations related to the Myra Falls Operations of the companies except those employees in a confidential, supervisory, technical, executive, security or clerical capacity. The term supervisory as applied to employees as herein designated includes (without restricting the generality of the expression) foreman, shift bosses, and employees of the companies who have the authority to hireordischarge. Words in thisagreement imparting the masculine gender shall be understood to also apply to female employees.
2.02	Temporary Promotion to Staff
An employee who is replacing a member of staff to meet the needs of the operation in such circumstances as vacation replacement or special projects for a temporary period up to a maximum of sixty (60) consecutive calender days, shall be considered a member of staff. Upon completion of such a temporary period he shall return to the group classification that he left.
In the case of promotion to staff, the employee will cease to accumulate seniority after sixty (60) calender days, but will retain his previous seniority should he return to the bargaining unit.
2
Hourly employees who may be used under the terms of this clause will be termed designated employees, and a list of same will be supplied to the Union.
The time restrictions in this clause may be waived by mutual consent of the Company and the Union under special conditions.
3
ARTICLE 3
UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Certification
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours ofworkandotherworking conditions; and the Company will continue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Supervisors Working
The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of foreman to perform work which is currently being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except under-emergency conditions,-the purpose of training, instruction, or for metallurgical research. It is understood that the working foreman (sup&visor) shall attempt at all times to have a member of the bargaining unit assist him in any emergency. An emergency shall be defined as a major disruption in production, or where there is a danger to life or limb.
3.03	Contracting Out
The Company will not contract out work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except to make the operation more efficient, and will not do so if it has the result of laying off or reducing the rate of pay of employees who have the ability to perform the work. The Company shall endeavour wherever possible and practical to have its sub-contract work performed by a union shop. when the company decides that the contracting out of work on site is necessary the union will be so advised a minimum of fourteen (14) days in advance. When the contract has been awarded the Union will be advised in writing a minimum of seven (7) days in advance of the work start date.
4
The written advice shall contain the following information:
1.	Name of subcontractor
2.	Nature of the work to be contracted
3.	Approximate number of subcontractor’s employees
4.	Approximate duration of the job
5.	Union affiliation if applicable.
The parties to this agreement recognize that undercertain emergency situations the time limits mentioned above can be waived.
/
ARTICLE 4
TERM OF AGREEMENT
4.01 Term
This agreement shall be in force for the period from March. " '	~ *	nereafter, the
„	from year to
year unless written notice of intent to amend the agreement at the expiration of any yearly period is given by either party.
4.02	Status During Negotiations
During any period when negotiations are being conducted between the parties for the renewal of this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
a)	The Union commences a legal strike;
b)	The Employer commences a legal lockout; or
c)	The parties enter into a new or further agreement.
4.03	Effective Date
Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and conditions of this agreement shall become effective from the date of signing of the Collective Agreement by both parties.
ARTICLE 5
RIGHTS RESERVED TO MANAGEMENT
5.01	Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manacle its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, such rules and regulations shall notbeinconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement Drovided: however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees. Changes made to roles and regulations shall be posted and a copy of such changes sent to the local Union.
5.02	Obligation to Operate
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties, or any part thereof.
5.03	Rights to Hire, Discharge and Select
The Company shall always have the right to hire, discipline, demote and discharge employees for proper, just and reasonable cause. The selection of lead hands and all other supervisory employees shall be entirelv a matter for the Company's decision.
7
ARTICLE 6
NO DISCRIMINATION
6.01	The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of race, colour, creed, religion, sex or his legitimate activities as a member of the Union; and the Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part or by any of its members towards any employee of the Company.
ARTICLE 7
LOCKOUTS OR STRIKES
.01	Prohibition Against Work Stoppages
The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of mployees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the inion, nor any representative of the Union, nor any employee hall in any way authorize, encourage, or participate in any trike, walk-out, suspension of work, or a slow-down against i/estmin Resources Ltd. during the life of this Agreement.
.02	Picket Lines
No employee(s) will be subject to disciplinary action nor 'ill action be taken against the Union if an employee or mployees honour a lawful picket line as permitted under the abour Code of British Columbia.
ARTICLE 6
UNION ACTIVITIES ON COMPANY TIME
8.01(a) Union Officers & Meetings
Chief Steward, Stewards andother Committeemen will bi designated in writing by the Union to the Company. For th< purpose of meeting with Company representatives, the Griev ance Committee will consist of not more than three (3) member as designated by the Union.
When the legitimate business of a Grievance Committee man or Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemei require him to leave his fob or department, he shall first receivi permission from his foreman or department supervisor, whicl permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and he shall nc suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of thesi duties during his regular working hours.
8.01(b) Meetings
Meetings between the Company and the Union will b held during working hours. Such meetings will be scheduled e the convenience of the Company, the Union and the employee
8.02	Union Access to Property
A Union representative or representatives shall be permit ted entry to the Company’s property subject to the decision c the Company as to the number of such representatives to b> granted such entryatany one time. Such Union representativ orrepresentatives shall be granted permission to use camp an' cookhouse facilities, but the Company reserves the right t determine on what basis and for what period of time sue permission shall be granted.
10
ARTICLE 9
BULLETIN BOARD
9.01	The Company agrees that bulletin boards and distribution boxes will be made available in the Dry(s), H.W. and Lynx surface shops, Powerhouse, Spit, Cookhouse and Concentrator for Union purposes, provided that the use of the boards shall be restricted to the posting.of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union. All notices must be approved and signed by a member of the Local Union Executive. The Union agrees that the bulletin boards will not be used for any matters not relating directly to Union business.
ARTICLE 10
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Union Officers Right to Leave of Absence
An employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union necessitating a leave of absence, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided that it does not exceed a period of two (2) years upon making proper application in writing to the Company. Such leave will be renewed on written application by the Union.
10.02	Time Spent on Leave
The time spent as a delegate of the Union or on other authorized leave of absence for Union purposes as set forth in
10.01	of this Article shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority standing or vacation time entitlement.
The Company shall not be required to grant this leave to more than a total of three (3) persons and no more than one (1) from each department at the same time and for not more than a total for all persons of seven hundred and eighty (780) working days in one (1) year.
10.03(a) National, International and Local Union Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend National or International gatherings will be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Not more than seven (7) employees: four (4) from the Mine Department, three (3) from the Plant Department and two (2) from the Mill Department; of which the total shall not exceed seven (7) may take such leave at any one time, and they must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing.Not more than a total of one hundred fifty (150) working days in a year need be granted for this purpose and no individual leave will exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days. The Company will continue M.S.A., life insurance, and sickness and accident insurance, up to twenty-one (21) calendar days for any individual leave. After that time, the employee will pay his own coverage by payroll deduction.
12
10.03(b) Local Union Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend local union gatherings including negotiations,labourarbitrationsorcommittee meetings with the Company will be granted leave of absence without pay for this purpose. There will be no loss of attendance bonus for the Union President, the Grievance Committee Chairman, or the Safety Committee Chairman for time lost due to local Union business.
10.04	Employee Leave
Any employee, on written notice setting forth good cause,
may, at the discretion of the Company, be granted a leave of absence without pay. Such leave may be extended when similar written notice setting forth good cause is supplied. Whenever a leave of absence or extension is granted or denied, the employee shall be notified in writing. The Company agrees to consider such requests in an equitable manner and such leaves shall not be unreasonably withheld.	^ 3
10.05	Bereavement Leave
In the case of death in the immediate family of any employee, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence of one (1) day. If he attends the funeral of the deceased, an additional two (2) days leave of absence will be granted if the funeral is on Vancouver island. If the employee attends the funeral at a place other than on Vancouver Island, he will be granted a total of four (4) days leave. Immediate family shall mean Mother, Father, Spouse, Children, StepChildren, Brothers, Sisters, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law.
If the employee is scheduled to work any of these days, he shall receive the hourly rate of his regular job for the number of hours he was scheduled to work. Two (2) extra days leave of absence, without pay, will be granted if the funeral is outside British Columbia. The above leave days will only be granted if the Company is notified of the leave requirement.
13
10.06	Absenteeism
Recognizing that excessive absenteeism by employees creates staffing and scheduling problems, the Parties agree:
a)	The Company will institute a 24 hour per day phone-in procedure. Employees are required to phone in prior to the commencement of their shift, to inform the Company they will not be reporting for work and the reasons for same.
b)	As justification for unauthorized absence, the Company will recognize and accept statements signed by an employee verifying medical disability. Suitable forms will be available in every department.
c)	Where an employee demonstrates a pattern of absenteeism such as repeated Mondays, Fridays, etc., the Company will give written notice to the employee inclusive of documentation of the said pattern, with a copy of same to the Union. Such notice will require the employee to provide a medical certificate for any future incidents or repetition of such pattern until an employee has gone six (6) clear months without repeating the pattern. The Company will pay any medical costs associated with such a request.
d)	In cases of prolonged absences, employees must provide the Company with as much advance notice as possible with regards to their expected date of return to work.
e)	Absence due to court duty orcompulsory fire fighting
will justify unauthorized absence. In such cases, notification within three (3) working days by telephone or letter to the Company is required. In case of fire fighting, if notification is not possible, the fire fighting certificate wll be accepted in lieu of notification. 6	€—
10.07	Court, Jury or ftre Fighting Duty
If an employee is summoned or subpoenaed for jury selection or jury duty or as a witness, or conscripted for fire fighting duty, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence with pay, which will be the difference between his regular pay and the monies received. The employee must supply the Company with a statement of payment.
14
10.08 Maternity Leave
Maternity leave of absence without pay will be granted to a female employee who has acauired seniority in the bargaining unit as follows:
a)	An employee for the reason of pregnancy shall be granted a leave of absence prior to childbirth for a period of up to fifteen (15) weeks.
b)	An employee shall be granted maternity leave for a period up to fifteen (15) weeks after the child is born.
c)	An employee for reasons of prescribed illness or injury after childbirth shall be granted a leave of absence for a period of up to fifteen (15) weeks after the maternity leave in (b)
has expired.	^
The employee shall be granted a combination of weeks the employee is entitled for any of the reasons referred to in (a)	@
(b) and (c) but the combined weeks shall not exceed thirty'(30).
The employee, upon return to work will be restored to the job she held at the commencement of leave of absence provided she still dualities in accordance with article 12.07(a). Employees on maternity leave of absence shall continue to receive their current health and welfare coverage (Medical,
Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and AD&D).
15

ARTICLE 11
SAFETY
11.01	Joint Health and Safety Committee
The following terms and conditions will apply for the Joint Health and Safety Committee:
11.01(a) Purpose of the Joint Health and Safety Committee
The Company and the Union share a mutual concern for the safety and health of employees and recognize that this concern can be best expressed through the mutual efforts of the Joint Health and Safety Committee.
The purpose of the committee is to conduct monthly inspection tours and subsequent meetings, review past inspections, review accident and near miss investigation reports and minutes of previous meetings, make recommendations to correct hazardous conditions, investigate all unsafe conditions and promote compliance with relevant government legislation affecting health and safety at the mine.
11.01(b) Structure of the Joint Health and Safety Committee
The committee will be composed of equal representation from the Company and the Union and they will be representative of the areas in which they work. Therefore, the structure of the committee is as follows:
Joint Health and Safety Committee
Company
Company Safety Committee Chairman (safety department)
Mine Department representative (2)
Lynx (1)
H.W. (1)
16
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
Union
Union Safety Committee Chairman Mine Department representative (2) Lynx (1)
H.W. (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
11.01(c) Monthly inspection Tours
Monthly inspection tours will be conducted in each area by the Company Chairman (or his designate), Union Chairman (or his designate) and the appropriate representatives from the department concerned (one (1) from the Company, one (1) from Union); except an employee from the spit, appointed by the Union, together with a representative of the Company will conduct monthly safety inspections of the spit area.
The committee shall inspect as many locations in the mine as the committee deems appropriate.
11.01(d) Meetings of the Joint Health and Safety Committee
Monthly meetings of the Joint Health and Safety Committee will be chaired by a Chairman selected from the joint committee; a Secretary will be selected in the same manner. In the selection for these positions, the Committee has to be aware that one (1) position must be from the Company and the other from the Union. The Committee at its discretion may interchange the persons in these positions once every six (6) months.
17
11.01(e) Minutes of the Monthly Joint Health and Safety Committee Meeting
The minutes of the committee meetings will be recorded by the Secretary. Both the Secretary and the Committee Chairman will sign the minutes.
The minutes will then be presented to the department head responsible for safety. He shall make duplicates promptly available to all committee members, post a copy on the bulletin boards and forward a copy to the local and national union office and the Mines Inspection Branch. He will inform the Mine Manager of the results of committee meetings and the remedial action-taken. He will also inform the Committee of remedial action taken.
11.01(f) Recommendations of the Joint Health and Safety Committee
Where immediate compliance cannot be accomplished, the Company shall ensure that the recommendation has been complied with by the next Joint Health and Safety Committee meeting. Where compliance cannot be accomplished by the next monthly meeting of the Joint Health and Safety Committee, the Company will document in writing, with copies to the Union Safety Committee Chairman,, the reasons for non-compliance along with future plans for compliance.
11.01(g) Notification and Joint Investigation
In the event of a lost time accident or near miss accident, the Union Safety Committee Chairman, or his designate, will be notified as soon as possible. Before the Company Safety Department conducts a lost-time accident investigation and/or a near miss investigation, the Union Safety Committee Chairman, or his designate, will be informed of such investigation. Further, the Union Safety Committee will have the right to
18


designate an employee to participate in the full investigation process. The Company agrees to forward all reports of joint investigations and accident reports within three(3) working days of the accident or near miss occurring or from the day the accident or near-miss was investigated.
11.01(h) Accident and Near-Miss Investigation Reports
These reports shall contain the following:
a)	The place, date and time of the incident;
b)	The names and job titles of persons injured, if applicable;
c)	The names of witnesses;
d)	A brief description of the incident;
e)	A statement of the sequence of events which preceded the incident;
9 The identification of any unsafe conditions, acts or procedures which contributed in any manner to the incident;
g)	Recommended corrective actions to prevent similar occurrences;
h)	The names of the persons who investigated the incident;
11.01(i) Right to Accompany Inspectors
Where a government inspector conducts an inspection at the mine, and that inspection is directly related to the health and safety of the employees, a Union safety committee representative may, at the Union's discretion, accompany the inspector on his tour, When such an inspector arrives at the mine the Company shall notify the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate. Should the inspector submit a written report related to such an inspection, a copy of same shall be provided to the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate.
11.01(j) Access to Log Books
The Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate, will be given reasonable access to log books kept for the maintenance and safety of equipment and all hourly employee time sheets.
11.01(k) Disclosure of Information
19
ThS-Company will notify the Union of hazardous sub* -Stances nr chemicals used at the mjns. Wherever poSSjJ>Ye, the ‘following would De included with notification:
a)	The chemical breakdown;
b)	Proper handling techniques; and
c)	Necessary training for safe handling.
11.01(1) Time Spent by an Employee
The time so spent on any of the aforementioned items in article 11 .01 necessitating loss of time by the employees delegated by the Union shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time plus all bonuses including production bonus at the rate of $3.75 per hour. Production bonus will only be paid to employees who normally receive production bonus. Under no conditions will overtime rates be paid.
11.01(m) Education and Training
It is the policy of Westmin Resources Limited that all employees receive sufficient training in order that they may perform their work in a safe manner.
11.01(n) Other Relevant Legislation
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provision of the Collective Agreement pertaining to joint health and safety, the mines act or relevant legislation that is superior to the foregoing shall take precedence.
11.02	Employee Obligation
Employees must obey all safety rules and report at once any unsafe practice or condition to their supervisors for correction as quickly as practicable.
11.03(a) Safety Protection Equipment Supplied
The Company will supply safety protection equipment to its employees as required. Company supplied safety equipment will be as follows:
Eye protection (non-prescription)
Hard hats Hearing protection Dust respirators
20
Miner's belt Safety belts and lines Tag out locks
Lineman's gloves and boots Painter's masks Aprons and face shields Safety asbestos gloves Welder's leathers
11.03(b) Replacement of Safety Protection Equipment
Upon presentation of safety protection equipmentwhich is no longer serviceable due to normal wear and tear, the Company will provide new items as required.
11.03(c) Boots, Coveralls & Slickers
The Company will provide employees the following items as required through a programme as determined by the Company:
Coveralls - one (1) pair every 6 months Rubber safety boots - one (1) pair every 6 months
Employees will be provided with the above items beginning July 1,1990 and every six (6) months thereafter during the term of this agreement.
Underground employees may choose a set of slickers in lieu of their regular coverall issue. Surface and mill employees may receive slickers if required following department head approval.
Employees may choose the option of purchasing approved leather safety boots in lieu of their rubber safety boot issue. The Company will reimburse the employee an amount equal to fifty dollars ($50) upon proof of purchase.
Employees may purchase boots, coveralls, slickers and gloves at the cost price less ten (10) percent.
11.03(d) Prescription Safety Glasses
The Company will provide prescription safety glasses to those employees who require them. Prescription safety glasses will be replaced upon proof of prescription change or damage. Prescription safety glasseswill be supplied through a programme
21
as determined by the Company.
11.04	Injured Workers	Provision
11.04(a) An employee who is injured during working hours and who is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at their regular rate of pay.
11.04(b) Such employeeshall be provided with transportation
to their doctor or hospital and to their home.
11.05	P.C.B.’s
No employee will be required to work on equipment where
he will have direct contact with P.C.B.'s
11.06	Draeger Testers
Draeger Testers and relevant test tubes shall be available to all operators as required by the mines act for testing underground mobile equipment and working headings. In addition, other employees may obtain Draeger Testers and relevant tubes on a sign out basis from the Company. These shall be returned to the Company at the end of the shift.
11.07	Access for Union	Safety	Committee Chairman
The Company agrees that the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate shall have access to all areas of the mine. When legitimate safety concerns require him to leave his job he shall first receive permission from his supervisor. Such permission shall not unreasonably be withheld. In the event of an emergency, he will inform the safety department of his intentions.
11.08	Driving From Mlnesite
No employee working in excess often (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period will be permitted to drive a company vehicle from the minesite. If the employee requests, camp accommodation will be provided.
11.09	Workers’ Compensation Claims
The Company and the Union agree to advise the other party as to the nature of any protest or appeal relative to W.C.B. Claims. The Company agrees further that any protest to any 22
employee’s claim shall be separate from the workers’ compensation forms.
11.10	Access to Medical Records
The Company agrees that an employee shall haveaccess to their first aid/medical records.
23
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY, LAY-OFFS AND RE-HIRES
12.01	Seniority Defined
12.01(a) Seniority shall be established on the basis of the individual's continuous service with the Company according to the records of the Company.
The Parties recognize that job opportunity shall increase in proportion to the length of company service and departmental seniority of each employee concerned.
12.01(b) Departmental seniority refers to the length of an employee's continuous employment within a department as defined below:
Mine
Mill
Plant (includes all shops, spit and maintenance crews) Warehouse
The parties recognize that departmental seniority shall apply only to promotion, bidding and reduction in the work force within the lines of progression.
12.02	Probationary Period
Seniority of each employee covered by theAgreementwill be established after a probationary period of two hundred and forty (240) scheduled working hours.
During this 240 hours probationary period, the employer may terminate an employee’s employment for performance which in the opinion of the management is inadequate.
The Company will notify the Union within three (3)working days of the termination of any employees under this provision.
12.03	Temporary Hires
A person originally hired by the Company to exercise e special trade or skill or to participate in a special assignment ol work may be discharged when his employment at such specia trade, skill or assignment comes to an end. The employee
24
however, will receive two(2) weeks notice in writing of such layoff or pay in lieu of noticeor portion thereof. Employees hired under this clause are covered by the entire Collective Agreement with the exception of Article 12.
It is not the intent under this article to avoid the hiring of regular full time employees when such are justified for ongoing regular work. The “special assignment” designation will not be used to avoid the above but only be utilized for assignments not in the normal compliment.	z.
.-—'
12.04	Application of Seniority A-'-4
All promotions, transfers, filling of vacancies, lay-offs and rehirinq after lay-offs will be done strictly in accordance with the principles set forth in 12.01 provided the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work required.
12.05	Maintenance of Seniority
12.05(a) Seniority will be accumulated and maintained for one (1) year during:
Occupational injury;
Illness or non-occupational injury;
Authorized leave of absence;
and will bemaintained thereafter subject toArticle 12.05(c).
12.05(b) Seniority will be maintained and accumulated during:
Absence due to lay-off up to twelve (12) months with less than three (3) years seniority.
Absence due to lay-off up to eighteen (18) months with three (3) to five (5) years seniority.
Absence due to lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months with more than five (5) years seniority.
12.05(c) Seniority will be maintained for four (4) years from the date of absence due to authorized leave of absence, injury or illness. Employees granted leave for Union business (Article 10.01) will retain their seniority for the duration of the leave.
12.05(d) During periods of accumulating and/or maintaining seniority, the benefitsof the Collective Agreement that apply will
25
be those outlined in 19.07.
12.05(e) Seniority standing will be lost if an employee:
1)	voluntarily quits;
2)	is discharged for cause and is not reinstated;
3)	is recalled to work and does not report within the limits as per Article 12.15; or
4)	is still absent and the seniority retention period has elapsed as per Article 12.05(b) or 12.05(c)
12.06	Temporary Vacancies
The Company is not obligated to consider seniority in the case of non-permanent promotions not in excess of thirty (30) working days or in the case of non-permanent demotions not in excess of seven (7) working days, but such periods of time may be extended by mutual agreement. However, it is agreed that if absenteeism is not a factor in the temporary vacancy, the Company will give first consideration for such job vacancies to persons who have applied for job training for the job in question under 12.12.
12.07	Return to a Previous Position
A temporary move from one job classification involving no change in rate shall not be considered as ‘a promotion or demotion. If an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness, accident or authorized leave, but is not transferred, he shall on his return be restored to the job and location within the job classification that he previously held.
12.08	Lines of Progression
12.08(a) Department seniority shall apply for promotions, reductions, bidding up or down, or training opportunities within lines of progression as per Article 12.04. For promotion withir the line of progression, the person in the next classificatior below with the most departmental seniority will be the success ful applicant except that an employee may bid down within theii line of progression on a departmental seniority basis providec that he has sufficient ability.
12.08(b) Should any employee in a higher rated job wish to b< 26
considered for a lower rated position in a line of progression for which he is qualified, he may file a written application with the Personnel Office. When a vacancy next occurs, he will be considered along with those in the line of progress'ron subject to Article 12.04.
12.08(c) An employee who exercises his right to bid down in the line of progression shall have the right to bid on a vacancy in a position which he has previously held.
12.09 Transfers
12.09(a) If the transfer of an employee is required by the Company from one (1) department to another for efficient conduct of operations, seniority in his new department shall be equal to that which he previously held.
12.09(b) If an employee is transferred to another department at his own request, he shall have no departmental seniority in his new department.
12.10(a) All entry level and posted job vacancies (Appendix A) expected to last thirty (30) working days or more (except those created by vacation, illness or injury to a maximum of three (3) months) will be made known by posting on Notice Boards for eight (8) working days. The posting will include the shift, the job classification, the rate of pay, and the location of the job vacancy.
12.10(b) Vacancies’ will be filled as per Article 12.04 from among those applicants who apply within the time during which the notice is posted and from those applicants who have pre-bid as per Article 12.1 0(c).
12.10(c) An employee, prior to leaving or during vacation or authorized leave (including absences for illness or injury) will have the right to pre-bid on up to two (2) upcoming position vacancies on a form provided by the Company and shall be considered a candidate for the vacancy as herein provided. Successful pre-bid applicants must accept the job if they are
12.10	Job Postings
27
awarded the posting.
12.11	Time Required in Posted Positions
12.11(a) Employees who have hired or bid into a department will not be eligible to bid on a job posting outside of their department for six (6) months.
12.11(b) Employees who have bid successfully on jobs within theirdefjartmentwill not be eligible to bid on a job posting within their department for six (6) months.
12.11(c) The Company and the Union may agree to waive the time restrictions in 12.11 (a) and
12.12	Job Training-------------^-----
All opportunities for formal job training outside the lines of progression will be made known by posting on notice boards for eight (8) working days. All such postings will be filled in accordance with Article 12.01 among employees applying.
After an employee is deemed qualified in a fair and equitable manner by the Company to perform all aspects-of the job, he shall be paid at the rate of the job at such times as he is actually performing the job.
12.13	Temporary Lay-off
12.13(a) In the event of a reduction of crews, the persons affected shall be reduced through the department lines ol progression by departmental seniority and then those to be laid off shall be in the inverse order of their company seniority from the entry positions in the department affected as per Article 12.01.
Should an employee not have sufficient seniority in his * own department to retain employment, he may elect to exercise 'hy his company seniority to displace a junior employee (companj // seniority) in another department in either an entry level positior £> orajob he has held previously, provided he has sufficient ability to perform the work.
12.13(b) In the event an employee does not have sufficien seniority or sufficient ability to retain a position with the Com pany, he shall be given two weeks notice in writing of such lay 28
12.11m) by mutual agreement. Z- S~i
off or payment in lieu of notice or portion thereof.
12.13(c) During a temporary reduction or lay-off caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Company the provisions of Article 12 will be waived for a period not exceeding three (3) days. Any available work in these circumstances will be assigned to the senior (company seniority) employee on the shift involved who is capable of performing such work.
12.14	Recall
12.14(a) When it is necessary to increase the forces laid off employees shall be reemployed as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off as per 12.13(a) and 12.13(b) provided they have sufficient ability for the job that is open. Employees are eligible for recall to the positions from which they were laid off, reduced from or any entry level position. Employees who have received severance allowance under Article 12.16 have forfeited any and all rights to recall.
12.14(b) It shall be the responsibility of the laid off employee to notify the Company of any change in their current address and telephone number. Such notification shall be by registered mail. In the event that an employee fails to notify the Company in the manner outlined above, he will lose his right to reemployment. Laid off employees who have complied with the foregoing procedure shall be notified by the Company, by registered mail at their last known address, of the date on which they are to report for work. Should an employee fail to report within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the registered notice, the employee shall lose the right to re-employment.
12.15	Students
The Company may employ students in reasonable numbers from time to time, provided that no employee shall be demoted, laid off, discharged, or have his recall delayed to make place for a student, nor shall promotion within the bargaining unit be adversely affected,
12.16	Permanent Lay-off
In the event that an employee is permanently laid off as a result of:
29

i) A plaanfidshuidown oLtha Company's operation or a department thereof;
■—Tifi>£l6sure or partial closure of the mine:
iii) A re-organization of the Myra Falls Operations that results in a reduction of the work force;
The Company agrees to give two (2) weeks notice or failing such notice two (2) weeks pay in lieu thereof or a portion thereof at the employee’s basic hourly rate of pay.
Employees so affected by any of i, ii, or iii above shall be laid off as per the terms of Article 12.13 and' will bn paid a
severance. This severance. payment will .be. the. greater of fgur calender weeks of regular pay or $600.00 per year of service calculated' to the nearest full month of service from his most recent date of hire.
To qualify for this severance payment, the employee must be actively at work, on vacation or be in receipt of Workers' Compensation Benefits or weekly indemnity payments. Employees on long term disability will not qualify for severance but shall continue to receive long term disability benefits under the terms of the long term disability plan.
At the time of lay-off an employee shall have the right to recall under the terms of Article 12.05(b). An employee who elects to retain his rights to recall under the terms of 12.05(b) is not eligible for this severance payment when his recall rights expire. An employee has three (3) weeks from date of lay-off in which to elect to retain recall rights or accept severance payment.
Employees upon receipt of this aforementioned severance payments have severed the employee/employer relationship and therefore are not subject to recall; furthermore, all rights under the Collective Agreement for these severed employees cease to exist.
12.17	Seniority Lists
The Company will prepare seniority lists of all employees and present them to the Union within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement. These lists will be posted and the Company will notify the individual involved and the Union of any
30
revision of seniority. Said lists will commence with the most senior employee, carry on downwards to the most junior employee, and contain the following information:
1)	Employee’s	name and payroll number;
2)	Employee’s	starting date;
3)	Employee’s	regular classification.
Probationary employees will also be shown in the same
manner. Additional revised lists will be furnished to the Union every three (3) months and will be posted on the bulletin board-in all departments.
The Company and Union may mutually agree to waive the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement to place a permanently disabled employee who is unable to return to or retain their normal job as the result of a work related injury or illness. This is provided that a position is available that meets the needs of the operation and the abilities of the employee.
12.18 Disabled Employees
31
ARTICLE 13
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE
13.01	Grievance Procedure
The Parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their foreman as soon after they originate as possible.
Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regarding the interpretation of a violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
The Parties recognize that the employee may have a Union Representative present during any disciplinary discussions if the employee so requests.
13.02	Step 1
Within ten (10) days after the alleged grievance has arisen, or within ten (10) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may present the grievance either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee’s satisfaction within three (3) days, the employee may proceed to Step 2.
13.03	Step 2
Wthin five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his stewardanda memberof the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his Department Superintendent. The Department Superintendent shall reply in writing within two (2) days of the presentation of this grievance under Step 2. Failing satisfactory settlement at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
32
13.04	Step 3
Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have ieen made within the time limits of the previous step, the imployee, accompanied by the Grievance Committee, may ake the matter up with the Manager or his delegate. The Union grievance Committee, may be accompanied by a representa-ive of the Union. Priorto submission to the Manager there shall ie a written statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the emedy sought and the section or sections of the Agreement, vhich are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement, within five (5) days by the Manager, either party nay, on giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the other Party, efer the dispute to arbitration.
13.05	Dismissal, Suspension & Group Grievances
Grievances involving the dismissal or suspension of an imployee(s) and grievances of a general or group nature may ie initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure provided they ire submitted within ten (10) daysof the time thedispute arose.
13.06	Company Grievances
The Company shall have the right to refer any dispute egarding the interpretation or an alleged violation of the Agreement to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing i satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to a Board of Arbitration constituted in accordance with this Agreement,
13.07	Time Limits
13.07(a) In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and Recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Jnion.
13.07(b) If the Union does not proceed to the next step within he time limits provided, the grievance shall be considered as dropped and cannot be reopened.
33
13.07(c) Time limits for initiating steps two and three for employees working the 4 X 4 shift will be extended to eight (8) days.
13.08	Time Off For Grievances
If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must receive permission from his foreman or shift boss. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
13.09	Single Arbitrator
It is agreed between the Parties that in the case of any arbitration, if both Parties agree, the case will be handled by a single arbitrator as follows:
(a)	The arbitrator shall be chosen within five (5) working days following receipt of a written notice to arbitrate. He shall be chosen by the Parties from a panel listed by letter of mutual agreement and after the first choice the next and subsequent choice will be in order of listing.
(b)	If either party in the case of any given dispute does not wish to submit that particular dispute to a single arbitrator, the arbitration procedure for that dispute will revert to the three man arbitration procedure, as outlined.
'	(c) The single arbitrator shall proceed under the same
collective agreement conditions as set out for the three (3) man arbitration and will have the same powers.
13.10	Arbitration Boards
If either party wishes the dispute to be heard by a three (3) man board rather than a single arbitrator, the Board shall consist of three (3) members: one (1) to be selected by the Company, one (1) by the Union and a third mutually acceptable person who shall act as chairman to be chosen from the same panel.
In the event that the Union and the Company are unable to agree upon the selection of the third member of the Board, the Industrial Relations Council of British Columbia shall be requested to appoint such a third member, The decision of the Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof in respect to an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be 34
nal and binding upon the Parties, but in no event shall the Soard have the power to alter, modify or amend thisAgreement 1 any respect.
Each Party shall pay the expense of the member of the )oard of Arbitration chosen by it and all expenses incurred in onnection with the presentation and preparation of its case, provided that the Parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
3.11 Work During Disputes
In the meantime, and in all cases while disputes are being ivestigated and settled, the employee or employees and all ither parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplin-iry suspension must continue to work until a final decision has leen reached, but where an employee or employees has or rave been discharge by the Company, he or they shall not emain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is >eing investigated and settled. If the claim be made within five 5) working days that an employee or employees has or have >een unjustly discharged, the case shall be dealt with according o this Article and if it’s proven that he or they have been Jischarged without proper cause, he or they shall be reinstated.
13.12 Section 96.1
In settling disputes both parties agree to exclude Section )6.1 of the Labour Code of B.C.
13.13
13.13(a)
otation:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
13.13(b)
Arbitrators Listed
Arbitrators will be selected from the following list by
James McIntyre David McPhillips Donald Munroe Richard Bird Dalton Larson
Eitherparty to this agreement has the right to remove :he name of one arbitrator from the above list during the term of .his agreement. Removal requires, however, a minimum of hirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
35
13.13(c) The rotation selection can be altered by mutual agreement between the parties. In the event of a termination arbitration, the next available arbitrator will be selected.
36
ARTICLE 14
WAGES
4.01	Wage Rates
4.01(a) The job classification and rates of pay listed in the ittached Wage Schedule is agreed upon by both parties and is iart of the Collective Agreement.
[4.01(b) The rates set forth in the attached Wage Schedule nay not be used in any way for the purpose of reducing the vage rate(s) presently received by an employee(s).
14.02	New or Changed Job Classifications
14.02(a) If any new job classifications are established, or if here is a significant change in the job classification(s) set forth n this Wage Schedule, or if any job dassification(s) have been averlooked in this Wage Schedule, the parties hereto are agreed to negotiate a rate for the Job(s) in question. / 6/2-
14.02(b) If the Parties are unable to reach an agreement, then he dispute will be settled through the Grievance and Arbitration srocedures of this Agreement.
14.03	Lead Hands
A lead hand premium of thirty cents (30c) per hour will be said to employees specifically designated to lead two or more amployees on special jobs or on trades crews. Lead hands ihall not be responsible for the administration of the collective agreement or have a supervisor’s responsibility for safety.
14.04	Qualification for	Journeymen
To qualify for the journeyman rate the employee must lave an Inter-Provincial Certificate in the trade for which he was nired.
14.05	Standby Time	a
Electricians and mechanics who are required to stay in	A
Damp on standby time shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours	0U
Day at overtime rates over and above the daily wages to which % >
37
they were otherwise entitled.
14.06 Pay Days
Effective January 1, 1991 wages will be paid by bank deposit every second Friday and employees will be provided with an itemized statement of same.
38
ARTICLE 15
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
15.01(a) Work Week Defined
The work week will begin and end with the start of the day shift on Monday morning and normally consist of five (5) working days of eight (8) hours each. The Company agrees to use its best endeavours to place as many employees as practicable on a Monday to Friday work week.
15.01(b) Time and One-Half Defined
One and one-half (11/2) the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week and for all work performed on an employee’s regular designated day of rest.
15.01(c) Double Time Defined C)
Double the employee’s basicrate shall be paid for all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest and all work over ten (10) hours in one (1) day.
15.02	Continuous or Semi-Continuous Shifts
15.02(a) In continuous or semi-continuous operations the hours of work shall consist of a scheduled average forty-two (42) hours per week.
15.02(b) Those employees whose schedule averages forty-two (42) hours per week as per Article 15.02 shall be paid at one and one-half (11/2) times their rate for all time worked in excess of an average of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week (i.e. two (2) hours perweek). In addition, one and one-half (11/2) times the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled hours per day or on a regular assigned day of rest. Double the employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest. For employees thus affected, the Union hereby
39
agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the Board of Industrial Relations for approval of a work schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
15.02(c) Hours of work for employees required for full twenty-four (24) hour coverage on seven (7) days per week shall be four (4) shifts of twelve (12) hours rotated among the employees and they will be provided room and board at six dollars ($6.00) per working day. The same charges shall apply to
employees on “standby” required to stay at the camp. ,
t/3-y 3/V/7 C7/S*-0
15.03	Weekend Premium 7 * 7 ''
A premium of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) over the applicable base rate will be paid for all time worked on regularly scheduled shifts falling on Saturdays and Sundays. This premium shall not apply for hours worked at overtime rates.
15.04	Reporting Pay and Callout Lj^
15.04(a) Reporting Pay
An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available will be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular base rate.
An employee who is in transit to work on company supplied transportation and who is unable to report for work due to circumstances beyond his control and where no alternative transportation is provided will be eligible for four (4) hours pay at straight time. To be eligible for this payment the employee must submit his name and payroll number to the vehicle driver who makes thedecision that the transportation providedcannot proceed to the work site.
15.04(b) Callout
An employee reporting forworkon acallout shall be payed at applicable overtime rates for hours actually worked or four hours at straight time whichever is the greater. In the event that the employee is called out from town, he shall receive an additional one (1) hours pay at straight time. This paragraph shall not apply when an employee is asked before completing his regular shift to continue work beyond the end of that shift.
40
15.05	Overtime Pyramiding
Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
15.06	Rate Retention
If an employee is transferred to a higher or lower paid job for four (4) hours in any one (1) day he shall be paid at the higher rate for the full shift that day. An employee transferred to a higher paid job for less than four (4) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the higher rate for the time so employed if it is not less than one (1) hour but shall otherwise be paid his usual basic rate.
The above shall not apply to job assignments for the purpose of training under supervision.
15.07	Dry to Dry
In the case of all underground employees within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, eight (8) hours from Dry to Dry shall constitute a shift, In the case of all surface employees on non-continuous operations, there shall be an established lunch period not included in the eight (8) hour work day.
15.08	Overtime Meals & Camp Charges 15.08(a) An employee who works overtime that is expected to last more than two (2) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift will be provided with a hot meal by the Company. In lieu of a hot meal, the employee can elect to receive a meal voucher in the amount of twelve dollars ($12.00) and a break not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes. The break shall be arranged so as not to interfere with the normal work sequence. If the overtime continues six (6) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift, an additional meal voucher of the same value will be provided.	~	"
15.08(b) An employee who works unscheduled overtime will be provided with camp accommodations if required at no extra cost.
15.09	Coffee Breaks
All employees will be allowed a reasonable opportunity for a coffee break, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, twice during 41
each shift, These coffee breaks shall be arranged so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
15.10	Changes to Shift Schedules
Notice of any change in regular shift schedule must be given to an employee by Thursday of the week previous to the week of the schedule change, except in the event of replacement for an employee absent without sufficient notice and/or emergency situations. Notice must be sent to the Union of any change of schedule involving four (4) or more employees in any one (1) department. In the case of continuous operations, notice will be given by the second last working day of the working cycle prior to the change of regular shift.
15.11	Rest Between Shifts
An employee shall be entitled to eight (8) hours rest between his regular shifts. Should such an employee be recalled to work before such eight (8) hours elaDse la callout), the employee shall be considered as still on his previous shift and shall be paid at overtime rates as per Article 15.04.
In the event that an employee’s regular shift begins before the prescribed eight (8) hours has elapsed since the end of a previous work period, he shall not report to work until the eight hours has elapsed. The employee shall be paid regular wage rates for those hours between the start of the regular shift and the end of the prescribed rest period. Such payment will be conditional upon the employee reporting for work and completing the shift following the end of the rest period.
42
ARTICLE 16
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
%j£r-
-	, • J <7 S ^
16.01(a) It is mutually agreed by the Parties hereto that an additional fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift differential will be paid to all employees for all work performed on afternoon, twilight and midnight shifts.
16.01(b) Shiftdifferential rates will not be paidforthe hoursan employee works at overtime.
43
ARTICLE 17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
17.01	Statutory Holidays Defined
All work performed on the following days shall be compensated for at two and one half (2 1/2) times the base rate:
New Year's Day giving Day	Thanks-
Good Friday	Remem-
brance Day	
Easter Monday	Christmas
Day	
Victoria Day	Boxing
Day	
Dominion Day Labour Day	B.C. Day
17.02	Floaters
After completion of one (1) year’s service, each employee will be entitled to two (2) floating holidays per year, subject to the same limitations as in Article 18.04. This will remain in effect only until such time as an additional statutory holiday has been declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments. At that time, the entitlement will be reduced to one (1) floater per year.
This must be applied for at least five (5) working days prior to the required time off for continuous operations and at least two (2) working days prior to the required time off for all others. It is understood and agreed that floating holidays must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
17.03	Pay for Statutory Holidays
Employees not working on the holiday set out in 17.01 of this Article shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
44
17.03(a) When a holiday falls on a regular assigned day off, the next scheduled shift will be considered as the holiday for the employee concerned.
17.03(b) To qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday.
17.03(c) An employee unable to work his scheduled shift or shifts due to personal sickness will qualify for statutory holiday pay by presenting to the Timekeeper a medical certificate duly signed by a doctor stating the employee’s illness prevented him from working his scheduled shift. This medical certificate must be provided within ten (10) calender days of their return to work.
The Company will pay statutory holiday pay to disabled employees for any such holiday occurring during the first thirty (30) calendar days of the disability. No statutory holiday pay will be paid for any statutory holidays occurring subsequent to this thirty (30) day period. This shall include all employees receiving W.C.B. or other wage loss benefits.
17.03(d) An employee who qualified for pay for a holiday under this Article, and who does not work on such holiday, shall receive his regular pay on the basis of his regular base rate (exclusive of shift differentials, overtime, bonuses, holiday or other premiums) as on the normal shift worked by him immediately prior to such holiday. An employee so qualifying shall not be entitled to such pay if he does not work on a holiday after having been required by the Company to work and having agreed. If an employee so qualifying does work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay under this section unless he works at least a part of his assigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half (21/2) times the base rate as provided in Section 17.01 of this Article, and for the remaining hours of the shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
17.03(e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, under no conditions shall any time be paid at a rate greater than two and on-half (2 1/2) times the base rate.
45
17.03(f) When a statutory holiday fails during an employees vacation, the employee is entitled to an additional vacation day without pay, if he so requests prior to his vacation.
46
ARTICLE 18
VACATION
18.01	Annual Vacations
Employees will receive vacation and be paid for the /acation in accordance with the following schedule:
Years of Continuous	Vacation	Vacation
Service	Period	Pay
.ess than one (1) year
3ne (1) year but less Three (3) han eight (8) years	weeks
Eight (8) years but less Four (4) han fifteen (15) years	weeks
:ifteen (15) years and Five (5) >ver	weeks
4% of gross
earnings	„
6% of gross ,j l - $ earnings
8% of gross earnings
10% of gross earnings
-S'
It is understood and agreed that vacations must be taken n the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated 0 future years,	___
18.02	Bonus Vacation_______________...	’~"3
18.02(a) Employees with five (5) or more years of service will eceive an additional three (3) weeks bonus vacation with pay it two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for the^’^A,'->revious year.	P-''
18.02(b) For each five (5) year period, the employee will eceive an additional three (3) week bonus vacation with pay at	.
wo percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for that y4? *•/? jrevious year.
47
18.02(c) All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next fiv (5) year anniversary.
18.03	Number on Bonus Vacation
To maintain continuous, uninterrupted operations, thi Company will schedule, on a seniority basis, the number c employees on bonus vacation not to exceed:
Ten (10) employees from underground Six (6) employees from Plant Department Two (2) employees from the Mill Two (2) employees from the Spit One (1) employee from the Warehouse
18.04	Vacation Shutdowns
18.04(a) Where practical the company may schedule a vaca tion shutdown of all or part of its operation for up to three (3 weeks. A notice will be posted in all departments by Februar 15th if the Company intends to schedule a vacation shutdown
18.04(b) The Company maintains the right to schedule vari ous parts of its operation during the shutdown. The employee necessary for these operations will be selected from thosi employees in the required job classifications who have indi cated their desire to work during the shutdown according t< Company seniority. Where there is an insufficient number c employees indicating their desire to work’ selection will b< made in reverse order of Company seniority. Employees wh< work during the shutdown will take their vacation at a late mutually agreed upon time. The Company will give a three (3 month notice when work will be required during the shutdown
18.04(C) Vacations in excess of the three (3) week shutdowi for which employees may be eligible shall be scheduled suffi ciently in advance and taken at mutually agreed upon time tha will allow for the maintenance of an adequate work force.
18.05	Vacation Scheduling
18.05(a) The Company will accept vacation applications fron January 1st to March 15th for the period April 16 to Octobe 48
1 st. Applications will be accepted from September 1st to October 15th for the period November 1 st to April 15th. Vaca-on applications will be on a form to be supplied by the Company and agreed to by the Union.
The Company will cost approved vacations by April 15th or the summer period and by October31 st for the winter period.
The foregoing is subject to the following criteria:
i)	Vacations are allotted by company seniority.
ii)	An employee at his option can elect to use a combi-lation of regular and bonus vacation when applying for vaca-lon, but the amount can not exceed the regular vacation illotment for that year.
iii)	Floaters cannot be used to displace another smployee’s vacation time.
iv)	Vacation must be taken in one week allotments or nultiples thereof, where a week is defined as follows:
1)	Four (4) shifts for employees on a 4x4 shift.
2)	Five (5) shifts for employees on a 5&2 shift.
3)	Seven (7) shifts for employees on a 7-2,7-2,7-3 shift.
v)	Journeymen, tradesmen, apprentices or trades lelpers shall not limit others in different trade occupations for 'acation assignment purposes.
vi)	After March’ 15th and October 15th any remaining 'acation time (for each respective period) can be applied for by m employee and will be allocated on a first come first serve >asis. Senior employees cannot displace a less senior em->loyee who has an approved vacation.
18.05(b) The Company agrees that once an employee's vaca-ion has been scheduled, it will not be changed except for valid jperational requirements; or if the employee has transferred to i different job at his request; or in the case of unforeseen iperating difficulties. Valid operational requirementsor unfore-;een operating difficulties will be determined by a senior Com->any official. Should the employee suffer a loss through non-efundable deposits or other increased travel costs for similar irrangements due to such a determination by management, vith prior approval, the Company will reimburse such loss.
49
18.06	Vacation Pay
18.06(a) All hourly employees will receive their earned vac; tion pay on the payday immediately following their anniversa by separate bank deposit with an itemized statement. If tt employee so reauests. the Company will issue a manu cheque for regular vacation pay to those employees who tat their vacation if the anniversary date comes either before tt next payday or during their vacation.
18.06(b) Bonus Vacation pay directly proportional to the tin being taken will be paid in advance of the vacation with t itemized statement.
ARTICLE 19
HEALTH AND WELFARE
19.01	Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered with the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia (regular medical coverage). Such employees must be full time day rate employees and both Company and employees agree to comply with the Medical Services Plan regulations at all times.
_ -
19.02	Insurance Policies	—/CJ
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost for all employees covered by Group Life Insurance Policy and a Sickness and Non-compensible Accident Benefit Insurance Policy (19.02(b)). The coverage will be as follows:
19.02(a) The Group Life Insurance coverage witi be effective
on date of hire as follows: 7<
i)
II)
Hi)
Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
date:	f 7 &	<
; of signature
Sixty thousand. daiJar.s. WfLOOO.OO) as of April 1, 1991;	y /& /(7
Seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00) as of April 1,
1992;	’767e~------
In addition, Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be effective on date of hire as follows:
i)
Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) as of signature date ;
ii) Sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00) as of April 1, 1991;
lii) Seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00) as of April 1, 1992;	7 f f 3,Z'b*
19.02(b) Effective on the signature date, the Sickness and Accident Policy will pay the maximum provided under U.I.C. (currently $384.00 perweek) forlosttime beginning with the first
51
(1 st) day of an accident or hospitalization and with the four! (4th) day of sickness and extending for a maximum period ( fifty-two (52) weeks. New employees will be covered upo completion of the probationary period. The company agree that the current sickness and accident policy payment will n< be reduced during the term of this agreement.
19.02(c) Any employee who receives Weekly Indemnity an is subsequently paid by W.C.B. or I.C.B.C. shall return th equivalent of the Weekly Indemnity payments 'to tha^omgan
19.03	Dental Plan & Extended Hea^^!->T—'~7 C
/ 0 Cl -T5
19.03(a) The Company agrees to pay one hundred percei (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered wil the Medical Services Association (dental care plan and e; tended health benefits). Dental Plan A, basic services paymei of claims to be at eighty percent (80%); coverage in Plan B, wil payment being at fifty percent (50%); and Plan C, with paymei being at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum of $2,500.00 p( eligible family member. Eligible family members is interprete as employee, spouse, and dependent children.
19.03(b) Employees to be covered by Medical Services A; sociation must be full time day rate employees and must fc registered with Medical Services Association.
19.04	Long Term Disability
Effective signature date of the contract, the Compar agrees to pay one hundred percent{ 100%) of thecostofa Lor Term Disability Plan that will provide the benefits listed belo less any benefits payable from Workers’ Compensation if a employee is unable to work due to illnessor accidentas define by the insurance carrier. Eligible employees would be thos who have completed one (1) year’s employment. There she be a fifty-two (52) week waiting period before payments con mence and they will continue to the earlier of attainment of ag sixty-five (65) or date of recovery. *1003/71O 9 Ot
i)	Nine hundred dollars ($900) as of signature date.
ii)	One thousand dollars ($1,000) as of April 1,1991
iii)	Twelve hundred ($1,200) as of April 1,1992
*?/0 y/^25 /aoo
X a y /y 9-? soef
This benefit is deemed as two,years own occupation. 3.05 Pension Plan /
Effective April 1, 1990, the Compan/agrees to increase
,e pension plan from the current seventeen dollars ($17.00) to lirty two dollars ($32.00) per month per year of continuous 3rvice. It is agreed that retirement will be the last day of the ionth in which the employee celebrates his sixty-fifth (65th) irthday.	*°t/
Effective April KJ990, the pension |^an will be amended s follows:	/*ZfcZp&-6.JJ
1) Company agrees to increase the spousal survivor’s enefit to 60% of the earned benefit. This benefitapplies should le employee die before attaining the age of sixty-five (65).
2)	Employees with less than 5 years of continuous arvice will not be vested. After (5) years of continuous service le employee will be vested one hundred percent (100%).
3)	On his termination the employee has the right to
onvert his vested pension to an RRSP, if permitted by pension jgulations.	1
4)	In the event of permanent mine closure, or a reduc-on in production in anticipation of mine closure, the full value f the pension benefit earned by each employee to date of jrmination will become vested and payable regardless of mgth of service. The company will apply any interpretation of lis provision in a fair and equitable manner.
5)	The employee will be eligible for normal retirement // j afits after thirty (30) years of continuous service or aae--=~
enefits after thirty (30) years of continuous service or ixty-five (65) which ever comes first.	^ O
9.06	Health & Welfare Coverage
9.06(a) Employees who are laid off shall continue to receive heir current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for ie month following the month in which the lay-off began.
9.06(b) Employees who are On authorized leave of absence hall continue to receive current Health and Welfare coverage is per Article 19 for the three (3) months following the month in vhich the absence began.
53
19.06(c) Employees who are absent for non-work relater injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Health am Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance Dental and A.D.&D.) for two (2) years from the commencemen of the absence.
19.06(d) Employees who are absent for work related injury o illness shall continue to receive theircurrent Health and Welfart coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance. Denta and A.D.&D.) for three (3) years from the date of the disability
19.06(e) Should an employee cease to be disabled as a resul of work or non-work related injury or illness and chooses not t( return to work, or should an employee take alternate employ ment, the Company’s obligations to maintain Health and Wei fare coverage shall cease.
19.06(f) Employees who are on such continuous coverage must keep the Company informed of their current address anc employment status. Medical, Extended Medical and Denta coverage are not available to non-residents of British Columbia. Full coverage is not available to those in the employ o anotheremployer. Failure to keep the Company informedof the current address and employment status will result in the can cellation of benefit coverage.
19.06(g) In no event will benefits continue past the age o sixty-five (65).
54
ARTICLE 20	/
UNDERGROUND CONTRACT COMMITTEE s'
0.01	Recognition	of Bonus Committee
The Company shall recognize a contract committee con-isting of three (3) Union members. Such members shall be gualified by experience and the committee shall concern itself ixclusively with matters relating to incentive contracts.
!0.02	Meetings
The Contract Committee, the Mine Superintendent and he Contract Engineer will meet monthly to discuss under-iround contracts and bonus. The purpose of such meetings is o solve problems of mutual concern. A spirit of cooperation is issential.
!0.03	Disputes
In the event of a dispute over contract prices or contract :onditions, said dispute shall be presented to the Contract Committee and the Company Management for settlement.
J0.04	Contractual Obligation
Both parties agree that minimum bonus rates agreed to by he company and the union shall remain in effect. Furthermore roth parties recognize that while bonus rates may be adjusted is conditions warrant, the Company will not arbitrarily reduce ronus rates
!0.05	Training Bonus
The Union and the Company recognize that training unctions may disrupt the daily routine and could therefore affect incentive bonus payments. Further it is agreed thatthose nvolved in the training will be protected from loss of bonus.
55
ARTICLE 21
UNION SECURITY
21.01	Assignment of Dues
The Company shall honour a written assignment of due to the Union.
21.02	Form of Assignment
An assignment pursuant to Section 21.01 of this Artich shall be in the following form:
TO: WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED
I hereby authorize you to deduct from my wages and paj to the CANADIAN ASSOCIATION OF INDUSTRIAL, ME CHANICAL AND ALLIED WORKERS, LOCAL 19, dues a! established by the CAIMAW Local 19 Constitution and By-Law! per month beginning with the month of:
_________________________________19
and/or such monthly dues per month or additional assess ments as the Union Constitution and/or by-laws from time tc time provide, and I hereby authorize and request you, withou' further authorization or requests from me to deduct and remit tc the Union such other amounts:
CLOCK NO.
EMPLOYEE'S NAME___________ (SIGN)
56
1.03	Remittance of Dues
Unless the assignment is revoked in writing and delivered ) the Company, the Company shall remit the dues deducted to le Union at least once a month, together with a written tatement of the names of the employees for whom the deduc-ons were made and the amount of each deduction.
1.04	Revocation
If an assignment is revoked, the Company shall give a opy of the revocation to the Union.
1.05	Limit of Company Responsibility
21.05(a) Notwithstanding any provisions contained i Section 21.01,21.02 and 21.03 of this Article, there shall be o financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees, ues orassessments of an employee unless there are sufficient npaid wages of that employee in the Company’s hands.
21.05(b)	The Company agrees to deductonce each
lonth from the earnings of every employee covered by this igreement the sum of monthly dues as may be fixed constitu-onally by the Union.
1.06	Effective Date
The said deductions shall commence at the effective date •f these sections, and in the case of each assignment by an mployee entering the employment of the Company subse-|uent to the effective date of the sections with the calendar lonth in which his first pay cheque from the Company is aceived by him.
:1.07 Dues as Condition of Employment
The Company shall during the life of this Agreement, leduct as a condition of each employee in the Bargaining Units ontinued employment, an amount equal to the Union dues 'om the first pay cheque due in each calendar month to each uch employee and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the nonth following the month in which such deduction is made to he Financial Secretary of the Union. The Company will, at the ime of making each such payment to the Financial Secretary if the Union, name the employees from whose pay such
57
payment has been deducted.
21.08 Union Membership
t	21.08(a) As a condition of employment, each new
employee will join the Union on his/her first day of employment.
21.08(b) All employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and all employees who join thereafter shall remain members of the Union as a condition ot continuing employment during the term of this Agreement.
21.08(c) Thoseemployees who are not members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and do not want to join are not affected by (b) above.
58
ARTICLE 22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
2.01	Reprimands & Suspensions
A written reprimand given by the Company to an em-loyee will be signed by him and by the ShOD Steward con-erned, as an acknowledgement of its receipt, and a copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the Union immediately and hall be subject to the grievance procedure. When a reprimand r disciplinary action involves suspension from work for a day r longer, and if such suspension involves an employee who ormally commutes, the notice of his suspension will be given 3 him the day before his suspension is to commence. This is’ d prevent the employee travelling to the mine on a given day nd not being allowed to work that day. After the period of six 3) clear months has elapsed from the date the reprimand was .sued, all reference to the reprimand will be stricken from the ecords. The Companywill givewritten reprimands within three 3) working days of the occurrence of the event provided that lore is reasonable access to the employee.
:2.02 Moonlighting
The Company and the Union agree that the practice ommonly known as “moonlighting” is wrong in principle. The erm “moonlighting” for the purpose of this clause shall refer to i full-time employee who regularly makes a practice of working sranotheremployerforasubstantialnumber of hourduring the /eek.
(a)	When this practice affects or conflicts with Company Business or the employee's ability to perform his normal duties,
: shall be cause for reprimand or dismissal.
(b)	When this practice affects or conflicts with the Union rolicy, the Company agrees to co-operate with the Union re: eprimand or dismissal.
59
22.03	Printing of Agreement
The Company and the Union will have printed, in pocke size books, copies of this Collective Agreement. The Company will pay the cost of printing. Every employee will be providec with a contract book and one hundred (100) copies will be provided to the Union. The books will be printed at a Unior Shop.
22.04	Medical Examinations
An employee will receive two (2) hours pay for a medica examination as required for continued employment with the Company.
22.05	Day, Week, Month & Year	Defined
References of days, weeks, months, or years shall be understood to mean calendar days, weeks, months or years unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
60
ARTICLE 23
APPRENTICES AND TRAINING
3.01	Sponsorship
The Company will sponsor training programmes as re-uired.
3.02	Joint Training Committee
The Company and the Union share a mutual commitment > develop a fully trained and safe work force and recognize this ommitment can best be expressed through the mutual efforts f the Joint Training Committee
The purposeofthiscommitteeis to oversee minertraining, lill training, journeyman/tradesman upgrading and appren-ceship training and make recommendations to improve and romote training in these areas.
The committee will be composed of equal representation om the Company and the Union and they will be representa-ves of the miners, mill workers and the tradesman. The ommittee will meet periodically as required. Meetings will be ittended by a maximum of three (3) representatives from each if the Union and the Company.
3.03	Statement of Equality
The Company agrees thatthe determination of successful ompletion of Company sponsored training programmes shall >e in a fair and equitable manner.
!3.04	Apprenticeship Training
23.04(a) Opportunities for an apprenticeship shall ie made known through the job posting procedure of Article 2.12.
'3.04(b) In the event of a reduction of the work force, ap-irentices shall be laid off in accordance with their apprentice seniority within the group of apprentices within their trade.
61
23.04(c) An apprentice who has been laid off pursuant Article 23.04(b) shall be entitled to ail rights of an employe under this collective agreement, including those set forth undi Article 12 (Seniority).
23.04(d) The basic hourly rate for apprentices shall be accordance with the rate for the group of Appendix A, Wag Schedule, as set forth below:
On Entry	Job Class 2
After 1 st Year Successful Completion Job Class 3 After 2nd Year Successful Completion Job Class 5 After 3rd Year Successful Completion Job Class 7 After 4th Year Successful Completion Job Class 8 Upon Certification / To Certified (Journeyman's Rate)	Job Class 9
Rate increases are contingent upon successful compli tion of the prescribed training hours for the year. Reasonab allowances for vacation and other non-trades related work ai inherent in the number.of training hours required. This include passing the apprenticeship board’s exams. The yearly inte vals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the programrr as the anniversary date. If he should be unsuccessful in th examination, the rate becomes effective when he passes subsequent examination.
23.04(e) During periods of schooling necessary for the a, prenticeship, the apprentice shall apply for any governme allowances available during apprenticeship schooling. Tt company shall provide an allowance equal to the different between the apprentice’s regular straight time earnings and tt amount of government earnings provided that documentatic of successful completion and attendance are provided.
62
.04(f) Any apprentice who fails any year of his apprentice-p on two (2) successive opportunities shall be removed from
■ apprenticeship training programme.
04(g) An employee is not eligible for an apprenticeship igramme if he is a tradesman or journeyman in any other de, unless there are no other successful applicants as per icle 23.04(h).
04(h) To qualify for an apprenticeship, an applicant must ve:
ii) Grade 12 or equivalent and ii) A pre-apprenticeship certificate or its equivalent or 3 years of related experience in the applied trade.
.04(1) in the event of a dispute concerning the equivalence a pre-apprentice training course, the parties agree to use the suits of a recognized pre-apprenticeship training exam as an uivalency test.
.05 Miner Training
.05(a) The intent of this programme is to train and qualify iployees as safe and certified miners.
.05(b) Selection for miner training will be based on criteria outlined in Article 12.12.
.05(c) Stope school training is considered to be the 1 st step :he miner training programme and will be fora period of three months to be trained in basic mining and safety skills. This signment is referred to as Miner Trainee 1, paid Job Class 3.
.05(d) Upon successful completion of stope school as demined by the Company, the employee is assigned as a Miner linee 2 for a period of nine (9) months paid Job Class 4.
•05(e) Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 2 m as determined by the Company, the employee is promoted Miner Trainee 3 where he remains for a period of one (1) year id Job Class 5.
•05(f) Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 3 63
term as determined by the Company, the employee would th have in his possession a Westmin Miner Certificate. T employee is then eligible to post on the miners classificati provided there is a vacancy.
In the event that an employee has completed the traini programme but there are no miner position vacancies or t individual is not the successful applicant of a posting, t employee would return to his position prior to entering t programme, This employee would then beeligible to bid on a subsequent postings.
23.05(g) The employee who demonstrates a lack of suff icie ability while in the miner training programme will be returned the position he held prior to entering the training programm
23.06	Mill Operator Training
23.06(a) The intent of this programme is to develop a fi trained, qualified and safe work force of mill operators. Oppi tunities for training will be posted within the mill department a awarded as per Article 12.07(b).
23.06(b) Employees will not post for training in more than o position at a time.
23.06(c) Employees will receive their regular rates of p while training in another classification except that employe substituting for an absent employee shall receive the rate the job.
23.06(d) Qualified employees who do not take advancerm to the next position along the line of progression for which th are qualified will be ineligible for further training. This restricti will remain in effect until the employee chooses to advance accepting a posting.
23.06(e) Tailings Man training is for a period of ten (10) weel Upon successful completion of Tailings Man training as det mined by the Company, he would then be presented witt Tailings Man certificate. He is then eligible to post on t Tailings Man classification provided there is a vacancy.
64
3.06(f) Crusher Operator training is for a period often (10) eeks. Upon successful completion of Crusher Operator aining as determined by the Company,, he would then be resented with a Crusher Operator certificate. He is then igible to post on the Crusher Operator classification provided lere is a vacancy.
3.06(g) Filter Operator training is for a period of ten (10) eeks. Upon successful completion of Filter Operator training s determined by the Company, he would then be presented ith a Filter Operator certificate. He is then eligible to post on ie Filter Operator classification provided there is a vacancy.
3.06(h) Floor Operator training is for a period of sixteen (16) eeks. Upon successful completion of Floor Operator training s determined by the Company, he would then be presented ith a Floor Operator certificate. He is then eligible to post on ie Floor Operator classification provided there is a vacancy.
3.06(1) Control Room Operator training is for a period of xteen (16) weeks. Upon successful completion of Control oom Operator training as determined by the Company, he ould then be presented with a Control Room Operator certifi-ate. He is then eligible to post on the Control Room Operator assification provided there is a vacancy.
3.06(j) Successful completion of a training segment will jalify the employee to receive a job class rate one level higher lan his present regular rate.
3.06(k) An employee may apply in writing to withdraw from lis training programme. This voluntary withdrawal from train-g eliminates the employee for eligibility to post on a training osition for a period of six (6) months,
3.06(1) The employee in training can be returned to his ormal work assignment should operational requirements of >e Company warrant such a move at any stage of this training rogramme. However should a vacancy arise in the future, the mployee so affected will automatically be reinstated in the his revious training with full credit for previous training.
65
ARTICLE 24
SPECIAL ALLOWANCES
24.01	Housing Subsidy
The Company agrees to continue to pay as is present being paid toall employeeswho work at the minesite, a housir subsidy of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per day worked.
24.02	Irregular Shifts
Employees travelling and working irregular eight (8) ho' shifts or on callouts that do not coincide with the bus service w receive a subsidy of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per working shi
24.03	Attendance Bonus
The attendance bonus as presently being paid will rema in effect. There will be no loss of such bonus if bereaveme leave is taken within the limitations of Article 10.05.
24.04	Tool Allowance
All tradesmen, journeymen, apprentices and trades hel ers shall receive one dollar ($1.00) per shift worked as a tc allowance.
66
ARTICLE 25
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
>.01 Company Rights -Automation
The Union acknowledges that the Company has the (elusive right to install, at any time, mechanical, electronic or her types of automated equipment.
>.02 Technological Change Defined
For the purposes of this Article, “Technological Change” eans:
(a)	The introduction by the employer of a major change his equipment or material from that equipment or material
reviously used by the employer in his work, undertaking, or usiness, and/or
(b)	A major change in the manner in which an employer arries on his work, undertaking, or business related to the itroduction of that equipment or material.
5.03	Notice of Change
The Company shall notify the Union not less than one (1) lonth in advance, or give as much notice as is practical, of itent to introduce technological changes which involve the ischarge or laying off of employees.
5.04	Meeting with Union
In the event of a pending technological change, the Jompany shall advise the Union of such change at the earliest ipportunity and meet with the Union to discuss the ramifica-,ons of such technological changes as soon as practical.
15.05	Displacement of Employees
Where an employee who has at least one (1) year of ;ervice with the Company is displaced from his job by reason >f technological change, and where a vacancy exists for which le might qualify by training, he shall be entitled to such training it the Company’s expense, provided that he has the necessary >asic education and abilities to absorb such training to equip iim for the operation of new equipment or procedures. The
67
period of such training shall notexceed a maximum of thirty (3i working days.
25.06	Severance Pay
Employees who have at least one (1) year of service wi' the Company who are discharged or laid off because of tecl nological change are entitled to severance pay under Artie 12.16 of this Agreement.
68
WAGE SCHEDULE “A
/
CLASSIFICATION Apr1,1990 Apr1,1991
Surface Labourer $18.15	$19.06
Apr 1,1992 $20.01
Apprentice	$18.35	$19.27	$20.23
ucker/Core Splitter pare Operator (Mill) nderground Labourer
Apprentice 1	$18.61	$19.54	$20.52
it Grinder us Driver
iamond Drill Helper quipment Operator 1 liner Trainee 1 lilings Operator 'ades Helper
Cagetender	$18.93	$19.88	$20.87
rusher Operator
eckman
liman
ront End Loader liner Trainee 2 ipeman umpman lusherman imberman's Helper rackman's Helper rammer
nderground Crusherman /arehouseman
69
5.	Apprentice 2	$19.25	$20.21
Equipment Operator 2
Filter Operator Heavy Equipment Operator (Underground)
Miner Trainee 3
6.	Cablebolter Diamond Driller Miner Shaftman Timberman Trackman
7.	Apprentice 3 Concentrate Truck Driver Equipment Operator 3 Hoistman
Power House Operator
8.	Apprentice 4	$20.35	$21.37
Control Room Operator Floor Operator Tradesman
9.	Journeyman	$20.85	$21.89
$19.62	$20.60
$19.94	$20.94
70
$21.22
$21.63
$21.99
$22.44
$23.00
APPENDIX A
ENTRY LEVEL AND POSTED POSITIONS BY DEPARTMENT
ant
Mill
iprentice
iprentice
>ncentrate Truck Driver	Bucker/Reagent Man (E)
luipment Operator 1 (E)	Journeyman
>wer house Operator ades Helper(E) adesman
ine
t Grinder (E) icker/Core Splitter (E) ablebolter
agetender (E)
ackman
amond Driller
amond Driller Helper(E)
ont End Loader Operator, U/G
aavy Equipment Operator, U.G
ibourer, Underground (E)
iner
iner Trainee 1 (E) peman jmpman laftman
Tradesman
Labourer, Surface(E)
71
Timberman
Timberman’s Helper (E) Trackman
Trackman's Helper(E)
72
APPENDIX A
LINES OF PROGRESSION
ant
Mill
quipment Operator 3
A
quipment Operator 2
A
quipment Operator 1 rusher Operator tilings Operator ntry Level
Mine
repression 1
nderground Crusherman 'ammer illman lusherman umpman A
ntry Level
Control Room Operator A
Floor Operator Filter Operator
Progression 2 Hoistman
Cagetender
A
73
APPENDIX B
The positions for the Equipment Operator's Classifications the Plant Department will be treated as follows:
In the event that training is required for individuals to move from one step of the Equipment Operators’ classificatic to
another, the Company generally will do the following:
1.	Any necessary training must be done on the job wi Westmin Resources Limited equipment and personnel.
For example:
There will be no training or provision for time so spent at technical school, Saferway driving etc.
2.	For employees in Equipment Operator classificatic #3 required to train for the Equipment Operator classificatic #2, the following will apply:
“For the first one hundred sixty (160) hours the employe will be compensated at job Class 3; all hours in excess of th number, for purposes of necessary training, will be at Job Clai 5.”
3. For employees in the Equipment Operator#2 class fication required to train for the Equipment Operator #1 class fication, the following will apply:
For the first nine hundred sixty (960) hours, the employe will be compensated at Job Class 5; all hours in excess of th number, for purposes of necessary training, will be at Job Clai 7."
4. The foregoing in Sections 1 and 2 is contingent o
(a)	The employee must accept the necessary trainini
(b)	The Company will determine the number of trainir hours required and after that time decide on whether tf employee is qualified.
74
(C) The employee, once trained or back to his normal job motion, will receive his regular rate of pay.
(d)	The Company will decide on the number of people iquired in each classification within the terms and conditions f the Collective Agreement.
(e)	If a vacancy exists, the employee will be promoted ased on departmental seniority provided they have been ained and are qualified. The Company accepts this training ssponsibility subject to “b" above.
5. Incidental costs required in the training process such is licences, examination time, etc. will be borne by the Com->any. This must be approved in advance by our Training Department.
75
76
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
is agreed and understood that as soon as possible after itification of this agreement the Company will arrange for a van om Campbell River to transport all persons on the 4 X 4 shift > the operations at the beginning of their four (4) shifts and to ampbell River at the conclusion of their fourth (4th) shift orked in the cycle.
77
LETTER OF INTENT
The Company agrees to recognize a camp committee a selected by the Union for the duration of this collective egret ment, so long as the hourly employees are provided with camp facility.
The purpose of this committee is to bring to the attentio of the Company, items which require attention or are of mutu; concern. Furthermore the Company recognizes that the inter of the Union committee is problem resolution.
Meetings will be held with the management representativ responsible for the maintenance of the camp to discuss an resolve the issues raised by the committee. For the purpose of meetings with Company the committee will be limited 1 maximum of 3 persons.
Westmin Resources Limited	C.A.I.M.A.W. LOCAL 1
Harold J. Mercer	Peter Smith
Manager Employee Relations National Representative
Charles N. Leggett	Clayton Bagwell
Mill Superintendent	Recording Secretary
& Bargaining Committee Member
78
i: Peter Smith Staff Representative C.A.I.M.A.W Local 19
From: H. Mercer
Jte: March 30, 1990
jbject: Company Policy Regarding the Assignment of Work
is a matter of Company policy that the assignment of work is be done in a fair and equitable manner.
Mercer
anager Employee Relations
79
To: Peter Smith
Staff Representative C.A.I.M.A.W Local 19
From: H. Mercer
Date: March 28, 1990
Subject: Distribution of Gear
It is the intention of the Company to implement a programrr through local suppliers for employees to purchase and obta regular issues as per Article 11.03(c).
It is the Company’s intention to maintain or improve tt quality of gear currently in use.
The Union will be aiven the ODDortynity to participate throuj the Union Safety Chairman in the initial setupof this programm
H. Mercer
Manager Employee Relations
80
ate: April 4, 1990
jbject: Improvements to Camp Accommodations
tis letter is to confirm our understanding reached at negotiations lative to the camp facilities at Myra Falls Operations.
le Company will spend up to $240,000 in the first year of the illective agreement and up to $80,000 in each of the second id third years for camp improvements if required. The orementioned camp improvements will be the responsibility Chuck Leggett, Mill Superintendent. The Union is invited to ipoint two (2) Camp Committee representatives to sit with huck for the development of this project under terms of Jvisement and consultation.	The administration of
e camp facilities will be a responsibility of the Employee elations Department.
•nployees assigned a room prior to April 1, 1990 will be randfathered” in their current room assignment status for the rm of this collective agreement. This room status will perma-sntly change if either of the following events occur;
1)	The employees voluntarily changes to shared status.
2)	The employee comes off shiftwork through a legitimate lorganization and at some future date bids back onto a Dsition which requires camp accommodation.
is understood that all employees new to the camp will be ssigned rooms on a shared concept. Employees who enter to the shared accommodation concept (single bed) are ex-mpt from the room charge provisions of Article 15.02(c).
. Mercer
anager Employee Relations
81
H. Mercer
Manager Employee Relations To: Peter Smith
Staff Representative C.A.I.M.A.W Local 19
From: H. Mercer
Date: February 22, 1990
Subject: Apprenticeship School Textbook Reimbursement
Immediately following final ratification of the 1990 collectivi agreement it will be the policy of Westmin Resources Limited t reimburse apprentices for tine cost of text books required fo apprenticeship training schooling.
In orderto qualify for this reimbursement the text books must bi required by the apprenticeship board for the courses as outline*
in the curriculum.
H. Mercer
Manager Employee Relations
82
Mercer
anager Employee Relations
>: Peter Smith
Staff Representative C.A.I.M.A.W Local 19
om: H. Mercer
ate: March 16, 1990
ubject: Union Meeting in Camp
is agreed that for the duration of this collective agreement the nion will be allowed access to facilities at the mine for the urposes of conducting meetings.
is clearly understood the provisions of Article 10.03 with iference to union officials absenting themselves from work nail be limited to a maximum of two (2) for any one meeting, i addition employees scheduled to work will not be given ermission to attend the foregoing meetings.
he Company must be informed by the Union within a reasonable
me frame as to the date and time of the meeting, and Union xecutive members to attend .
I . Mercer
Manager Employee Relations
between
and
MEMORANDUM Of AGREEMENT WBSTHIN MINES LIMITED
(the "COMPANY"
CANADIAN ASSOCIATION OF INDUSTRIAL, MECHANICAL AND ALLIED WORKERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 19
(the -UNION"
1)	The members of the Coapany Negotiating committee hereby agrs to reooamend unanimously to the COMPANY that this Xemovandu of Agreement be ratified.
2)	The UNION and the members of the Union Negotiating committe hereby agree ta reooamend unanimously to the employees in th bargaining unit that this Memorandum of Agreement be ratified
3)	upon ratification by the^employees in the bargaining unit e fay the COMPANY, the Collective Agreement between the pertie snail be amended in accordance with the agreed to it.. attached hereto.
4)	All amendments shall come into force on the data o ratifieation by both parties, except for the wage rates, whic shall be retroactive to April 1, 1990.
Agreed to at Campbell Rivet, British Columbia, This April, 1990.
M.
Day o
For the UNION
For the COMPANY
C.A.I.H.A.N Local 19
INDEX
Article No
Absenteeism	10.06
Access to Property Union Access to Property	8.02
Accident and Near-Miss
Investigation Reports	11.01 (h)
Agreement
Effective Date	4.03
Term	4.01
Apprentices and Training Joint Training Committee	23.02
Sponsorship	23.01
Statement of Equality	23.03
Arbitration Boards	13.10
Arbitrator
List	13.13
Single	13.09
Attendance Bonus	24.03
Automation	25.01
Underground Contract Committee Disputes	20.03
Meetings	20.02
Boots, Coveralls & Slickers 11.03 (c) Bulletin Boards	9.01
Camp Accommodations	Letter
Camp Charges	15:08
Coffee Breaks	15.09
Company Responsibility	21.05
Contracting Out	3.03
Contractual Obligation	20.04
Court, Jury or Fire Fighting Duty	10.07
Dental Plan	19.03
Disabled Employees	12.18
Page No. 14
10
19
6
6
61
61
61
34
35 34 66 67
55
55
21
11
81
41
41
57
4
55
14
52
31
85
Discrimination Double Time Driving From Minesite Dry to Dry
Education and Training Employee Defined Extended Health Floaters
Gear Distribution Grievances ComDanv
Dismissal and Suspension
Group
Procedure
Time Limits
Time Off For
Health & Welfare Coverage Housing Subsidy Injured Workers Provision Insurance Policies Irregular Shifts Job Classifications
6.01
15.01	(C) 11.08 15.07
11.01	(m)
2.01
19.03 17.02 Letter
13.06
13.05
13.05
13.01
13.07
13.08
19.06
24.01
11.04
19.02
24.02
New/Changed	14.02
Job Postings	12.10
Job Training	12.12
Joint Health and Safety Committee Access for Union Safety
Committee Chairman
Disclosure of Information
Draeger Testers
Log Books
Meetings
Minutes
Monthly Inspection Tours Puroose
Recommendations
11.07
11.01	(k) 11.06
11.01	(j)
11.01	(d)
11.01	(e)
11.01	(c)
11.01	(a)
11.01	(f)
Right to Accompany Inspectors	11.01 (i)
86
19
C> CM T-o <M O CO CO CO CM CO-O'CO CO CM CD I"- I-- CO	CMO)CMO)SCON(OCO
Structure
Journeymen
Qualification
Lay-off
Permanent
Recall
Severance Payment Temporary Lead Hands Leave of Absence Bereavement Leave Employee Leave lime Spent Union Officers Right Lines of Progression Local Union Gatherings Lockouts or Strikes Picket Lines
Prohibition Against Work Stoppages Long Term Disability Management Rights Maternity Leave Medical Examinations Medical Records Medical Services Plan Mill Operator Training Miner Training Moonlighting Notification and Joint Investigation Obligation to Operate Overtime Meals P.C.B's Pay Days Pension Plan
11.01	fb)
14.04
12.16
12.14
12.16
12.13
14.03
10.05
10.04
10.02 10.01
Appendix A
10.03	(b)
7.02
7.01
19.04
5.01 10.08
22.04
11.10
19.01
23.06
23.05
22.02
11.01 (g)
5.02
15.08
11.05
14.06 19.05
16
37
29
29
29
28
37
13
13
12
12
73
13
9
9
52
7
15
60
23
51
64
63
59
18
7
41
22
38
53
87
Positions
Entry Level Posted
Previous Position Printing of Agreement Probationary Period Rate Retention Reporting Pay and Callout Reprimands
Rights to Hire, Discharge
Appendix A Appendix A 12.07
22.03 12.02 15.06
15.04 22.01
and Select	5.03
Safety Glasses	11.03 (d)
Safety Protection Equipment 11.03 (a) Seniority .
Application of	12.04
Maintenance of	12.05
Seniority Lists	12.17
Shift Differential	16.01
Shift Schedules
Changes	15.10
Rest Between Shifts	15.11
Staff
Temporary Promotion To	2.02
Standby Time	14.05
Status During Negotiations	4.02
Statutory Holidays	17.01
Students	12.15
Supervisors Working	3.02
Suspensions	22.01
Technological Change	25.02
Temporary Hires	12.03
59
67
24
88
po -u on go ro •&>. -u go ro ro n> ro 'si 01 -u -u ro o> to -si
Temporary Promotion to Staff 2.02 Temporary Vacancies	12.06
Textbook-Reimbursement	Letter
Time and One-Half	15.01 (b)
Time Required in
Posted Positions	12.11
Tool Allowance	24.04
Training Bonus	20.05
Transfers	12.09
Union Activities
Officers & Meetings	8.01 (a)
Union Certification	3.01
Union Dues
Assignment	21.01
Condition of Employment 21.07 Remittance	21.03
Revocation	21.04
Union Gatherings	10.03 (b)
Union Meeting in Camp	Letter
Union Membership	21.08
Vacation
Annual	18.01
Bonus	18.02
Pay	18.06
Scheduling	18.05
Shutdowns	18.04
Wage Rates	14.01
Wage Schedule	W.S.A
Weekend Premium	15.03
Work Assignment	Letter
Work Week	15.01 (a)
Workers’ Compensation Claims	11.09
2
26
82
39
28
66
55 27
10
4
56
57 57
57 13 83
58
47
47 50
48 48 37 69
40 79 39
22
89