COLLEl	I nsfa. T
I	t Gir.i • 'iiiw
Dci..'.1.°i.OVlS'i
J
webshm

WES'^TMINRESOURCES ^MYRAFALLS OPERATIONS
and
GAW^CA ■ CANADA-
CANADIANAUTOWO^RS.' -LOCAL3019
1,1993toAlgust14,1997
00162 (04)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article....Definition........................................ Page
1	..... Preamble .........................................3
2	..... Employees Covered by This Agreement................3
3	..... Union Recognition ................................5
4	..... Term of Agreement.................................7
5	..... Rights Reseived to Management.....................8
6	..... No Discrimination ................................9
7	..... Lockouts or Strikes............................... 10
8	..... Union Activities on Company	Time................ 11
9	....... Bulletin Board
10	...... Leave of Absence..
11	...... Safety ............
12	.
13	.
14	.
15	.
16	.
17	.
18	.
19	.
20	.
21 .
22 .
23	.
24	.
25	.
26	.
. Seniority, Lay-offs, and Recall ......
Settlement of Dispute...................
Wages ..................................
Hours of Work...........................
Overtime and Special Pay................
Statutory Hdlidays......................
Vacation ...............................
Pension, Health & Welfare...............
Underground Contract Committee .........
Union Security .........................
General Provisions......................
Apprentices and Training ...............
Technological Change....................
Bus Transportation .....................
Red Circling ...........................
.......... Wage Schedule “A” ......................
Appendix “A”- Job Classifications .................
Appendix “B” - Entry Level Positions ..............
Appendix “C” - Equipment Operator’s Classifications Letters of Agreement:
.......... Camp Accommodation .....................
.......... Discrimination and/or Harassment .......
.......... Camp Committee..........................
.......... Assignment ofWork.......................
.......... Hot Mealsfor Mill Crews ................
.......... Employee Evaluations ...................
.......... Underground Bonus System ...............
RqjflftjfrWork Protocol 96
13
13
17
.28 38 .44 .45 .47 51 .52 .59 .65 .66 69 .71 .78 80 .80 .82 .83 .85 . .86
.88
.89
.91
.92
.93
94
.95
oo i bacon)
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the 1st day of April 1993 BETWEEN:
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED MYRA FALLS OPERATIONS
(hereinafter called the “Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART:
AND
CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS (hereinafter called the “Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART:
Page 2
Article 1
PREAMBLE
The parties to this Agreement recognize it is in their mutual interest to promote, as fully as possible, conditions of safety to the employee, economy of the operation and protection of property. These conditions can best be maintained by harmonious relations between the Company and the employees and by the settlement, in an amicable manner, of all disputes which may arise. The Company and the employees shall cooperate fully for their mutual benefit.
Article 2
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
2.01	Employee Defined
The term employees as used in this Agreement shall include all hourly rated employees of Westmin Resources Limited and its subsidiary companies covered by the certification who are engaged in mining, treatment and transportation operations related to the Myra Falls Operations of the companies except those employees in a confidential, supervisory, technical, executive, security or clerical capacity.
The term supervisory as applied to employees as herein designated includes (without restricting the generality of the expression) foreman, shift bosses, and employees of the companies who have the authority to hire or discharge.
Page 3
Words in this agreement imparting the masculine gender shall be understood to also apply to female employees.
2.02	Temporary Promotion to Staff
An employee who is replacing a member of staff to meet the needs of the operation in such circumstances as vacation replacement or special projects for a temporary period up to a maximum of sixty (60) consecutive calendar days, shall be considered a member of staff. Upon completion of such a temporary period he shall return to the group classification that he left.
In the case of promotion to staff, the employee will cease to accumulate seniority after sixty (60) calendar days, but will retain his previous seniority should he return to the bargaining unit.
Hourly employees who may be used under the terms of this clause will be chosen for their qualifications and will be termed designated employees. These individuals will be approved by theMine Manager and theirnameswill besupplied to theUnion.
The time restrictions in this clause may be waived by mutual consent of the Company and the Union under special conditions.
2.03	Students
The Company may employ students in reasonable numbers from time to time, provided that no employee shall be demoted, laid off, discharged, or have his recall delayed to make place for a student, nor shall promotion within the bargaining unit be adversely affected.
Page 4
Article 3
UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Certification
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions; and the Company will continue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Supervisor Working
The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of foreman to perform work which is currently being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except under emergency conditions, the purpose of training, instruction, or for metallurgical research.
It is understood that the working foreman (supervisor) shall attempt at all times to have a member of the bargaining unit assist him in any emergency. An emergency shall be defined as a major disruption in production, or where there is danger to life or limb.
3.03	Contracting Out
The Company will not contract out work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except to make the operation more efficient, and will not do so if it has the result of laying off or reducing the rate of pay of employees who have the ability to perform the work. The Company shall endeavour wherever possible and practical to have its sub-contract work
Page 5
performed by a union shop. When the company decides that the contracting out of work on site is necessary the union will be so advised a minimum of fourteen (14) days in advance. When the contract has been awarded the Union will be advised in writing a minimum of seven (7) days in advance of the work start date.
The written advice shall contain the following information:
1.	Name of subcontractor
2.	Nature of the work to be contracted
3.	Approximate number of subcontractor’s employees
4.	Approximate duration of the job
5.	Union affiliation if applicable.
The parties to this agreement recognize that under certain emergency situations the time limits mentioned above can be waived.
Page 6
Article 4
TERM OF AGREEMENT
4.01	Term
This Agreement shall be in force for the period from April 1,1993 to and includingA'Ugusf T4,1997. Thereafter, the agreement shall continue inffiliforce ana erect from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend the agreement at the expiration of any yearly period is given by either party. Subsections 50 (2) & (3) of the Labour Relations Code of B.C. are excluded from operation under this Agreement.
4.02	Status During Negotiations
During any period when negotiations are being conducted between the parties for the renewal of this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
(a)	The Union commences a legal strike;
(b)	The Employer commences a legal lockout; or
(c)	The parties enter into a new or further agreement.
4.03	Effective Date
Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and conditions of this agreement shall become effective from the date of signing of the Collective Agreement by both parties.
Page 7
Article 5
RIGHTS RESERVED TO MANAGEMENT
5.01	Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement provided; however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee of group of employees. Changes made to rules and regulations shall be posted and a copy of such changes sent to the local Union.
5.02	Obligation to Operate
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties, or any part thereof.
5.03	Rights to Hire, Discharge and Select
The Company shall have the right lo hire, discipline, demote and discharge employees for proper, just and reasonable cause. The selection of lead hands and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the Company's decision.
Page 8
Article 6
NO DISCRIMINATION
6.01	No Discrimination
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of his legitimate activities as a member of the Union.
The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part or by any members towards any employee of the Company.
The Parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia as per Letter of Agreement - Discrimination and/or Harassment.
Page 9
Article 7
LOCKOUTS OR STRIKES
7.01	Prohibition Against Work Stoppages
The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union, not any representative of the Union, nor any employee shall in any way authorize, encourage, or participate in any strike, walk-out, suspension of work, oraslow-down againstWestmin Resources Limited during the life of this Agreement.
7.02	Pickets Lines
No employee(s) will be subject to disciplinary action nor will action betaken against the Union if an employee or employees honour a lawful picket line as permitted under the Labour Code of British Columbia.
Page 10
Article 8
UNION ACTIVITIES ON COMPANY TIME
8.01(a) Union Officers & Meetings
Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen will be designated in writing by the Union lo the Company. For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives, the Grievance Committeewill consist of not more than three (3) members as designated by the Union.
When the legitimate business of a Grievance Committeeman or Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen require him to leave his job or department, he shall first receive permission from his foreman or department supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regular working hours.
8.01(b) Meetings
Meetings between the Company and the Union will be held during working hours. Such meetings will be scheduled at the convenience of the Company, the Union and the employee.
8.01(c) Union Meetings
The Union will be allowed access to facilities at the mine for the purposes of conducting meetings. Subject to the requirements of the Operations, the Company shall grant a maximum of two (2) Union Officials, as outlined in Article 10.03, time off work to attend any one meeting. Employees scheduled to work will not be given permission to attend the foregoing meetings.
Page 11
The Union must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, as to the date and time of the meeting and the names of Union Officials to attend.
8.02	Union Access to Property
A Union representative or representative shall be permitted entry to the Company's property subject to the decision of the Company as to the number of such representatives to be granted such entry at any one time. Such Union representative or representatives shall be granted permission to use camp and cookhouse facilities, but the Company reserves the right to determine on what basis and for what period of time such permission shall be granted.
8.03	Lost Time For Union Business
The Union's President shall be granted leave of absence, with pay (including an amount equal to his normal underground production bonus, if applicable), to a maximum of six (6) days per month, for time spent performing his Union duties.
Page 12
Article 9
BULLETIN BOARD
9.01
The Company agrees that bulletin boards and distribution boxes will be made available in the Dry(s), H-W and Lynx surface shops, Powerhouse, Spit, Cookhouse and Concentra-torfor Union purposes, provided that the use of the boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union. All notices must be approved and signed by a member of the Local Union Executive. The Union agreesthatthe bulletin boards will not be used for any matters not relating directly to Union business.
Article 10
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Union Officers Right to Leave of Absence
An employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union necessitating a leave of absence, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided that it does not exceed a period of two (2) years upon making proper application in writing to the Company. Such leave will be renewed on written application by the Union.
10.02	Time Spent on Leave
The time spent as adelegate of the Union oron other authorized leave of absence for Union purposes as set forth in 10.01 of the Article shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority standing or vacation time entitlement.
Page 13
The Company shall not be required to grant this leave to more than a total of three (3) persons and no more than one (1) from each department at the same time and for not more than a total for all persons of seven hundred and eighty (780) working days in one (1)year.
10.03(a) National & international Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend National or International gatherings will be granted a leave of absence without pay for this,DU(Doss. Not more than four (4) employees from any one department or seven (7) employees in total from all departments may take such leave at any one time.
The Union must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, of such leave.
Not more than a total of one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a year need be granted for this purpose and no individual leave will exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days.
10.03(b) Local Union Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend local union gatherings including negotiations, labour arbitrations or committee meetings with the Company will be granted leave of absence without pay for this purpose.
10.04	Employee Leave
Any employee, on written notice setting forth good cause, may, at the discretion of the Corqpany, be granted a leave of absence without pay. Such leave may be extended when similar notice setting forth good cause is supplied. Whenever a leave of
Page 14
absence or extension is granted or denied, the employee shall be notified in writing. The Company agrees to consider such requests in an equitable manner and such leaves shall not be unreasonably withheld.
10.05	Bereavement Leave
In the case of death in the immediate family of any employee, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence of one (1) day. If he attends the funeral of the deceased, an additional two (2) days leave of absence will be granted if the funeral is on Vancouver Island. If the employee attends the funeral at a place other than Vancouver Island, he will be granted a total of four (4) days leave.
Immediate family shall mean Mother, Father, Spouse, Children, Step-Children, Brothers, Sisters, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law and Grandparents.
If the employee is scheduled to work any of these days, he shall receive the hourly rate of his regular job for the number of hours he was scheduled to work.
Two (2) extra days leave of absence, without pay, will be granted if the funeral is outside British Columbia.
The above leave days will only be granted if the Company is notified of the leave requirement.
10.06	Absenteeism
Recognizing that excessive absenteeism by employees creates staffing and scheduling problems, the Parties agree:
a) The Company will institute a 24 hour per day phone-in
Page 15
message service. Employees are required to phone in at least one hour prior to the commencement of their shift, to inform the Company they will not be reporting for work and the reasons for same.
b) Where an employee demonstrates a pattern of absenteeism such as repeated Mondays, Fridays, etc., the Company will give written notice to the employee inclusive of documentation of the said pattern, with a copy of same to the Union. Such notice will require the employee to provide a medical certificate for any future incidents or repetition of such pattern until an employee has gone six (6) clear months without repeating the pattern. The Company will pay any medical costs associated with such a request.
10.07	Court, Jury Or Fire Fighting Duty
If an employee is summoned or subpoenaed for jury selection or jury duty or as a witness, or conscripted for fire fighting duty, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence with pay, which will be the difference between his regular pay and the monies received. The employee must provide the Company with a statement of payment. In such cases of absence, employees must provide the Company notification within three (3) working days of absence. In case of fire fighting, if notification is not possible, the fire fighting certificate will be accepted in lieu of written notification.
10.08	Maternity/Parental Leave
Maternity and Parental Leave will be granted as per the Employment Standards Act of British Columbia.
Page 16
Article 11 SAFETY
11.01	Joint Health and Safety Committee
The following terms and conditions will apply forthe Joint Health and Safety Committee:
11.01(a) Purpose Of Joint Health & Safety Committee
The purpose of the Joint Health and Safety Committee is to encourage all employees to share a common goal of improving health and safety in the workplace.
The Committee provides a mechanism through which workers can contribute and provide insight into the formulation of health and safety policies and programs, the assessment of equipment and processes, and the setting of safety goals and objectives.
The Committee will promote an atmosphere of cooperation and will strive to reach consensus on health and safety issues and make recommendations which are agreed to by the entire committee.
The Committee will conduct monthly inspection tours and subsequent meetings, review past inspections, reviewaccident and near miss investigation reports and minutes of previous meetings, make recommendations to correct hazardous conditions, investigate all unsafe conditions and promote compliance with relevant government legislation affecting health and safety at the mine.
Page 17
11.01(b) Structure Of Joint Health & Safety Committee
The committee will be composed of equal representation from the Company and the Union and shall be representative of the areas in which they work. Therefore, the structure of the committee is as follows:
COMPANY
Company Safety Committee Chairman (safety department)
Mine Department representative (2) Lynx (1)
H-W (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
Union
Union Safety Committee Chairman Mine Department representative (2) Lynx (1)
H-W (1)
Plant Department representative (3) surface (2) underground (1)
Mill Department representative (1)
Page 18
11.01(c) Responsibilities of J.H.S.C.
The Committee shall carry out the legislative responsibilities mandated under the Mines Act Code of B.C.
In addition, the Committee shall collectively work to provide advice and insight into the resolution of workplace health and safety issues through activities such as:
i)	review of health and safety programs, goals and objectives
ii)	review of accident investigations and injury statistics
11.01(d) Monthly Inspection Tours
Monthly inspections will be conducted in each area by the Company Chairman (or his designate), Union Chairman (or his designate) and the appropriate representatives from the department concerned (one (1) from the Company, one (1) from the Union); except an employee from the spit, appointed by the Union, together with a representative of the Company will conduct monthly safety inspections of the spit area.
The committee shall inspect as many locations in the mine as the committee deems appropriate.
After the completion of the inspection tour, those representatives conducting the tour will meet with the management representative responsible for that area to discuss the findings of the inspection. The inspection tour representatives will complete an inspection tour report outlining their findings and the remedial action to be taken and forward to the Committee for review at the monthly meeting.
Page 19
Safety hazards noted during inspection tours will be corrected within 30 days or by the date agreed by the J.H.S.C.
11.01(e) Meetings of the J.H.S.C.
The Committee will meet once a month to review and make recommendations related to:
i)	inspection tours
ii)	accident investigations
iii)	safe work practices, methods and procedures
iv)	health and safety training
v)	health and safety concerns raised by employees and management
11.01(f) Minutes of J.H.S.C. Meetings
The secretary of the Committee will prepare minutes of the monthly meetings which will be signed by both co-chairmen. A copy will be sent to the following:
i)	Mine Manager
ii)	Union President
iii)	Department Heads
iv)	District Mines Inspector
v)	Post on bulletin boards
vi)	National Union Page 20
11.01(g) Recommendations of the J.H.S.C.
Where immediate compliance cannot be accomplished, the Company shall ensure that the recommendation has been complied with by the next Joint Health and Safety Committee meeting. Where compliance cannot be accomplished by the next monthly meeting of the Joint Health and Safety Committee, the Company will document in writing, with copies to the Union Safety Committee Chairman, the reasons for non-compliance along with future plans for compliance.
11.01(h) Notification of Joint Investigations
The Company will notify the Union co-chairman ordesignate as soon as possible in the event of a lost time injury or dangerous occurrence. Before the Company Safety Department conducts an investigation, the Union co-chairman, or his designate, will be informed of such investigation. The Union co-chairman, or his designate, will have the right to participate in any joint investigation. The Company agrees to forward all reports of joint investigations within three (3) working days of the date of the accident investigation.
Joint investigation reports will be signed by both Committee cochairmen and a copy sent to the following:
i)	Mine Manager
ii)	Union President
iii)	District Mines Inspector
iv)	Post on bulletin boards
Page 21
11.01(1) Accident and Near-Miss Investigation Reports
These reports shall contain the following:
(a)	The place, date and time of the incident;
(b)	The names and job titles of persons injured, if applicable;
(c)	The names of witnesses;
(d)	A brief description of the incident;
(e)	A statement of the sequence of events which preceded the incident;
(f)	The identification of any unsafe conditions, acts or procedures which contributed in any manner to the incident;
(g)	recommended corrective actions to prevent similaroccur-rences;
(h)	The names of the persons who investigated the incident.
11.01(j) Right to Accompany Inspectors
Where a government inspector conducts an inspection at the mine, and that inspection is directly related to the health and safety of the employees, a Union safety committee representative may, at the Union's discretion, accompany the inspector on his tour.
When such an inspector arrives at the mine the Company shall notify the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate. Should the inspector submit a written report related to such an inspection, a copy of same shall be provided to the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate.
Page 22
11.01(k) Access to Log Books
The Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate, will be given reasonable access to log books kept for the maintenance and safety of equipment and all hourly employee time sheets.
11.01(l)Disclosure of Information
The Company will notify the Union of hazardous substances or chemicals used at the mine. Wherever possible, the following would be included with notification.
(a)	The chemical breakdown;
(b)	Proper handling techniques; and
(c)	Necessary training for safe handling.
11.01	(m) Time Spent by an Employee
The time so spent on any of the aforementioned items in article
11.01	, necessitating loss of time by employees delegated by the Union, shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time plus an amount equal to the employee's normal underground production bonus, if applicable. Production bonus will only be paid to employees who normally receive production bonus. Under no conditions will overtime rates be paid.
11.01(n) Education and Training
It is the policy of Westmin Resources Limited that all employees receive sufficient training in order that they may perform their work in a safe manner.
Page 23
11.01(0) Other Relevant Legislation
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provision of the Collective Agreement pertaining to joint health and safety, the Mines Act or relevant legislation that is superior to the foregoing shall take precedence.
11.02	Employee Obligation
Employees must obey all safety rules and report at once any unsafe practice or condition to their supervisors for correction as quickly as practicable.
11.03(a) Safety Protection Equipment Supplied
The Company will supply safety protection equipment to its employees as required. Company supplied safety equipment will be as follows:
Eye protection (non-prescription)
Hard hats Hearing protection Dust respirators Miner's belt Safety belts and lines Tag out locks
Lineman's gloves and boots Painter's masks Aprons and face shields Safety asbestos gloves Welder's leathers
Page 24
11.03(b) Replacement of Safety Protection Equipment
Upon presentation of safety protection equipment which is no longer serviceable due to normal wear and tear, the Company will provide new items as required.
11.03(c) Boots, Coveralls & Slickers
The Company will provide employees the following items as required through a program as determined by the Company:
i)	Coveralls - one (1) pair every six (6) months
ii)	Rubber safety boots - one (1) pair every six (6) months
It is the Company's intention to maintain or improve the quality of the gear currently in use.
Employees will be provided with the above items at the time of ratification and every six (6) months thereafter during the term of this agreement.
Employees may choose a set of slickers in lieu of their regular coverall issue.
Employees may choose the option of purchasing approved leather safety boots in lieu of their rubber safety boot issue. The Company will reimburse the employee for the cost of the leather safety boots up to fifty dollars ($50.00) every six (6) months or one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, upon proof of purchase.
Employees may purchase boots, coveralls, slickers and gloves at the cost price less ten (10) percent through a program as determined by the Company.
Page 25
11.03(d) Prescription Safety Glasses
The Company will provide prescription safety glasses to those employees who require them. Prescription safety glasses will be replaced upon proof of prescription change or damage. Prescription safety glasses will be supplied through a program as determined by the Company.
11.04	Injured Worker Provision
An employee who is injured during working hours and who is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at their regular rate of pay.
Such employee shall be provided with transportation to their doctor or hospital and to their home.
11.05	P.C.B.’s
No employee will be required to work on equipment where he will have direct contact with P.C.B.'s.
11.06	Gas Testers
Gas Testers shall be available to all operators as required by the Mines Act for testing underground mobile equipment and mobile headings. In addition, other employees may obtain gas testers on a sign out basis from the Company. These shall be returned to the Company at the end of the shift.
11.07	Access for Union	Safety Committee Chairman
The Company agrees that the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate shall have access to all areas of the mine.
Page 26
When legitimate safety concerns require him to leave his job he shall first receive permission from his supervisor. Such permission shall not unreasonably be withheld. In the event of an emergency, he will inform the Safety Department of his intentions.
11.08	Driving From Mine Site
No employee working in excess often (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period will be permitted to drive a company vehicle from the mine site. Prior to agreeing to work the overtime, the employee shall be notified of whether or not transportation will be provided. In the event that transportation is not provided, camp accommodation shall be provided.
11.09	Workers’ Compensation Claims
The Company and the Union agree to advise the other party as to the nature of any protest or appeal relative to W.C.B. claims. The Company ag rees further that any protest to any employee’s claim shall be separate from the workers' compensation forms.
11.10	Access to Medical Records
The Company agrees that an employee shall have access to their first aid/medical records.
Page 27
Article 12
SENIORITY, LAY-OFFS AND RECALL
12.01	Seniority Defined
Seniority is established on the basis of the individual's continuous service with the Company according to the records of the Company. The parties recognize that job opportunity shall increase in proportion to the length of company service.
12.02	Probationary Period
Seniority of each employee covered by the Agreement will be established aftera probationary period of two hundred and forty (240) scheduled working hours.
During this 240 hours probationary period, the employer may terminate an employee's employment for performance which in the opinion of management, is inadequate.
The parties may agree to extend the probationary period.
The Company will notify the Union within three (3) working days of the termination of any employees under this provision.
12.03	Temporary Hires
A person originally hired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill or to participate in a special assignment of work may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or assignment comes to an end. The employee, however, will receive two (2) weeks notice in writing of such lay off or pay in lieu of notice or portion thereof. Employees hired under this clause are covered by the entire Collective Agreement with the exception of Article 12.
Page 28
It is not the intent under this article to avoid the hiring of regular full time employees when such are justified for ongoing regular work. The “special assignment” designation will not be used to avoid the above but only be utilized for assignments not in the normal compliment.
12.04	Application Of Seniority
All promotions, transfers, filling of vacancies, lay-offs and rehiring after lay-offs will be done strictly in accordance with the principles set forth in 12.01 provided the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work required.
12.05	Maintenance of Seniority 12.05(a)
Seniority will be accumulated and maintained for one (1) year during:
Occupational injury;
Illness or non-occupational injury;
Authorized leave of absence;
and will be maintained thereafter subject to Article 12.05 (c).
Page 29
12.05(b)
Seniority will be maintained and accumulated during:
i)	Absence due to lay-off up to twelve (12) months with less than three (3) years seniority.
ii)	Absence due to lay-off up to eighteen (18) months with three (3) to five (5) years seniority.
iii)	Absence due to lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months with more than five (5) years seniority.
12.05(c)
Seniority will be maintained for four (4) years from the date of absence due to authorized leave of absence, injury or illness. Employees granted leave for Union business (Article 10.01) will retain their seniority for the duration of the leave.
12.05(d)
During periods of accumulating and/or maintaining seniority, the benefits to the Collective Agreement that apply are outlined under Article 19.
12.05(e)
Seniority standing will be lost if an employee:
i)	voluntarily quits
ii)	is discharged for cause and is not reinstated
iii)	is recalled to work and does not report within the limits as per Article 12.14
Page 30
iv)	is absent and the seniority retention period has elapsed as per Article 12.05 (b) or 12.05 (c)
v)	is absent without permission for a period of four (4) consecutive scheduled shifts of work, unless the employee provides a reasonable excuse for the absence.
12.06	Job Postings
All job vacancies expected to last thirty (30) working days or more (except those created by vacation, illness or injury to a maximum of three (3) months) will be made known by posting on Notice Boards for eight (8) consecutive days excluding Statutory Holidays. The posting will include the following:
i)	location of job	vacancy
ii)	shift
iii)	job classification
iv)	rate of pay 12.06(b)
Vacancies will be filled as per Article 12.04 from among the applicants who apply within the time during which the notice is posted and from those applicants who have pre-bid as per Article 12.06 (c).
12.06(c)
An employee, prior to leaving or during vacation or authorized leave (including absences for illness or injury) will have the right
Page 31
to pre-bid on up to two (2) upcoming position vacancies on a form provided by the Company and shall be considered a candidate for the vacancy as herein provided. Successful prebid candidates must accept the job if they are awarded the posting.
12.07	Time Required In Posted Positions
An employee who has been hired or has successfully bid on a job posting will not be eligible to bid on another job posting for six (6) months.
The Company and Union may agree to waive the time restrictions by mutual agreement.
12.08	Job Training
All opportunities for formal job training will be made known by posting on notice boards for eight (8) consecutive days excluding Statutory Holidays. All such postings will be filled in accordance with Article 12.04 among employees applying.
After an employee is deemed qualified in a fair and equitable manner by the Company to perform all aspects of the job, he shall be paid at the rate of the job at such times as he is actually performing the job.
12.09	Temporary Vacancies
The Company is not required to consider seniority in the case of non-permanent promotions not in excess of thirty (30) working days or in the case of non-permanent demotions not in excess of seven (7) working days. Such periods may be extended by mutual agreement.
Page 32
An employee occupying a job on a temporary basis shall, when his occupancy of the temporary job ends, return to his previous job classification.
The Company will give first consideration for such job vacancies to persons who have applied for job training for the job in question under Article 12.08.
12.10	Return To Previous Position
A temporary move from one job classification involving no change in rate shall not be considered as a promotion or demotion. If an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness, accident or authorized leave, but is not transferred, he shall on his return be restored to the job and location within the job classification that he previously held.
12.11	Lay Off
In the event of a reduction in crews (except in the event of a temporary lay off as per Article 12.13) the persons affected shall be laid off in the inverse order of their Company seniority.
Should an employee not have the seniority to retain employment, he may elect to exercise his seniority to displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or another position, provided he has sufficient ability to perform the work required.
Apprentices shall be laid off in accordance with their apprentice seniority within the group of apprentices within their trade.
Should an apprentice not have the seniority to retain employment within his apprentice group,he may elect to exercise his seniority to displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or a position he has the ability to perform the work required.
Page 33
The Company and the Union shall meet no later than one (1) month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Employees must exercise their rights under article 12.11 within seven (7) working days of being informed of such displacement or they will be deemed to have elected lay off.
Employees shall maintain recall rights as per Article 12.05(b) and 12.14.
12.12	Notice of Lay off
The Company agrees to provide employees affected with notice of lay off as per the Employment Standards Act of B.C. or failing such notice pay in lieu thereof or a portion thereof at the employee's basic hourly rate of pay.
12.13	Temporary Lay Off
During a temporary reduction or lay off caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the provisions of Article 12 will be waived for a period not exceeding three (3) days. Any available work in these circumstances will be assigned to the senior employee on the shift involved who is capable of performing such work.
The parties may agree to extend the period of time to be waived.
12.14	Recall
When it is necessary to increase the forces, employees on recall will be re-employed as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off. Employees are eligible for recall to the
Page 34
positions from which they were laid off or reduced from orto any entry level position, provided they have sufficient ability to perform the work required.
It shall be the responsibility of the laid off employee to notify the Company of any change to their current address and telephone number. Such notification shalt be by registered mail.
The Company will notify laid off employees of the date of recall by registered mail at the last known address on file with the Company. In the event that an employee fails to report to work within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the registered notice, the employee shall lose the right to reemployment.
12.15	Permanent Layoff, Shutdown or Closure
In the event an employee is permanently laid off as a result of:
i)	a permanent shutdown of the Company's operation or a department thereof;
ii)	Closure or partial closure of the mine;
iii)	A re-organization of the Myra Falls Operations that results in a reduction of the work force;
employees will be laid off as per Article 12.11
The Company agrees to provide employees affected with notice as per Article 12.12.
The Company and the Union shall meet no laterthan one month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Page 35
At the time of lay off, an employee has six (6) weeks from the notice date of lay off in which to elect to retain recall rights as per Article 12.05 (b) and 12.14 or accept a severance payment. An employee who elects to retain his rights to recall is not eligible for this severance payment when his rights to recall expire.
Eligible employees who elect to be paid a severance, will be paid the greater of four calender weeks of basic hourly rate of pay or $600.00 per year of service calculated to the nearest full month of service from his most recent date of hire.
To qualify for this severance payment, the employee must be actively employed, on vacation or in receipt of Worker's Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits. Employees on long term disability will not qualify for severance but shall continue to receive long term disability benefits under the terms of the long term disability plan.
Employees, upon receipt of severance payment, will have severed the employee/employer relationship and forfeited any and all rights under the Collective Agreement, including the right to recall.
The Company will make available the services of the Industrial Adjustment Service to employees affected by a permanent layoff.
12.16	Seniority Lists
The Company will prepare seniority lists of all employees and present them to the Union within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement. These lists will be posted and the Company will notify the individual involved and the Union of any revision of seniority.
Page 36
Said lists will commence with the most senior employee, carry on downwards to the most junior employee, and contain the
following	information:
(a)	Employee's name and payroll number;
(b)	Employee's starting date;
(c)	Employee's regular classification
Probationary employees will also be shown in the same manner. Additional revised lists will be furnished to the Union every three (3) months and be posted on the bulletin boards in all departments.
12.17	Disabled Employees
The Company and Union may mutually agree to waive the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement to place a permanently disabled employee who is unable to return to or retain their normal job as the result of a work related injury or illness. This is provided that a position is available that meets the needs of the operation and the abilities of the employee.
Page 37
Article 13
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE
13.01	Grievance Procedure
The Parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their foreman as soon after they originate as possible.
Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regarding the interpretation of a violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
The Parties recognize that the employee may have a Union Representative present during any disciplinary discussions if the employee so requests.
13.02	Step 1
Within ten (10) days after the alleged grievance has arisen, or within ten (10) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may presentthegrievanceeitherverballyorin writing to hisforeman. Failing settlementto the employee’s satisfaction within three (3) days, the employee may proceed to Step 2.
13.03	Step 2
Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his steward and a member of the Grievance Committee, may present
Page 38
the grievance in writing to his Department Superintendent. The Department Superintendent shall reply in writing within two (2) days of the presentation of this grievance under Step 2. Failing satisfactory settlement at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
13.04	Step 3
Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee, accompanied by a member of the Grievance Committee, may take the matter up with the Manager or his delegate. The Union Grievance Committee, may be accompanied by a representa-tiveofthe Union. Priortosubmission to the Managerthere shall be a written statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section or sections of the Agreement, which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement within five (5) days by the Manager, either party may, on giving seven (7) days notice in writing to the other Party, refer the dispute to arbitration.
13.05	Dismissal, Suspension & Group Grievances
Grievances involving the dismissal or suspension of an employee(s) and grievances of a general or group nature may be initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure provided they are submitted within ten (10) days of the time the dispute arose.
13.06	Company Grievances
The Company shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of an alleged violation of the Agreement to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to a Board of Arbitration constituted in accordance with this Agreement.
Page 39
Time Limits
13.07 13.07(a)
In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.07(b)
If the Union does not proceed to the next step within the time limits provided, the grievance shall be considered as dropped and cannot be re-opened.
If the Company does not reply within the time limits provided, the grievance shall automatically advance to the next step of the grievance procedure.
13.07(c)
Time limits for initiating steps two and three for employees working the 4 x 4 shift will be extended to eight (8) days.
13.08	Time Off for Grievances
If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must receive permission from his foreman or shift boss. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Page 40
13.09	Single Arbitrator
It is agreed between the Parties that in the case of any arbitration, if both Parties agree, the case will be handled by a single arbitrator as follows:
(a)	The arbitrator shall be chosen within five (5) working days following receipt of a written notice to arbitrate. He shall be chosen by the Parties from a panel listed by letter of mutual agreement and after the first choice the next and subsequent choice will be in order of listing.
(b)	If either party in the case of any given dispute does not wish to submit that particular dispute to a single arbitrator, the arbitration procedure for that dispute will revert to the three man arbitration procedure as outlined.
(c)	The single arbitrator shall proceed under the same collective agreement conditions as set out for the three (3) man arbitration and will have the same powers.
13.10	Arbitration Boards
If either party wishes the dispute to be heard by a three (3) man board rather than a single arbitrator, the Board shall consist of three (3) members: one (1) to be selected by the Company, one (1) by the Union and a third mutually acceptable person who shall act as chairman to be chosen from the same panel.
In the event that the Union and the Company are unable to agree upon the selection of the third member of the Board, the Industrial Relations Council of British Columbia shall be requested to appoint such a third member. The decision of the Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof in respect to an
Page 41
interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the Parties, but in no event shall the Board have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect.
Each Party shall pay the expense of the member of the Board of Arbitration chosen by it and all expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its case, provided that the Parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
13.11	Working During Disputes
In the meantime, and in all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employee or employees and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension must continue to work until a final decision has been reached, but where an employee or employees has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled. If the claim be made within five (5) working days that an employee or employees has or have been unjustly discharged, the case shall be dealt with according to this Article and if it's proven that he or they have been discharged without proper cause, he or they shall be reinstated.
13.12	Arbitrators Listed 13.12(a)
Arbitrators will be selected from the following list by rotation:
1.	James McIntyre
2.	Richard Bird
3.	Robert Blasina
4.	David McPhilips
Page 42
13.12(b)
Either party to this agreement has the right to remove the name of one arbitrator from the above list during the term of this agreement. Removal requires, however, a minimum of thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
13.12(c)
The rotation selection can be altered by mutual agreement between the parties. In the event of a termination arbitration, the next available arbitrator will be selected.
Page 43
Article 14
WAGES
14.01	Wages Rates
The wage rates listed in Wage Schedule “A” and the job classifications listed in Appendix A are agreed upon by both parties and are part of the Collective Agreement.
14.02	New or Changed Job Classifications
If any new job classifications are established, or if there is a significant change in the job classification(s) set forth in Appendix “A”, or if any job dassification(s) have been overlooked in this Wage Schedule “A”, the parties hereto are agreed to negotiate a rate for the Job(s) in question.
If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, then the dispute will be settled through the Grievance and Arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
14.03	Lead Hands
A lead hand premium of thirty cents ($0.30) per hour will be paid to employees specifically designated to lead two or more employees on special jobs or on trades crews. Lead hands shall not be responsible for the administration of the collective agreement or have a supervisor's responsibility for safety.
14.04	Qualification for Journeymen
To qualify for the journeyman rate the employee must have a recognized Canadian Provincial Certificate in the trade for which he was hired.
Page 44
14.05 Pay Days
Wages will be paid by bank deposit every second Friday and employees will be provided with an itemized statement of same.
Article 15 HOURS OF WORK
15.01	Work Week Defined
The work week shall be the period between 11:30 p.m. on Sunday evening and 11:30 p.m. on the succeeding Sunday evening. The Company agrees to use its best endeavour to place as many employees as practicable on a Monday to Friday work week.
15.02	Coffee Breaks
All employees will be allowed a reasonable opportunity for a coffee break, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, twice during each shift. These coffee breaks shall be arranged so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
15.03	Dry to Dry
In the case of all underground employees within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, eight (8) hours Dry to Dry shall constitute a shin.
In the case of all surface employees on non-continuous operations, there shall be an established lunch period not included in the eight (8) hour work day.
Page 45
15.04	Continuous or Semi-Continuous Shifts 15.04(a)
In continuous or semi-continuous operations the hours of work shall consist of a scheduled average forty-two (42) hours per week.
15.04(b)
Hours of work for employees required for full twenty-four (24) hour coverage on seven (7) days per week shall be for (4) shifts of twelve (12) hours rotated among the employee and they will be provided room and board at six dollars ($6.00) per working day. The same charges shall apply to employees on “standby” required to stay at the camp.
15.05	Changes to Shift Schedules
Notice of any change in regular shift schedule must be give to an employee by Thursday of the week previous to the week of the schedule change, except in the event of replacement for an employee absent without sufficient notice an/or emergency situations. Notice must be sent to the Union of any change of schedule involving four (4) or more employees in any one (1) department. In the case of continuous operation, notice will be given by the second last working day of the working cycle prior to the change of regular shift.
15.06	Rest Between Shifts
An employee shall be entitled to eight (8) hours rest between his regular shifts. Should such an employee be recalled to work before such eight (8) hours elapse (a call-out), the employee shall be considered as still on his previous shift and shall be paid at overtime rates as per Article 16.06.
Page 46
In the event that an employee’s regular shift begins before the prescribed eight (8) hours has elapsed since the end of a previous work period, he shall not report to work until the eight hours has elapsed. The employee shall be paid regular wage rates for those hours between the start of the regular shift and the end of the prescribed rest period. Such payment will be conditional upon the employee reporting for work and completing the shift following the end of the rest period.
Article 16
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
16.01	Time and One-Half Defined
One and one-half (11/2) Ihe employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week and for all work performed on an employee’s regular designated day of rest.
16.02	Double Time Defined
Double the employee’s basic rate shall be	paid	for all work over
eight (8) hours on days of rest and all work over ten (10) hours in one (1) day.
16.03	Continuous or Semi-continuous	Shifts
Those employees whose schedule averages forty-two (42) hours per week as per Article 15.04 shall be paid at one and one-half
(11/2) times their rate for all time worked in excess of an average of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week (i.e. two (2) hours per week). In addition, one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of
Page 47
their regularly scheduled hours per day or on a regular assigned day of rest. Double the employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest. For employees thus affected, the Union hereby agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the Board of Industrial Relations for approval of a work schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
16.04	Standby Time
Electricians and mechanics who are required to stay in camp on standby time shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at overtime rates over and above the daily wages to which they were otherwise entitled.
16.05	Overtime Pyramiding
Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
16.06	Call-out
An employee reporting to work on a call-out shall be paid at applicable overtime rates for hours actually worked or four hours straight time whichever is the greater.
In the event that the employee is called out from town, he shall receive an additional one (1) hours pay at straight time. This paragraph shall not apply when an employee is asked before completing his regular shift to continue work beyond the end of that shift.
Page 48
16.07	Overtime Meals & Camp Charges
An employee who works overtime that is expected to last more than two (2) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift may elect to choose one the following:
i)	an established unpaid lunch break and a hot meal
or
ii)	a paid fifteen (15) minute break and a meal voucher in the amount of twelve dollars ($12.00). The break shall be arranged so as not to interfere with the normal work sequences.
If an employee continues to work six (6) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift, an additional meal voucher of the same value will be provided.
An employee who works unscheduled overtime will be provided with camp accommodations, if required at no extra cost.
16.08	Reporting Pay
An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available will be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular base rate.
An employee who is in transit to work on company supplied transportation and who is unable to report for work due to circumstances beyond his control and where no alternative transportation is provided will be eligible for four (4) hours pay at straight time. To be eligible for this payment the employee must submit his name and payroll number to the vehicle driver who makes the decision that the transportation provided cannot proceed to the work site.
Page 49
Rate Retention
16.09
If an employee Is transferred to a higher or lower paid job for four (4) hours in any one (1) day he shall be paid at the higher rate for the full shift that day. An employee transferred to a higher paid job for less than four (4) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the higher rate for the time so employed if it is not less than one (1) hour but shall otherwise be paid his usual basic rate.
The above shall not apply to job assignments for the purpose of training under supervision.
16.10	Weekend Premiums
A premium of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) over the applicable base rate will be paid for all time worked on regularly scheduled shifts falling on Saturdays and Sundays. This premium shall not apply for hours worked at overtime rates.
16.11	Shift Differential 16.11(a)
It is mutually agreed by the Parties hereto that an additional fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift differential will be paid to all employees for all work performed on afternoon, twilight and midnight shifts.
16.11(b)
Shift differential rates will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime.
Page 50
Tool Allowance
16.12
All journeyman, apprentices and trades helpers shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per shift worked as a tool allowance. Tool Allowance will not apply to overtime shifts.
16.13	Irregular Shifts
Employees travelling and working irregular eight (8) hour shifts or on call-outs that do not coincide with the bus service will receive a subsidy of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per working shift.
Article 17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
17.01	Statutory Holidays Defined
All work performed on the following days shall be compensated for at two and one half (2 1/2) times the base rate:
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day B. C. Day
17.02	Floaters
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
After completion of one (1) years service, each employee will be entitled to two (2) floating holidays per year, subject to the same limitations as in Article 18.04. This will remain in effect only until such time as an additional statutory holiday has been declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments. At that time, the entitlement will be reduced to one (1) floater per year.
Page 51
This must be applied for at least five (5) working days prior to the required time off for continuous operations and at least two (2) working days prior to the required time off for all others. It is understood and agreed that floating holidays must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
17.03	Pay for Statutory Holidays
Employees not working on the holiday set out in 17.01 of this Article shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
17.03(a)
When a holiday falls on a regular assigned day off, the next scheduled shift will be considered as the holiday for the employee concerned.
17.03(b)
To qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday.
17.03(c)
An employee unable to work his scheduled shift or shifts due to personal sickness will qualify for statutory holiday pay by presenting to the Timekeeper a medical certificate duly signed by a doctor stating the employee's illness prevented him from working his scheduled shift. This medical certificate must be provided within ten (10) calendar days of their return to work.
The Company will pay statutory holiday pay to disabled employees for any such holiday occurring during the first thirty (30)
Page 52
calendar days of the disability. No statutory holiday pay will be paid for any statutory holiday occurring subsequent to this thirty (30) day period. This shall include all employees receiving W.C.B. or other wage loss benefits.
17.03(d)
An employee who qualified for pay for a holiday under this Article, and who does notworkonsuch holiday, shall receive his regular pay on the basis of his regular base rate (exclusive of shift differentials, overtime, bonuses, holiday or other premiums) as on the normal shift worked by him immediately prior to such holiday. An employee so qualifying shall not be entitled to such pay if he does not work on a holiday after having been required by the Company to work and having agreed. If an employee so qualifying does work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay under this section unless he works at least a part of his assigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half (2 1/2) times the base rate as provided in Section 17.01 of this Article, and for the remaining hours of the shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
17.03(e)
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, under no conditions shall any time be paid at a rate areater than two and one-half
(2 1/2) times the base rate.
17.03(f)
When a statutory holiday falls during an employees vacation, the employee is entitled to an additional vacation day without pay, if he so requests prior to his vacation.
Page 53
Article 18
VACATION
18.01	Annual Vacations
Employees will receive vacation and be paid for the vacation in accordance with the following schedule.
Years of Continuous	Vacation	Vacation
Service	Period	Pay
Less than one (1) year
4% gross earnings
One (1) year but
less than eight (8) years Three (3) Weeks 6% gross earnings
Eight (8) years but less
than fifteen (15) years Four (4) Weeks	8% gross earnings
Fifteen (15) years
and over	Five (5) Weeks	10% gross earnings
It is understood and agreed that vacations must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
18.02	Bonus Vacation
18.02(a)
Employees with five (5) or more years of service will receive an additional three (3) weeks bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for the previous year.
Page 54
18.02(b)
For each five (5) year period, the employee will receive an additional three (3) week bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for that previous year.
18.02(C)
All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next five (5) year anniversary.
18.03	Number on Bonus Vacation
To maintain continuous, uninterrupted operations, the Company will schedule, on a seniority basis, the number of employees on bonus vacation not to exceed:
Ten (10) employees from underground Six (6) employees from Plant Department Two (2) employees from the Mill Two (2) employees from the Spit One (1) employee from the Warehouse
18.04	Vacation Shutdowns 18.04(a)
Where practical the company may schedule a vacation shutdown of all or part of its operations for up to three (3) weeks. A notice will be posted in all departments by February 15th if the Company intends to schedule a vacation shutdown.
Page 55
18.04(b)
The Company maintains the right to schedule various parts of its operation during the shutdown. The employees necessary for these operations will be selected from those employees in the required job classifications who have indicated their desire to work during the shutdown according to Company seniority. Where there is an insufficient number of employees indicating their desire to work, selection will be made in reverse order of Company seniority. Employees who work during the shutdown will take their vacation at a later mutually agreed upon time. The Company will give a three (3) month notice when work will be required during the shutdown.
18.04(c)
Vacations in excess of the three (3) week shutdown for which employees may be eligible shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance and taken at mutually agreed upon time that will allow for the maintenance of an adequate work force.
18.05	Vacation Scheduling
18.05(a)
The Company will accept vacation applications from January 1st to March 15th for the period April 16 to October 31st. Applications will be accepted from September 1 st to October 15th for the period November 1st to April 15th. Vacation applications will be on a form to be supplied by the Company and agreed to by the Union.
The Company will post approved vacations by April 15th for the summer period and by October 31st for the winter period.
Page 56
The foregoing is subject to the following criteria:
i)	Vacations are allotted by company seniority.
ii)	An employee at his option can elect to use a combination of regular and bonus vacation when applying for vacation, but the amount can not exceed the regular vacation allotment for that year.
iii)	Floaters cannot be used to displace another employee's vacation time.
iv)	Regular vacation may be taken in any multiple of complete days from one (1) to the total number of vacation days owed.
v)	Journeymen, tradesmen, apprentices ortrades helpers shall not limit others in different trade occupations for vacation assignment purposes.
vi)	After March 15th and October 15th any remaining vacation time (for each respective period) can be applied for by an employee and will be allocated on a first come first serve basis. Senior employees cannot displace a less senior employee who has an approved vacation.
18.05(b)
The Company agrees that once an employee’s vacation has been scheduled, it will not be changed except for valid operational requirements; or if the employee has transferred to a different job at his request; or in the case of unforeseen operating difficulties. Valid operational requirement or unforeseen operating difficulties will be determined by a senior Company official.
Page 57
Should the employee suffer a loss through non-refundable deposits or other increased travel costs for similar arrangements due to such a determination by management, with prior approval, the Company will reimburse such loss.
18.06	Vacation Pay
18.06(a)
Ail hourly employees will receive their earned vacation pay on the payday immediately following their anniversary by separate bank deposit with an itemized statement. If the employee so requests, the Company will issue a manual cheque for regular vacation pay to those employees who take their vacation if the anniversary date comes either before the next payday or during their vacation.
18.06(b)
Bonus Vacation pay directly proportional to the time being taken will be paid in advance of the vacation with an itemized statement.
Page 58
Article 19
PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE
19.01	Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered with the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia (regular medical coverage). Such employees must be full time day rate employees and both Company and employees agree to comply with the Medical Services Plan regulations at ail times.
19.02	insurance Policies
The Company agrees to pay one hundred (100%) of the premium cost for ail employees covered by Group Life insurance Policy and a Sickness and Non-compensable Accident Benefit insurance Policy (19.02 (b)). The coverage will be as follows:
19.02(a)
The Group Life insurance coverage will be effective on date of hire as follows:
i)	Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) as of signature date;
ii)	Sixty thousand dollars ($60,000) as of April 1,1991;
iii)	Seventy thousand dollars ($70,000) as of April 1, 1992;
Page 59
in addition, Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be effective on date of hire as follows:
i)	Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) as of signature date;
ii)	Sixty thousand dollars ($60,000) as of April 1,1991;
Hi) Seventy thousand dollar ($70,000) as of April 1,1992;
19.02(b)
Effective on signature date, the Sickness and Accident Policy will pay the maximum provided under U.I.C. (currently $384 per week) for lost time beginning with the first (1st) day of an accident or hospitalization and with the fourth (4th) day of sickness and extending for a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks. New employees will be covered upon completion of the probationary period. The company agrees that the current sickness and accident policy payment will not be reduced during the term of this agreement.
19.02(c)
Any employee who receives Weekly indemnity and is subsequently paid by W.C.B. or I.C.B.C. shall return the equivalent of the Weekly indemnity payments to the Company.
19.03	Dental Plan & Extended Health
19.03(a)
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered with the Medical Services Association (dental care plan and extended health benefits). Dental Plan A, basic services payment of claims to
Page 60
at eighty percent (80%); coverage in Plan B, with payment being at fifty percent (50%); and Plan C, with payment being at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum of $2,500 per eligible family member. Eligible family members is interpreted as employee, spouse, and dependent children.
19.03(b)
Employees to be covered by Medical Services Association must be full time day rate employees and must be registered with Medical Services Association.
19.04	Long Term Disability
Effective signature date of the contract, the Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of a Long Term Disability Plan that will provide the benefits listed below less any benefits payable from Wbrkers' Compensation if an employee is unable to work due to illness or accident as defined by the insurancecarrier. Eligible employees would bythose who have completed one (1) year’s employment. There shall be a fifty-two (52) week waiting period before payments commence and they will continue to the earlier of attainment of age sixty-five (65) or date of recovery.
i)	Nine hundred dollar ($900) as of signature date.
ii)	One thousand dollars ($1,000) as of April 1,1991.
iii)	Twelve hundred dollars ($1,200) as of April 1,1992. The benefit is deemed as two years own occupation.
Page 61
Pension Plan
19.05
Effective August 15,1994, the Company agrees to increasethe pension plan from the current thirty-two dollars ($32.00) per month per year of service to thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per month per year of service.
Effective August 15,1995, this amount shall be increased to thirty-seven dollars ($37.00) per month per year of service.
Effective August 15,1996, this amount shall be increased to thirty-nine dollars ($39.00) per month per year of service.
It is agreed that retirement will be the last day of the month in which the employee celebrates his sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
Effective April 1,1990, the Pension Plan will be amended as follows:
1.	The Company agrees to increase the spousal survivor’s benefit to 60% of the earned benefit. This benefit applies should the employee die before attaining the age of sixty-five (65).
2.	Employees with less than five (5) years continuous service will not be vested. After five (5) years of continuous service the employee will be vested one hundred percent (100%).
3.	On his termination the employee has the right to convert his vested pension to an RRSP, if permitted by pension regulations.
4.	In the event of permanent mine closure, or a reduction of production in anticipation of mine closure, the full value of the pension benefit earned by each employee to date of
Page 62
termination will become vested and payable regardless of length of service. The Company will apply any interpretation of this provision in a fair and equitable manner;
5.	The employee will be eligible for normal retirement benefits after thirty (30) years of continuous service or age sixty-five (65) which ever comes first.
19.06	Health & Welfare Coverage
19.06(a) Employee Laid Off
Employees who are laid off shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the month following the month in which the lay off began.
19.06(b) Employees on Leave of Absence
Employees who are on authorized leave of absence shall continue to receive current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the three (3) months following the month in which the absence began.
Employees who have been granted an authorized leave of absence for Union business as per Article 10.03 (a), shall continue to receive all insurance benefits as per Article 19.01 for a-maximum of twenty-one (21) calendar days following the first day in which the absence began.
After that time, the employee will make arrangements with the Company to pay the coverage.
Page 63
19.06(c) Non-Work related Injury or Illness
Employees who are absent for non-work related injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and A.D.&D) for two (2) years from the commencement of the absence.
19.06(d) Work Related Injury or Illness
Employees who are absent for work related injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and A.D.&D) for three (3) years from the date of the disability.
19.06(e) Cancellation of Insurance Benefit Coverage
Should an employee cease to be disabled as a result of a work or non-work related injury or illness and chooses not to return to work, or should an employee take alternate employment, the Company's obligation to maintain Health and Welfare coverage shall cease.
Employees who are on such continuous coverage must keep the Company informed of their current address and employment status. Medical, Extended Medical and Dental coverage are not available to non-residents of British Columbia. Full coverage is not available to those in the employ of another employer. Failure to keep the Company informed of the current address and employment status will result in the cancellation of benefit coverage.
In no event will benefits continue past the age of sixty-five (65).
Page 64
Article 20
UNDERGROUND CONTRACTCOMMITTEE
20.01	Recognition of Bonus Committee
The Company shall recognize a contract committee consisting of three (3) Union members. Such members shall be qualified by experience and the committee shall concern itself exclusively with matters relating to incentive contracts.
20.02	Meetings
The Contract Committee, the Mine Superintendent and the Contract Engineer will meet monthly to discuss underground contracts and bonus. The purpose of such meetings is to solve problems of mutual concern. Aspiritof cooperation isessential.
20.03	Disputes
In the event of a dispute over contract prices or contract conditions, said dispute shall be presented to the Contract Committee and the Company Management for settlement.
20.04	Contractual Obligation
The Company will maintain an underground bonus system. While bonus rates may be adjusted as conditions warrant, the Company will not arbitrarily reduce bonus rates.
20.05	Training Bonus
The Union and the Company	recognize that training functions
may disrupt the daily routine and could therefore affect incentive bonus payments. Further it is agreed that those involved in the training will be protected from loss of bonus.
Page 65
Article 21
UNION SECURITY
21.01	Assignment of Dues
The Company shall honour a written assignment of dues to the Union.
21.02	Form of Assignment
An assignment pursuant to Section 21.01 of this Article shall be in the following form:
TO:	WESTMIN RESOURCES	LIMITED
I hereby authorize you to deduct from my wages and pay to the CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS, LOCAL 3019, dues as established by the CAW LOCAL 3019 Constitution and By-Laws, per month beginning with the month of:
_______________19
and/orsuch monthly dues per month oradditional assessments as the Union Constitution and/or by-laws from time to time provide, and I hereby authorize and request you, without further authorization or requests from me to deduct and remit to the Union such other amounts:
CLOCK NO.
EMPLOYEE'S NAME___________________ (SIGN)
Page 66
Remittance of Dues
21.03
Unless the assignment is revoked in writing and delivered to the Company, the Company shall remit the dues deducted to the Union at least once a month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
21.04	Revocation
If an assignment is revoked, the Company shall give a copy of the revocation to the Union.
21.05	Limit of Company Responsibility 21.05(a)
Notwithstanding any provisions contained in Section 21 -O'1,
21.02	and 21.03 of this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees, dues or assessments of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
21.05(b)
The Company agrees to deduct once each month from the earnings of every employee covered by this Agreement the sum of monthly dues as may be fixed constitutionally by the Union.
21.06	Effective Date
The said deductions shall commence at the effective date of these sections, and in the case of each assignment by an employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of the sections with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
Page 67
21.07	Dues as Condition of Employment
The Company shall during the life of this Agreement, deduct as a condition of each employee in the Bargaining Units continued employment, an amount equal to the Union dues from the first pay cheque due in each calendar month to each such employee and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the month following the month in which such deduction is made to the Financial Secretary of the Union. The Companywill, atthetimeof making each such payment to the Financial Secretary of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted.
21.08	Union Membership 21.08(a)
As a condition of employment, each new employee will join the Union on his/her first day of employment.
21.08(b)
All employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and all employees who join thereafter shall remain members of the Union as a condition of continuing employment during the term of this Agreement.
21.08(c)
Those employees who are not members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and do not want to join are not affected by (b) above.
Page 68
Article 22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
22.01	Reprimands & Suspensions
A written reprimand given by the Company to an employee will be signed by him and by the Shop Steward concerned, as an acknowledgement of its receipt, and a copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the Union immediately and shall be subject to the grievance procedure. When a reprimand or disciplinary action involves suspension from work for a day or longer, and if such suspension involves an employee who normally commutes, the notice of his suspension will be given to him the day before his suspension is to commence. This is to prevent the employee travelling to the mine on a given day and not being allowed to work that day. After the period of six (6) clear months has elapsed from the date the reprimand was issued, all reference to the reprimand will be stricken from the records. The Company will give written reprimands within three (3) working days of the occurrence of the event provided that there is reasonable access to the employee.
22.02	Moonlighting
The Company and the Union agree that the practice commonly known as ‘moonlighting” is wrong in principle. The term “moonlighting” for the purpose of this clause shall refer to a fulltime employee who regularly makes a practice of working for another employer for a substantial number of hours during the week.
(a) When this practice affects or conflicts with Company business or the employee's ability to perform his normal duties, it shall be cause for reprimand or dismissal.
Page 69
(b) When this practice affects or conflicts with the Union policy, the Company agrees to co-operate with the Union re: reprimand or dismissal.
22.03	Printing of Agreement
The Company and the Union will have printed, in pocket size books, copies of this Collective Agreement. The Company will pay the cost of printing. Every employee will be provided with a contract book and one hundred (100) copies will be provided to the Union. The books will be printed at a Union Shop.
22.04	Medical Examinations
An employee will receive two (2) hours pay for a medical examination as required for continued employment with the Company.
22.05	Day, Week, Month & Year Defined
References of days, weeks, months, or years shall be understood to mean calendar days, weeks, months, or years, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
Page 70
Article 23
APPRENTICES AND TRAINING
23.01	Sponsorship
The Company will sponsor training programmes as required.
23.02	Joint Training Committee
The Company and the Union share a mutual commitment to develop a fully trained and safe work force and recognize this commitment can best be expressed through the mutual efforts of the Joint Training Committee.
The purpose of this committee is to oversee miner training, mill training, journeyman/tradesman upgrading and apprenticeship training and make recommendations to improve and promote training in these areas.
The committee will be composed of equal representation from the Company and the Union and they will be representatives of the miners, mill workers and the tradesmen. The committee will meet periodically as required. Meetings will be attended by a maximum of three (3) representatives from each of the Union and the Company.
23.03	Statement of Equality
The Company agrees that the determination of successful completion of Company sponsored training programmes shall be in a fair and equitable manner.
Page 71
23.04	Apprenticeship Training
23.04(a) Apprenticeship Training Opportunities
Opportunities for an apprenticeship shall be made known through the job posting procedure of Article 12.08.
23.04(d) Apprentice Wage Rates
Apprentice hourly wage rates shall be as follows:
On Entry......................................,::Class 2
After 1st Year Successful Completion..........Job Class 3
After 2nd Year Successful Completion..........Job Class 5
After 3rd Year Successful Completion .........Job Class 7
After 4th Year Successful Completion..........Job Class 8
Upon certification/To Certified
(Journeyman's Rate) ..........................Job Class 9
Rate increases are contingent upon successfully passing the apprenticeship board’s examination and completion of the prescribed training hours for the year. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the programme as the anniversary date. Reasonable allowances for vacation and other non-trades related work are inherent in the number of training hours required.
23.04(e) Apprentice Schooling
During the periods of apprenticeship schooling, the apprentice shall apply for any available government allowance. The Company shall provide an allowance equal to the difference between the apprentice’s regular straight time earnings and the amount of government earnings, provided that documentation
Page 72
of successful completion and attendance are provided by the apprentice to the Company.
The Company will reimburse apprentices for the cost of text books required by the apprenticeship board for the course outlined in the apprenticeship training curriculum.
23.04(f)
Any apprentice who fails any year of his apprenticeship on two (2) successive opportunities shall be removed from the apprenticeship training programme.
23.04(g)
An employee is not eligible for an apprenticeship programme if he is a tradesman or journeyman in any other trade, unless there are no other successful applicants as per Article 23.04 (h).
23.04(h)
To qualify for an apprenticeship, an applicant must have:
i)	Grade 12 or equivalent and
ii)	A pre-apprenticeship certificate or its equivalent or two years of related experience in the applied trade.
23.04(i)
In the event of a dispute concerning the equivalence of a preapprentice training course, the parties agree to use the results of a recognized pre-apprenticeship training exam as an equivalency test.
Page 73
23.05	Miner Training 23.05(a)
The intent of this programme is to train and qualify employees as safe and certified miners.
23.05(b)
Selection for miner training will be based on criteria as outlined in Article 12,08.
23.05(c)
Stope school training is considered to be the 1st step in the miner training programme and will be for a period of three (3) months to be trained in basic mining and safety skills. This assignment is referred to as Miner Trainee 1, paid Job Class 3.
23.05(d)
Upon successful completion of stope school as determined by the Company, the employee is assigned as a Miner Trainee 2 for a period of nine (9) months paid Job Class 4,
23.05(e)
Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 2 term as determined by the Company, the employee is promoted to Miner Trainee 3 where he remains for a period of one (1) year paid Job Class 5.
Page 74
23.05(f)
Upon successful completion of the Miner Trainee 3 term as determined by the Company, the employee would then have in his possession a Westmin Miner Certificate. The employee is then eligible to post on the miners classification provided there is a vacancy.
In the event that an employee has completed the training programme but there are no miner position vacancies or the individual is not the successful applicant of a posting, the employee would return to his position prior to entering the programme. This employee would then be eligible to bid on any subsequent postings.
23.05(g)
The employee who demonstrates a lack of sufficient ability while in the miner training programme will be returned to the position he held prior to entering the training programme.
23.06	Mill Operator Training
23.06(a)
The intent of this programme is to develop a fully trained, qualified and safe work force of mill operators. Opportunities for training will be posted within the mill department and awarded as per Article 12.08.
23.06(b)
Employees will not post for training in more than one position at a time.
Page 75
23.06(c)
Employees will receive their regular rates of pay while training in another classification except that employees substituting for an absent employee shall receive the rate for the job.
23.06(d)
Qualified employees who do not take advancement to the next position along the line of progression for which they arequalified will be ineligible for further training. This restriction will remain in effect until the employee chooses to advance by accepting a posting.
23.06(e)
Tailings Man training is fora period often (10) weeks. Upon successful completion of Tailings Man training as determined by the Company, he would then be presented with a Tailings Man certificate. He is then eligible to post on the Tailings Man classification provided there is a vacancy.
23.06(f)
Crusher Operator training is for a period of ten (10) weeks. Upon successful coirmletion of Crusher Operator training as determined by the Company, he would then be presented with a Crusher Operator certificate. He is then eligible to post on the Crusher Operator classification provided there is a vacancy.
23.06(g)
Filter Operator training is for a period of ten (10) weeks. Upon successful completion of Filter Operator training as determined by the Company, he would then be presented with a Filter
Page 76
Operator certificate. He is then eligible to post on the Filter Operator classification provided there is a vacancy.
23.06(h)
Floor Operator training is for a period of sixteen (16) weeks. Upon successful completion of Flotation Operator training as determined by the Company, he would then be presented with a Flotation Operator certificate. He is then eligible to post on the Flotation Operator classification provided there is a vacancy.
23.06(i)
Control Room Operator training is for a period of sixteen (16) weeks. Upon successful completion of Control Room Operator training as determined by the Company, he would then be presented with a Control Room Operator certificate. He is then eligible to post on the Control Room Operator classification provided there is a vacancy.
23.06U)
Successful completion of a training segment will qualify the employee to receive a job class rate one level higher than his present regular rate.
23.06(k)
An employee may apply in writing to withdraw from this training programme. This voluntary withdrawal from training eliminates the employee for eligibility to post on a training position for a period of six (6) months.
Page 77
23.06(1)
The employee in training can be returned to his normal work assignment should operational requirements of the Company warrant such a move at any stage of this training programme. However should a vacancy arise in the future, the employee so affected will automatically be reinstated in the his previous training with full credit for previous training.
Article 24
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
24.01	Company Rights -Automation
The Union acknowledges that the Company has the exclusive right to install, at any time, mechanical, electronic orothertypes of automated equipment.
24.02	Technological Change Defined
For the purposes of this Article, “T echnological Change” means:
(a)	The introduction by the employer of a major change in his equipment or material from that equipment or material previously used by the employer in his work, undertaking, or business, and/or
(b)	A major change in the manner in which an employer
carries on his work, undertaking, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
Page 78
24.03	Notice of Change
The Company shall notify the Union not less than one (1) month in advance, or give as much notice as is practical, of intent to introduce technological changes which involve the dischargeor laying off of employees.
24.04	Meeting with Union
In the event of a pending technological change, the Company shall advise the Union of such change at the earliest opportunity and meet with the Union to discuss the ramifications of such technological changes as soon as practical.
24.05	Displacement of Employees
Where an employee who has al least one (1) year of service with the Company is displaced from his job by reason of technological change, and where a vacancy exists for which he might qualify by training, he shall be entitled to such training at the Company's expense, provided that he has the necessary basic education and abilities to absorb such training to equip him for the operation of new equipment or procedures. The period of such training shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
24.06	Severance Pay
Employees who have at least one (1) year of service with the Company who are discharged or laid-off because of technological change are entitled to severance pay under article 12.15 of this Agreement.
Page 79
Article 25
BUS TRANSPORTATION
25.01
The Company shall provide employees with a bus transportation service to the mine site, at no charge to the employees.
Article 26 RED CIRCLING
26.01
Employees who would suffer a reduction in their basic wage rate as a result of the introduction of Schedule “A” appended to this Agreement, shall have their basic wage rate “Red Circled” in accordance with this article.
These employees shall continue to be paid the basic rate applicable to their job classification as at March 31, 1993 provided they remain continuously employed in such classification. They shall not be eligible to receive any negotiated increases until their red circled rate becomes equal to or less than the standard rate for their classification, as set out in Schedule “A” appended hereto, after which their red circling shall come to an end and they shall be paid the standard rate for that classification.
Red circled employees, who post into another classification or who displace a junior employee in another classification as a result of layoff, shall lose their red circling and shall be paid the standard rate for the job classification in which they are working.
Page 80
Red-circled employees, who are laid off or who are reduced from their red-circled classification as a result of a layoff and who are reemployed in their red-circled classification within the time periods listed below, shall have their red-circled rate reinstated, at the time of such reemployment:
a)	Less than three (3) years seniority at the time of the layoff or reduction: six (6) months red-circled protection.
b)	Three (3) to five (5) years seniority at the time of layoff or reduction: nine (9) months red-circled protection.
c)	More than five (5) years seniority at the time of layoff or reduction: twelve (12) months red-circled protection.
Red-circled employees, who are laid off or who are reduced from their red-circled classification as a result of a layoff and who are reemployed in their red-circled classification after expiry of the above time limits, shall be paid the standard rate for their classification. Red-circled employees who are laid off and reemployed into another classification shall be paid the standard rate forthejob classification in which they are working.
Page 81
WAGE SCHEDULE “A'
Job	Year 1	Year 2	Year 3
Class	15AUG94	15AUG95	15AUG96
1	17.00	17.34	17.69
2	17.82	18.18	18.54
3	18.63	19.00	19.38
4	19.44	19.82	20.22
5	20.25	20.66	21.07
6	21.06	21.48	21.91
7	21.88	22.32	22.77
8	22.69	23.14	23.61
9	23.50	23.97	24.45
Page 82
APPENDIX “ A’
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS Job Clash Job Classification
1	Surface Labourer
2	Apprentice Bucker/Core Splitter Spare Mill Operator Underground Labourer
3	Apprentice 1 Bit Grinder Bus Driver Diamond Drill Helper Equipment Operator 1 Tailings Operator Trades Helper Miner Trainee 1
4	Cagetender
Mill Crusher Operator
Deckman
Fillman
Front End Loader
Pumpman
Pipeman
Timberman's Helper Trackman's Helper Trammer Warehouseman U/G Crusher Operator Miner Trainee 2
Page 83
Job Class Job Classification
5	Apprentice 2 Equipment Operator 2 Filter Operator Miner Trainee 3
U/G Heavy Equipment Operator
6	Cablebolter Diamond Driller Shaftman Timberman Trackman
7	Concentrate Truck Driver Equipment Operator 3 Hoistman
Powerhouse Operator Miner
Apprentice 3
8	Control Room Operator Floor Operator Apprentice 4
9	Journeyman
Page 84
APPENDIX “ B" ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS
Bucker/Core Splitter Bit Grinder Surface Labourer Diamond Drill Helper Timberman's Helper Trackman's Helper Cagetender Trades Helper Equipment Operator 1 Underground Labourer Deckman Fillman
U/G Crusher Operator Pumpman Trammer Warehouseman Spare Mill Operator Mill Crusher Operator
Page 85
APPENDIX “C’
The positions for the Equipment Operator's Classifications in the Plant Department will be treated as follows:
In the event that training is required for individuals to move from one step of the Equipment Operators' classification to another, the Company generally will do the following:
1.	Any necessary training must be done on the job with Westmin Resources Limited equipment and personnel.
For example:
There will be no training or provision for time so spent at a technical school, Saferway driving etc.
2.	For employees in Equipment Operator classification #1 required to train for the Equipment Operator classification #2, the following will apply:
“For the first one hundred sixty (160) hours the employee will be compensated at job Class 3; all hours in excess of that number, for purposes of necessary training, will be at Job Class 5.”
3.	For employees in the Equipment Operator #2classification required to train for the Equipment Operator #3 classification, the following will apply:
“For the first nine hundred sixty (960) hours, the employee will be compensated at Job Class 5; all hours in excess of that number, for purposes of necessary training, will be at Job Class 7.”
Page 86
4.	The foregoing in Sections 1 and 2 is contingent on:
(a)	The employee must accept the necessary training.
(b)	The Company will determine the number of training hours required and afterthat time decide on whether the employee is qualified.
(c)	The employee, once trained or back to his normal job function, will receive his regular rate of pay.
(d)	The Company will decide on the number of people required in each classification within the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
(e)	If a vacancy exists, the employee will be promoted based on departmental seniority provided they have been trained and are qualified. The Company accepts this training responsibility subject to “b" above.
5.	Incidental costs required in the training process such as
licences, examination time, etc. will be borne by the
Company. This must be approved in advance by our
Training Department.
Page 87
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 -1
Subject: Camp Accommodation
Employees assigned a camp room prior to April 1st, 1990 will be “grandfathered” in their current room assignment status at six dollars ($6.00) per working day forthe term of this agreement. This room assignment will permanently change if either of the following events occur:
1.	The employee voluntarily changes to shared status.
2.	The employee comes off shiftwork through a legitimate reorganization and at some future date bids back onto a position which requires camp accommodation.
It is understood that all employees new to the camp will be assigned room on ashared concept at nocost. Employees who enter into shared accommodation concept (single bed) are exempt from room charges.
Dated this day of , 1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 88
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 - 2
Subject: Discrimination and/or Harassment
The Company and the Union agree that discrimination and/or harassment of any employee by reason of race, colour, creed, religion, age, marital status, sexual orientation, or disability is absolutely prohibited. Every employee has the right to work in an environment of mutual respect, free from intimidation, discrimination, and sexual harassment. Actions contravening this policy will constitute grounds for discipline.
1.	At any stage in this procedure an employee may seek as assistance and/or involvement of a company or union representative.
2.	An employee who feels subject to discrimination and/or harassment should make every effort to tell the offending party to stop such behaviour, priorto proceeding under the complaint procedure.
3.	Complaint Procedure:
(a)	If the problem is not resolved through discussion between the individuals concerned, then the employee who alleges harassment, or a representative on behalf of the employee may contact a Human Resources representative who will:
(i)	thoroughly investigate the matter jointly with a union representative, and
(ii)	maintain a strict degree of confidence with the employee concerned, and
(iii)	take appropriate action to resolve the problem.
Page 89
(b)	In the event the problem is not resolved under (a) above, the employee, the union representative and Human Resources representative may refer the matter in the form of a third stage grievance to the Mine Manager who will determine appropriate action to be taken.
(c)	The Local Union may contact the National
Representative to investigate such matters. The National Representative shall have full disclosure of all relevant information.
Dated this day of , 1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 90
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 - 3
Subject: Camp Committee
The Company agrees to recognize a camp committee as selected by the Union for the duration of this Agreement. The purpose of this committee is to bring to the attention of the Company, items of concern of the Union surrounding the camp facilities.
Meetings will be held with the management representative responsible for the camp to discuss and resolve the issues raised by the committee. For the purpose of meetings with the Company, the committee will be limited to a maximum of 3 persons.
Dated this day of ,1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 91
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 - 4
Subject: Assignment of Work
It is a matter of Company policy that the assignment of work is to be done in a fair and equitable manner.
Dated this day of , 1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 92
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 - 5
Subject:	Hot Meals for Mill Crews
The parties agree that the past practice regarding the provision by the Company of hot meals for Mill 4x4 Production and Maintenance crews shall continue forthe term of this Agreement.
Dated this day of , 1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 93
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 - 6
Subject: Employee Evaluations
In the event the Company implements a program of employee evaluations, the evaluations or any part thereof shall not form or be part of an employee's disciplinary record.
Dated this day of , 1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 94
Letter of Agreement No. 1994 • 7
Subject: Underground Bonus System
Article 20.04 of the Collective Agreement notwithstanding, the Company shall meet with the Union as soon after August 15, 1994 as possible to discuss the changes it intends to make to the underground bonus system. The system in effect on April 23,1993 shall not be changed until after these discussions take place.
Dated this day of , 1994.
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED CAW, LOCAL 3019
Page 95
APPENDIX “D'
RETURN TO WORK PROTOCOL
1.	The seniority and service of employees who were on the Company’s employment roils as at April 24,1993 and who return to work following the start-up of operations, as required, shall be maintained and accumulated as follows:
a)	Seniority: The period from April 24, 1993 to the employee’s return to work shall not be considered a break in continuous service for purposes of seniority under the agreement.
b)	Vacations: The period from April 24,1993 to the employee’s return to work shall not be considered a break in continuous service for purposes of earning future vacations. Employees shall not, however, be entitled to any receive vacations for such period.
c)	Pensions: Article 1-9 of the Pension Plan Documents notwithstanding, the period from April 24, 1993 to the employee’s return to work shall be included in “continuous service” for pension purposes.
d)	Statutory Holidays and Floaters: The period from April 24,1993 to the employee’s return to work is not considered service for purposes of earning statutory holidays or floaters.
2.	All disciplinary action taken by the Company against employees during the period of the labour dispute (April 24, 1993 to August 15, 1994) will be withdrawn. The Company will not attempt to pursue against employees after the fact.
Page 96
The termination of Dale Bowerman will be referred to expedited arbitration with Bob Blasina as the arbitrator.
3.	All outstanding unresolved grievances being processed by the Union on behalf of its members prior to the commencement of the labour dispute will be deemed to be within the time limits of the grievance procedure.
4.	Article 12.00 of the renewal agreement shall apply to the recall of employees at start-up.
5.	All employeeswho were issued layoff notices in April, 1993 will be recalled and will be entitled to work the remainder of their notice period.
6.	Employees who do not return to work within fourteen (14) days of notice of return to work may be bypassed in terms of seniority for purposes of the return to work. Employees who do not return to work within thirty (30) days of notice of return to work shall lose their seniority standing and employment with the Company. Notice of return to work shall be by registered mail to the employee's last address on file with the Company. Photocopies of all such notices will be forwarded to the Union immediately upon their being sent out.
7.	Vacation pay owing shall be paid immediately after the arbitration award is issued (August 15,1994). All employees who, prior to the commencement of the labour dispute, had filed a vacation slip with their supervisor scheduling their vacation shall be entitled to take their vacation at a time which is mutually agreeable to the employee and the Company.
8.	The Company will withdraw all claims for damages against the Union or any Union member and shall not reinstate same.
f&ge 97
9.	This Return to Wbrk Protocol will be incorporated into the renewal agreement by reference and will form part of that agreement as though it were printed in its entirety.
10.	The provisions of article 11.01 (d) of the renewal agreement shall be applied immediately upon start-up.
11.	The Lamarche dismissal arbitration shall be heard by
James McIntyre.
12.	Employees who became ill and/or disabled during the
labour dispute (i.e. April 24,1993 to the date the employee would otherwise returned to work) and as a result of such illness are unable to return to work, shall be eligible to receive Weekly Indemnity and/or Long Term Disability coverage in the normal fashion.
The Board shall remain seized of all matters covered by this Award and shall deal with any issues arising out of its implementation.
Page 98