AGREEMENT
BETWEEN:
BETWEEN:
NYRSTAR MYRA FALLS LTD.
(hereafter referred to as the “Company”)
AND:
CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS LOCAL 3019
(hereafter referred to as the “Union”)
00162 (10)
Article 1
PREAMBLE
The parties to this Agreement recognize it is in their mutual interest to promote, as fully as possible, conditions of safety to the employee, economy of the operation and protection of property. These conditions can best be maintained by harmonious relations between the Company and the employees and by the settlement, in an amicable manner, of all disputes which may arise. The Company and the employees shall cooperate fully for their mutual benefit.
To assist facilitation of the above, a monthly Union-Management meetings will be held to discuss all issues of mutual importance. The meeting will be convened at 1 pm on the first Thursday of every second month or on the mutually-agreed day which is the least disruptive to the efficient operation of Myra Falls. Union participants will be limited to executive table officers (4) plus the Chairman of the Grievance Committee and the Union Co -Chairman of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee. In the event that the National Representative of the CAW wishes to attend the meeting, he is welcome to do so, provided that no less than ten (10) days’ notice is provided. In the event that the National Representative does attend, the Company reserves the right to have corporate representation from Nyrstar attend. Agenda items will be exchanged three days prior to each meeting. In the event that no agenda items are submitted within the three-day timeframe, no meeting will be held for the month.
Article 2
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
2.01	Employee Defined
The term employees as used in this Agreement shall include all hourly rated employees of the Company and its subsidiary companies covered by the certification who are engaged in mining, treatment and transportation operations related to the Myra Falls Operations of the companies except those employees in a confidential, supervisory, technical, executive, security or clerical capacity.
The term supervisory as applied to employees as herein designated includes (without restricting the generality of the expression) foreman, shift bosses, and employees of the companies who have the authority to hire or discharge.
Words in this agreement imparting the masculine gender shall be understood to also apply to female employees.
2.02	Temporary Promotion to Staff
An employee who is replacing a member of staff to meet the needs of the operation in such circumstances as vacation replacement or special projects for a temporary period up to a maximum of forty-eight (48) working days in any calendar year, shall be considered a member of staff. Upon completion of such a temporary period he shall return to the group classification that he left.
2
In the case of promotion to staff, the employee will cease to accumulate seniority after forty-eight (48) days worked in any calendar year, but will retain his previous seniority should he return to the bargaining unit.
Hourly employees who may be used under the terms of this clause will be chosen for their qualifications and will be termed designated employees. These employees will not be required to nor will they be empowered to administer discipline. These individuals will be approved by the Mine Manager who will be made aware of the number of days the employee has worked as a designated employee to that point in the year before any consideration or approval is given. The Company will provide the Union with a monthly written report indicating the dates and names of employees who work as a designated employee.
Where special conditions arise and where there are mutual concerns about an employee meeting or exceeding the forty-eight (48) days limited for each year, the time restriction may be waived by mutual consent of the Company and the Union, and both parties agree to approach the issue of time limits in a reasonable manner.
As well, the monthly report detailing designated employees will be tabled at each Union-Management meeting established in the preamble to this Agreement and will be reviewed by the parties and any potential abuse of the process will be discussed and resolved between the parties.
It is agreed that any designated employee who serves in that capacity for one full shift cycle or more must be back on his regular bargaining unit job for a full shift cycle before such employee is eligible to work an overtime assignment.
2.03	Students
The Company may employ students in reasonable numbers from time to time, provided that no employee shall be demoted, laid off, discharged, or have his recall delayed to make place for a student, nor shall promotion within the bargaining unit be adversely affected.
Article 3
UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	Union Certification
The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions; and the Company will continue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	Supervisor Working
The Company recognizes that it is not the function of salaried employees to perform work which is currently being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except under emergency conditions, the purpose of training, instruction, or for metallurgical research.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
3
It is understood that salaried employees shall attempt at all times to have a member of the bargaining unit assist him in any emergency. An emergency shall be defined as a major disruption in production, or where there is danger to life or limb or where there is an immediate environmental hazard.
3.03	Contracting Out
The Company will not contract out work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except to make the operation more efficient, and will not do so if it has the result of layoff or reducing the rate of pay of employees who have the ability to perform the work.
Prior to contracting out, consideration by the Company will be given to utilizing employees on layoff. An employee recalled under this clause will not receive notice of further layoff but will return to layoff status at the conclusion of the work assignment. It is understood that the Company will determine whether the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work. Greater consideration will be given to longer-term assignments. The Company will review each situation on its own merits. An employee recalled to work under this provision is entitled to one floating holiday for every 160 regular hours worked during the period of recall to a maximum of two (2) floating holidays, subject to anniversary date entitlement under Article 17.02.
The Company shall endeavour wherever possible and practical to have its sub-contract work performed by a union shop. When the Company decides that the contracting out of work, on site is necessary the Union will be so advised a minimum of fourteen (14) days in advance, provided such notice period is available under the circumstance. Where the full notice period is not available, the Union will be given as much advance notice as is possible and the notice will be delivered either by telephone to the Union President or his designate or if electronically, to up to three (3) Union table officers to be identified by the Local Union. Any allegation on the part of the Union that the Company is abusing this provision may be the subject of a grievance filed at the third stage, and any such grievance filed will be heard by the General Manager within ten (10) days. When the contract has been awarded the Union will be advised in writing a minimum of seven (7) days in advance of the work start date.
The written advice shall contain the following information:
1.	Name of originator of the contract advice
2.	Name of contractor
3.	Nature of the work to be contracted. Including if the work is expected to be covered by warranty, and any rationale why the work is not being performed by the existing workforce.
4.	Approximate number of contractor’s employees.
5.	Approximate start date and duration of the job,	including the expected shifts to be
worked.
6.	Union affiliation if applicable.
The Company will ensure all contractors receive a safety orientation prior to the commencement of the work for which they are engaged. All contractors on site will follow all Company policies and procedures.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
4
The parties to this agreement recognize that under certain emergency situations the time limits mentioned above can be waived.
At the monthly Union-Management meetings identified in the preamble, a certain portion of each meeting will be dedicated to the topic of contracting out. Contracting out discussions will include the future use of contractors that is known at the time of the meeting and also the use of contractors that has transpired during the previous month. In the event that there are no new agenda items submitted and the Union-Management meeting is cancelled for that month, the Company agrees that it will make a written submission to the Union providing the basic information regarding contracting out that is set out above.
3.04	Paid Education Leave
The Company agrees to pay into a special CAW Leadership Training Fund four cents ($0.04) per hour per employee for all compensated hours for the purpose of providing paid education leave. Such leave will be for the upgrading of employee’s skills in all aspects of trade union functions. Payment shall be made on a quarterly basis into the trust fund established by the National Union CAW, effective August 15th, 1997.
Cheques should be made payable to:
CAW Leadership Training Fund CAW Family Education Centre RR#1, Port Elgin, Ontario N0H 2C0
3.05	Social Justice Fund
The Company agrees to pay into the CAW Social Justice Fund, the purpose of which is to provide financial assistance to such entities as food banks, registered Canadian charities, international development and relief measures to assist innocent victims of droughts, famines, and other dislocations.
Subject to the following conditions, the Company will make quarterly contributions to such a fund equal to one cent ($0.01) for each straight time hour worked.
The Company will make these quarterly payments provided that:
1.	the Union maintains the fund as a non-profit corporation under the Canada Corporations Act, and ensures that all necessary steps are taken to maintain the corporation in proper legal standing and that all requirements of the Act are met;
2.	the Union maintains the registration of the non-profit corporation under the Income Tax Act of Canada in good standing;
3.	the Union maintains a favorable Income Tax Ruling from the Federal Department of National Revenue that all contributions which the Company makes to the non-profit corporation are tax deductible;
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
5
4.	the Union provides the Company with annual audited financial statements of, and summaries of each year’s donations made by the non-profit corporation;
(a)	the objects, by-laws and resolutions of this non-profit corporation should limit it to making the following types of financial contributions:
(b)	contributions to other Canadian non-partisan charities that are registered by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), or any successor body that performs like functions,
(c)	contributions to any Canadian or international non-partisan efforts to which other Canadian charities that are registered under the Income Tax Act are also making contributions, or
(d)	contributions to any non-governmental and non-partisan development group recognized by CIDA and registered as a charity under the Income Tax Act.
Article 4
TERM OF AGREEMENT
4.01	Term
This Agreement shall be in force for the period from October 1, 2012 to and including September 30, 2016. Thereafter, the agreement shall continue in full force and effect from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend the agreement at the expiration of any yearly period is given by either party. Subsections 50 (2) & (3) of the Labour Relations Code of B.C. are excluded from operation under this Agreement.
4.02	Status During Negotiations
During any period when negotiations are being conducted between the parties for the renewal of this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
(a)	The Union commences a legal strike;
(b)	The Employer commences a legal lockout; or
(c)	The parties enter into a new or further agreement.
4.03	Effective Date
Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and conditions of this agreement shall become effective from the date of signing of the Collective Agreement by both parties.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
6
Article 5
RIGHTS RESERVED TO MANAGEMENT
5.01	Management Rights
The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement provided; however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employee or group of employees. Changes made to rules and regulations shall be posted and a copy of such changes sent to the local Union.
5.02	Obligation to Operate
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties, or any part thereof.
5.03	Rights to Hire, Discharge and Select
The Company shall have the right to hire, discipline, demote and discharge employees for proper, just and reasonable cause. The selection of lead hands and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the Company’s decision.
Article 6
NO DISCRIMINATION
6.01	Discrimination and/or Harassment
The Company and the Union agree that discrimination and/or harassment of any employee by reason of gender, race, color, creed, religion, age, marital status, sexual orientation, or disability is absolutely prohibited. Every employee has the right to work in an environment of mutual respect, free from intimidation, discrimination, and sexual harassment. Actions contravening this policy will constitute grounds for discipline.
1.	At any stage in this procedure an employee may seek assistance and/or involvement of a company or union representative.
2.	An employee who feels subject to discrimination and/or harassment should make every effort to tell the offending party to stop such behavior, prior to proceeding under the complaint procedure.
3.	Complaint Procedure:
(a)	If the problem is not resolved through discussion between the individuals concerned, then the employee who alleges harassment, or a representative on behalf of the employee may contact a Human Resources representative who will:
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
7
(i)	thoroughly investigate th matter jointly with a union representative, and
(ii)	maintain a strict degree of confidence with the employee concerned, and
(iii)	take appropriate action to resolve the problem.
(b)	In the event the problem is not resolved under (a) above, the employee, the union representative and Human Resources representative may refer the matter in the form of a third stage grievance to the Mine Manager who will determine appropriate action to be taken.
(c)	The Local Union may contact the National Representative to investigate such matters. The National Representative shall have full disclosure of all relevant information. Likewise, the Company may contact the corporate office of Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd. to make it aware of the situation and to undertake its own investigation. All documents disclosed to the CAW’s National Representative will also be forwarded to Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd.’s corporate office. It is anticipated that should a complaint of discrimination / harassment advance to this stage that the senior representatives of the CAW and Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd. will undertake a collaborative and cooperative investigation.
The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against any employee by reason of his legitimate activities as a member of the Union.
The Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination on its part or by any members towards any employee of the Company.
The Parties also subscribe to and support the principles of the Human Rights Code of British Columbia.
Article 7
LOCKOUTS OR STRIKES
7.01	Prohibition Against Work Stoppages
The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union, nor any representative of the Union, nor any employee shall in any way authorize, encourage, or participate in any strike, walk-out, suspension of work, or a slow-down against the Company during the life of this Agreement.
7.02	Pickets Lines
No employee(s) will be subject to disciplinary action nor will action be taken against the Union if an employee or employees honor a lawful picket line as permitted under the Labour Code of British Columbia.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
8
Article 8
UNION ACTIVITIES ON COMPANY TIME
8.01	(a) Union Officers & Meetings
Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen will be designated in writing by the Union to the Company. For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives, the Grievance Committee will consist of not more than three (3) members as designated by the Union.
When the legitimate business of a Grievance Committeeman or Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen require him to leave his job or department, he shall first receive permission from his foreman or department supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regular working hours.
8.01	(b)	Meetings
The parties agree that they will make their best efforts to schedule all meetings at a time and location that is convenient to all parties involved including the Union, the employee(s) involved (if there are any) and the Company. The Company also agrees that it will make its best efforts to provide no less than forty-eight (48) hours advance notice of any meeting, where such time is available.
8.01	(c)	Union Meetings
The Union will be allowed access to facilities at the mine for the purposes of conducting meetings. Subject to the requirements of the Operations, the Company shall grant a maximum of two (2) Union Officials, as outlined in Article 10.03, time off work to attend any one meeting. Employees scheduled to work will not be given permission to attend the foregoing meetings.
The Union must give the Company three (3) working days’ notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, as to the date and time of the meeting and the names of Union Officials to attend.
8.02	Union Access to Property
A Union representative or representatives shall be permitted entry to the Company’s property subject to the decision of the Company as to the number of such representatives to be granted such entry at any one time. Such Union representative or representatives shall be granted permission to use camp and cookhouse facilities, but the Company reserves the right to determine on what basis and for what period of time such permission shall be granted.
8.03	Pay For Union Business
The Company agrees to pay the Union the amount of $4,000.00 per month for the purpose of conducting Union business.
8.04	Grievance Committee Chair
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
9
In the event the Grievance Committee Chair does not have a dayshift job, the Company and Union may agree to assign the Grievance Committee Chair to the next posted job for which he is qualified. If the employee is posted to a lower paid job he shall retain his hourly rate of pay. If the new posted job receives underground production bonus, the Grievance Committee Chair will be paid his normal underground production bonus, for time spent at the mine site conferring with the Company on grievance matters. If the new posted job receives underground production bonus that is less than the position the Grievance Committee Chair left, a running three-month average bonus paid to employees in the previous position will be applied.
8.05	Union Office at Mine
The Company agrees to make available at no cost to the Union, reasonable office space for the exclusive use of the Union on the ground floor of the main administration building. This office will be utilized by all Union officials (i.e. President, Grievance Chair, and OHSC Co-Chair).
8.06	Approval of Union Leaves
The Company will continue to honor requests for local union officials for short term leaves on an as need basis on the written request of the Local Union President or his designate.
Article 9
BULLETIN BOARD
9.01	Bulletin Board
The Company agrees that bulletin boards and distribution boxes will be made available in the Dry(s), H-W and Lynx surface shops, Powerhouse, Spit, Cookhouse and Concentrator for Union purposes, provided that the use of the boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union. All notices must be approved and signed by a member of the Local Union Executive. The Union agrees that the bulletin boards will not be used for any matters not relating directly to Union business.
Article 10
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
10.01	Union Officers Right to Leave of Absence
An employee selected as a delegate or representative of the Union necessitating a leave of absence, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provide that it does not exceed a period of three (3) years upon making proper application in writing to the Company. Such leave will be renewed on written application by the Union.
10.02	Time Spent on Leave
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
10
The time spent as a delegate of the Union or on other authorized leave of absence for Union purposes as set forth in 10.01 of the Article shall not in any way jeopardize his seniority standing or vacation time entitlement.
The Company shall not be required to grant this leave to more than a total of three (3) persons and no more than one (1) from each department at the same time and for not more than a total for all persons of seven hundred and eighty (780) working days in one (1) year.
10.03 (a)	National & International Gatherings
Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend National or International gatherings will be granted a leave of absence without pay for this purpose. Not more than four (4) employees from any one department or seven (7) employees in total from all departments may take such leave at any one time.
The Union must give the Company three (3) working days’ notice, confirmed by the Union in writing, of such leave.
Not more than a total of one hundred and fifty (150) working days in a year need be granted for this purpose and no individual leave will exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days.
10.03 (b)	Local Union Gatherings
The Company recognizes that there are benefits to having Union leadership that is well prepared for activities such as labour negotiations, arbitration hearings, recognized committee meetings and the like. The Union recognizes that while important, these preparations must be achieved without adversely impacting the efficient operation of the commercial endeavour. In an effort to find the proper balance between these two interests, the Union agrees that it will provide as much advance notice as possible of time off required being aware of the number of Union members for whom they are asking time off. Likewise, the Company agrees to be reasonable when reviewing applications for time off for these purposes and will not unreasonably withhold approval for such leaves. Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend local union gatherings including negotiations, labour arbitrations or committee meetings with the Company will be granted leave of absence without pay for this purpose.
10.04	Employee Leave
Any employee, on written notice setting forth good cause, may, at the discretion of the Company, be granted a leave of absence without pay. Such leave may be extended when similar notice setting forth good cause is supplied. Whenever a leave of absence or extension is granted or denied, the employee shall be notified in writing. The Company agrees to consider such requests in an equitable manner and such leaves shall not be unreasonably withheld.
10.05	Bereavement Leave
In the case of death in the immediate family of any employee, the Company will grant the employee a paid leave of absence of three (3) regularly scheduled shifts, provided the leave is
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
11
taken within seven (7) calendar days of the death. If the employee attends the funeral at a place other than Vancouver Island, he will be granted a total of four (4) days paid leave of absence.
Immediate family shall mean Mother, Father, Spouse, Children, Step-Parents, Step-Children, Brothers, Sisters, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law, Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law, Grandparents and grandchildren. Effective the date of ratification, immediate family will be expanded to include Brother and Sister-in-law, and Spousal Grandparents.
One (1) extra day leave of absence, with pay, and one (1) extra day leave of absence without pay, will be granted if the employee attends the funeral at a place outside British Columbia.
The above leave days will only be granted if the Company is notified of the leave requirement.
10.06	Absenteeism
Recognizing that excessive absenteeism by employees creates staffing and scheduling problems, the Parties agree:
(a)	The Company will institute a twenty four (24) hour per day phone-in message service. Employees are required to phone in at least one hour prior to the commencement of their shift, to inform the Company they will not be reporting for work and the reasons for same.
(b)	Where an employee demonstrates a pattern of absenteeism such as repeated Mondays, Fridays, etc., the Company will give written notice to the employee inclusive of documentation of the said pattern, with a copy of same to the Union. Such notice will require the employee to provide a medical certificate for any future incidents or repetition of such pattern until an employee has gone six (6) clear months without repeating the pattern. The Company will pay any medical costs associated with such a request.
10.07	Court, Jury Or Fire Fighting Duty
If an employee is summoned or subpoenaed for jury selection or jury duty or as a witness, or conscripted for fire fighting duty, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence with pay, which will be the difference between his regular pay and the monies received. The employee must provide the Company with a statement of payment. In such cases of absence, employees must provide the Company notification within three (3) working days of absence. In case of fire fighting, if notification is not possible, the fire fighting certificate will be accepted in lieu of written notification.
Where an employee volunteers for participation with the military service to a maximum of two (2) weeks per year, upon providing written confirmation that time away from work is required, an unpaid leave of absence will be granted and the employee involved will be assured of no loss of seniority or benefits.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
12
Where a bona fide member of the local Search & Rescue unit is required for active duty, such employee will request a leave of absence which will not be unreasonably denied by the Company, keeping in mind the efficient operation of Myra Falls.
10.08	Maternity/Parental Leave
Maternity and Parental Leave will be granted as per the Employment Standards Act of British Columbia.
10.09	Educational Leave
Consistent with Company operating needs, the Company will consider an employee’s request for educational leave for up to one (1) year without pay. The employee must apply for the leave in writing at least two (2) months prior to the requested start of the leave. The employee will provide the Company with written confirmation of registration from the educational institution.
10.10	Family Responsibility Leave
An employee can take up to five (5) days of unpaid leave per year to attend to the care, health or education of a child in the employee’s care, or to the care or health of any other member of the employee’s immediate family. Employees are expected to give the Company as much notice as possible and provide sufficient information for the Company to understand the reason for the leave. Employees are not required to give notice in writing or disclose personal or private information.
Article 11
SAFETY
11.01	Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee (JOHSC)
The following terms and conditions will apply for the JOHSC. In addition, from time-to-time and as required the JOHSC will review and amend the terms of reference (“Terms of Reference for Myra Falls Operation Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee”) and adopt any necessary changes with respect to composition or administration of the Committee.
11.01	(a) Purpose of the Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee
The purpose of the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee is to encourage all employees to share a common goal of improving health and safety in the workplace.
The Committee provides a mechanism through which workers can contribute and provide insight into the formulation of health and safety policies and programs, the assessment of equipment and processes, ergonomics, and the setting of safety goals and objectives.
The Committee will promote an atmosphere of co-operation and will strive to reach consensus on health and safety issues and make recommendations which are agreed to by the entire committee.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
13
The JOHSC will:
-	Ensure the completion of monthly inspection	tours
-	Conduct subsequent monthly meetings
-	Review past inspections, review accident and near miss investigation reports and minutes of previous meetings
-	Review injury statistics
-	Make recommendations to correct hazardous	conditions
-	Review job standards and procedures
-	Investigate all unsafe conditions and promote compliance with relevant legislation affecting health and safety at the mine
-	Review the Nyrstar Myra Falls mine Health and Safety Program in accordance with prevailing legislation
-	Be involved in the design and delivery of occupational health and safety training and awareness programs for all employees to minimize adverse workplace impacts on employee health.
11.01	(b) Structure Of Joint Health & Safety Committee
The JOHSC will be made up of 16 members in total, including the two Co-Chairs, with equal representation by the Company and the Union.
11.01	(c) Monthly Joint Inspection Tours
Joint inspections will be carried out in as many locations as deemed appropriate by the JOHSC.
After the completion of the Joint inspection tours, Union representatives participating in the tour will meet with management representatives responsible for that area to discuss their findings. The inspection tour participants will complete an inspection tour report outlining their findings and remedial action suggested to be taken and forward to the JOHSC for review at their monthly meeting. Safety hazards noted during inspection tours will be corrected within thirty (30) days or by the date agreed by the JOHSC.
11.01	(d) Meetings of the Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee
The Committee will meet once a month to review and make recommendations related to:
i)	inspection tours
ii)	accident investigations
iii)	safe work practices, methods and procedures
iv)	health and safety training
v)	health and safety concerns raised by employees and management
JOHSC members on shift at the time of the regularly scheduled meeting will be allowed time away from their work to attend the meeting.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
14
11.01	(e) Minutes of Joint Occupational Health & Safety Committee
The secretary of the Committee will prepare minutes of the monthly meetings which will be signed by both co-chairmen. A copy will be sent to the following:
i)	Mine Manager
ii)	Union President
iii)	Department Heads
iv)	Post on bulletin boards
v)	National Union
(f)	Recommendations of the O.H.S.C.
The parties agree that it is the role of the JOHSC to make recommendation(s) to the Mine Manager and it is left to the sole discretion of the Mine Manager whether or not to act upon such recommendation(s) and where the Mine manager elects not to act, a written explanation will be provided to the JOHSC.
Where immediate compliance cannot be accomplished but where the Company agrees to act upon a recommendation, the Company shall ensure that the recommendation has been complied with by the next JOHSC meeting. Where compliance cannot be accomplished by the next monthly meeting of the JOHSC, the Company will provide a written explanation, with a copy to the Union Safety Committee Chairman, the reasons for non-compliance and any plans for future compliance.
11.01	(g) Notification of Joint Investigations
The Company and Union agree that it is of the utmost importance to ensure that all lost time accidents, near miss incidents and/or dangerous occurrences are thoroughly investigated in the interests of future prevention. Therefore all lost time accidents, near miss incidents and/or dangerous occurrences will be jointly investigated by the designated union and management personnel from the Joint Occupational Health and Safety Committee who shall have access to any and all information available and equipment necessary in the completion of the investigation and will be copied with all reports and findings resulting from such investigations.
Joint investigation reports will be signed by both Committee co-chairmen and a copy sent to the following:
i)	Mine Manager
ii)	Union President
iii)	District Mines Inspector
11.01	(h)	Accident and Near-Miss Investigation Reports
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
15
These reports shall contain the following:
(a)	The place, date and time of the incident;
(b)	The names and job titles of persons injured, if applicable;
(c)	The names of witnesses;
(d)	A brief description of the incident;
(e)	A statement of the sequence of events which preceded the incident;
(f)	The identification of any unsafe conditions, acts or procedures which contributed in any manner to the incident;
(g)	Recommended corrective actions to prevent similar occurrences;
(h)	The names of the persons who investigated the incident.
11.01	(i) Right to Accompany Inspectors
Where a government inspector conducts an inspection at the mine, and that inspection is directly related to the health and safety of the employees, a Union safety committee representative may, at the Union’s discretion, accompany the inspector on his tour.
When such an inspector arrives at the mine the Company shall notify the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate. Should the inspector submit a written report related to such an inspection, a copy of same shall be provided to the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate.
11.01 (j)	Access to Log Books
The JOHSC will have access to log books kept for maintenance and safety of equipment and all hourly employee time sheets for the purpose of performing their duties.
11.01	(k) Time Spent by an Employee
The time so spent on any of the aforementioned items in article 11.01, necessitating loss of time by employees delegated by the Union, shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time plus an amount equal to the employee’s normal underground production bonus, if applicable. Production bonus will only be paid to employees who normally receive production bonus. Under no conditions will overtime rates be paid.
11.01 (l)	Education and Training
The Company and the Union agree that all employees shall receive sufficient training in order that they may perform their work in a safe manner and minimize adverse workplace impacts on employee health.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
16
11.01	(m) Other Relevant Legislation
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provision of the Collective Agreement pertaining to occupational health and safety, the Mines Act or relevant legislation that is superior to the foregoing shall take precedence.
11.02	Employee Obligation
Employees must obey all safety rules and report at once any unsafe practice or condition to their supervisors for correction as quickly as practicable.
11.03	(a) Safety Protection Equipment Supplied
The Company will supply safety protection equipment to its employees as required. Company supplied safety equipment will be as follows:
Eye protection (non-prescription)
Hard hats Hearing protection Dust respirators Miner’s belt Safety belts and lines Tag out locks
Lineman’s gloves and boots
Painter’s masks
Aprons and face shields
Safety asbestos gloves
Welder’s leathers
Slickers
Gloves
11.03	(b) Replacement of Safety Protection Equipment
Upon presentation of safety protection equipment which is no longer serviceable due to normal wear and tear, the Company will provide new items as required.
11.03	(c) Boots, Coveralls & Slickers
The Company will provide employees the following items as required through a program as determined by the Company:
i)	Coveralls
The Company will provide a coverall program that will provide mechanical, millwright, and electrical employees with a maximum of five (5) pair of coveralls in the system per week, and all other employees with a maximum of three (3) pair of coveralls in the system per week. Employees involved in long hole loading or shotcreting will be provided four (4) pairs of coveralls in the system. Employees electing not to participate in the coverall exchange program will be granted three (3) pairs of coveralls annually.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
17
ii)	Boots
Employees will be provided with one (1) pair of rubber safety boots every six (6) months. Employees may purchase additional rubber safety boots at cost less fifty (50) percent.
Employees may choose the option of purchasing approved leather safety boots in lieu of their rubber safety boot issue. The Company will reimburse the employee for the cost of the leather safety boots, to a maximum of $500 every 2 years, upon proof of purchase.
The Company will provide arc flash protective equipment.
11.03 (d)	Prescription Safety Glasses
The Company will provide prescription safety glasses to those employees who require them. Prescription safety glasses will be replaced upon proof of prescription change or damage. Prescription safety glasses will be supplied through a program as determined by the Company.
11.04 (a)	Injured Worker Provision
An employee who is injured during working hours and who is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at their regular rate of pay.
Such employee shall be provided with transportation to their doctor or hospital and to their home.
11.04	(b) Modified Work Program
The Company and the Union have agreed on a Return to Work Program the purpose of which is to whenever/wherever possible return injured or ill workers to productive and meaningful employment at the appropriate time and in a manner in which assists their recovery. The Return to Work Program is Appendix “C” of this Agreement.
11.05	P.C.B.’s
No employee will be required to work on equipment where he will have direct contact with P.C.B.’s.
11.06	Gas Testers
Gas Testers shall be available to all operators as required by the Mines Act for testing underground mobile equipment and mobile headings. In addition, other employees may obtain gas testers on a sign out basis from the Company. These shall be returned to the Company at the end of the shift.
11.07	Access for Union Safety Committee Chairman
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
18
The Company agrees that the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate shall have access to all areas of the mine. When legitimate safety concerns require him to leave his job he shall first receive permission from his supervisor. Such permission shall not unreasonably be withheld. In the event of an emergency, he will inform the Safety Department of his intentions.
11.08	Driving From Mine Site
No employee working in excess of ten (10) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period will be permitted to drive a company vehicle from the mine site. Prior to agreeing to work the overtime, the employee shall be notified of whether or not transportation will be provided. In the event that transportation is not provided, camp accommodation shall be provided.
11.09	Workers’ Compensation Claims
The Company and the Union agree to advise the other party as to the nature of any protest or appeal relative to WorkSafe BC claims. The Company agrees further that any protest to any employee’s claim shall be separate from the workers’ compensation forms.
11.10	Access to Medical Records
The Company agrees that an employee shall have access to their first aid/medical records.
Article 12
SENIORITY, LAY-OFFS AND RECALL
12.01	Seniority Defined
Seniority is established on the basis of the individual’s continuous service with the Company according to the records of the Company. The parties recognize that job opportunity shall increase in proportion to the length of company service.
12.02	Probationary Period
Seniority of each employee covered by the Agreement will be established after a probationary period of two hundred and forty (240) scheduled working hours, although this probationary period may be increased for each hour spent in classroom instruction during the probationary period, to a maximum of two hundred and eighty (280) hours.
During this probationary period, the employer may terminate an employee’s employment for performance which in the opinion of management, is inadequate.
The parties may agree to extend the probationary period.
The Company will notify the Union within three (3) working days of the termination of any employees under this provision.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
19
All probationary employees shall receive a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarization and safety orientation on their new job. The Union will be provided an opportunity to meet and address new employees during this period of time.
12.03	Temporary Hires
A person originally hired by the Company to exercise a special trade or skill or to participate in a special assignment of work may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or assignment comes to an end. The employee, however, will receive two (2) weeks notice in writing of such lay off or pay in lieu of notice or portion thereof. Employees hired under this clause are covered by the entire Collective Agreement with the exception of Article 12.
It is not the intent under this article to avoid the hiring of regular full time employees when such are justified for ongoing regular work. The “special assignment” designation will not be used to avoid the above but only be utilized for assignments not in the normal compliment.
12.04	Application Of Seniority
All promotions, transfers, filling of vacancies, layoffs and rehiring after layoffs will be done strictly in accordance with the principles set forth in 12.01 provided the employee has sufficient ability to perform the work required. The Company will consider an employee’s request for work assignments within their job classification. One of the considerations will be seniority.
12.05	Maintenance of Seniority
12.05	(a)
Seniority will be accumulated and maintained for one (1) year during absences caused by nonoccupational illness or injury; or authorized leave of absence; and will be maintained thereafter subject to Article 12.05 (c).
Seniority will be accumulated and maintained for four (4) years during absences caused by occupational illness or injury and thereafter the employees will be dealt with subject to Article 12.05 (c).
12.05	(b)
Seniority will be maintained and accumulated during:
i)	Absence due to lay-off up to twelve (12) months with less than three (3) years seniority.
ii)	Absence due to lay-off up to eighteen (18) months with three (3) to five (5) years seniority.
iii)	Absence due to lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months with more than five (5) years seniority.
12.05	(c)
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
20
Seniority will be maintained for four (4) years from the date of absence due to authorized leave of absence, injury or illness, subject to 12.05 (a) above. At the end of four (4) years of absence, seniority will no longer be maintained and employment will be terminated.
Employees granted leave for Union business (Article 10.01) will retain their seniority for the duration of the leave.
12.05	(d)
During periods of accumulating and/or maintaining seniority, the benefits to the Collective Agreement that apply are outlined under Article 19.
12.05	(e)
Seniority standing will be lost if an employee:
i)	voluntarily quits
ii)	is discharged for cause and is not reinstated
iii)	is recalled to work and does not report within the limits as per Article 12.13
iv)	is absent and the seniority retention period has elapsed as per Article 12.05 (b) or
12.05	(c)
v)	is absent without permission for a period of four (4) consecutive scheduled shifts of work, unless the employee provides a reasonable excuse for the absence
12.06	Job Postings
For the purpose of filling job vacancies, the following procedure will be applied.
12.06	(a)
The Company will post a list of current employees in each job in conjunction with the Job Posting Register and the Training Identification Board.
12.07	Job Vacancies
If it is determined that a job classification (including agreed Identifiable Roles) as identified at Appendix “A”, is vacant and is to be filled, the following procedure shall apply. A position will be considered vacant if it is expected to last thirty (30) working days or more (except those created by vacation, illness or injury to a maximum of three (3) months).
12.07	(a) Job Vacancy Register
The Company will maintain a Job Vacancy Register containing the following:
I.	Location of job
II.	Shift and Crew
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
21
III.	Job classification and identifiable role
IV.	Rate of Pay
12.07 (b)	Applications
An employee can submit a maximum of twelve (12) applications for positions included in the Register. All applications must be dated and signed in order to be considered valid. Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant for completion.
An employee can have any/all of their applications removed from the Register by submitting an application requesting removal.
12.07 (c)	Verification and Notification
Qualifications of each applicant will be verified, and applicants that are deemed to have sufficient ability to perform the work required as per Article 23.05 will be placed on the Register in order of seniority. An employee who is claiming to have been trained somewhere other than Myra Falls may be required to demonstrate sufficient ability in the job applied for. In the case of an entry level position, the applicant may be required to visit the work environment being applied for to ensure an informed decision regarding the job. When applications are posted to the Register, or are declined based on the standard of sufficient ability, a copy of the application indicating verification status will be returned to the applicant.
12.07 (d)	Updating Register
The Register will be updated biweekly with copies posted appropriately. A copy will be provided to the Union. When a vacancy is to be filled, reasonable steps will be taken to ensure that the Register is current.
12.07 (e)	Awards
When a vacancy is to be filled, the employee identified by the Register will be awarded the position. As this award may create additional vacancies, each sub sequent vacancy will be filled as identified by the Register.
An award will be communicated to the successful applicant(s) including the date the new position begins. A successful applicant will be placed in the new job as soon as possible. The Company and Union will review situations where there is an expected delay greater than two
(2)	weeks in moving employees.
I.	The Company will ensure that during the first three (3) days of a new assignment the successful employee will spend at least two (2) shifts at the actual worksite to give the successful employee the ability to make an informed decision regarding the work environment and the duties of the job.
II.	The successful employee will then have the balance of that first rotation to make a final decision. Upon the completion of that first rotation, the successful employee will have no further choices to make and will have no further recourse to his previous position.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
22
III. The Company will have the full period of classroom training plus the first full rotation at the worksite performing the duties of the job to make its determination as to the acceptability of the successful employee. If the Company determines that the employee is incapable of performing the duties of the job, then the employee will be returned to his previous position.
12.08	Time Required in Posted Positions
An employee awarded a job posting under the provisions detailed above will have his name removed from all other positions on the Register and will not be eligible to submit applications for six (6) months. The Company and Union may agree to waive this time restriction by mutual agreement.
12.09 (a)	Temporary Vacancies
When a temporary vacancy expected to exceed thirty (30) working days exists, the Register referenced in Article 12.06 will be used to fill the vacancy. Employees identified on the Register will be given the opportunity to fill the vacancy on a temporary basis.
Acceptance of a temporary vacancy will not result in the employee’s name being removed from the Registry.
An employee occupying a job on a temporary basis shall, when his occupancy of the temporary job ends, return to his previous position.
12.09 (b)	Return to Previous Position
A temporary move from one job classification involving no change in rate shall not be considered as a promotion or demotion. If an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness, accident or authorized leave, but is not transferred, he shall on his return be restored to the job and location within the job classification that he previously held, including shift and crew.
12.10	Lay Off
In the event of a reduction of employment levels (except in the event of a temporary layoff as per Article 12.12) the Company will layoff in inverse order of Company seniority within affected classifications.
An employee displaced from his classification may displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or another position, provided he has sufficient ability to perform the work required, or elect to be laid off from the Company.
Employees shall be provided a period of up to one shift cycle for familiarization and to demonstrate that they have sufficient ability to perform the work required.
Apprentices shall be laid off in accordance with their seniority within their trade group.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
23
Should an apprentice not have the seniority to retain employment within his trade group, he may elect to exercise his seniority to displace a junior employee in either an entry level position or a position he has the ability to perform the work required.
The Company and the Union shall meet no later than one (1) month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
Employees must exercise their rights under article 12.10 within seven (7) working days of being informed of such displacement or they will be deemed to have elected lay off.
Employees shall maintain recall rights as per Article 12.05(b) and 12.13.
Employees may opt to receive their earned vacation pay in the week preceding the lay off.
The Company will provide all employees affected by layoff the contact information for the North Island Employment Foundation Society or its equivalent.
12.11	Notice of Lay off
The Company agrees to provide employees affected with notice of lay off as per the Employment Standards Act of B.C. or failing such notice pay in lieu thereof or a portion thereof at the employee’s basic hourly rate of pay.
12.12	Temporary Lay Off
During a temporary reduction or lay off caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Company, the provisions of Article 12 will be waived for a period not exceeding three (3) days. Any available work in these circumstances will be assigned to the senior employee on the shift involved who is capable of performing such work. Any available work in these circumstances will be assigned to the senior employee on the shift involved who is capable of performing such work if he is on site or that employee will be the first one called out.
The parties may agree to extend the period of time to be waived.
12.13	Recall
When it is necessary to increase the forces, employees on recall will be re-employed as closely as possible in the inverse order in which they were laid off. Employees are eligible for recall to the positions from which they were laid off or reduced from or to any entry level position, provided they have sufficient ability to perform the work required.
It shall be the responsibility of the laid off employee to notify the Company of any change to their current address and telephone number. Such notification shall be by registered mail or email with confirmation of receipt by the Company.
In the event that the Company recalls an employee to the position which he held at the time of his layoff, the Company will notify the laid off employees of the date of recall by registered mail at the last known address on file with the Company. In the event that an employee fails to report
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
24
to work within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the registered notice, the employee shall lose the right to be recalled.
Where the Company recalls an employee to a position other than the position which he held at the time of his layoff, the Company will notify the laid off employee by telephone and will speak with the employee making the employee aware of the work opportunity. The employee so contacted will have forty-eight (48) hours from the time of the telephone conversation to either accept or reject the work opportunity. An employee electing not to return for such work assignment will not be penalized in any manner, and will retain his recall rights as provided at Article 12.05(b). If the Company is not successful in contacting the employee on its first attempt, it will initiate two additional telephone calls within twenty-four (24) hours of the first call, with at least six (6) hours between calls and if unsuccessful after three attempts, the Company will move to the next most senior eligible employee, and the employee who was not contacted will suffer no loss of seniority. The Company will provide the Union with a written list of those called and when.
The process established in the two paragraphs above will also apply to an employee being recalled from layoff as an alternative to using outside contractors as set out at Article 3.03.
12.14	Permanent Layoff, Shutdown or Closure
In the event an employee is permanently laid off as a result of:
i)	a permanent shutdown of the Company’s operation or a department thereof;
ii)	Closure or partial closure of the mine;
iii)	A re-organization of the Myra Falls Operations that results in a reduction of the work force;
employees will be laid off as per Article 12.10.
The Company agrees to provide employees affected with notice as per Article 12.11.
The Company and the Union shall meet no later than one month prior to any layoff to discuss all matters concerning the layoff.
(1)	Where an employee is laid off and the layoff is not deemed by the Company to be a permanent layoff, the employee will become entitled to severance pay (calculated based on the formula in article 12.14) upon the expiry of the employee’s recall rights under article 12.05 (b) and 12.05 (c).
(2)	Upon the expiry of the laid off employee’s recall rights, the employee may elect to be paid severance pay at that time, or the employee may elect to have his recall rights continued for a further period equal to the employee’s original period of recall rights under article 12.05 (b) (the “extension period”).
(3)	If the employee elects to have his recall rights continued for a further period under paragraph (2), the employee may elect at any time during the extension period to be
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
25
paid severance pay (calculated based on the formula in article 12.14) and forfeit all further rights under the collective agreement, including the right to recall.
(4)	At the conclusion of the extension period, if the employee has not elected to be paid severance pay previously, the employee shall be paid severance pay (calculated based on the formula in article 12.14).
(5)	The principles stated in paragraphs (1) to (4) above will apply to the layoffs effected on February 15, 2008, the layoffs of June 4 and July 7, 2008, and to future layoffs.
(6)	Where an employee makes an election under paragraph (2) or (3) above, the employee shall do so in writing, and the payment of severance pay will be made within two weeks after such written election is delivered to the Company.
Employees may opt to defer collection of their severance pay and retain recall rights as per Article 12.05 (b) and 12.14. Employees may elect to be paid severance in lieu of recall rights any time during the recall period or be paid severance when his recall rights expire.
Eligible employees who elect to be paid a severance, will be paid four calendar weeks of basic hourly rate of pay per year of service calculated to the nearest full month of service from his most recent date of hire.
To qualify for this severance payment, the employee must be actively employed, on vacation or in receipt of Worker’s Compensation or Weekly Indemnity benefits. Employees on long term disability will not qualify for severance but shall continue to receive long term disability benefits under the terms of the long term disability plan.
Employees, upon receipt of severance payment, will have severed the employee/employer relationship and forfeited any and all rights under the Collective Agreement, including the right to recall.
The Company will make available the services of the Industrial Adjustment Service to employees affected by a permanent layoff.
12.15	Seniority Lists
The Company will prepare seniority lists of all employees and present them to the Union within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement. These lists will be posted and the Company will notify the individual involved and the Union of any revision of seniority.
Said lists will commence with the most senior employee, carry on downwards to the most junior employee, and contain the following information:
(a)	Employee’s	name and payroll number;
(b)	Employee’s	starting date;
(c)	Employee’s	regular classification
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
26
Probationary employees will also be shown in the same manner. Additional revised lists will be furnished to the Union every three (3) months and be posted on the bulletin boards in all departments.
The Company agrees that once per quarter it will provide to the Union President, two (2) copies of the updated list showing employee telephone numbers and addresses.
Where more than one employee is hired on the same day, permanent seniority order will be established based on a random draw. A Union Executive Representative will participate in the draw and sign off on the results.
12.16	Disabled Employees
The Company and Union may mutually agree to waive the seniority provisions of the Collective Agreement to place a permanently disabled employee who is unable to return to or retain their normal job as the result of a work related injury or illness. This is provided that a position is available that meets the needs of the operation and the abilities of the employee.
The parties agree that the circumstances regarding disabled employees are unique and require individual discussion between them. That being the case, prior to any layoff of personnel that will or might involve disabled employees, the Company will meet with representative of the Local Union to discuss the impact that any such layoff will have on disabled employees. The goal of those discussions will be to minimize the impact of the layoff on disabled employees, taking into full consideration the needs of the Company and the requirement that employees (including disabled employees) have the skill, ability and physical fitness to perform the jobs and duties at hand, and recognizing the Company’s responsibility to accommodate disabled employees.
In addition to the general meeting(s) provided for above, where an employee has a permanent accommodation approved and recognized through the Return to Work Program (Appendix “C”), and who is to be displaced due to lack of work in the accommodated position, a follow-up meeting will be held. The meeting will involve a representative of the Local Union, a representative of the Company and the employee involved. The purpose of the meeting will be to determine if there is any available modified or alternative work consistent with the limitations and restrictions of the employee, which will not impose an undue hardship on the Company. The parties agree that the follow-up meeting will take place as soon as possible after the employee’s lay-off or displacement notice has been issued, but in any event no later than two (2) weeks prior to the announced lay-off date for the accommodated employee. In the event of a lay-off where the accommodated employee’s seniority would not entitle him to retain his accommodated or any other position, there will be no further accommodation and no meeting will be convened.
Article 13
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE
13.01	Grievance Procedure
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
27
The Parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with their foreman as soon after they originate as possible.
Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regarding the interpretation of a violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner:
The Parties recognize that the employee may have a Union Representative present during any disciplinary discussions if the employee so requests.
13.02	Step 1
Within twelve (12) days after the alleged grievance has arisen, or within twelve (12) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of the event, the employee, accompanied by his steward, may present the grievance to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee’s satisfaction within three (3) days, the Union may proceed to Step 2.
13.03	Step 2
Within twenty (20) days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his steward and a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his Department Superintendent. The Department Superintendent shall reply in writing within two (2) days of the presentation of this grievance under Step 2. Failing satisfactory settlement at this stage, the Union may proceed to Step 3.
13.04	Step 3
Within twenty (20) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee, accompanied by the Grievance Committee, may take the matter up with the Manager or his delegate. The Union Grievance Committee, may be accompanied by a representative of the Union. Prior to submission to the Manager there shall be a written statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section or sections of the Agreement, which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement, within sixteen (16) days by the Manager, either party may, on giving seven (7) days’ notice in writing to the other Party, refer the dispute to arbitration.
13.05	Dismissal, Suspension & Group Grievances
Grievances involving the dismissal or suspension of an employee(s) and grievances of a general or group nature may be initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure provided they are submitted within ten (10) days of the time the dispute arose.
13.06	Company Grievances
The Company shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation of an alleged violation of the Agreement to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
28
Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to a Board of Arbitration constituted in accordance with this Agreement.
13.07	Time Limits
13.07	(a)
In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.07	(b)
If the Union does not proceed to the next step within the time limits provided, the grievance shall be considered as dropped and cannot be re-opened.
If the Company does not reply within the time limits provided, the grievance shall automatically advance to the next step of the grievance procedure.
13.08	Time Off for Grievances
If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must receive permission from his foreman or shift boss. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
13.09	Single Arbitrator
It is agreed between the Parties that in the case of any arbitration, if both Parties agree, the case will be handled by a single arbitrator as follows:
(a)	The arbitrator shall be chosen within five (5) working days following receipt of a written notice to arbitrate. He shall be chosen by the Parties from a panel listed by letter of mutual agreement and after the first choice the next and subsequent choice will be in order of listing.
(b)	If either party in the case of any given dispute does not wish to submit that particular dispute to a single arbitrator, the arbitration procedure for that dispute will revert to the three man arbitration procedure as outlined.
(c)	The single arbitrator shall proceed under the same collective agreement conditions as set out for the three (3) man arbitration and will have the same powers.
13.10	Arbitration
The decision of the Arbitrator in respect to an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the Parties, but in no event shall the Arbitrator have the power to alter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
29
Each party shall pay all expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its case and shall bear equally the expenses of the Arbitrator.
13.11	Working During Disputes
In the meantime, and in all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employee or employees and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension must continue to work until a final decision has been reached, but where an employee or employees has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled. If the claim be made within five (5) working days that an employee or employees has or have been unjustly discharged, the case shall be dealt with according to this Article and if it’s proven that he or they have been discharged without proper cause, he or they shall be reinstated.
13.12	Arbitrators Listed
13.12	(a)
Where a grievance has been advanced to arbitration, all four of the following arbitrators will be contacted regarding their availability, with the arbitrator with the earliest date(s) available being selected for the assignment, provided that the dates are also available for and acceptable to the Union and the Company.
1.	Colin Taylor
2.	David McPhillips
3.	Mark Brown
4.	John Hall
5.	Stan Lanyon
13.12	(b)
Either party to this agreement has the right to remove the name of one arbitrator from the above list during the term of this agreement. Removal requires, however, a minimum of thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
13.12	(c)
The rotation selection can be altered by mutual agreement between the parties. In the event of a termination arbitration, the next available arbitrator will be selected.
13.13	Reprimands & Suspensions
A written reprimand given by the Company to an employee will be signed by him and by the Shop Steward concerned, as an acknowledgement of its receipt, and a copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the Union immediately and shall be subject to the grievance procedure. When a reprimand or disciplinary action involves suspension from work for a day or longer, and if such suspension involves an employee who normally commutes, the notice of his suspension will be given to him the day before his suspension is to commence. This is to prevent the employee traveling to the mine on a given day and not being allowed to work that day. After the
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
30
period of six (6) clear months has elapsed from the date the reprimand was issued, all reference to the reprimand will be stricken from the records. The Company will give written reprimands within three (3) working days of the occurrence of the event provided that there is reasonable access to the employee. Where an employee attends a meeting and the purpose of the meeting is to dispense any disciplinary measure (i.e. a written warning, suspension or termination) the employee will have a union representative present. The employee can advise his Union representative if he wants to decline representation at the meeting.
Article 14 WAGES
14.01	Wages Rates
The wage rates listed in Wage Schedule “A” and the job classifications listed in Appendix A are agreed upon by both parties and are part of the Collective Agreement.
14.02	New or Changed Job Classifications
If any new job classifications are established, or if there is a significant change in the job classification(s) set forth in Appendix “A”, or if any job classification(s) have been overlooked in this Wage Schedule “A”, the parties hereto are agreed to negotiate a rate for the Job(s) in question.
If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, then the dispute will be settled through the Grievance and Arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
14.03	Lead Hands
A lead hand premium of one dollar ($1.00) per hour will be paid to employees specifically designated as a lead hand on special jobs or on trades crews for the time worked as a lead hand. A lead hand provides direction but is not involved in issuing discipline and does not do the paperwork exclusive to a supervisor. A lead hand will be under the supervision of a supervisory staff member, except for the Mill Control Room Operators.
14.04	Qualification for Journeymen
To qualify for the journeyman rate the employee must have a recognized Canadian Provincial Certificate in the trade for which he was hired.
14.05	Pay Days
Wages will be paid by bank deposit every second Friday and employees will be provided with an itemized statement of same.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
31
Article 15
HOURS OF WORK
15.01	Work Week Defined
The work week shall be the period between 11:30 p.m. on Sunday evening and 11:30 p.m. on the succeeding Sunday evening.
15.02	Breaks
All employees will be allowed a reasonable opportunity for a coffee break, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, twice during each shift. These coffee breaks shall be arranged so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
A paid thirty (30) minute lunch break shall be provided during the shift. The lunch break shall be taken so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
15.03	Shifts and Dry to Dry
In the case of all underground employees within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, eight (8) or ten (10), or twelve (12) hours from Dry to Dry shall constitute a shift.
In the case of all surface employees on semi-continuous operations, eight (8) hours from 7:30 am to 3:30 pm, on the job, or ten (10) hours from 7:30 am to 5:30 pm, on the job, or 5:30 pm to 3:30 am, on the job, shall constitute a shift. Employees may utilize up to a maximum of 15 minutes at the end of their shift for clean up.
15.04	Continuous or Semi-Continuous Shifts
15.04	(a)
In continuous or semi-continuous operation, being operations that require coverage seven (7) days per week, the hours of work shall consist of twelve (12) hour shifts averaging forty-two (42) hours per week, or in the case of the ten (10) hour shift schedule, thirty-five (35) hours per week.
15.04	(b)
The Company will provide employees required for twelve (12) hour shifts in continuous or semi-continuous operations with room and board in a Company provided camp facility.
15.05	Changes to Shift Schedules
15.05	(a) Notice to the Employee
Notice of any change in regular shift schedule must be give to an employee by Thursday of the week previous to the week of the schedule change. In the case of continuous or semi-continuous operation, notice will be given by the second last working day of the work cycle prior to the
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
32
change of the regular shift. Required notice will be provided except in the event of replacement for an employee absent without sufficient notice and / or emergency situations.
15.05	(b) Notice to the Union
Notice must be sent to the Union of any change of schedule involving four (4) or more employees in any one (1) department.
15.06	Rest Between Shifts
An employee shall be entitled to eight (8) hours rest between his regular shifts. Should such an employee be recalled to work before such eight (8) hours elapse (a call-out), the employee shall be considered as still on his previous shift and shall be paid at overtime rates as per Article 16.06.
In the event that an employee’s regular shift begins before the prescribed eight (8) hours has elapsed since the end of a previous work period, he shall not report to work until the eight hours has elapsed. Also, arrangements will be made for these employees to obtain their meal requirements for the day so they may have an uninterrupted rest period. The employee shall be paid regular wage rates for those hours between the start of the regular shift and the end of the prescribed rest period. Such payment will be conditional upon the employee reporting for work and completing the shift following the end of the rest period.
Article 16
OVERTIME AND SPECIAL PAY
16.01	Time and One-Half Defined
For employees working an eight (8) hour schedule, one and one-half (1 1/2) the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week and for all work performed on an employee’s regular designated day of rest. For employees working a (10) hour schedule, one and one-half (1 ^) times the employees rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled day, and for all work performed on an employee’s regular designated day of rest.
16.02	Double Time Defined
For employees working an eight (8) hour schedule, double the employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest and all work over ten (10) hours in one (1) day. For employees working a ten (10) hour schedule, double the employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest.
16.03	Continuous or Semi-continuous Shifts
Those employees whose schedule averages forty-two (42) hours per week as per Article 15.04 shall be paid at one and one-half (1 1/2) times their rate for all time worked in excess of an average of forty (40) hours in any one (1) week (i.e. two (2) hours per week). In addition, one
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
33
and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled hours per day or on a regular assigned day of rest. Double the employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest. If required by law or regulation, the Union will apply with the Company for approval of a work schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
16.04	Standby Time
Electricians and mechanics who are required to stay in camp on standby time shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at overtime rates over and above the daily wages to which they were otherwise entitled.
16.05	Overtime Pyramiding
Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
16.06	Call-out
All call-outs are voluntary unless on standby. An employee reporting to work on a call-out shall be paid at applicable overtime rates for hours actually worked or four hours straight time whichever is the greater.
In the event that the employee is called out from town, he shall receive an additional one (1) hours pay at straight time. This paragraph shall not apply when an employee is asked before completing his regular shift to continue work beyond the end of that shift.
16.07	Overtime Meals & Camp Charges
An employee who works overtime that is expected to last more than two (2) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift may elect to choose one the following:
i)	an established unpaid lunch break and a hot meal or
ii)	a paid fifteen (15) minute break and premium in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00). The break shall be arranged so as not to interfere with the normal work sequences.
If an employee continues to work six (6) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift, an additional premium of the same value will be provided.
An employee who works unscheduled overtime will be provided with camp accommodations, if required at no extra cost.
16.08	Reporting Pay
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
34
An employee who reports to work as scheduled without having been notified not to report and for whom no work is available will be paid four (4) hours pay at his regular base rate.
An employee who is in transit to work on company supplied transportation and who is unable to report for work due to circumstances beyond his control and where no alternative transportation is provided will be eligible for four (4) hours pay at straight time. To be eligible for this payment the employee must submit his name and payroll number to the vehicle driver who makes the decision that the transportation provided cannot proceed to the work site.
16.09	Rate Retention
If an employee is transferred to a higher or lower paid job for four (4) hours in any one (1) day he shall be paid at the higher rate for the full shift that day. An employee transferred to a higher paid job for less than four (4) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the higher rate for the time so employed if it is not less than one (1) hour but shall otherwise be paid his usual basic rate.
The above shall not apply to job assignments for the purpose of training under supervision.
16.10	Weekend Premiums
A premium of one dollar seventy cents ($1.70) per hour over the applicable base rate will be paid for all time worked on regularly scheduled shifts falling on Saturdays and Sundays. This premium shall not apply for hours worked at overtime rates.
16.11	Shift Differential
16.11	(a)
It is mutually agreed by the Parties hereto that an additional fifty cents ($0.50) per hour shift differential will be paid to all employees for all work performed on afternoon, twilight and midnight shifts.
16.11	(b)
Shift differential rates will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime.
16.12	Tool Allowance
All journeymen, apprentices and trades helpers shall receive fifty cents ($0.50) per hour worked as a tool allowance. Tool Allowance will not apply to overtime shifts.
16.13	Irregular Shifts
Employees traveling and working irregular eight (8) hour shifts or on call-outs that do not coincide with the bus service will receive a subsidy of forty dollars ($40.00) per working shift.
16.14	Fair Distribution of Overtime
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
35
The Company agrees to fairly distribute overtime opportunities among those employees within the classifications willing to work overtime.
16.15	Trades Premium / Differential
Tradesmen will receive a trades premium / differential of $0.50 for all hours worked.
Article 17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
17.01	Statutory Holidays Defined
All work performed on the following days shall be compensated for at two and one half (2 l/2) times the base rate:
New Year’s Day	Labour Day
Family Day	Thanksgiving Day
Good Friday	Remembrance Day
Easter Monday	Christmas Day
Victoria Day	Boxing Day
Canada Day	B.C. Day
17.01	(a)
The period to include Christmas Day and Boxing Day as provided for above, will be defined for all purposes as commencing at the conclusion of an employee’s day shift on December 24th and will conclude 48 hours later.
17.02	Floaters
After completion of one (1) year’s service, each employee will be entitled to two (2) floating holidays per year, subject to the same limitations in Article 18.04.
This must be applied for at least five (5) working days prior to the required time off for continuous operations and at least two (2) working days prior to the required time off for all others. It is understood and agreed that floating holidays must be taken or be paid out at the end of the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
17.03	Pay for Statutory Holidays
Employees not working on the holiday set out in 17.01 of this Article shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
17.03	(a)
When a holiday falls on a regular assigned day off, the next scheduled shift will be considered as the holiday for the employee concerned.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
36
17.03	(b)
To qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday.
17.03	(c)
An employee unable to work his scheduled shift or shifts due to personal sickness will qualify for statutory holiday pay by presenting to the Timekeeper a medical certificate duly signed by a doctor stating the employee’s illness prevented him from working his scheduled shift. This medical certificate must be provided within ten (10) calendar days of their return to work.
The Company will pay statutory holiday pay to disabled employees for any such holiday occurring during the first thirty (30) calendar days of the disability. No statutory holiday pay will be paid for any statutory holiday occurring subsequent to this thirty (30) day period. This shall include all employees receiving WorkSafe BC or other wage loss benefits.
17.03	(d)
An employee who qualified for pay for a holiday under this Article, and who does not work on such holiday, shall receive his regular pay on the basis of his regular base rate (exclusive of shift differentials, overtime, bonuses, holiday or other premiums) as on the normal shift worked by him immediately prior to such holiday. An employee so qualifying shall not be entitled to such pay if he does not work on a holiday after having been required by the Company to work and having agreed. If an employee so qualifying does work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay under this section unless he works at least a part of his assigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half (2 1/2) times the base rate as provided in Section 17.01 of this Article, and for the remaining hours of the shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
17.03	(e)
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, under no conditions shall any time be paid at a rate greater than two and one-half (2 1/2) times the base rate.
17.03	(f)
When a statutory holiday falls during an employees vacation, the employee is entitled to an additional vacation day without pay, if he so requests prior to his vacation.
17.03	(g)
Where employees work either a 5+2 or 4+3 non-continuous shift schedule, such employees cannot be required / scheduled to work on a statutory holiday that falls on one of their regularly scheduled days of work. In the event that the Company wishes to work on a statutory holiday, the Company will seek volunteers to fill the available vacancies and will give the Union and employees involved as much advance notice as possible.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
37
Article 18
VACATION
18.01	Annual Vacations
Employees will receive vacation and be paid for the vacation in accordance with the following schedule.
Years of Continuous Service
Less than one (1) year
One (1) year but less than eight (8) years
Less than fifteen (15) years Fifteen (15) years and over
Vacation Period	Vacation Pay
4% gross earnings Three (3) Weeks 6% gross earnings
Four (4) Weeks 8% gross earnings Five (5) Weeks 10% gross earnings
It is understood and agreed that vacations must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
18.02	Bonus Vacation
18.02	(a)
Employees with five (5) or more years of service will receive an additional three (3) weeks bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for the previous year.
Bonus vacation can be taken in single day allotments with the understanding that pay for such single days will be calculated in the same fashion as pay for a paid floater holiday. At the end of each calendar year of the Collective Agreement, a reconciliation will be completed based on the previous calendar year’s actual earnings and single bonus vacation days taken. Any monies owed to the employee will be paid on the first pay period following December 31st.
18.02	(b)
For each five (5) year period, the employee will receive an additional three (3) week bonus vacation with pay at two percent (2%) per week of his gross earnings for that previous year.
18.02	(c)
All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next five (5) year anniversary.
18.03	Number on Bonus Vacation
In order to maintain continuity and uninterrupted operations, the Company will schedule, on a seniority basis, the number of employees on bonus vacation not to exceed:
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
38
Ten (10) employees from the Underground Department Six (6) employees from the Maintenance Department Two (2) employees from the Mill Operations Department Two (2) employees from the Spit, including surface operations One (1) employee from the Warehouse
18.04	Vacation Shutdowns
18.04	(a)
Where practical the company may schedule a vacation shutdown of all or part of its operations for up to three (3) weeks, provided that no less than three (3) months notice is given to the Union and notices advising of the shutdown will be posted on all departmental bulletin boards.
18.04	(b)
The Company maintains the right to schedule various parts of its operation during the shutdown. The employees necessary for these operations will be selected from those employees in the required job classifications who have indicated their desire to work during the shutdown according to Company seniority. Where there is an insufficient number of employees indicating their desire to work, selection will be made in reverse order of Company seniority. Employees who work during the shutdown will take their vacation at a later mutually agreed upon time. The Company will give a three (3) month notice when work will be required during the shutdown.
18.04	(c)
Vacations in excess of the three (3) week shutdown for which employees may be eligible shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance and taken at mutually agreed upon time that will allow for the maintenance of an adequate work force.
18.05	Vacation Scheduling
18.05	(a)
The Company will accept vacation applications from January 1st to March 15th for the period April 16 to October 31st. Applications will be accepted from September 1st to October 15th for the period November 1st to April 15th. Vacation applications will be on a form to be supplied by the Company and agreed to by the Union.
The Company will post approved vacations by April 15th for the summer period and by October 31st for the winter period. The foregoing is subject to the following criteria:
i)	Vacations are allotted by company seniority.
ii)	An employee at his option can elect to use a combination of regular and bonus vacation when applying for vacation to a maximum of six consecutive weeks.
iii)	Floaters cannot be used to displace another employee’s vacation time.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
39
iv)	Regular vacation may be taken in any multiple of complete days from one (1) to the total number of vacation days owed.
v)	Journeymen, tradesmen, apprentices or trades helpers shall not limit others in different trade occupations for vacation assignment purposes.
vi)	After March 15th and October 15th any remaining vacation time (for each respective period) can be applied for by an employee and will be allocated on a first come first serve basis. Senior employees cannot displace a less senior employee who has an approved vacation. All vacation requests submitted after March 15 and October 15 will receive a response within two working blocks.
vii)	When scheduling vacations, the Company will make every reasonable effort to maximize the number of employees allowed off for vacation.
viii)	In each of the designated line-up areas, the Company will post approved vacations by April 15th for the summer period and by October 31st for the winter period.
18.05	(b)
The Company agrees that once an employee’s vacation has been scheduled, it will not be changed except for valid operational requirements; or if the employee has transferred to a different job at his request; or in the case of unforeseen operating difficulties. Valid operational requirement or unforeseen operating difficulties will be determined by a senior Company official. Should the employee suffer a loss through non-refundable deposits or other increased travel costs for similar arrangements due to such a determination by management, with prior approval, the Company will reimburse such loss
18.05	(c)
All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next five (5) year anniversary and any unused portion of the vacation bonus entitlement will be paid out to the employee at the end of the five (5) year period.
18.06	Vacation Pay
18.06	(a)
All hourly employees will receive their earned vacation pay on the payday immediately following their anniversary by separate bank deposit with an itemized statement. If the employee so requests, the Company will issue a manual cheque for regular vacation pay to those employees who take their vacation if the anniversary date comes either before the next payday or during their vacation.
18.06	(b)
Except for single bonus vacation days taken as provided for in 18.02(b) above, Bonus Vacation pay directly proportional to the time being taken will be paid in advance of the vacation with an itemized statement.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
40
Article 19
PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE
19.01	Medical Services Plan of British Columbia
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered with the Medical Services Plan of British Columbia (regular medical coverage).Such employees must be full time day rate employees and both Company and employees agree to comply with the Medical Services Plan regulations at all times.
19.02	Insurance Policies
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost for all employees covered by Group Life Insurance Policy and a Sickness and Non-compensable Accident Benefit Insurance Policy (19.02 (b)). The coverage will be as follows:
19.02	(a)
The Group Life Insurance coverage will be one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), effective January 1, 2010.
In addition, Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be eighty thousand dollars ($80,000), effective on date of hire.
19.02	(b) Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums to provide a Weekly Indemnity Benefit Plan. New employees will be eligible for coverage upon completion of the probationary period.
The plan will provide eligible employees with benefits for lost time during periods of disability, commencing on the first day of an accident or hospitalization (including day surgery or administered medical treatment) and the fourth day of sickness, and continuing for a maximum period of fifty-two (52) weeks.
The maximum benefit payable under this plan will be $575.00 per week. The Company agrees that the current benefit payment will not be reduced during the term of this agreement.
19.02	(c)
Any employee who receives Weekly Indemnity and is subsequently paid by WorkSafe BC or I.C.B.C. shall return the equivalent of the Weekly Indemnity payments to the Company.
19.03	Dental Plan & Extended Health
19.03	(a)
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
41
The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for employees registered with the Medical Services Association (dental care plan and extended health benefits).
Dental Plan A, basic services payment of claims to be at one hundred percent (100%); coverage in Plan B, with payment being at sixty percent (60%); and Plan C, with payment being at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum of $2,500.00 per eligible family member. Eligible family members is interpreted as employee, spouse, and dependent children.
19.03	(b)
Employees to be covered by Medical Services Association must be full time day rate employees and must be registered with Medical Services Association.
19.03	(c)
The Company will maintain a vision care program that will provide a maximum of $300.00 every two (2) years to an employee or members of an employee’s immediate family (spouse and dependent children) effective January 1, 2010.
The vision care program will also provide for reimbursement of vision testing. Dependent children under the age of 19 will be eligible for reimbursement of eye examinations to a maximum of $100 every 12 months and eligible plan members over the age of 19 (employees and spouses) will be eligible for reimbursement of eye examinations to a maximum of $100 every 24 months.
19.03	(d)
The Extended Health lifetime maximum will be unlimited.
19.04	Long Term Disability
The Company agrees to pay one hundred (100%) percent of the cost of premiums for a Long Term Disability Plan that will provide a benefit of thirteen hundred dollars ($1,300) per month, less any benefits payable from WorkSafe BC for an employee unable to work due to illness or accident as defined by the insurance carrier.
Eligible employees would be those who have completed one (1) year’s full employment.
There shall be a fifty-two (52) week waiting period before payments commence and they will continue to the earlier attainment of sixty-five (65) years of age or date of recovery.
This benefit is deemed as two years own occupation.
19.05	Pension Plan Effective on ratification
$55.00 per month per year of continuous service
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
42
Effective October 1, 2013
$56.00 per month per year of continuous service
The Company agrees to provide a spousal survivor’s benefit of 60% of the earned benefit. This benefit applies should the employee die before attaining the age of sixty-five (65).
Employees with less than two (2) years continuous service will not be vested. After two (2) years of continuous service the employee will be vested one hundred percent (100%).
On his termination the employee has the right to convert his vested pension to an RRSP, if permitted by pension regulations.
In the event of permanent mine closure, or a reduction of production in anticipation of mine closure, the full value of the pension benefit earned by each employee to date of termination will become vested and payable regardless of length of service. The Company will apply any interpretation of this provision in a fair and equitable manner.
The employee will be eligible for unreduced pension benefits after thirty (30) years of continuous service or age sixty-five (65) which ever comes first.
19.06	Health & Welfare Coverage
19.06	(a) Employee Laid Off
Employees who are laid off shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for three (3) months following the month in which the lay off began. When recalled to work from lay-off, health and welfare benefits will commence the first day of the month following the recall. If a laid off employee is recalled to work for 160 hours or more, his or her health and welfare benefits shall continue for 3 months if subsequently laid off.
19.06	(b) Employees on Leave of Absence
Employees who are on authorized leave of absence shall continue to receive current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the three (3) months following the month in which the absence began.
Employees who have been granted an authorized leave of absence for Union business as per Article 10.03 (a), shall continue to receive all insurance benefits as per Article 19.01 for a maximum of twenty-one (21) calendar days following the first day in which the absence began.
After that time, the employee will make arrangements with the Company to pay the coverage.
19.06	(c) Absence Due to Injury or Illness
Employees who are absent due to injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and A.D.&D) for three (3) years from the commencement of the absence.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
43
19.06	(d) Cancellation of Insurance Benefit Coverage
Should an employee cease to be disabled as a result of a work or non-work related injury or illness and chooses not to return to work, or should an employee take alternate employment, the Company’s obligation to maintain Health and Welfare coverage shall cease.
Employees who are on such continuous coverage must keep the Company informed of their current address and employment status. Medical, Extended Medical and Dental coverage are not available to non-residents of British Columbia. Full coverage is not available to those in the employ of another employer. Failure to keep the Company informed of the current address and employment status will result in the cancellation of benefit coverage.
In no event will benefits continue past the age of sixty-five (65).
Employees who continue to work past age sixty-five (65) will receive pay-in-lieu of benefit premiums for employees under the age of sixty-five (65) for any benefits he or she does not receive while actively working.
Article 20
UNDERGROUND CONTRACT COMMITTEE
20.01	Recognition of Bonus Committee
The Company shall recognize a contract committee consisting of three (3) Union members. Such members shall be qualified by experience and the committee shall concern itself exclusively with matters relating to incentive contracts.
20.02	Meetings
The Contract Committee, the Mine Superintendent and the Contract Engineer will meet monthly to discuss underground contracts and bonus. The purpose of such meetings is to solve problems of mutual concern. A spirit of cooperation is essential.
20.03	Disputes
In the event of a dispute over contract prices or contract conditions or contract payments, said dispute shall be presented to the Contract Committee and the Company Management for settlement.
20.04	Contractual Obligation
The Company will maintain an underground bonus system. While bonus rates may be adjusted as conditions warrant, the Company will not arbitrarily reduce bonus rates.
20.05	Training Bonus
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
44
The Union and the Company recognize that training functions may disrupt the daily routine and could therefore affect incentive bonus payments. Further it is agreed that those involved in the training will be protected from loss of bonus.
Article 21
UNION SECURITY
21.01	Assignment of Dues
The Company shall honor a written assignment of dues to the Union.
21.02	Form of Assignment
An assignment pursuant to Section 21.01 of this Article shall be in the following form:
TO:	NYRSTAR MYRA FALLS LTD.
I hereby authorize you to deduct from my wages and pay to the
CANADIAN AUTO WORKERS, LOCAL 3019, dues as established by the CAW LOCAL 3019 Constitution and By-Laws, per month beginning with the month of:
_________________________________, 20____
and/or such monthly dues per month or additional assessments as the Union Constitution and/or by-laws from time to time provide, and I hereby authorize and request you, without further authorization or requests from me to deduct and remit to the Union such other amounts:
EMPLOYEE NO.
EMPLOYEE’S NAME __________________________________________________(SIGN)
21.03	Remittance of Dues
Unless the assignment is revoked in writing and delivered to the Company, the Company shall remit the dues deducted to the Union every two (2) weeks, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
21.04	Revocation
If an assignment is revoked, the Company shall give a copy of the revocation to the Union.
21.05	Limit of Company Responsibility
21.05	(a)
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
45
Notwithstanding any provisions contained in Section 21.01, 21.02 and 21.03 of this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees, dues or assessments of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company’s hands.
21.05	(b)
The Company agrees to deduct from the earnings of every employee covered by this Agreement on a bi-weekly basis one-half (1/2) of the total sum of the monthly Union dues as may be fixed constitutionally by the Union, for a maximum of twenty-four (24) pay periods.
21.06	Effective Date
The said deductions shall commence at the effective date of these sections, and in the case of each assignment by an employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of the sections with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
21.07	Dues as Condition of Employment
The Company shall during the life of this Agreement, on a bi-weekly basis, deduct as a condition of employment for each bargaining unit employee in the Company’s continued employment, an amount equal to the Union dues due in each calendar month for each such employee and remit within fourteen (14) days of the date such deduction is made to the Financial Secretary of the Union. The Company will, at the time of making each such payment to the Financial Secretary of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted.
21.08	Union Membership
21.08	(a)
As a condition of employment, each new employee will join the Union on his/her first day of employment.
21.08	(b)
All employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement and all employees who join thereafter shall remain members of the Union as a condition of continuing employment during the term of this Agreement.
Article 22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
22.01	Moonlighting
The Company and the Union agree that the practice commonly known as ‘moonlighting” is wrong in principle. The term “moonlighting” for the purpose of this clause shall refer to a fulltime employee who regularly makes a practice of working for another employer for a substantial number of hours during the week.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
46
(a)	When this practice affects or conflicts with Company business or the employee’s ability to perform his normal duties, it shall be cause for reprimand or dismissal.
(b)	When this practice affects or conflicts with the Union policy, the Company agrees to cooperate with the Union re: reprimand or dismissal.
22.02	Printing of Agreement
The Company and the Union will have printed, in pocket size books, copies of this Collective Agreement. The Company will pay the cost of printing. Every employee will be provided with a contract book and one hundred (100) copies will be provided to the Union. The books will be printed at a Union Shop.
22.03	Medical Examinations
An employee will receive two (2) hours pay for a medical examination as where required by law for continued employment with the Company.
22.04	Day, Week, Month & Year Defined
References of days, weeks, months, or years shall be understood to mean calendar days, weeks, months, or years, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
22.05
The Company agrees to conform to all B.C. Industrial Camp Health Regulations.
Article 23
APPRENTICES AND TRAINING
23.01	Training
To maintain a viable and competitive position in the global market place, the Company and the Union agree that all employees should receive sufficient training in order that they may perform their work in a safe and productive manner. The parties further agree that a properly trained workforce will contribute significantly to the safe and efficient operation of Myra Falls. The Company will pay qualified trainers a premium of $3.00 per hour while training.
23.01	(a) Departmental Training
Identifying and prioritizing training requirements, methods, and resources (or their deficiencies) can best be achieved on a departmental basis utilizing departmental training subcommittees. Departments will include the Mine, Maintenance and Mill/Surface. Each department will be represented by a departmental subcommittee comprising one Management and one Bargaining Unit representative who will identify departmental training requirements. Departmental subcommittees will meet periodically as required, and on a quarterly basis will meet as a full committee to review training initiatives and results. Amongst the subcommittee members, a Union Co-Chair and a Company Co-Chair will be selected. Following the meeting of the full
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
47
committee, a report will be generated and submitted at the following Union/Management meeting.
23.02	Training Priorities
The Company and the Union agree that there must be a systematic method in determining training requirements. Training requirements fall into two categories.
Immediate Needs Back Up Needs
23.02 (a)	Immediate Needs
In situations where new equipment or technology is introduced into the operation, creating an immediate training need in order to maintain efficiencies, employees currently performing the job function where the training need arises will be given first opportunity for training.
23.02 (b)	Back Up Needs
In situations where immediate needs have been met and there is a need to provide back up employees, employees will be trained as per the Training Identification Board, in consultation with the departmental training subcommittees.
23.02	(c)
With respect to training requirement within a job classification or progressive training, the departmental subcommittees will have the ability to identify and act upon their specific training requirements.
23.03	Training Eligibility
Employees can submit a “Request for Training” form for consideration by the departmental training subcommittees. The departmental training subcommittees will review the applications and determine the suitability of the applicant for the applied for training. In determining suitability the following will be applied:
a)	Pre-requisite qualifications that support a progression into the position
b)	Previous training obtained
Successful applications will be placed on a Training Identification Board.
23.04	Training Identification Board
In conjunction with the job posting registry set out in Article 12, the Company will produce a “Training Identification” board which will be posted on bulletin boards in the HW, Mill, Lynx and Discovery Terminal buildings. This board will reflect the current training positions at the mine and will be the location where employees completing the “Request for Training” forms will be listed. If it is determined by the department training subcommittee that
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
48
additional employees are to be trained for backup needs, the senior employee for the position listed on the Training Identification Board will begin training as scheduled by the department.
23.05	Trainers and Programs
23.05	(a)
Training will be conducted in accordance with approved training programs by utilizing qualified trainers (train-the-trainers or qualified “mentors” as pre-approved by the departmental training subcommittees), and/or other sources as deemed appropriate by the departmental training representatives. In the event there is a disagreement on the selection, the General Manager will make the final determination pursuant to the Mines Act.
23.05	(b)
Training programs utilized will include documentation that the skills and knowledge that the workers require to perform specific jobs at the mine and in the mining industry similar to, or better than, the National Occupational Standards (NOS), have been successfully achieved. The departmental training subcommittees shall determine successful completion of training programs which will be done in a fair and equitable manner. Final documentation will be signed by a representative of the Company.
23.05	(c)
The Company will ensure that an employee in training will spend sufficient time (up to two (2) shifts) at the actual worksite to give the employee the ability to make an informed decision regarding the work environment and the duties of the job.
23.05	(d)
Employees in training who demonstrate a lack of sufficient ability for the position will be removed as a trainee.
23.05	(e)
The Company will pay qualified trainers a premium of $3.00 per hour while training.
The Company alone determines what hours are eligible for the premium payment. Employees will receive their regular rates of pay while training in another classification except that employees substituting for an absent employee shall receive the rate for the job.
23.05	(f)
After an employee is deemed qualified to perform all aspects of the job, he shall be paid at the rate of the job at such times as he is actually performing the job. The employee will also be deemed to have sufficient ability to fill a job vacancy in accordance with Article 12.
23.05	(g)
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
49
In the case of Mill employees involved in the Mill Operator Progression structure,
successful completion of a training segment will qualify the employee to receive a job class rate one level higher than his present regular rate, with the exception of the Grinding Operator being able to be paid Floor Operator rate if he is qualified on both the Tailings Operator and Floor Operator positions.
23.05	(h)
In the case of Surface Equipment Operator training, incidental costs required in the training process such as licenses, examination time etc. will be borne by the Company. This must be approved in advance by the Company.
23.06	Apprenticeship Training
23.06 (a)	Apprenticeship Training Opportunities
Opportunities for an apprenticeship shall be made known through the job posting procedure.
23.06 (b)	Apprentice Wage Rates
Apprentice hourly wage rates shall be as follows:_______________
On Entry	Job Class 2
After 1st Year Successful Completion	Job Class 3
After 2nd Year Successful Completion	Job Class 5
After 3 Year Successful Completion	Job Class 7
After 4th Year Successful Completion	Job Class 8
Upon certification/To Certified (Journeyman’s Rate)	Job Class 10
Rate increases are contingent upon successfully passing the apprenticeship board’s examination and completion of the prescribed training hours for the year. The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the program as the anniversary date. Reasonable allowances for vacation and other non-trades related work are inherent in the number of training hours required.
23.06	(c) Apprentice Schooling
During the periods of apprenticeship schooling, the apprentice shall apply for any available government allowance. The Company shall provide an allowance equal to the difference between the apprentice’s regular straight time earnings and the amount of government earnings, provided that documentation of successful completion and attendance are provided by the apprentice to the Company.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
50
The Company will reimburse apprentices for the cost of text books required by the apprenticeship board for the course outlined in the apprenticeship training curriculum.
23.06	(d)
Any apprentice who fails any year of his apprenticeship on two (2) successive opportunities shall be removed from the apprenticeship training program.
23.06	(e)
An employee who achieved their apprenticeship while employed by the Company is not eligible for apprenticeship training until at least five (5) years from the date of achieving their journeyman status unless there are no other successful applicants as per Article 23.08(f).
23.06	(f)
To qualify for an apprenticeship, an applicant must have:
i)	Grade 12 or equivalent and
ii)	A pre-apprenticeship certificate or its equivalent or two years of related experience in the applied trade.
23.06	(g)
In the event of a dispute concerning the equivalence of a pre-apprentice training course, the parties agree to use the results of a recognized pre-apprenticeship training exam as an equivalency test.
Article 24
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
24.01	Company Rights - Automation
The Union acknowledges that the Company has the exclusive right to install, at any time,
mechanical, electronic or other types of automated equipment.
24.02	Technological Change Defined
For the purposes of this Article, “Technological Change” means:
(a)	The introduction by the employer of a major change in his equipment or material from that equipment or material previously used by the employer in his work, undertaking, or business, and/or
(b)	A major change in the manner in which an employer carries on his work, undertaking, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
51
24.03	Notice of Change
In the event of the introduction of a technological change giving rise to either a layoff or termination of a bargaining unit employee, the Company agrees to provide to the Union as much advance notice as practical, but in any event no less than three (3) months’ notice.
24.04	Meeting with Union
In the event of a pending technological change, the Company shall advise the Union of such change at the earliest opportunity and meet with the Union to discuss the ramifications of such technological changes as soon as practical.
24.05	Displacement of Employees
Where an employee who has at least one (1) year of service with the Company is displaced from his job by reason of technological change, and where a vacancy exists for which he might qualify by training, he shall be entitled to such training at the Company’s expense, provided that he has the necessary basic education and abilities to absorb such training to equip him for the operation of new equipment or procedures. The period of such training shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
24.06	Severance Pay
Employees who have at least one (1) year of service with the Company who are discharged or laid-off because of technological change are entitled to severance pay under article 12.14 of this Agreement.
Article 25
BUS TRANSPORTATION
25.01
The Company shall provide employees with a bus transportation service to the mine site, at no charge to the employees. Concerns regarding the bus system may be relayed to Human Resources on a form supplied by the Company.
The Company agrees to maintain the current quality of bus service in terms of seating comfort and temperature control. For employees working the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule, transportation service with professional, licensed drivers will be provided. Vans may be used to transport employees on the twelve (12) hour continuous shift schedule.
The Company agrees to maintain the current transportation standards during the life of the Agreement.
25.02
In the event that the scheduled bus service has not arrived to pick up employees and the employee has waited 30 minutes past the scheduled pick up time, the employee must advise
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
52
the Company that the bus did not arrive. The employee will not suffer any disciplinary consequences as a result.
Article 26
SKILLED TRADES
26.01	(a)
The following is a list of presently recognized skilled trades at Myra Falls, although the Company does not guarantee that all of these trades will be filled during the life of this Agreement, nor does it restrict its right to add new trades as operational requirements dictate. Any new trades to be added will conform to the “Red Seal” status.
•	Carpenter
•	Electrician
•	Heavy Duty	Equipment Mechanic
•	Automotive	Mechanic
•	Instrumentation Technician
•	Machinist
•	Millwright
•	Plumber
•	Welder
26.01	(b)
Skilled trades covered by this Agreement are those where a bona fide apprenticeship program must be completed before accreditation is granted, including Red Seal endorsement.
26.01	(c)
The Company will accept as proof of accreditation either an inter-provincial trades ticket or a CAW trades card showing the employee’s trade status.
26.02	(a)
An “apprentice” shall mean a person who is engaged in learning and assisting in the trade for which he is indentured, and who is covered by an “Agreement of Apprenticeship”.
26.02	(b)
The Agreement of Apprenticeship means a written agreement between the Company and the employee indentured as an apprentice. The Agreement of Apprenticeship shall be registered with the appropriate government ministry or agency and shall be distributed amongst the following.
•	The apprentice
•	The Company
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
53
•	The appropriate government ministry or agency
•	Local Union 3019
•	CAW Skilled Trades Department
•	Joint Workplace Training Committee Maintenance Sub-Committee
26.02	(c)
Previous relevant and practical time spent in an accredited apprenticeship program as an indentured apprentice will be taken into full account when determining the competency level, status and pay rate of an apprentice to be hired at Myra Falls.
26.02	(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 12 (Job Posting Registry) no apprentice may apply under the job registry provisions of this Agreement to fill any job vacancy. In the event of a layoff, an apprentice may bump into any other classification where seniority allows, consistent with Article 12.10.
26.02	(e)
Upon completion of an apprenticeship, the Company will recommend to the appropriate government ministry or agency, that a certificate signifying completion of the apprenticeship be issued to the apprentice.
26.03
The Company will deduct one-half hours pay from each trades person’s pay in the first pay period in January. For new hires, the half-hour’s dues will be deducted from their first regular pay, prorated to January 01st. The amount so deducted will be remitted to the CAW Skilled Trades Council within ten (10) days of the deduction.
26.04
On a periodic basis but no less than once per quarter, the Joint Skilled Trades Committee comprising three (3) Union and three (3) Company representatives will meet to discuss and review any general issues related to the trades that are not rightfully the jurisdiction of the JWTC Maintenance Subcommittee, the JOHSC or any other recognized committee or subcommittee.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
54
WAGE SCHEDULE"A"
The following wage rates will be applied during the term of the agreement.
Job Class	01-Oct-12	01-Oct-13	01-Oct-14	01-Oct-15
1	24.69	25.43	26.19	26.98
2	25.72	26.49	27.28	28.10
3	26.74	27.54	28.37	29.22
4	27.76	28.59	29.45	30.33
5	28.79	29.65	30.54	31.46
6	29.80	30.69	31.61	32.56
7	30.84	31.77	32.72	33.70
8	31.85	32.81	33.79	34.80
9	32.87	33.86	34.88	35.92
10	34.01	35.03	36.08	37.16
55
APPENDIX "A"
Job Class
1
2
3
4
5
6
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Job Classification
Surface Labourer Mill Labourer Dryman
Apprentice Bucker/Core Splitter Underground Labourer
Apprentice 1 Bit Grinder
Surface Equipment Operator 1 Miner Trainee 1
Cagetender Mill Crusher Operator Underground Fillman Backfill Plant Operator Front End Loader Pumpman
Longhole Drill Helper U/G Crusher Operator Miner Trainee 2
Apprentice 2
Surface Equipment Operator 2 Miner Trainee 3
U/G Equipment Operator 1 (Nipper)
U/G Equipment Operator 2 (Truck/Non remote Scoop)
Road Crew Operator
Trammer
Warehouseman
Lubeman
Cablebolter Diamond Driller Shaftman Timberman Trackman Grinding Operator
56
7	Concentrate Truck Driver Surface Equipment Operator 3 Tailings Operator
Miner Shotcreter Longhole Driller Longhole Loader Longhole Mucker/Remote Apprentice 3
8	Floor Operator Apprentice 4 Hoistman
9	Control Room Operator
10	Journeyman
APPENDIX "B" ENTRY LEVEL POSITIONS
Bucker/Core Splitter Bit Grinder Surface Labourer Mill Labourer Dryman
Underground Equipment Operator 1 Surface Equipment Operator 1 Underground Labourer Underground Fillman Backfill Plant Operator U/G Crusher Operator Pumpman
Mill Crusher Operator
Trammer
Warehouseman
DORMANT POSITIONS
The parties agree that the following job classifications are now dormant:
Job Class	Job Classification
2	Spare Mill Operator
3	Bus Driver
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
57
3	Diamond Drill Helper*
3	Shop Nipper*
4	Lampman*
4	Deckman*
4	Timberman’s Helper*
4	Trackman’s Helper*
6	Filter Operator
7	Powerhouse Operator
*Formerly entry level position in Appendix “B”
The parties further agree that these classifications will remain dormant until there is mutual agreement to resurrect any of them.
APPENDIX ”C”“”
RETURN TO WORK PROGRAM
The purpose of the Return to Work Program is to, wherever/whenever possible, return injured or ill workers to productive and meaningful employment at the appropriate time(1) and in a manner which assists their recovery. This program is in keeping with applicable legislation including, but not limited to, Work Safe BC’s policy of offering suitable employment to injured workers, and Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd.’s duty to accommodate workers.
The program requires the co-operation and the participation of the injured/ill worker, the medical community, Work Safe BC, Weekly Indemnity and Long Term Disability carriers, CAW Local 3019 and Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd.
Myra Falls Operations’ management, jointly with the Union Disability Management Representative, or his/her alternate, will administer the program. Every reasonable effort will be made to provide, at the appropriate time, suitable modified work(2) or alternative employment(3) to employees who are temporarily or permanently unable to return to their regular duties as a result of an occupational or non-occupational injury or illness. This may include:
•	Providing transitional / modified work that is meaningful
•	Modification of workstations or equipment to accommodate physical limitations
•	Providing training - either for internal or external positions
•	Reduction in expectations of work to be performed by the employee
•	Permanent Accommodation(3)
(1) “Appropriate Time ” - It is recognized that while early intervention can often be
appropriate and useful to the recovery of the injured worker, both economically and emotionally, it remains for the attending medical practitioner to determine the appropriate time for the worker’s return to work, subject to the ability of the Company
without undue hardship to accommodate the worker’s restrictions at that time.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
58
(2)	“Modified Work” - Any work assignment other than the employee’s normal work where a temporary change in assignment is necessary due to the employee’s physical capabilities or medical suitability for his/her regular job.
(3)	“Permanent Accommodation ” - A permanent change in work assignment or modification to work practices or expectations of the worker. Accommodating a worker may require special arrangements which may or may not be covered by the Collective Agreement. Such accommodations must be agreed to by the Union and the Company (refer to Article
12.16	of the Collective Agreement).
The goal of the program is to return employees to work based on the following priorities:
1)	Return to same position with no modification or accommodation required.
2)	Return to same position with modifications or accommodations that recognize the limitations of the employee while still accomplishing the essential duties of the job.
3)	Return to a different position within the Company that can be accomplished within the employee’s limitations.
4)	Reasonable support and preparation to assume work assignments external to the Myra Falls Operation as provided by agencies such as Work Safe BC or the Company’s disability carriers.
Medical Reports
In the event of an occupational injury or illness, an employee is required to report appropriate details to the Company at the earliest possible opportunity. If medical intervention is required, the employee will provide the physician with a Physical Assessment Report (copies available to employees at the Mine site) to be completed prior to the employee’s return to work. The purpose of this information is to define the employee’s functional abilities or restrictions, and is not intended to provide a diagnosis such that the privacy of the employee is compromised. The Report will provide the physician with the opportunity to indicate any concerns or conditions relative to the employee’s abilities to return to the work site. In the event the physician recommends modified work, the following steps will apply: •
•	The Report is to be provided to the Company, either by fax or mail, prior to the employee returning to the work site with the employee maintaining a copy of the form.
•	The company in consultation with the Union Disability Management Representative (or his/her alternate) will review the form noting any concerns by the physician. If modified work is recommended, the employee will be contacted and appropriate arrangements made.
•	In the event modified work will be more than two weeks, or a permanent accommodation is contemplated, the Management Representative will meet with the Union Disability Management Representative and the employee, and will review the form and develop a return to work plan.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
59
• In all cases, modified work assignments can only be implemented if they will not harm or slow an employee’s recovery and the Company is able without undue hardship to accommodate the employee’s restrictions and limitations.
Pay and Hours of Work
Employees on modified work will receive their regular rate of pay for hours worked including production bonus when performing work on a bonus contract. In the event an employee is accommodated into a different position, the pay associated with that position will be implemented.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
SUBJECT:	CHRISTMAS DAY AND BOXING DAY
The parties agree that the period to include Christmas Day and Boxing Day as defined at Article 17.01(a) is unique in its importance to employees and their families and for that reason agree to adopt the following approach to that period.
A)	The parties agree that Christmas and Boxing Day as defined at Article 17.01(a) will note be regularly scheduled work days, with the exception of the following positions that are assigned to the continuous shift cycle and required for this shutdown:
i.	Hoistman
ii.	Cagetender
iii.	Mill Control Operator
iv.	Mill Tailings Operator
v.	Electrician
vi.	Millwright
vii.	Surface Equipment Operator
B)	If, for any reason, the Company requires that one or both of those days be worked, and the Company needs more than the complement of employees in (A) above, it will use “volunteers” and / or staff employees.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT SUBJECT:	CAMP COMMITTEE
The Company agrees to recognize a camp committee as selected by the Union for the duration of this Agreement. The purpose of this committee is to bring to the attention of the Company, items of concern of the Union surrounding the camp facilities.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
60
Meetings will be held with the management representative responsible for the camp to discuss and resolve the issues raised by the committee. For the purpose of meetings with the Company, the committee will be limited to a maximum of 3 persons.
The Company agrees to maintain the current recreation facilities and entertainment systems for employees staying in camp.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT SUBJECT:	ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
It is a matter of Company policy that the assignment of work is to be done in a fair and equitable manner.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
SUBJECT:	HOT MEALS FOR MILL CREWS
The parties agree that the past practice regarding the provision by the Company of hot meals for Mill 4x4 Production and Maintenance crews during their shift shall continue for the term of this Agreement. This practice only applies to Control Room Operators, Float Floor Operators, Grinding Operators, Crusher Operators and Tailings Operators who work twelve (12) hour shifts and to Electricians and Millwrights working 4 x 4 continuous shifts at the Mill.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT SUBJECT:	PRE-1990 RETIREES
The Company will supplement the retirement income of the following individuals: Oldrich Skrobanek; Henry Dixon; Takaharu Sakamoto; Mary Lemay; Tersillo Collavo; and Kulvir Grewal. The supplement will be an annual lump sum payment equivalent to a 30% increase in retirement income from the Company as long as they remain eligible for pension payments. The payments will be made in January of each year.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
61
SUBJECT:	EMPLOYEE EVALUATIONS
In the event the Company implements a program of employee evaluations, the evaluations or any part thereof shall not form or be part of an employee’s disciplinary record.
LETTER OF INTENT
SUBJECT:	PRINTING OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
The Company and the Union commit to timely “proofing” of the Collective Agreement document, such that new Collective Agreements will be distributed to employees within sixty (60) days of ratification.
LETTER OF INTENT
SUBJECT:	VOLUNTARY EARLY RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE
Benefits derived from this allowance are in addition to benefits provided for by the government’s pension plan, and the Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd. Hourly Pension Plan.
In order to be eligible for benefits in accordance with this provision, an employee must be at least sixty (60) years of age and have at least twenty (20) years of continuous service. Effective April 1, 2006, employees with a combination of age plus service equal to or greater than 80, and a minimum of fifty-five (55) years of age, will be eligible. Employees on disability benefits (Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, WorkSafe BC) are not eligible for benefits under this provision. The benefits in accordance with this provision will be as follows:
Effective April 1, 2007, the Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance will be twenty-four dollars ($24.00) per month per year of continuous service (to a maximum of thirty (30) years) payable to the earlier of age sixty-five (65) or death.
The employee will continue to be provided the following medical/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age sixty-five (65) or death:
MSP - Basic Provincial Medical MSA - Dental & Extended Health Life Insurance - $12,000
These medical/insurance benefits are subject to the provisions of the collective agreement in effect at the time of retirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
62
LETTER OF INTENT
SUBJECT:	30 YEAR RETIREMENT SUPPLEMENT
Benefits derived from this supplement are in addition to benefits provided for by the government’s pension plan, employment insurance plan, and the Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd.’s Hourly Pension Plan.
Effective April 1, 2007, those employees retiring with thirty (30) or more years of continuous service will receive an additional payment from the general revenues of the Company to bring their total monthly retirement benefit to $3,200.00. This additional payment is payable to the earlier of age sixty-five (65) or death. Following ratification, in the event an employee’s spouse files for and is granted “limited member” status, the amounts payable to the employee by the pension plan will be adjusted according to the limited member entitlement, and this adjustment will not be added to the employee’s retirement supplement.
The employee will continue to be provided the following medical/insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age sixty-five (65) or death:
MSP - Basic Provincial Medical MSA - Dental & Extended Health Life Insurance - $12,000
These medical/insurance benefits are subject to the provisions of the collective agreement in effect at the time of retirement and as amended in subsequent negotiations.
Employees on disability benefits (Weekly Indemnity, Long Term Disability, WorkSafe BC) are not eligible for benefits under this provision.
LETTER OF INTENT
SUBJECT:	EARLY RETIREE BENEFIT COVERAGE
(a)	Future Early Retirees
Employees who have elected early retirement under the Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd. Hourly Pension Plan and have not yet reached age 65 will be eligible to receive the following medical / insurance benefit coverage to the earlier of age 65 or death:
MSP - Basic Provincial Medical MSA - Dental & Extended Health Life Insurance - $12,000
(b)	Past Early Retirees
63
The above benefits will also be provided to employees who previously elected early retirement and have not yet reached age 65.
(c)	Commencement of Benefits
The above benefits will be provided as soon as possible after ratification of the Collective Agreement bearing in mind the retirees must be available to enroll in the plans.
LETTER OF INTENT
SUBJECT:	INCREASE PENSIONS PAID FOR CURRENT PENSIONERS
Effective August 15, 2000, the monthly benefit rate for current pensioners will be increased to $27.00 per month per year of continuous service. The pension calculation will be based on the same adjustment factors used at the time of retirement (e.g. early retirement reduction, optional form amounts).
LETTER OF INTENT
SUBJECT:	UNION HEALTH & SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
The Company and the Union agree that it is in the interest of all concerned to promote and maintain a safe and healthy work environment. In order to effect a thoroughly understood and accepted health and safety program for employees, it is agreed that joint and cooperative methods will be encouraged. To this end, the Company agrees to establish a paid, full-time Health & Safety Representative position at the mine for the duration of this Agreement.
If the Union Health & Safety Representative’s previous job received underground production bonus, he will receive monthly bonus payments based on a running three-month average bonus paid to employees in the position he held immediately prior to his selection to the role.
The Union Health & Safety Representative will be selected by the Union and shall be qualified in terms of knowledge of health and safety programs, rules, regulations and practices, and possess good communication and leadership skills.
The Union Health & Safety Representative will report to the Company Safety & Training Supervisor and will be expected to perform to similar standards as Company safety personnel in continuing and improving measures for the prevention of accidents and elimination of health hazards. He will undertake to give full support to these objectives by promoting safety consciousness and a personal sense of responsibility among all employees. He will also perform the duties of the Union Occupational Health & Safety Committee Co-Chair as described in Article 11 of this Agreement.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
64
LETTER OF INTENT
RE:	FUNDING OF RETIREMENT BENEFITS
This letter will confirm that the Company will fund the Voluntary Early Retirement Allowance and the 30-Year Retirement Allowance outside of the registered Nyrstar Myra Falls Ltd.’s Hourly Pension Plan, and as such funding will be made from its general revenues. Notwithstanding, the Company commits to continue ongoing benefit payments beyond the term of the Collective Agreement, and in the event of a labour dispute or cessation of mine operations. For clarity, cessation of mine operations means a temporary shutdown and does not include the permanent mine closure.
LETTER OF INTENT RE:	BENEFIT BOOKLETS
The Company undertakes to provide employees with a copy of a benefit booklet outlining the various Health & Welfare benefits contained in the Collective Agreement within 3 months of ratification of the agreement.
LETTER OF INTENT
RE:	JOINT SKILLED TRADES COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union confirm that the document entitled “Operational Guidelines of the Joint Skilled Trades Meeting”, dated November 20, 2003, will be adopted. The Company agrees to continue its reliance on that document and further agrees to participate in quarterly meetings as set out in that document. If there are pressing trades’ issues that the Union wishes to address between quarterly meetings, those matters may be raised at the monthly Union-Management meetings.
LETTER OF INTENT
RE:	HEALTH COVERAGE FOR RETIREES OVER AGE 65
Effective July 1, 2005, retirees sixty-five (65) years of age and older living in British Columbia and paying MSP - Basic Provincial Medical premiums, can provide the Company copies of their receipts of payment. The Company will reimburse them for premiums paid in the previous six months, on a twice per year basis in July and January.
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
65
The Company agrees to pay to the Union the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per year for the purpose of enabling the Union to assist retired employees of the Company, over age 65, with health coverage.
LETTER OF INTENT
RE:	JOURNEYMAN WAREHOUSEPERSON
As per our discussions in the 2012 Collective Bargaining regarding the 2 eligible employees classified as Journeymen Warehouseperson, we confirm that we will grandfather the employees below as recognized Journeymen, with wages currently set at rate 10, for as long as they remain in the position or in the event they return to the position.
The employees affected are:
DM VAN/288740.00009/8508396.1
66