THIS AGREEMENT
Made at Campbell River in the Province of British Columbia, and effective this first day of April, 1987
BETWEEN
WESpMN
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED
MYRA FALLS OPERATIONS
(hereinafter referred to as the “COMPANY” OF THE FIRST PART)
AND
C.A.I.M.A.W.
LOCAL 19
OF THE SECOND PART
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1	Preamble ................................. 1
2	Employees Covered by	the	Agreement...	1
3 Union Recognition ....................... ~2-\
4 Term of Agreement........................ (2j
5	Rights Reserved to Management ........... 3
6	No Discrimination ....................... 4
7	Lockouts or Strikes...................... 4
8	Union Activities on Company Time.......	4
9	Bulletin Board........................... 5
10	Leave of Absence ......................... 5
11	Safety ................................... 6
12	Seniority, Training, Layoffs	and Re-Hires 11
13	Settlement of Dispute.................... 17
14	Wages ................................... 20
15	Hours of Work, Overtime, and Punitive Pay 22
16	Shift Differential....................... 25
17	Statutory Holidays....................... 25
18	Vacation ................................ 27
19	Health and Welfare ...................... 29
20	Underground Contract	Committee .......... 32
21	Union Security........................... 33
22	General Provisions ...................... 35
23	Apprentices ............................. 36
24	Special Allowances....................... 37
25	Technological Change..................... 38
Wage Schedule “A......................... 40
Appendix "A" — Entry Level or Posted......... 42
Positions
Appendix“B”— Equipment Operator........., . . 45
Classifications
Letter of Understanding No. 1................ 47
Re: Transportation
Letter of Understanding No. 2................ 47
Re: Holiday Pay
Letter of Understanding No. 3.......,,....	47
Re: Article 12.03
Letter of Intent............................. 49
Re: Code of Practice — Industrial Health and Safety
ARTICLE 1
PREAMBLE
The parties to this Agreement recognize it is in their mutual interesttopromote.asfullyaspossible, conditions of safety to the employee, economy of the operation and protection of property. These conditions can best be maintained by harmonious relations between the Company and the employees and by the settlement, in an amicable manner, of all disputes which may arise. The Company and the employees shall co-operate fully for their mutual benefit.
ARTICLE 2
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY THE AGREEMENT
2.01	The term employees as used in the Agreement shall include all hourly rated employees of Westmin Resources Limited and its subsidiary companies covered bv the certification who are engaged in mining, treatment and transportation operations related to the Myra Falls Operations of the companies except those employees in a confidential, supervisory, technical, executive, security or clerical capacity. The term supervisory as applied to employees as herein designated includes (without restricting the generality of the expression) foreman, shift bosses, and employees of the companies who have the authority to hire or discharge.
2.02	An employee who is replacing a member of staff for any reason for temporary period up to a maximum of ninety (90) calendar days, shall be considered as a member of staff. Upon completion of such temporary period he shall return to the group classification that he left.
In the case of promotion to staff, the employee will cease to accumulate seniority after ninety (90) calendar days, but will retain his previous seniority should he return to the bargaining unit.
dOlo-2 0-Z-
ARTICLE 3
UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of conducting collective bargaining regarding rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions; and the Company willcontinue to recognize the Union as long as the Union retains its right to conduct collective bargaining on behalf of such employees under the law.
3.02	The Company recognizes that it is not the function of persons of or above the rank of foreman to perform work which iscurrently being performed by an employee in the bargaining unit except under emergency conditions, the purpose of training, instruction, or for metallurgical research. It is understood that the working foreman (supervisor) shall attempt at all times to have a member of the bargaining unit assist him in any emergency. An emergency shall be defined as a major disruption in production, or where there is a danger to life or limb.
3.03	The Company will not contract out work which is normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit, except to make the operation more efficient, and will not do so if it has the result of laying off or reducing the rate of pay of employees who have the ability to perform the work. The Company shall endeavour wherever possible and practical to have its sub-contract work performed by a union shop.
ARTICLE 4
TERM OF AGREEMENT
4.01	/This Agreement shall be in force for the period from April 1.1987 to and including March 30, ..199.0..Thereafter, the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from year to year unless written notice of intent to amend the Agreement at the expiration of any yearly period is given by either party.
4.02	During any period when negotiations are being conducted between the parties for the renewal of this Agreement, the present Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until:
a)	The Union commences a legal strike;
b)	The Employer commences a legal lockout; or
c)	The parties enter into a new or further Agreement.
4.03	Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall become effective from the date of signing of the Collective Agreement by both parties.
ARTICLE 5
RIGHTS RESERVED TO MANAGEMENT
5.01	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in all respects in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities and to make and alter from time to time rules and regulations to be observed by the employees, such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement provided, however, that this Article will not be used in a discriminatory manner against any employeeor group of employees. Changes made to rules and regulations shall be posted and a copy of such changes sent to the local Union.
5.02	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to obligate the Company to continue to operate any of its plants or properties, or any part thereof.
5.03	The Company shall always have the right to hire, discipline, demote and discharge employees for proper, just and reasonable cause. The selection of lead hands and all other supervisory employees shall be entirely a matter for the Company's decision.
3
ARTICLE 6
NO DISCRIMINATION
6.01	The Company agrees that there shall be no intimidation or discrimination against an employee by reason of race, colour, creed, religion, sex or his legitimate activities as a member of the Union; and the Union agrees that there shall be no intimidation ordiscrimination on its part or byany of its members towards any employee of th Company.
If
y l
ARTICLE 7
LOCKOUTS OR STRIKES
7.01	The Company shall not cause or direct any lockout of employees during the life of this Agreement, and neither the Union, nor any representative of the Union, nor any employee shall in any way authorize, encourage, or participate in any strike, walk-out, suspension of work, or a slowdown against Westmin Resources Ltd. during the life of this Agreement.
7.02	No employee(s) will be subject to disciplinary action nor will action be taken against the Union if an employee or employees honour a lawful picket line as permitted under the Labour Code of British Columbia.
ARTICLE 6
UNION ACTIVITIES. ON COMPANY TIME
8.01	(a) Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen will be designated in writing by the Union to the Company. For the purpose of meeting with Company representatives, the Grievance Committee will consist of not more than three (3) members as designated by the Union.
When the legitimate business of a Grievance Committeemen or Chief Steward, Stewards and other Committeemen require him to leave his job or department, he shall first receive permission from
4
his foreman or department supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld, and he shall not suffer loss of pay for time spent in the performance of these duties during his regular working hours.
8.01(b) Meetings between the Company and the Union will be held during working hours. Such meetings will be scheduled at the convenience of the Company, the Union and the employee.
8.02	A Union representative or representatives shall be permitted entry to the Company’s property subject to the decision of the Company as to the number of such representatives to be granted such entry at any one time. Such Union representative or representatives shall be granted permission to use camp and cookhouse facilities, but the Company reserves the right todetermine on what basis and for what period of time such permission shall be granted.
ARTICLE 9
BULLETIN BOARD
9.01	The Company agrees that bulletin boards and distribution boxes will be made available in the Dry(s), H. W. and Lynx surface shops, Powerhouse, Spit, Cookhouse and Concentrator for Union purposes, provided that the use of the boards shall be restricted to the posting of notices regarding the business affairs, meetings and social events of the Union. All notices must be approved and signed by a member of the Local Union Executive. The Union agrees that the bulletin boards will not be used for any matters not relating directly to Union business.
ARTICLE 10
LEAVE OF ABSENCE

10.01	Any employee selected as a delegate or ./ representative of the Union necessitating a leave of r\ absence, shall be granted such leave of absence without pay, provided that it does not exceed a	—^
period of two (2) years upon making proper application in writing to the Company. Such leave will be renewed on written application by the Union.
6
10.02	The time spent as a delegate of the Union or on other authorized leave of absence for Union purposes as set forth in 10.01 of this Articleshall not in any way jeopardize his seniority standing or vacation time entitlement,
The Company shall not berequired to grant this leave to more thanatotal of three (3) personsandno more than one (1) from each department at the same time and for not more than a total of all persons of seven hundred and eighty (780) working days in one (1) year.
10.03(a) Employees who have been elected or appointed bv. the Union to attend National or w International gatherings will be granted a leave of y absence without pay for this purpose. Not more ^ than seven (7) employees, four (4) from the Mine ( Department, three (3) from the Plant Department, and two (2) from the Mill Department, of which the total shall not exceed seven (7) may take such leave at any one time, and they must give the Company three (3) working days notice, confirmed by the Union in writing. Not more than a total of one hundred fifty (150) working days in a year need be granted forthis purpose and no individual leave will exceed twenty-one (21) calendar days. The Company will continue M.S.A., life insurance, and sickness and accident insurance, up to twenty-one (21) calendar days for any individual leave. After that time, theemployeewill pay his own coverage by payroll deduction.
10.03(b) Employees who have been elected or appointed by the Union to attend local union gatherings including negotiations, labour arbitrations or committee meetings with the Company will be granted leave of absence without pay for this purpose.
10.04	Any employee, on written notice setting forth good cause, may, at the discretion of the Company, be granted a leave of absence without
6
pay. Such leave may be extended when similar written notice setting forth good cause is supplied. Whenever a leave of absenceorextension isgranted or denied, the employee shall be notified in writing.
The Company agrees to consider such requests in an equitable manner and such leaves shall not be unreasonably withheld.
10.05	In the case of death in the immediate	A ■
family of any employee, the Company will grant the	r '
employee a leave of absence of one (1) day. If he attends the funeral of the deceased, an additional
two (2) days leave of absence will be granted if the funeral is on Vancouver Island. If the employee attends the funeral at a place other than on Vancouver Island, he will be granted a total of four (4) days leave. Immediate family shall mean Mother,
Father, Spouse, Children, Step-children, Brothers,
Sisters, Mother-in-law, Father-in-law.
If the employee is scheduled to work any of these days, he shall receive the hourly rate of his regular job for the number of hours he was scheduled to work. Two (2) extra days leave of absence, without pay, willbegrantedifthefuneral is outside British Columbia. The above leave days will only be granted if the Company is notified of the leave requirement.
10.06	Recognizing that excessive absenteeism by employees creates staffing and scheduling problems, the Parties agree:
a)	The Company will institute a 24 hour per day phone-in procedure. Employees are required to phone in, prior to the commencement of their shift, to inform the Company they will not be reporting for work and the reasons for the same.
b)	As justification for unauthorized absence, the Company will recognize and accept statements signed by an employee verifying medical disability.
Suitable forms will beavailable in everydepartment.
c)	Where an employee demonstrates a pattern of absenteeism such as repreated Mondays,
Fridays, etc., the Company will give written notice to the employee inclusive of documentation of the said
7
pattern, with a copy of the same to the Union. Such notice will require the employee to provide a medical certificate for any future incidents or repetition of such pattern until an employee has gone six (6) clear months without repeating the pattern. The Company will pay any medical costs associated with such a request.
d)	In cases of prolonged absences, employees must provide the Company with as much advance notice as possible with regards to their expected date of return to work.
e)	Absence due to court duty or compulsory fire fighting will justify unauthorized absence. In such cases, notification within three (3) working days by telephone or letter to the Company is required. In case of fire fighting, if notification is not possible, the fire fighting certificate will be acceptable in lieu of notification.
10.07	COURT DUTY: If an employee is summoned or subpoenaed for jury selection or jury duty or as a witness, or conscripted for fire fighting duty, the Company will grant the employee a leave of absence with pay, which will be the difference between his regular pay and the monies received. The employee must supply the Company with a statement of payment.
ARTICLE 11
SAFETY
11.01	(a) Once each month a safety inspection of the property will be made. The inspection will be carried out by a group consisting of Company representatives, the Union Safety Committee Chairman and the Area Safety Committee Representatives familiar with the area being inspected. An employee from the Spit, appointed b^. the Union, together with a representative of the Company will conduct monthly safety inspections of the Spit area. The time spent on these inspections necessitating loss of time by employees delegated by the Union for an authorized safety tour shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be
8
madte on the basis of straight time. Under no LSOoditions will punitive rates be paid.
11.01(b) Thirty dollars ($30.00) per day will be paid for each underground inspection in addition to regular wages for each employee involved in the regular monthly underground inspections.
11.01(c) The Union Safety Committee will be advised of loss time accident investigation meetings and will be given the opportunity to send a Safety Committee member if they so desire.
11.01(d) Safety Committeemen delegated by the Union shall have the right to investigate all accidents and unsafe conditions but shall be accompanied by the Safety Director or in his absence a Company appointee.
11.02	After each inspection by the Safety Committee, the Committee will submit its findings in writing to a.ioint meeting of the Committee and Mine Management. The minutes of such meeting will be sent to the local Union, the National Union, the Mine Manager, and the Mines Inspection Branch.
11.03	Employees must obey all safety rules and report at once any unsafe practice or condition to their supervisors for correction as quickly as practicable
11.04(a) The Company will supply, where necessary, the following equipment:
Safety Glasses (first pair)
Safety belts
Safety lines
Mono goggles
Grinding goggles
Electrician's high voltage gloves
Safety asbestos gloves
Painter's masks
Dust respirators
Locks for switch gear
Aprons and face shields for handling corrosive substances Ear muffs
9
Instead of regular coveralls as provided for in Article 11.04(d), a tradesman may choose a set of Welder’s leathers or aprons or fire resistant coveralls. The Company will make available climbing boots for electricians required to climb. 11.04(b) Prescription safety glasses purchased through the Safety Department will be supplied at 25% of cost.
11.04(c) Where conditions of work underground require slickers, an underground employee will purchase his first set of slickers at cost less fifty percent (50%). Six (6) months thereafter on presentation of the worn set he will be provided with a new set as required, but not more often than once in six (6) months.
Surface and Mill crews may also receive slickers if warranted following approval of the Department Head.
11.04(d) Where conditions of work for mill and maintenance employees require coveralls, an employee will purchase his first pair of coveralls at cost price less ten percent (10%). Six (6) months thereafter on presentation of the worn set he will be provided with a new set as required, but not more often than once in six (6) months.
11.04(e) Gloves, boots and belts will be supplied at cost price less ten (10) percent,
11.04(f) Each employee will receive, without charge, one (1) hard hat during the term of his employment. Each employee required to work underground will also receive one (1) belt during the term of his employment. The foregoing is conditional that the employee continues employment with the Company for six (6) months following this issue. Should an employee terminate before the six (6) month period expires, the equipment will be charged at the prevailing price.
Upon presentation of a worn or damaged hard hat, hard hat liner, miner's belt, the Company will provide a new item as required.
11.04(g) Following the signing of this contract
10
each employee will receive, without charge, on the anniversary date of his employment, one 0) Pair of rubber safety boots and one (1) pair of rubber safety boots on each anniversary date thereafter. Surface and Mill employees shall have the option, once a year, of receiving a cash credit equal to the cost of rubber safety boots towards the purchase of approved leather safety boots.
11.05	Injured Worker Provision
a)	An employee who is injured during working hours and who is required to leave for treatment or is sent home as a result of such injury shall receive payment for the remainder of the shift at his/her regular rate of pay.
b)	Such employee shall be provided with transportation to his/her doctor's or hospital and to his/her home.
11.06	No employee will be required to work on equipment where he will have direct contact with P.C.B.s.
11.07	Draeger testers and relevant test tubes shall be available to all operators as required by the Mines Act for testing Underground mobile equipment and working headings, Inaddition, other employees may obtain draeger testers and relevant tubes on a sign out basis from the Company. These shall be returned to the Company at the end of the shift.
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY, TRAINING, LAY-OFFS AND RE-HIRES
12.01(a) Seniority shall be established on the basis of the individual's continuous service with the Company according to the recordsof the Company.
The Parties recognize that job opportunity shall increase in proportion to the length of company service and departmental seniority of each employee concerned.
12.01(b) The Company recognizestwo (2) types of seniority; namely Company seniority and Departmental seniority. Company seniority is as per
11
Article 12.01 and Departmental seniority refers to the length of an individual’s continuous employment within a department asdefined below.
MINE
MILL
PLANT (includes all shops, Spit and maintenance crews).
12.02	Seniority of each employee covered by
the Agreement will be established after a probationary period of two hundred and forty (240) , scheduled working hours,	\/
During this 240 hours probationary period, the//j5/ employer may terminate an employee’s^ employment for performance which in the opinion of the management is inadequate.	^
The Company will notify the Union within three y (3) working days of the termination of any vl employees under this provision.	.Jj
12.03	A person originally hired by the Company C' to exercise a special trade or skill or to participates
a special assignment of work may be discharged when his employment at such special trade, skill or assignment comes to an end, notwithstanding . anything in. this Agreement to the contrary. The ^ Company will advise the Union of persons so hired.
12.04	All promotions, transfers, filling of f* vacancies, lay-offs, terminations and rehiring after < lay-offs will be done strictly in accordance with the , .<& principles set forth in 12.01 provided the employee y has sufficient ability ta perform the work required. '[ 12.05(a) Seniority ‘will be accumulated and maintained for one (1) year during:
Occupational injury Illness or non-occupational injury Authorized leave of absence, and will be maintained thereafter subject to Article 12.05(c).
12.05(b) Seniority will be maintained and accumulated during:
12
Absence due to lay-off up to twelve (12) months with less than three (3) years seniority.
Absence due to lay-off up to eighteen (11 months, with, threa (3) to .five 1(5),years_sediQrjty, Absence due to lay-off up to twenty-four (24) months with more thSU1 FI've'TS) years seniority. 12.05(c) Seniority will be maintained forfour(4) years from the date oT"absence due'To authorized tSave'oTabsence, rioh-occupatioTjal injury or illr*i6S5. "Employees g r a nTerTHeave”' for On to n business' (Article 10.01) will retain their seniority for the duration of the leave.
12.05(d) During periods of accumulating and/or maintaining seniority, the benefits of the Collective Agreementthat apply will be those outlined in 19.07. 12.05(e) Seniority standing will be lost if an employee:
1.	voluntarily quits;
2.	is discharged for cause and is not reinstated;
3.	is recalled to work and does not report within the limits as per Article 12.16; or
4.	is still absent and the seniority retention period has elapsed as per Article 12.05(b) or 12.05(c).
12.06	The Company is not obligated to consider seniority in the case of non-permanent promotions not in excess of thirty (30) working days or in the case of non-permanent demotions not in excess of seven (7) working days but such periodsof time may be extended by mutual agreement. However, it is agreed that if absenteeism is not a factor in the temporary vacancy, the Company will give first consideration for such job vacancies to persons who have applied for job training for the job in question under 12.13(a).
12.07(a) A move from one (1)job classification to another involving no change in rate shall not be considered as a promotion or demotion. An employee shall not be promoted until a vacancy occurs in a higher job classification provided that if an employee is absent from his normal job because of sickness, accident or authorized leave but is not transferred he shall, on his return, be placed in the
13
job classification he would have held had he not been absent.
12.07(b) Company seniority of each employee who aDDlies will be considered for all posted jobs, demotions from posted jobs or training oDDortunities on posted jobs as per Article 12.04. Department Seniority will be considered for promotions, demotions or training opportunities within lines of progression as per Article 12.04.
For Dromotion within the lines of progression the person in the next classification below with the most (teDartmental seniority will be the successful applicant; except that employees may bid down in their line of progression on a departmental seniority basis.
12.07(c) If the transfer of an employee is required by the Company from one (1) department to another for efficient conduct of operations, seniority in his new department shall be equal to that which he previously held.
12.07(d) If an employee is transferred to another department at his own request, he shall have no departmental seniority in his new department. 12.08(a) All entry level and posted job vacancies (Appendix A) expected to last thirty (30) working days or more (except those created by vacation, , illness or injury to a maximum of three (3) months) 0 will be made known by posting on Notice Boardsfor y eight (8) working days. The posting will include the shift, the job classification, the rate of pay, and the ) location of the job vacancy.
12.08(b) Should any employee in a higher rated job wish to be considered for a lower rated position in a line of progression for which he is qualified, he may file a written application with the Personnel Office. When a vacancy next occurs, he will be considered along with those in the line of progression subject to Article 12.04.
12.09	Vacancies will be filled from among those applicants who are capable of doing the job and who apply within the time during which thenotice is posted. As between applicants Article 12.01 to 12.04 shall apply.
14
12.10	Employees who have hired into one department will not be eligible to bid on a job posting outside of their department until they have accumulated at least six (6) months seniority.
12.11	If an employee is transferred to another department at his own request, he shall have no right to bid into another department for six (6) months.
12.12	All opportunities for formal job training outside the lines of progression will be made known by posting on Notice Boards for eight (8) working days. All such postings will be filled in accordance with Article 12.01 among employees applying.
After an employee is deemed qualified in a fair and equitable manner by the Company to perform all aspects of the job, he shall be paid at the rate of the job at such times as he isactually performing the job.
12.13	An underground employee(s) who is directed to train other employees will be guaranteed a production bonus equal to his average bonus calculated over the three (3) months prior to his assignment as a trainer.
12.14	In the event of a general reduction of crews, the persons affected shall be reduced through department lines of progression by departmental seniority and then those to be laid off shall be in the inverse order of their Company seniority from the entry level positions in the department affected, as per Article 12.01(a) and
12.01	(b). When it is necessary to increase forces, the men shall be re-employed as closely as possible in the inverse order ‘in which they were laid off, provided they are qualified for the job that is open.”
12.15	It shall be the responsibility of the laid off employee to notify the Company of any change in their current address and telephone number. Such notification shall be by registered mail. In the event that an employee fails to notify the Company in the manner outlined above, he will lose his right to re-
15
employment. Laid off employees who have complied with the foregoing procedure shall be notified by the Company, by registered mail at their last known address, of the date on which they are to report for work. Should an employee fail to report within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the registered notice, the employee shall lose the right to re-employment.
12.16	The Company may employ students in reasonable numbers from time to time, provided that no employee shall be demoted, laid off or discharged to make place for a student, nor shall promotion within the bargaining unit be adversely affected. Students so hired will comply with all provisions contained in the Collective Agreement. 12.17(a) In case of a planned shutdown of the Company's operation or a department thereof, resulting in a lay-off of employees of more than thirty (30) days, the Company will give thirty (30) days notice or failing such notice, thirty (30) days severance pay in lieu thereof at the employee’s basic hourly rate of pay.
12.17(b) In the event that an employee L permanently laid off as a result of closure of the / Company’s operation at the Mine, which is v permanent or expected to last at least twenty-four 7^1 (24) months, and where no alternative job is found within the organizations, theemployee will be paid a
severanne allnwannp nf nne hunrlrerl Hollars
quality ioi this seveiance allowance, the employee
must work his last scheduled shift before such ^ permanent closure unless prevented from doing so Ty by a verified case of disabling accident or illness, •'( jury duty, bereavement leave, or fire fighting duty. ^ 12.18 The Company will prepare seniority lists of all employees and present them to the Union within thirty (30) days of the signing of the Agreement. These lists will be posted and the Company will notify the individual involved and the Union of any revision of seniority. Said lists will commence with the most senior employee, carry on
16
downwards to the most junior employee, and contain the following information:
1.	Employee’s name and payroll number:
2.	Employee’s starting date;
3.	Employee’s regular classification.
Probationary employees will also be shown in
the same manner. Additional revised lists will be furnished to the Union every three (3) months and will be posted on the bulletin boards in all departments.
ARTICLE 13
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTE
13.01	The Parties agree that it is desirable that any complaints or grievances should be adjusted as quickly as possible. Employees are therefore urged to try to settle their complaints with theirforemanas soon after they originate as possible.
Should a dispute arise between the Company and any employee regarding the interpretation of a violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the dispute in the following manner.
The Parties recognize that the employee may have a Union Representative present during any disciplinary discussions if the employee so requests.
13.02	STEP 1: Within ten (10) days after the alleged grievance has arisen, or within ten (10) days from the time the employee should reasonably have known of the occurrence of theevent, theemployee, who may be accompanied by his steward if he so desires, may present thegrievance either verbally or in writing to his foreman. Failing settlement to the employee’s satisfaction within three (3) days, the employee may proceed to Step 2.
13.03	STEP 2: Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made in the previous step, the employee, accompanied by his steward and a member of the Grievance Committee, may present the grievance in writing to his Department Superintendent. The Department Superintendent
17
shall reply in writing within two (2) days of the presentation of this grievance under Step 2. Failing satisfactory settlement at this stage, the employee may proceed to Step 3.
13.04	STEP 3: Within five (5) days from the time settlement could have been made within the time limits of the previous step, the employee, accompanied by the Grievance Committee, may take the matter up with the Manager or hisdelegate. The Union Grievance Committee may be accompanied by a representativeof the Union. Prior to submission to the Manager there shall be a written statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and the section or sections of the Agreement, which are alleged to have been violated. Failing satisfactory settlement, within five (5) days by the Manager, either party may, on giving seven (7) days’ notice in writing to the other Party, refer the dispute to arbitration.
13.05	Grievances involving the dismissal or suspension of an employee(s) and grievances of a general or group nature may be initiated at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure provided they are submitted within ten (10) days of the time the dispute arose.
13.06	The Company shall have the right to refer any dispute regarding the interpretation or an alleged violation-of the Agreement to the Grievance Committee of the Union. Failing a satisfactory settlement within seven (7) days of the submission in writing of the dispute by the Company, the Company shall have the right to refer the dispute to a Board of Arbitration constituted in accordance with this Agreement.
13.07(a) In determining the time within which any step is to be taken under the foregoing provisions of this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and Recognized holidays shall be excluded. Any and all time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
13.07(b) If the Union does not proceed to the 18
next step within the time limits provided, the grievance shall be considered as dropped and cannot be re-opened.
13.07(c) If it is necessary for a steward or other employee to take time off during working hours in connection with a grievance, he must receive permission from his foreman or shift boss. Such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
13.07(d) Time limits for initiating steps two and three for employees working the 4 x 4 shift will be extended to eight (8) days.
13.08	It is agreed between the Parties that in the case of any arbitration, if both Parties agree, the case will be handled byasinglearbitratorasfollows:
(a)	The arbitrator shall be chosen within five (5) working days following receipt of a written notice to arbitrate. He shall be chosen by the Parties from a panel listed by letter of mutual agreement and after the first choice the next and subsequent choice will be in order of listing.
(b)	If either party in the case of any given dispute does not wish to submit that particular dispute to a single arbitrator, the arbitration procedure for that dispute will revert to the three man arbitration procedure, as outlined.
(c)	The single arbitrator shall proceed under the same collective agreement conditions as set out for the three man arbitration and will have the same powers.
(d)	If either party wishes the dispute to be heard by a three man board rather than a single arbitrator, the Board shall consist of three members, one to be selected by the Company, one by the Union and a third mutually acceptable person who shall act as chairman to be chosen from the same panel.
In the event that the Union and the Company are unable to agree upon the selection of the third member of the Board, the Labour Relations Board of British Columbia shall be requested toappoint such
19
third member. The decision of the Board of Arbitration or a majority thereof in respect of an interpretation or alleged violation of this Agreement shall be final and binding upon the Parties but in no event shall the Board have the powertoalter, modify or amend this Agreement in any respect.
(e)	Each Party shall pay the expense of the member of the Board of Arbitration chosen by it and all expenses incurred in connection with the presentation and preparation of its case, provided that the Parties shall bear in equal shares the expenses of the Chairman of the Board.
13.09	In the meantime, and in all cases while disputes are being investigated and settled, the employee or employees and all other parties involved, except an employee serving a disciplinary suspension must continue to work until a final decision has been reached, but where an employee or employees has or have been discharged by the Company, he or they shall not remain in the employ of the Company while his or their case is being investigated and settled. If the claim be made within five (5) working days that -an employee or employees has or have been unjustly discharged, the case shall be dealt with according to this Article and if it’s proven that he or they have been discharged without propercause, he or they shall be reinstated.
13.10	In settling disputes both parties agree to exclude Section 96:1 of the Labour Code of B.C.
ARTICLE 14
WAGES
14.01(a) The job classification and rates of pay listed in theattached Wage Schedule isagreed upon by both parties and is part of the Collective Agreement.
14.01(b) The rates set forth in the attached Wage Schedule may not be used in any way for the purpose of reducing the wage rate(s) presently received by an employee(s).
20
14.02(a) New or Changed Job Classification
If any nevv jobdassifications are established, or if there is a significant change in the job dassification(s) set forth in this Wage Schedule, or if any job classification(s) have been overlooked in this Wage Schedule, the parties hereto are agreed to negotiate a rate for the Job(s) in question.
14.02(b) If the Parties are unable to reach agreement, then the dispute will be settled through the Grievance and Arbitration procedures of this -Agreement.	/\
14.03	Cost of Living Allowance	/
A cost of living allowance will becomeeffective I on the first of October, 1986, C.O.L.A. will be calculated by referring to the C.P.I. Canada 1971 base = 100.
C.O.L.A. will be increased one cent (1c) per hour for each full 0.3 of a point change in the C.P.I. C.O.L.A. will be calculated on:
(a)	Base month — September, 1986 (published in October). Adjustment one cent (1c) for each 0.3 raise from September 1986.
(b)	Payment initially during the last pay period in October 1986and thereafteronaquarterly basis during the term of this Agreement..
(c)	All C.O.L.A. payments will be rolled in at time of payment.
14.04	A lead hand premium of thirty cents (30c) per hour will be paid to employees specifically designated to lead two or more employees on special jobs.
14.05(a) Any tradesman, journeyman or trades helper who works twenty percent (20%) or more underground in any one month will be required to have a silicosis card and will receive two point seventy-three percent (2.73%) per hour over and above his Collective Agreement rate.
14.05(b) A Journeyman shall have a Certificate of Apprenticeship issued pursuant to the
21
Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualifications Act and Regulations made thereunder.
14.05(c) Electricians and mechanics who are required to stay in camp on standby time shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours’ pay at overtime rates over and above the daily wages to which they ^ were otherwise entitled.	~
14.06	Wages will be paid by bank deposit every pay period and employees will be provided with an (ff itemized statement of same.
ARTICLE 15
HOURS OF WORK OVERTIME AND PUNITIVE PAY
15.01(a) The work week will begin and end with the start of the day shift on Monday morning and normally consist of five (5) working days of eight (8) hours each. The Company agrees to use its best endeavours to place as many employees as practicable on a Monday to Friday work week. 15.01(b) One and one-half the employees rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one day or in excess of forty (40) hours in any one week and for all work performed on an employee's regular designated day of rest. 15.01(c) Double the employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest and all work over ten (10) hours in one day. 15.02(a) In continuous or semi-continuous operations the hours of work shall consist of a scheduled average forty-two (42) hours per week. 15.02(b) Those employees whose schedule averages forty-two (42) hours per week as per Article 15.02 shall be paid at one and one-halftimes their rate for all time worked in excess of an average of forty (40) hours in anyone week (i.e. two (2) hours per week). In addition, one and one-half times the employee’s rate shall be paid for all time worked in excess of their regularly scheduled hours per day or on a regular assigned day of rest. Double the
22
employee’s basic rate shall be paid for all overtime exceeding two (2) hours on any regularly scheduled working day, and all work over eight (8) hours on days of rest. For employees thus affected — the Union hereby agrees to jointly apply with the Company to the Board of Industrial Relations for approval of a work schedule averaging forty-two (42) hours per week.
15.02(c) Hours of work for employees required for full 24 hour coverage on seven (7) days per week shall be four (4) shifts of twelve (12) hours rotated among the emDloyees and they will be provided room and board at six dollars ($6.00) per working day. The same charaes shall apply to employees on “standby” requiredlo stay at the camp.
15.03	A premium of one dollar twenty-five cents ($1.25) over the applicable base rate will be paid for all time worked on regularly scheduled shifts falling on Saturdays and Sundays. This premium shall not apply for hours worked at overtime rates.
15.04	An employee reporting for work on the call of the Company shall be paid the employee's regular rate of pay for the entire period spent at the place of work in response to the call with a minimum in any one day of:
(a)	Four (4) hours’ pay at the employee’s regular rate except where the employee’s condition is such that he is not competent to perform his duties or he hasfailed tocomplywith the Accident Prevention Regulations of the Workers’ Compensation Board or the Mines Regulations Act or the Safety Rules of the Company.
(b)	If the employee commences work, four (4) hours’ pay at the employee’s regular rate except where work is suspended because of reasons beyond the control of the employer.
(c)	This paragraph shall not apply when an employee is asked before completing his regular shift to continue work beyond eight (8) hours.
15.05	Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
23
15.06	If an employee is transferred to a higher or lower paid job for four (4) hours in any one (1) day he shall be paid at the higher rate for the full shift that day. An employee transferred to a higher paid job for less than four (4) hours in any one (1) day shall be paid at the higher rate for the time so employed if it is not less than one (1) hour but shall otherwise be paid his usual basic rate.
The above shall not apply to job assignments for the purpose of training under supervision.
15.07	in the case of all underground employees within the jurisdiction of this Agreement, eight (8) hours from Dry to Dry shall constitutea shift. In the case of all surface employees on non-continuous operations, there shall be an established lunch period not included in the eight (8) hour work day.
15.08	In cases where any employees are kept underground after the expiration of the regular shift due to causes over which they have nocontrol, such time shall be considered as hours worked (straight time) provided that such time shall not be considered as hours worked if the cause is beyond the control of the Company.
15.09	An employee who works overtime that is expected to last more than two (2) hours beyond the completion of his normal shift will be provided with a hot meal by the Company. If the overtime continues six (6) hours beyond his normal shift, additional coffee and sandwiches will be supplied. Should an employee who normally commutes, work unscheduled overtime during an emergency, camp accommodations will be provided by the Company.
£
15.10	All employees will be allowed a reasonable opportunity for a coffee break, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes, twice during each shift. These coffee breaks shall be arranged so as not to interfere with normal work sequences.
15.11	Notice of any change in regular shift schedule must be given to- an employee by Thursday of the week previous to the week of the schedule change, except in the event of
24
replacement for an employee absent without sufficient notice and/or emergency situations. Notice must be sent to the Union of any change of schedule involving four (4) or more employees in any one department. In the case of continuous operations notice will be given by the second last working day of the working cycle prior to the change of regular shift.
ARTICLE 16	/
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
It is mutually agreed by the Parties
o n ^ y| y| itiAn'n I fifh / yynly IKN/' I I^y\ V kyi ir * /*
4*/
16.01(a)
hereto that an additional fifty cents (50c) per hour shift differential will be paid to all employees for all work performed on afternoon, twilight and midnight ^ shifts.
16.01(b) Shift differential rates will not be paid for the hours an employee works at overtime.
ARTICLE 17
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
17.01	All work performed on the following days shall be compensated for at two and one-half times the base rate:
Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day / B.C. Day	'
New Year's Day Good Friday Easter Monday Victoria Day Dominion Day Labour Day	/
After completion of one (1) yeafte^^ptfice, eactv employee will beentitled to two (2) floating holidays per year, subject to the same limitations as in Article 18.04. This will remain in effect only until such time as an additional statutory holiday has been declared by the Federal or Provincial Governments. At that time, the entitlement will be reduced to one floater per year.
This must be applied for at least 5 working days prior to the required time off for continuous
25
operations and at least 2 working days prior to the required time off for all others. it is understood and agreed that floating holidays must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
17.02	Employees not working on the holiday set out in 17.01 of this Article shall receive pay subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)	When a holiday falls on a regular assigned day off, the next scheduled shift will be considered as the holiday for the employee concerned.
(b)	To qualify for pay on a holiday, the employee shall work the last scheduled shift before the holiday and the first scheduled shift after the holiday.
(c)	An employee unable to work his scheduled shift or shifts due to personal sickness will qualify for statutory holiday pay by presenting to the Timekeeper a medical certificate duly signed by a doctor stating the employee's illness prevented him from working his scheduled shift.
The Company will pay statutory holiday pay to disabled employees for any such holiday occurring during the first thirty (30) calendar days of the disability. No statutory holiday pay will be paid for any statutory holidays occurring subsequent to this thirty (30) day period. This shall include all employees receiving W.C.B. or other wage loss benefits.
(d)	An employee who qualified for pay for a holiday under this Article, and who does not work on such holiday, shall receive his regular pay on the basis of his regular base rate (exclusive of shift differentials, overtime, bonuses, holiday or other premiums) as on the normal shift worked by him immediately prior to such holiday. An employee so qualifying shall not beentitled to such pay if he does not work on a holiday after having been required by the Company to work and having agreed. If an employee so qualifying does work as required by the Company on a holiday, he shall receive no pay
26
under this section unless he works at least a part of hisassigned shift thereon, when he shall be paid for the hours worked at two and one-half times the base rate as provided in Section 17.01 of this Article, and for the remaining hours of the shift not worked he shall be paid at straight time.
(e)	Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, under no conditions shall any time be paid at a rate greater than two and one-half times the base rate.
ARTICLE 18
VACATION
18.01 Employees will receive vacation and be paid for the vacation in accordance with the following schedule:
Years of Continuous Service	Vacation Period	Vacation Pay
Less than one (1) year		4% of gross earnings
One (1) year but less	Three (3)	6% of gross
than eight (8) years	weeks	eatnings (_/6% of gross
Eight (8) years but less	Four (4)	
than fifteen (15) years	weeks	earnings
Fifteen (15) years and	Five (5)	10% of gross
over	weeks	earnings
It is understood and agreed that vacations must be taken in the year in which they are earned and cannot be accumulated to future years.
18.02(a) Employees with five (5) or more years of service will receive an additional three (3) weeks bonus vacation with pay at two (2%) percent per week of his gross earnings for the previous year. 18.02(b) For each five (5) vear period, the employee will receive an additional three (3) week bonus vacation with pay at two (2%) percent, per week of his gross earnings for that previous year.
18.03	All bonus vacations will be taken prior to the next five (5) year anniversary.
27

,(
18.04	To maintain continuous, uninterrupted operations, the Company will schedule, on a seniority basis, the number of employees on bonus vacation not to exceed:
Ten (10) employees from underground Six (6) employees from Plant Dept.
Two (2) employees from the Mill Two (2) employees from the Spit.
18.05(a) Where practical the Company may schedule a vacation shutdown of all or part of its operation for up to three (3) weeks.
18.05(b) The Company maintains the right to schedule various parts of its operation during the shutdown. The employees necessary for these operations will be selected from thoseemployees in the required job classifications who have indicated their desire to work during theshutdown according to Company seniority. Where there is an insufficient number of employeesindicating their desire to work selection will be made in reverse order of Company seniority. Employees who work during the shutdown will take their vacation at a later mutually agreed upon time. The Company will give a three (3) month notice when work will be required during the shutdown.
18.05(c) Vacation schedules will be posted in each department by February 15th of each year identifying whether or not there will be a vacation shutdown during Julyand August. In theeventthere is no shutdown employees will signifytheirvacation preferences by March 1'5th of each year. Vacations will be assigned by company seniority giving employees with one (1) or more years seniority their preferences as much as possible and practical within classifications and departments. The Company will post in each department a list of employees and vacation time granted by April 15th of each year.
18.05(d) After March 15th senior employees requesting unused or changing previously requested vacations shall arrange vacation dates by
28
mutual agreement between the employee and the Company: it being understood that the senior employee may not displace a less senior employee. Employees wishing to schedule unused vacation entitlement to be taken from November 1st through ADril 15th shall reauest such vacation entitlements by October 15th and the Company shall confirm the same by October 31st. The vacation schedule shall be posted and shall remain posted from April 15th through the remainder of the vacation year and shall be updated by October 31st.
18.05(e) The Company agrees that once an employee's vacation has been scheduled, it will not be changed except for valid operational requirements; or if the employee has transferred to a different job at his request; or in the case of unforeseen operating difficulties. Valid operational requirements or unforeseen operating difficulties will be determined by a senior Company official. Should the employee suffer a loss through nonrefundable deposits or other increased travel costs for similar arrangements due to such a determination by management, with prior approval, the Company will reimburse such loss.
18.06 Vacations in excess of the three (3) week shutdown for which employees may be eligible shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance and taken at mutually agreed upon time, that will allow for the maintenance of an adequate work force.
18.07(a) All hourly employees will receive their earned vacation pay on the payday immediately following their anniversary by separate bank deposit with an itemized statement.
18.07(b) Bonus Vacation pay directly proportional to the time being taken will be paid in advance of the vacation with an itemized statement.
ARTICLE 19
HEALTH AND WELFARE
19.01	The Company agrees to pay one hundred 29
percent (100%) of the cost of covering employees registered with the Medical Services Association of British Columbia, including Extended Health Benefits Plan. Such employees must be full time day rate employees and both Company and employees agree at all times to comply with the Medical Services regulations.
19.02	The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost for all employees covered by Group Life Insurance Policy and a Sickness and Non-Compensable Accident Benefit Insurance Policy. The coverage will be as follows:
(a)	The Group Life Insurance coverage will be thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) and y7employees will be covered at the expiration of their ( probationary period. In addition, Accidental Death and Dismemberment coverage will be thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) and employees will be ■y covered at the expiration of their probationary 1/^ period.
3	(b) The Sickness and Accident Policy will pay
the maximum provided under U.I.C. (currently$318 . per week) forlost time beginning with the first day of yi/an accident and with theeighth (8th) day of sickness \/ and extending for a maximum period of fifty-two / .(ffi2) weeks. New employees will be covered upon iilcbmpletion of the probationary period. fV (c) Any employee who receives Weekly Indemnity and is subsequently paid by W.C.B. or
I.C.B.C. shall return the equivalent of the Weekly Indemnity payments to the Company.
19.03	The Company agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of Medical Services Association Dental Plan A, basic services payment of claims to be ateiahtv.Dercent (80%) and coverage
&Plan B, with paymentbeing at fifty percent (50%) and Plan C, with payment being at fifty percent (50%) up to a maximum of $1,250 per eligible family member.
19.04	Employees to be covered must befull time
30
/

<7
day rate employees and must be registered with the Medical Services Association for the above mentioned Dental Plan. .
19.05 The Company's long term disability program will provide eight hundred dollars ($800.00) per month less any benefits payable from Workers' Compensation if an employee is unable to work due to illness or accident as defined by the insurance carrier. Eligible employees would be those who have completed one (1) year’s employment. There shall be a fifty-two (52) week waiting period before payments commence and they will continue to the earlier of attainment of age sixty-five (65) or date of recovery.

19.06 As of September 1, 1986, the Company agrees to increase the pension plan from fourteen dollars ($14.00) to fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month per year of continuous service.
It is further agreed to increase the pension plan on September 1,1987 to sixteen dollars ($16.00) and on September 1, 1988 to seventeen dollars ($17.00) per month per year of continuous service.
As of September 1,1986, the Company agrees to the addition of a spousal survivors benefitshould the employee die before attaining the age of sixty-five (65). Such benefits shall be established based on fifty percent (50%) of the earned benefit.
It is agreed that retirement will be the last day of the month in which the employee celebrates-his sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
As of September 1,1986 the plan shall be vested in the employee to the amount of fifty percent (50%) after five (5) years continuous service and escalating ten percent (10%) each year thereafterto one hundred percent (100%) vesting after ten (10) years of continuous service.
l
19.07(a) Employees who are laid off shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the month following the month in which the lay off began
31
19.07(b) Employees who are on authorized leave of absence shall continue to receive current Health and Welfare coverage as per Article 19 for the three months following the month in which the absence began.
19.07(c) Employees who are absent for nonwork related injury or illness shall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and A.D.&D.) for two (2) years from the commencement of the absence.
19.07(d) Employees who are absent for work related inury orillnessshall continue to receive their current Health and Welfare coverage (Medical, Extended Medical, Life Insurance, Dental and
A.D.&D.) for three (3) years from the date of the disability.
19.07(e) Should an employee cease to be disabled as a result of work or non-work related injury or illness and chooses not to return to work, or should an employee take alternate employment, the Company's obligations to maintain Health and Welfare coverage shall cease.
19.07(f) Employees who are on such continuous coverage must keep the Company informed of their current address and employment status. Medical, Extended Medical and Dental coverages are not available to non-residents of British Columbia. Full coverage is not available to those in the employ of another employer. Failure to keep the Company informed of the current address and employment status will result in the cancellation of benefit coverage.
19.07(g) In no event will benefits continue the age of sixty-five (65).
ARTICLE 20
UNDERGROUND CONTRACT COMMITTEE

20.01 The Company shall recognize a contract committee consisting of three Union members. Such members shall be qualified by experience and
32
the committee shall concern itself exclusively with matters relating to incentive contracts.
20.02	The Contract Committee, the Mine Superintendent and the Contract Engineer will meet monthly to discuss underground contracts and bonus The purpose of such meetings is to solve problems of mutual concern. A spirit of cooperation is essential.
20.03	In the event of a dispute over contract prices or contract conditions, said dispute shall be presented to the Contract Committee and the Company Management for settlement.
20.04	The Company agrees that the incentive bonus schedule as presently constituted will remain in effect.
ARTICLE 21
UNION SECURITY
21.01	The Company shall honour a written assignment of dues to the Union.
21.02	An assignment pursuant to Section 21.01 of this Article shall be in the following form:
TO: WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED
I hereby authorize you todeduct from my wages and pay to the CANADIAN ASSOCIATION OF INDUSTRIAL, MECHANICAL AND ALLIED WORKERS, LOCAL 19, dues as established by the CAIMAW Local 19 Constitution and By-Laws per month beginning with the month of:
_______________________________ , 19_______
and/or such monthly dues per month or additional assessments as the Union Constitution and/or bylaws from time to time provide, and I hereby authorize and request you, without further authorization or requests from me to deduct and remit to the Union such other amounts.
CLOCK NO. _________________________________
EMPLOYEE'S NAME ___________________________
33
(SIGN)
21.03	Unless the assignment is revoked in writing and delivered to the Company, the Company shall remit the dues deducted to the Union at least once a month, together with a written statement of the names of the employees for whom the deductions were made and the amount of each deduction.
21.04	If an assignment is revoked, the Company shall give a copy of the revocation to the Union.
21.05(a) Notwithstanding any provisions contained in Sections 21 ,01, 21.02 and 21.03 of this Article, there shall be no financial responsibility on the part of the Company for fees, dues or assessments of an employee unless there are sufficient unpaid wages of that employee in the Company's hands.
21.05(b) The Company agrees to deduct once each month from the earnings of every employee covered by this Agreement the sum of monthly dues as may be fixed constitutionally by the Union.
21.06	The said deductions shall commence at the effective date of these sections, and in the case of each assignment by an employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of the sections with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
21.07	The Company shall during the life of this Agreement, deduct as acondition of each employee in the Bargaining Units continued employment, an amount equal to the Union dues from the first pay cheque due in each calendar month to each such employee and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the month following the month in which such deduction is made to the Financial Secretary of the Union. The Company will, at the time of making each such payment to the Financial Secretary of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted.
21.08(a) As a condition of employment, each 34
new employee will join the Union on his/herfirstday of employment.
21.08(b) All employees whoare members of the Union on the effective date of thisagreementand all employees who join thereafter shall remain members of the Union as a condition of continuing employment during the term of this agreement.
21.08(c) Those employees who are not members of the Union on the effective date of this agreement and do not want to join are not affected by (b) above.
ARTICLE 22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
22.01	A written reprimand given by the Company to an employee will be signed by him and by the Shop Steward concerned, as an acknowledgement of its receipt, and a copy of the written reprimand will be sent to the Union immediately and shall be subject to the grievance procedure. When a reprimand ordisciplinary action involves suspension from work for a day or longer, and if such suspension involves an employee who normally commutes, the notice of his suspension will be given to him the day before his suspension is to commence. This is to prevent the employee travelling to the mine on a given day and not being allowed to work that day. After the period of six (6) clear months has elapsed from the date the reprimand was issued, all reference to the reprimand will be stricken from the records. The Company will give written reprimands within three (3) working days of the occurrence of the event provided that there is reasonable access to the employee.
22.02	MOONLIGHTING. The Company and the Union agree that the practice commonly known as “moonlighting” is wrong in principle. The term “moonlighting” for the purpose of this clause shall refer to a full-timeemployee who regularly makes a
35
practice of working for another employer for a substantial number of hours during the week.
(a)	When this practice affects orconflicts with Company business or the employee's ability to perform his normal duties, it shall be cause for reprimand or dismissal.
(b)	When this practice affects orconflicts with the Union policy, the Company agrees to cooperate with the Union re: reprimand or dismissal.
22.03	The Company and the Union will have printed in pocket size books, copies of this Collective Agreement. The Company will pay the cost of printing. Every employee will be provided with a contract book and one hundred (100) copies will be provided to the Union. The books will be printed at a Union Shop.
22.04	An employee will receive two (2) hours pay for a medical examination as required for continued employment with the Company.
22.05	References of days, weeks, months, or years shall be understood to mean calendar days, weeks, months or years, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE
APPRENTICES
23.01	The Company will sponsor an apprenticeship training program as required.	I
23.02(a) In the event of a reduction of forces, apprentices shall be laid off in accordance with their apprentice seniority within the group of apprentices within their trade.
23.02(b) An apprentice who has been laid off pursuant to paragraph (a) of this clause shall be entitled to all rights of any employee under this Agreement, including those set forth under Article 12 — Seniority.
23.03	The basic hourly rate for apprentices shall be in accordance with the rate for the Group of Appendix “A’-Wage Schedule as set forth below:
36
On Entry.................................Grade 2
After 1st year successful completion.. . Grade 3
After 2nd year successful completion Grade 5 After 3rd year successful completion Grade 7 After 4th year successful completion . Grade 8 Upon Certification/To Certified
Journeyman's Rate.............., Grade 9
Rate increases are contingent upon successful completion of the previous year. This includes passing the apprenticeship board's exams, The yearly intervals shall be calculated using the date of entry into the programme as the anniversary date. If he should be unsuccessful in his examination the rate becomes effective when he passes a subsequent examination.
23.04	Any apprentice who fails any year of his apprenticeship on two (2) successive opportunities shall be removed from the Apprenticeship Training Program.
ARTICLE 24
SPECIAL ALLOWANCES
24.01	HOUSING SUBSIDY
The Company agrees to continue to pay as is presently being paid to all employees who work at the minesite, a housing subsidy of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per day worked.
24.02	IRREGULAR SHIFTS
Employees travelling and working irregular eight (8) hour shifts or on call outs that do not coincide with the bus service will receive a subsidy of thirteen dollars ($13.00) per working shift.
24.03	ATTENDANCE BONUS
The attendance bonus as presently being paid will remain in effect. There will be no loss of such bonus if bereavement leave is taken within the limitations of Article 10.05.
24.04	TOOL ALLOWANCE
Excluding Welders, all tradesmen shall receive fifty cents (50c) and all Journeymen one dollar ($1.00) per shift worked as a tool allowance.
37
ARTICLE 25
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
25.01	The Union acknowledges that the Company has the exclusive right to install. at any time, mechanical, electronic or other types of automated equipment.
25.02	For the purposes of this Article. “Technological Change” means:
(a)	the introduction by the employer of a major change in his equipment or material from that equipment or material previously used by the employer in his work, undertaking, or business; and/or
(b)	a major change in the manner in which an
employer carries on his work, undertaking, or business related to the introduction of that equipment or material.	•
25.03	The Company shall notify the Union not less than one month in advance, or give as much JI notice as is practical, of intent to introduce ^ technological changes which involve the discharge
or laying off of employees.
25.04	In the event of a pending technological change, the Company shall advise the Union of such change at the earliest opportunity and meet with the Union to discuss the ramifications of such technological changes as soon as practical.
25.05 Where arVemployee who has at least one
year of service with the Company is displaced from / his job by reasj/n of technological change, and ^ where a vacancy exists for which he mightqualify by ’ training, he shall be entitled to such training at the Company's expense, provided that he has the necessary basic education and abilities to absorb such training to equip him for the operation of new equipment or procedures, The period of such training shall not exceed a maximum of thirty (30)	\
working days.	■? '
25.06	Employees who have at least one (1) year / of service with the Company who are discharged or 'A \
38
4
laid off because of technological change entitled to severance pay under Article 12.17 of agreement.
39
are
this
WAGE SCHEDULE “A”
CLASSIFICATION
EFFECTIVE
SE
1. Labourer
2 Bucker/Reagent Man
Deckman Mine Trainee Underground Labourer Tailings Man Apprentice
3. Crusher Operator	16.18
Eauioment Operator 3 Bit Grinder Trades Helper'
Diamond Drill Helper Apprentice 1 Bus Driver
4 Powerhouse Operator	16.49 Pipeman
Trammer
Underground Crusherman
Pumpman
Cagetender
Fillman
Slusherman
Front End Loader
Timberman's Helper
Filter Operator
5	Underground Heavy Equipment '
Operator
Grinding Operator Equipment Operator 2 Apprentice 2
6. Diamond Driller Timberman Miner Trackman
17.16
40
7.	Flotation Operator’	17.46
Hoistman
Equipment Operator 1 Concentrate Truck Driver Apprentice 3
8.	Tradesman
Control Room Operator'
9.	AptnraeytaaHt
17.86
i 18.34 M
‘Classification changes as a result of thi^-A^feefnent are effective April 1, 1987.
41
APPENDIX A
ENTRY LEVEL OR POSTED POSITIONS BY DEPARTMENT
PLANT
Labourer (E)
Equipment Operator 3(E)* Powerhouse Operator Concentrate Truck Driver Apprentice Tradesman Journeyman Trades Helper (E)
Front End Loader
MILL
Labourer (E)
Bucker/Reagent Man (E) Tailings Man (E) Apprentice Journeyman
MINE
U. G. Labourer (E) Deckman (E)
Mine Trainees (E)
Bit Grinder (E) Cagetender (E)
Diamond Drill Helper (E)
Diamond Driller
Pipe man
Timberman
Miner
Trackman
U.G. Heavy Equipment Op Timberman’s Helper (E) Front End Loader
CO
PLANT
MINE
Progression 1 ■
Equipment Oi peabr 1
Eq ipment CD peabr 2
*
EqoiDment CD peabr 3
LINES OF PROGRESSION
MILL
Control Room Op.
Flotation Operator
Grinding Operator
Filter Operator
*
Crusher Operator Entry Level
Underground Crusherman Slusherman Trammer '
Fillman
Pumpman
Entry Level
Progression 2
Hoistman
't
Cagetender
"Trammer performs any or all of the following functions: Motorman; Mucking Machine Operator Chutepuller.
•t*
‘Equipment Operator 3
Trained, qualified and licenced to operate two (2) of the following:
—	Forklift
—	Hyab
—	Trucks under 5 tons
‘Equipment Operator 2
Trained, qualified and licenced to operate three (3) of the following:
—	Forklift
—	Backhoe/Loader
—	Hyab
—	Trucks over 5 tons
‘Equipment Operator 1
Trained, qualified and licenced (Class 1 Air) to operate five (5) of the following:
— D8 Cat	— Sander
— Grader	— Snowplow
—	388 Loader
—	Trucks over 25 tons
APPENDIX B
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED
The positions for the Equipment Operator Classifications in Plant Department and rate retention will be as follows:
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR #1 — (JOB CLASS 7) Name	P/R # Current Job Class
Nick Simonovic	152
Clayton Martin *	156
Jens Houlind	164
Guy Jones	151
Brent Williams	148
Gary Chadsey	613
7
9
7
7
4
7
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR #2 — (JOB CLASS 5) Name	P/R # Current Job Class
Ron Stewart	160
Norm Poole ***	154
Kewal Baines . *	163
Earl Jackson	161
4 9
5
6
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR #3 — (JOB CLASS 3) Name	P/R # Current Job Class
Tim Hunter	155
3
Clayton Martin functions as a Lead Hand with a varied responsibility to include the operation of equipment and tradeswork. He will be paid Job Class 9.
Kewal Baines in addition to operating equipment will have responsibility for cutting and preparing timber for the underground. He will be paid Job Class 8.
Norm Poole in addition to operating equipment will have the responsibility for performing a number of trade trasks. He will be paid Job Class 9.
In the event that training is required for individuals to move from one step of the Equipment Operators' classification to another, the Company generally will do the following:
45
1.	Any necessary training must be done on the job with Westmin Resources Limited equipment and personnel.
For example:
There will be no training or provision for time so spent at a technical school, safer way driving, etc.
2,	For employees in Equipment Operator classification #3 required to train for the Equipment Operator classification #2, the following will apply:
“For the first one hundred sixty (160) hours the employee will be compensated at Job Class 3; all hours in excess of that number, for purposes of necessary training, will be at Job Class 5,”
3.	For employees in the Equipment Operator #2 classification required to train for the Equipment Operator #1 classification, the following will apply.
“For the first nine hundred sixty (960) hours, the employee will be compensated at Job Class 5; all hours in excess of that number, for purposes of necessary training, will be at Job Class 7."
4,	The foregoing in Sections 1 and 2 is contingent on:
(a)	The employee must accept the necessary training.
(b)	The Company will determine the number of training hours required and after that time decide on whether the employee is qualified.
(c)	The employee, once trained or back to his normal job function, will receive his regular rate of pay.
(d)	The Company will decide on the number of people required in each classification within the terms and conditions of the Collective Agreement.
(e)	If a vacancy exists, the employee will be promoted based on departmental seniority provided they have been trained and are qualified. The
46
Company accepts this training responsibility subject to "B” above.
5.	Incidental costs required in the training process such as licences, examination time, etc. will be borne by the Company. This must be approved in advance by our Training Department.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 1
It is agreed and understood that as soon as possible after ratification of this agreement the Company will arrange fora van from Campbell River to transport all persons on the 4 x 4 shift to the operations at the beginning of their four (4) shifts and to Campbell River at the conclusion of their fourth (4th) shift worked in the cycle.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 2 HOLIDAY PAY
All hourly employees will receive their earned holiday pay immediately following their anniversary date.
Employees are encouraged to take their annual vacation not later than 10 months following their anniversary date.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING No. 3 Re: 12.03
The Company agrees that it is not the intent under this article to avoid hiring regular full time employees when such are justified for ongoing regular work. When such regular full time employees achieve their 240 hour probation, they achieve recall rights, are paid housing allowance and attendance bonus and achieve other benefitsat stated times in the Collective Agreement. The Company agrees that the “special assignment” designation in 12.03 will not be used to avoid the above but only be utilized for assignments not in the normal complement.
47
DATED at Campbell River in the Province of British Columbia this 25th day of May, 1987.
Signed on behalf of:
WESTMIN RESOURCES LIMITED
G.	W. Flumerfelt Vice-President
B.C. Operations, Mining
E. Sader
Resident Mine Manager
H.	Mercer Manager,
Employee Relations G. Shiels
Plant Superintendent
A. Eccles Mill Manager
W. Skrlac Chief Accountant
Signed on behalf of:
C.A.I.M.A.W. -LOCAL 19
J. Keighley Staff Representative
C. Pelletier President, Local 19
Steve Wood Vice-President,
Local 19
A.	Beaudin Shop Steward
B.	Hicks Chairman,
Safety Committee
R. McFadden Chairman,
Grievance Committee
T. Samuels Trustee
48
LETTER OF INTENT CODE OF PRACTICE
During the term of this Collective Agreement. Westmin Resources Limited and the Canadian Association of industrial, Mechanical and Allied Workers, Local 19, agree by their signatures affixed to this document that the following terms and conditions will apply for the Joint Industrial Health and Safety Committee at the Myra Falls Operation.
1.	Purpose of the Joint Industrial Health and
Safety Committee
The Company and the Union share a mutual concern for the safety and health of employees and /ecognize that this concern can be best expressed through the mutual efforts of the Joint Industrial Health and Safety Committee.
The purpose of the Committee is to conduct monthly inspection tours and subsequent meetings, review past inspections, review accident and near miss investigation reports and minutes of previous meetings, make recommendations to correct hazardous conditions and promote compliance with relevant government legislation affecting industrial health and safety at the Mine.
2.	Structure of the Joint Industrial Health and Safety Committee
The Committee will be composed of equal representation from the Company and the Union and they will be representative of the areas in which they work. Therefore, the structure of the Committee is as follows:
Joint Industrial Health and Safety Committee Company
Company Safety Committee Chairman (Safety Department)
Mine Department Representative (2)
Lynx (1)
H. W. (1)
49
Plant Department Representative (2)
Surface (1)
Underground (1)
Mill Department Representative (1)
Union
Union Safety Committee Chairman Mine Department Representative (2)
Lynx (1)
H. W. (1)
Plant Department Representative (2)
Surface (1)
Underground (1)
Mill Department Representative (1)
3.	Monthly Inspection Tours
Monthly inspection tours will be conducted in each area by the Company Chairman (or his designate), Union Chairman (or his designate) and the appropriate representatives from the department concerned (one (1) from the Company; one (1) from Union), except; an employee from the Spit, appointed by the Union, together with a representative of the Company will conduct monthly safety inspections of the Spit area.
The Committee shall inspect as many active locations in the Mine as the Committee deems appropriate.
4.	Meetings of the Joint Industrial Health and
Safety Committee
Monthly meetings of the Joint Industrial Health and Safety Committee will be chaired by a Chairman selected from the Joint Committee; a Secretary will be selected in the same manner. In the selection for these positions, the Committee has to be aware that one’(l) position must be from the Company and the other from the Union. The Committee at its discretion may interchange the persons in these positions once every six (6) months.
50
5.	Minutes of the Monthly Joint Industrial Health
and Safety Committee
The minutes of the Committee meetings will be recorded by the Secretary. Both the Secretary and the Committee Chairman will sign the minutes.
The minutes will then be presented to the
Company Safety Director. He shall make duplicates promptly available to all Committee members, post a copy on the bulletin boards and forward a copy to the local and National Union Office and the Mines Inspection Branch.
The Company Safety Director will inform the Mine Manager of the results of Committee meetings and the remedial action taken. He will also inform the Committee of remedial action taken.
6.	Recommendations of The Joint Industrial
Health and Safety Committee
Where immediate compliance cannot be accomplished, the Company shall ensure that the recommendation has been complied with by the next Industrial Health and Safety Committee meeting. Where compliance cannot be accomplished by the next monthly meeting of the Industrial Health and Safety Committee, the Company will document in writing, with copies to the Union Safety Committee Chairman, the reasons for non-compliance along with future plans for compliance.
7.	Notification and Joint Investigation
In the event of a lost time accident or near miss accident, the Union Safety Committee Chairman, or his designate, will be notified as soon as possible. Before the Company Safety Department conductsa lost time accident investigation and/or a near miss investigation, the Union Safety Committee Chairman, or his designate, will be informed of such investigations. Further, the Union Safety Committee will have the right to designate an employee to participate in the full investigation process.
51
8.	Accident and Near-Miss Investigation Reports
These reports shall contain the following:
(a)	The place, date and time of the incident.
(b)	The names and job titles of persons injured, if applicable.
(c)	The names of witnesses.
(d)	A brief description of the incident.
(e)	A statement of the sequence of events which preceded the incident.
(f)	The identification of any unsafe conditions, acts or procedures which contributed in any manner to the incident.
(g)	Recommended corrective actions to prevent similar occurrences.
(h)	The names of the persons who investigated the incident,
9.	Right to Accompany Inspectors
Where a government inspector conducts an inspection at the Mine, and that inspection is directly related to the health and safety of the employees, a Union Safety Committee representative may, at the Union's discretion, accompany the inspector on his tour. When such an Inspector arrives at the Mine, the Company shall notify the Union Safety Committee Chairman or his designate.
10.	Access to Log Books
The Union Safety Committee Chairman, or his designate, will be given reasonable access to log books kept for the maintenance and safety of equipment.
11.	Disclosure of Information
The Company will notify the Union of hazardous substances or chemicals used at the Mine.
Wherever possible, the following would be included with notification:
52
(a)	The chemical breakdown;
(b)	Proper handling techniques; and
(c)	Necessary training for safe handlin
12.	Time Spent by An Employee
The time so spent on any of theaforementioned agreed to items necessitating loss of time by the employees delegated by the Union shall be considered as time worked and payment shall be made on the basis of straight time. Under no conditions will pu native rates be paid.
13.	Education and Training
It is the policy of Westmin Resources Limited that all employees receive sufficient training in order that they may perform their work in a safe manner.
14.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provision of the Collective Agreement pertaining to Industrial Health and Safety, the Mines Act or relevant legislation that is superior to the foregoing shall take precedence.
53
Read, agreed and accepted this 25th day of May, 1987.
For the Company:
Westmin Resources Limited Myra Falls Operation
E. Sader, Resident Mine Manager
H. Mercer, Manager of Personnel and Industrial Relations
For the Union:
Canadian Association of Industrial, Mechanical and Allied Workers, Local 19
J. Keighley, Staff Representative
C. Pelletier, President, Local 19
54
INDEX
Accident Investigations	ARTICLE NO. Code	PAGE NO. 51-52
Agreement Preamble	1	1
Employees Covered	2.01	2
Term	4.01	2
Printing of	22.03	36
Appendicies Appendix A
Entry Level or Posted
Positions		42-44
Appendix B Equipment Operators		45-46
Apprentices Sponsorship	23.01	36
Layoff of	23.02	36
Rates of Pay	23.03	36
Removal from Program	23.04	37
Attendance Bonus	24.03	37
Bereavement Leave	10.05	7
Bonus Vacation	18.02(a)	27
Bulletin Boards Call-Out Coffee Break Contracting Out Court Duty Crew Reduction Dental Plan Discipline, Notice of Floating Holidays
9.01
15.04
15.10
3.03
10.07
12.14
19.03
22.01
17.01
5
23
24
2
8
15
30
35
25-26
Health and Welfare Medical Group Life A.D. & D.
Sickness & Accident Non-duplication of Payments Dental
19.01	29-30
19.02(a)	30
19.02(a)	30
19.02(b)	30
19.02(c)	30
19.03	30
55
To Qualify for Dental L.T.D.
Pension
Coverage While Absent Holidays
Statutory Holidays Floating Holidays Payment for Holiday not Worked
Hours of Work Work Week Defined Continuous or SemiContinuous Operations Employees on 24-hour Coverage
Notice of Shift Change Coffee Break Dry to Dry Time Underground at Expiration of Shift
Housing Subsidy Industrial Health & Safety Access to log books Accident Investigations Committee & Inspections Disclosure Draeger Testers Injured Workers Inspection Bonus Protective Equipment Work on PCB’s Injured Worker Irregular Shifts Job Posting Requirement to Post Bid on lower rated position Selection of Applicant Bidding Restricted Lead Hand Premium
56
ARTICLE PAGE
NO.	NO.
19.04	30-31
19.05	31
19.06	31
19.07	31-32
17.01	25
17.01	25-26
17.02	26
15.01	(a) 22
15.02(a)	22
15.02(c)	23
15.11	24-25
15.10	24
15.07	24
15.08	24
24.01	37
Code	52
Code	51-52
Code	49-50
Code	52
11.07	11
11.05	11
11.01(b)	9
11.04	9-11
11.06	11
11.05	11
24.02	37
12.08(a)	14
12.08(b)	14
12.09	14
12.10-12.11	15
14.04	21
ARTICLE PAGE
Leave of Absence For Union Business Union Delegates National/Internationa I Gatherings Local Affairs General Leave Bereavement Court Duty
Letters of Understanding Letter No. 1 Transportation Letter No. 2 Holiday Pay Letter No. 3 Article 12.03 Life Insurance Line of Progression Appendix A
Entry Level or Posted Positions
Lockouts or Strikes Prohibition of Honor Lawful Pickets Long-Term Disability Management's Rights Medical Examinations Medical Plan Moonlighting No Discrimination Overtime Overtime Meals No Duplication Bates at time and one-half Rates at double time For continuous or semicontinuous shifts Preamble Pension Plan
10.01	5
10.03(a)	6
10.03(b)	6
10.04	6-7
10.05	7
10,07	8
47
47
47
19.02(a)	30
42-44
7.01	4
7.02	4
19.05	31
5,01	3
22.04	36
19.01	29-30
22.02	35
6	4
15.09	24
15.05	23-24
15.01	(b)	22
15.01	(c)	23
15.02(b)	22
I	1
19.06	31
57
ARTICLE PAGE
NO. NO.
Retirement
19.06
Seniority
Defined	12.01
Probationary Employees	12.02
Filling of Vacancies	12.04
Accumulation, Retention,
Loss of	12.05
Non-permanent Promotions	12.06
Seniority Lists	12.18
Settlement of Dispute	13
Severence	12.17(b)
Shift Differential	16.01
Special Allowances	
‘Housing Subsidy	24.01
Irregular Shifts	24.02
Attendance Bonus	24.03
Tool Allowance	24.04
Special Assignment	12.03
Statutory Holiday	17.01
Technological Change	25
Temporary Transfer	
To Staff
And Rates of Pay Term of Agreement Tool Allowance Training
Posting/Selection Maintenance of bonus
2.02
15.06
4
24.04
12.12
12.13
Underground Contract Committee
Underground Premium Union Activities on Company Time
Union Recognition Union Security Dues
Membership
20
14.05(a)
8.01
3
21
21.08
31
11
12
12
12-13
13
16
17-20
16
25
37
37
37
37 12 25
38
1
24
2-3
37
15
15
32 21
4-5
2
33-34
34
58
ARTICLE PAGE
NO. NO.
Vacations
Entitlement Vacation Shutdown Scheduling of Change of Schedule Pay Wages
Schedule “A”
New, Changed Classifications Cost of Living Allowance Lead Hand Premium Underground Premium Stand-by Pay Payment by Bank Deposit Wage Schedule "A Weekend Premium
18.01	27
18.05(a)-(b) 28 18 05(c)-(d) 28 18.05(e)	29
18.07	29
40-41
14.02(a)	21
14.03	21
14.04	21
14.05(a)	21
14.05(c)	22
14	06	22
40-41
15	03	23
59