SOURCE			
u,’ X:\	ft		Pf
TcRM			3L
No.
o^
tMp!.0*tcS
NO MS'll:	j
Cmi±Z ;
INDEX
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE..........
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
Contracting Out .......
ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4
...................1
......*........... 1
.................. 2
NO DISCRIMINATION	,,,..............4
MANAGEMENT........................4
UNION SECURITY,................... 5
NO CESSATION OF WORK...............5
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES......,... 6
ARTICLE 5 ■
ARTICLE 6 ■
ARTICLE 7 •
Stage One ............................................
Stage Two ............................................
Stage Three ..........................................
Differences Between Company and Union.................
General Grievance Committee, Grievance Stewards
and Plant Committeemen ...............................
ARTICLE 8 - THIRD PARTY DETERMINATION .....................
Grievance Commissioner ...............................
Arbitration ..........................................
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE ................,
Special Discharge Grievance and Arbitration Procedure _
ARTICLE 10 - EMPLOYEES IN ARMED FORCES.....................
ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY . .	.......................
Application of Seniority on Lay-Off...
Application of Seniority in a Department .............
Application of Seniority - Curtailment in Operations .
Temporary Promotions, Demotions and Transfers ..,.....
Job Posting ..........................................
Transfers General ......................................
leaves of Absence	............................37
General ..............................................41
ARTICLE 12 - ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW DEPARTMENTS, TRANSFERS AND SPECIAL SENIORITY PROVISIONS .............................................43
S*r 11 1992
Qwrorororororo	*	• •
cn o co oo --4 c*5	<o oo o> on 4^0	cosoo)
ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME .................. 46
Applicable Hourly Rate .............................47
Overtime ........................................... 47
Daily Overtime .....................................47
Weekly Overtime ................................... 48
Recognized Holidays ................................ 49
Sunday Premium .....................................51
Shift Premium ...................................... 51
Collar to Collar ...................................52
4-Hour Minimum .....................................52
call out ...........................................52
Transportation .................................... 53
Lunches .......................................... .53
Work Day -Work Week ................................ 53
ARTICLE 14 - WAGES ..................................... 54
Technological Change ............................... 55
Jury Duty .......................................... 57
Bereavement Leave .................................5 7
ARTICLE 15	-	VACATIONS ..............................58
ARTICLE 16	-	SPECIAL VACATIONS ......................61
ARTICLE 17	-	SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT .... 63
ARTICLE 18	-	BULLETIN BOARDS ........................72
ARTICLE 19	-	MISCELLANEOUS ..........................73
ARTICLE 20	-	TRADES AND STATIONARY ENGINEERS . .73
Trades .............................................73
Apprentices ........................................75
Stationary Engineers, Refrigeration Operators
and Compressor Operators .......................
Incentive for Study Courses .......................
ARTICLE 21	-	GENERAL TRAINING .......................79
ARTICLE 22	-	INCENTIVES .............................82
ARTICLE 23	-	PENSIONS ...............................85
ARTICLE 24	-	INSURANCES, HEALTH
AND HOSPITAL SERVICES .................86
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
Group Term Life Insurance Plan ..........................124
Group Non-Occupational Accidental Death and
Dismemberment Insurance Plan.......................  127
Prescription Drug Plan (Formulary - 2).................   129
Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident insurance Plan.....130
Dental Plan ..........................................    132
Group Optical Insurance Plan ........................*...133
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
Pension (YEWPs and Entitlement to Non-Occupational Sickness
and Accident Insurance Payments).....................134
‘Will’and‘Shall1 .........................................136
Reciprocal Recall Rights .................................137
Credit Union Deductions..................................139
Plant Committeeman Facilities ............................140
Service Credit for Former Officers of Mine, Mill and Smelter
Workers Union........................................,. 141
Joint Occupational Health Study Program...................143
Training in Use of Monitoring Equipment...................147
Timing of Job Posting ProcedurePlant Committeemen -
Upper and Lower Yard.................................149
Union Elections or Votes ...............................  152
Prescription Safety Glasses........,.....................153
Increases in Group Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident
Insurance Payments ..................................154
Grievance Commissioners...................................155
Vacations.................................................156
Lists of Overtime Worked..................................157
Certificate Allowance - Stationary Engineers..............158
Mileage Compensation - Construction Group Employees.......159
Employee involvement in Training..........................161
IV
Distribution of Overtime .....................................162
Orientation of New Employees..................................163
Joint Committee (Placement of Permanent Partially
Disabled Employees) .................................... 164
Absent Employees Subject to Lay-off ......................... 166
Disability Retirement Applications for Individuals with
Recall Rights .......................................... 167
Eligibility for Re-Transfer ..................................168
Trades Committee .............................................169
Special Short Term Shutdown Protection Plan ..................171
Assignments Under Article 11.23.......................... "...172
Coleman and Lower Coleman ....................................174
Travel Compensation ......................................... 175
Inco Mines Development Department ............................176
Recovered Disability Pensioners Eligible to Apply for Full Time
Employment ............................................. 178
Education and Humanities Funds ...............................180
Recalculated Continuous Service for Recalled Employees .......181
Scheduling Work During Any Vacation Shutdown .................182
Warehouse Travel Crew.........................................184
Welding Work Requirements, including Tack Welding.............185
Operation Reductions at Levack Mine (includes McCreedy West)
Department ............................................. 186
Vacation Earnings for Employees in Receipt of Benefits Under The Group Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident insurance Plan in The Preceding Year.....................187
Small Contracts at Creighton Mine Complex and the '
Copper Refinery..........................................188
Whistle Mine Development Work.................................189
The Environmental Awareness Committee ........................190
v
ARTICLE 1 - SCOPE
1.01	This Agreement is entered into by the Union on its own behalf and on behalf of all employees.
1.02	The word 'employee’ or 'employees’ wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the employees of the Company in the Sudbury District defined as the appropriate collective bargaining unit by the above mentioned certificate of the Ontario Labour Relations Board dated, the fifteenth day of October, 1962.
1.03	If the Company establishes a new nickel-copper mining, milling, smelting or refining operation in the Sudbury District, the provisions of this Agreement will apply to bargaining unit employees working at such operations.
1.04	The words 'Local Union’ wherever used in this Agreement shall mean local 6500 of the United Steelworkers of America.
1.05	Wherever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement, it shall also mean the feminine gender, unless the context requires otherwise.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the sole collective bargaining agency, for all employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment.
2.02	Foremen, supervisors and other persons employed
by the Company, but not employees as defined in this ^ Aareementlshall not perforrnyvoik which is normally / done by employees (except cases of an emergency nature) where qualified employees are reasonably available to do such work. Nothing in this paragraph shall interfere with the normal performance of duties such as the carrying out of research programs, the
necessary instruction of employees, the inspection of equipment, product or process by such rion-bargain-
1
ing unit employees. If a grievance is filed alleging violation of the foregoing, the foreman, supervisor, or other person referred to in the grievance and the person on whose evidence the grievance is substantially based shall be required, on the request of either party, to attend any grievance meetings established under Article 7 of this Agreement.
2.03	It is recognized that changing technology or changes
in methods of operation may result in the creation of new production and maintenance jobs. Such new jobs shall as soon as practicable be performed by bargaining unit employees if such jobs comprise the significant functions which have been part of jobs performed by bargaining unit employees. If such new jobs do not comprise the significant functions, but do comprise similar functions which have been part of jobs performed by bargaining unit employees, such new jobs will on the request of the Local Union be reviewed by the Company with the Local Union as to whether such new jobs are to be performed by bargaining unit employees.
The Company will meet on request with the Local Union to discuss those new occupational classifications for which training will be aiven under Articles 20 or 21. If, in the opinion of the Union, alleged breaches of this Section cannot be satisfactorily dealt with under the grievance procedure, the Company under-&&es to discuss with the Union or the Local Union under the provisions of Section 7.22 hereof what appropriate action should be taken to correct specific or repeated instances of such alleged violations.
2.04	Contracting Out
a)	The Company agrees that the Union has an understandable concern over 'contracting out’ by the Company because of its effect upon such matters as job opportunity for the employees.
b)	The Company will, therefore, having due regard
2
that any exercise of these rights and powers in conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
i
ARTICLE 5 • UNION SECURITY '5"	-7
5.01	The Company shall during the life of this Agreement
deduct as a mnHitirin_nf parh pmplnypak continued "^rnptoymsiitrfrsrTrWe^y cheque due in each week to each such employee, a sum equal to Union weekly dues ihTRearhount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union Constitution and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the month following the month in which such deductions are made to the International Treasurer of the Union. The Company will, at the time of making each such payment to the International Treasurer of the Union, provide the names and current addresses according to the Company records of the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted.
5.02	The said deductions shall commence, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company, with the calendar month in which his first pay cheque from the Company is received by him.
5.03	The Company shall on or before March 1st in each year furnish to each employee a statement of the total Union monthly dues which have been deducted from such employee’s pay cheque and remitted to the Union during the preceding calendar year.
ARTICLE 6 - NO CESSATION OF WORK
6.01	Neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, sit-down, slow-down, or any suspension of work against the Company which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company: nor shall the Company engage in any lockout at its Plants or Mines in the Sudbury District.
5
ARTICLE 7 - ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES Differences Between the Company and Employees
7.01	Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such differences without undue delay in the following manner.
7.02	Stage One
An aggrieved employee may, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, make his representations orally or in writing to the Management Representative designated by the Company from time to time to handle such matter at this stage. In making such representations he may, if he desires, be accompanied and represented by a Grievance Steward in his Department or a Grievance Steward from his Plant, if there is no Grievance Steward available in his Department, and such meeting will normally occur during the grievor’s working hours. Any settlement of the grievance reached between the aggrieved employee and the Company at this stage will be considered applicable to the case in question and not as establishing a precedent for future cases. If within three (3) days from the time when such representations were presented to such Management Representative a decision satisfactory to the employee is not given, then the grievance may be referred to Stage Two.
7.03	Stage Two
Failing resolution, the grievance may, within five (5) days after the decision of the Management Representative for Stage One has been or should have been given, be referred in writing to the Management Representative designated by the Company to handle such meetings at Stage Two.
The Company will notify the Plant Committeeman
6
and the Chairman of the General Grievance Committee of the date, time and place for the Stage Two meeting within five (5) days after receiving such referral. Such meeting shall be held within thirty (30) days following such notification and will normally be scheduled during the grievor’s working hours and commence no later than thirty (30) minutes before the end of the grievor's shift
The employee shall be accompanied at such meeting by the Plant Committeeman and not more than two Grievance Stewards both of whom shall be from the Plant where such meeting is held. One of the Grievance Stewards shall be from the Grievor’s Department and, if not available at such Plant, shall come from the Plant closest to such Plant where such Steward is available. An Industrial Relations representative and such other Company personnel as the Company may consider necessary to resolve the grievance shall accompany the Management Representative.
The Management Representative hearing the grievance will give a written decision within five (5) days from the date of the meeting to the grievor, with a copy for the Plant Committeeman and the Grievance Steward handling the case. If the grievance is denied, the decision shall contain brief and concise reasons. A written summary of the Stage Two meeting (including the respective positions of each party and the facts agreed to or in dispute at such meeting) will be prepared by the Company, with a copy to the Plant Committeeman.
T .C4	i nree
If the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, then a notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter may within seven (7) days after the decision by the Management Representative at Stage Two has been given or should have been
7
given, be given by the Local Union to the Management Representative designated for Stage Three meetings. Such Management Representative shall notify the Local Union of the time and place of a meeting to consider the matter. Any such meeting shall be held within twenty-one (21) days after the written notice of referral has been received. The Local Union shall be represented at such meeting by the General Grievance Committee. At any Stage Three meeting either party may require the attendance of the grievor and/or a representative of the Union. Tne Company ^naYi'ca represented at Brags Three meetings by Management Representatives, representatives of the Industrial Relations Department and such staff specialists at the Company requires. The Management Representative for Stage Three shall give his decision in writing to the Local Union within seven (7) days from the date of the meeting. All Stage Three grievance meetings other than those held on a reorganized basis will be held at the Company's Copper Cliff off ices for a maximum of three (3) days of each week, as required.
If the Local Union notifies the Superintendent of Industrial Relations that there is, in its opinion, a backlog of Stage Three meetings, all Stage Three meetings will then be held on a reorganized basis to permit the holding of concurrent meetings. The Local Union shall be represented at such reorganized meetings by a Chief Grievance Steward together with two Grievance Stewards. Such reorganized meetings will be held at the Company’s Copper Cliff of-rices, or ai sucn oiner location^) as may be agreed to between the Company and the Local Union, for up to three (3) days each week. The reorganized meeting procedure shall continue until such time as the backlog of Stage Three grievance meetings is, in the opinion of the Local Union, eliminated.
7.05	Regular days off of both the grlevor and the Management Representative involved at each stage, vacation time off of the grlevor and recognized holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing Stages One to Three.
7.06	The Company will indicate by notice posted for each Department tne Management Representatives designated by it from time to time to handle matters in such Department at Stages One and Two of the Grievance Procedure and a copy of each notice posted in the Departments in the Plant shall be given to the Plant Committeeman.
7.07	If no Management Representative shall have been designated by the Company for any of the stages through which a matter must proceed such matter may proceed directly to the next higher stage for which a Management Representative shall have been so designated.
7.08	Differences Between Company and Union
Any differences arising between the Union and the Company from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, instead of following the procedure hereinbefore set out, may be submitted in writing by either of such parties to the other, with opportunity for oral discussion between the officers of the Local Union and the General Manager or his designated representative. At such discussion either party may require the attendance of a representative of the Union and/or not more than the three (3) Chief Stewards. The parties shall within ten (10) days from the giving of notice as aforesaid sign a memorandum of settlement, or, if the matter has not been satisfactorily adjusted, the party to whom the matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party a reply in writing to such submission.
9
7.09	Time limits fixed by this Article may be extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union or the Local Union.
General Grievance Committee, Grievance Stewards and Plant Committeemen
7.10	The General Grievance Committee and Grievance Stewards, as designated by the Local Union, shall be employees and shall consist of not more than one (1) for each thirty-five (35) employees.
There shall be one Chief Grievance Steward from each of the following sections:
Mines Section
Reduction Section (Operating)
Reduction Section (Maintenance and Electrical)
7.11	From each Plant listed in Schedule ‘H’the Local
Union shall designate to the Company from time to time those Grievance Stewards in numbers as designated in Schedule "H* who shall be Plant Committeemen. The Plant Committeeman shall be the responsible Local Union representative for the preparation and processing of grievances in respect of Stage Two of the Grievance Procedure in their respective Plants.
7.12	The General Grievance Committee shall consist of three (3) Chief Stewards who shall be continuing members together with two (2) Grievance Stewards who may be designated by the Local Union to act for the purpose and chosen from time to time from among the other Grievance Stewards.
7.13	The Local Union will designate to the Company from time to time the Grievance Stewards acting as Chief Grievance Stewards and as Chairman of the General Grievance Committee.
7.14	Any Grievance Steward, Plant Committeeman and officer of the Local Union shall be allowed such time
10
off as shall be reasonably required to attend such necessary meetings with supervisory personnel as provided in this Article, subject, however, to obtaining permission (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) from the Management Representative designated by the Company to act for it at Stage One. When it is necessary for Grievance Stewards, Plant Committeemen or officers of the Local Union to leave their regular place of employment to attend such necessary meetings with supervisory personnel at other than their regular place of employment, and they are required to return to their regular employment after the completion of such meetings, the Local Union agrees to pay the transportation to such meetings and the Company agrees to pay the return transportation.
7.15	Each Plant Committeeman shall be allowed such time off as shall be reasonably required up to two and one-half (2Vfc) hours per week at a time to be arranged with his Department Superintendent or his designate in order to consult with employees or Grievance Stewards in connection with Stage Two matters or Stage Three discharge matters. In the case of surface operations the reasonable travelling time involved in any visits to work sites, which the Plant Committeeman and the Department Superintendent or his designate agree are necessary, shall not be included in the Committeeman’s two and one-half (2V£) hour allowance. In the case of underground operations, arrangements will be made at each Mine to permit a Plant Committeeman to come up early or delay his descent time on a prearranged schedule so that he may talk to employees or Grievance Stewards arriving at or leaving from work in connection with Stage Two matters or Stage Three discharge matters. Where circumstances warrant, as agreed by the Mine Superintendent and Plant Committeeman, the Com-
11
mitteeman in connection with Stage Two preparation or Stage Three discharge preparation will be permitted to visit a particular location in a Mine but the necessary time involved in travelling to and from the particular location in the Mine in connection with such visits shall not be included in the Committeeman’s two and one-half (2L£) hour allowance.
7.16	Each Plant Committeeman will be provided the facilities as determined under the Letter of Intent dated the first day of June, 1991.
7.17	The Company shall pay the Grievance Stewards, Plant Co??rr?iffflswiY?<n psdr&tnsefTttbaJjttsl. Union (other than full-time officers) at their applicable hourly rate, plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance, and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus, for any time lost during their regular shifts in connection with any of the above mentioned duties, but the Company may discontinue such payments if the privilege of requesting time off is being abused.
7.18	The Company will grant the three (3) Chief Grievance
Stewards up .to.?.maximum of	<£>, days leave of
absence with pay in each week at the equivalent of the wage rate for Maintenance Electrician plus any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus.
General
7.19	All grievances being processed under the provisions ofYnel 988-91 AgreementW/libexxjtlmiLfetiuntieithe provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement. Any arbitration board established to deal with such gnevances under this Agreement will have the right to determine the employees’ rights under the previous Agreement.
7.20	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of
12
the provisions of this Agreement, or should any employee believe that his discharge is in violation of the provisions of this Agreement and should any party desire to take advantage of the procedure provided for in this Article, each step in such procedure (up to and including the appointment of a Board of Arbitration) required to effect a satisfactory disposition of the matter shall be taken by such party within the time limits above set forth At the grievance -slra/A fere deemed to have been abandoned.
7.21	In the event that it should be decided through the Grievance Procedure that any employee has failed to receive the rate of pay to which he is properly entitled under the provisions of this Agreement respecting the application of seniority or rates of pay, the Company shalls if. Wsjyttdewjncf* shall have been presented in writing within thirty (30) days after the pay day in respect of the pay period in which the grievance arose, pay to such employee the difference between the rate of pay which such employee should have received and the pay actually received by such employee.
7.22	Upon the request of the Union or the Local Union President, the Company will meet with five (5) employees of one Department, a representative of the Union and the Local Union President, or his designate, to discuss problems of a general nature arising out of this Agreement and relating to that Department. If a meeting is requested, the Local Union President must notify the Superintendent of Industrial Relations prior to the meeting of the subjects to be discussed thereat. In the case of up to two (2) such meetings for each Department and five (5) additional meetings in each year of the Agreement, the Company will pay such employees attending the meetings at their applicable hourly rate plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of
13
L winn^’lowaana-aoci any applicable nickel price
bonus for any time lost during their regular shifts. The Company will prepare a report of each such meeting with a copy to the Local Union President. At any such meeting, the Local Union President may require the attendance of up to two (2) additional employees, not paid for by the Company, having special technical Knowledge relating to the subjects to be discussed thereat.
7.23	Where two (2) or more employees in the same Department have differences with the Company concerning the application, interpretation or an alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement which are sufficiently common in nature to be dealt with together, they shall constitute a group grievance and it shall be heard at Stege-Two. For the purposes of Stage Two, one employee shall be appointed by the Union as representative of all aggrieved employees.
ARTICLE 8 - THIRD PARTY DETERMINATION
8.01	In the event that any difference arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall not have been satisfactorily settled under the foregoing provisions, the matter may then by notice in writing given to the other party within thirty (30) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative at Stage Three (or in the event of a difference between the Union and the Company, within thirty (30) days from the date when the written reply to the submission was or should have been delivered) be referred either by the Union or the Company to Third Party Determination as hereinafter provided.
Within fifteen (15) days after a grievance has been referred to Third Party Determinati?!?. the designated representatives of the Industrial Relations Department and the three (3) Chief Stewards, an officer of
14
\
8.08	If after making all reasonable efforts to select a Chairman within the time herein set out the party responsible for the selection is unable to find a Chairman able or willing to act, such time limit will be extended to the length of time required to obtain the services of a Chairman.
8.09	Any individual on the panel who having been re-
quested in his turn to act as Chairman on an arbitration shall be unable or unwilling to act shall not again be requested to act as Chairman on any arbitration unlit his name comes up again on the regui'ar rotation of the panel. Any such individual who has been requested in his turn to act as Chairman on an arbitration and who has been unable to act on six (6) consecutive occasions when requested so to do during the currency of this Agreement shall after his sixth consecutive refusal be removed from the panel and a replacement shall be selected by mutual agreement of the Company and the Union within sixty (60) days of such removal.
8.10	No matter shall be considered by the arbitrators nor shall they render any decision in connection therewith unless and until a majority of them have first decided that such matter constitutes a difference between the Company and the Union, or the employee initiating the matter, arising from the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement.
8.11	The Rules of Arbitration annexed hereto as Schedule ‘C’ shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder. The finding of the majority of the arbitrators as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned but in no event shall the arbitrators be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
8.12	The Local Union and the Company shall respectively
17
pay the expenses of and tees payable to the arbitrator selected by each, which may be such per diem fee as may be agreed upon between each arbitrator and the party appointing him, and the Local Union and the Company shall each be responsible for one-half (Lfc) of the expenses of and fees payable to the Chairman.
8.13	Any and sit time limits fixed by this Article for the taking of .acJirw .tyj?i>te>£.ciapv nayj&xq't t'm.% ba extended by written agreement of the Company and the Union or the Local Union.
8.14	When a grievance has neither been settled under the grievance procedure nor referred to a Grievance Commissioner and if the Company and the Local Union agree, or the grievance concerns the discipline or discharge of an employee, the grievance shall be referred to a single arbitrator selected in rotation from the panel set out in Section 8.06 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement for final and binding arbitration. The provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, including Article 8 and Schedule ‘C’, shall apply in cases where a single arbitrator is used, with the necessary changes being made.
ARTICLE 9 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
9.01	A discharged employee may contest his discharge as being in violation of this Agreement provided the written grievance is filed within fourteen (14) days of the date of discharge subject to extension to twenty-one (21) days, if it is impossible for an employee to file within the fourteen (14) days, or such further period as the parties may agree. Such grievance will be treated as a special grievance and presented at a Stage Three meeting convened for the purpose of dealing with jttejjrifivance.
9.02	If a discharged employee is reinstated pursuant to the Grievance or Arbitration Procedure, any compensa-
18
tion for earnings lost shall be on the basis of the employee’s regular basic rate and normal hours of work (not to exceed forty (40) hours per week) plus any off shift premium or Sunday premium applicable to such normal hours of work and any applicable Cost of Living Allowance, any applicable Nickel Price Bonus and any holiday pay he would have otherwise been entitled to less amounts earned by the employee during the time so lost. Upon reinstatement there shall be deemed to have been no break in the employee’s continuous service.
Special Discharge Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
9.03	The Stage Three meeting will be held within three (3)
days after the grievance is received and the Management Representative shall give his decision in writing to the Local Union within	date
of the meeting. If the decision is unsatisfactory, the Local Union may, within seven (7) days after the decision is given, refer the grievance to Arbitration and it shall be heard pursuant to the provisions of Article 8 within thirty (30) days of the reference to arbitration given by the Local Union.
9.04	Anv^Counselling or Discipline Reminder, penalty warning or penalty suspension will contain reasons for its issuance and will be given in writing to the employee with a copy to the Grievance Steward designated by the employee. Any Counselling or Discipline Reminder given as a Step 3 or Step 4 Reminder will, where practicable, be given to an employee, if he so requests, in the presence of a Grievance Steward. Where practicable, any notice of discharge shall be given to an employee in the presence of his Plant Committeeman or Grievance Steward if the Plant Committeeman is not available.
19
Such notice of discharge shall specify the reason for discharge.
9.05	Penalty, waminq? or Counselling or Discipline Reminders (but not suspensions) for absence without leave or for failing to notify the Company of intended absence shall bs removed from an employee’s record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline for subsequent infractions of a like nature if after three (3) calendar months there is no repetition of such offence.
Any other penalty warning (but not a suspension) or any other Counselling or Discipline Reminder given as a Step 1 Reminder shall be removed from an employee^ xecord-and^shall be disregarded in
-	determining discipline if inJihe six (61 months following
Such«aanrita»i)iCbunsellihg or Discipline Reminder there is no further misconduct. In any event a penalty warning (but not a suspension) or a Counselling or Discipline Reminder given as a Step 1 Reminder shall be removed from an employee’s record and shall be * disregarded in determining discipline twelve (12) months after the issuance of such warning or Counselling or Discipline Reminder.
A suspension notice or a Counselling or Discipline Reminder given as a Step 2 Reminder shall be removed and disregarded in determining discipline if in the twelve (12) months following such Counselling or Discipline there is no further misconduct. In any event a Step 2 Reminder shall be removed and disregarded in determining discipline two (2) years after the issuance of such Counselling or Discipline Reminder. A suspension notice or a Counselling or Discipline Reminder, gwen es. -Stereos. 4 Reminder shall be removed and disregarded in determining discipline two (2) years after the issuance of such suspension or Counselling or Discipline Reminder.
20
An employee who has no other Counselling or Discipline Reminder on his record at the time of receiving a Step 4 Reminder shall have such Step 4 Reminder reduced to a Step 3 Reminder one (1) year after its issuance provided he has not received any other Counselling or Discipline Reminder during that year. Thereafter, such Step 3 Reminder shall be removed and disregarded in determining discipline if in the twelve (12) months following there is no further misconduct.
ARTICLE 10- EMPLOYEES IN ARMED FORCES
10.01	An application for leave of absence from an employee required to be absent from work for the treatment of injuries sustained in Canadian military service will be carefully considered by the Company and discussed with the Local Union on request.
a,“7 /aiS'S-, £>
ARTICLE 11-SENIORITY 11 .01 Definitions
'Seniority' - is the principle of granting preference to employees in promotions, transfers, demotions due to a change orreduction in operatbns, lay-offs, and rehiring after lay-offs in accordance with length of employment.
‘Seniority Ranking’ - means the ranking of employees within a Department or the District as determined by their length of continuous service with the Company. Any employee transferred from one Department to another within the District shall carry ms seniority from the old Department into the new Department.
‘Department’ - means those Departments as set out in Schedule 'D* attached hereto.
'Limited Job’ - means
a)	A job not exceeding six (6) months’ duration,
21
which
0 is seasonal only, or
ii) is open due to a leave of absence other than one grarte** to a Union Offset forJ.'oiOT;^vpas&s;.i'! the case of such leave of absence for Union purposes, the job will be posted limited for the first six (6) months of the leave and, if the leave continues, it will then be posted as an unlimited job:
b)	Any job which is open by reason of sickness or accident:
c)	Any job which the Company believes will not exceed three (3) months’ duration;
d)	Any trainee job which the Company believes will not exceed twelve (12) months’ duration;
e)	Any job which is open by reason of the assignment of an employee to a job outside the bargaining unit. Any such job which remains ‘limited’ for a period of (1) year will be posted ’unlimited’ at the expiration of the one (1 j year period or sooner if the Company advises the Union that the assignment is permanent.
“Continuous Service’ - means the length of unbroken service since the employee last entered the service of the Company according to the Company’s records, less the following:
a)	Any leave of absence in excess of three (3) weeks for reasons other than disabling accident or illness, compassionate grounds or pregnancy;
b)	A lay-off for lack of work for a continuous period of uhTStf-(3) full -payroil'ptsribcri? or more;
c)	Any period of a strike.
For the purpose of the seniority provisions of this Agreement all leaves of absence under Section 11.26, and any leaves of absence after July 10,1969, in excess of three (3) weeks under Sections 11.27
and 11.28 hereof and any period of lawful strike after July 10, 1969, shall not be deducted from an employee’s continuous service.
For the purpose of the seniority provisions of this Agreement an employee with recall rights who was laid off and rehired after his recall rights expired will be credited with his prior continuous service.
‘Break f.P JSPO'jc©’ - shall occur if ao individual employed by the Company:
a)	quits (absence without leave for a period of over fourteen (14) days shall constitute a quit);
b)	is discharged:
c)	is laid off by the Company for lack of work, except that no break shall be deemed to have occurred if such a laid-off person is rehired in accordance with the recall provisions of this Article.
Application of Seniority on Lay-Off
11.02	Where employees are laid off from the Company for lack of work (other than temporary lay-offs not to exceed two (2) weeks resulting from accident, breakdown or other emergency) the Company shall lay off the employees affected in the inverse order of their seniority ranking with the Company except in those cases where the requirements and efficiency of operations and ability, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to fill the normal requirements of the job require otherwise.
11.03	In the event of a reduction in force, other than a temporary lay-off, the Company shall, before notifying the employees to be laid off, have prior discussion with the Local Union executive and the Union.
11.04	An individual whose employment has been terminated due to a lay-off for lack of work shall have
23
preferential rights for rehiring (herein referred to as ‘recall’ rights) for the following periods subject to other provisions in this Article:
Length of Continuous Service at Date of Layoff
Three months or more One year or more Three years or more Four years or more
Duration of Recall Rights
Eighteen months from date of lay-off
Twenty-four months from date of lay-off
Thirty-six months from date of lay-off
Forty-eight months from date of lay-off
11.05	The Company shall maintain a recall list for the District. When hiring for jobs covered by this Agreement (other than for jobs of a temporary or emergency nature), the Company shall determine which individuals on the recall list are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the jobs available and shall give preference in rehiring to such persons in inverse order to that in which they were laid off subject to the following provisions:
a)	Notice of recall shall he sent to the individual by registered mail and shall be sufficient if sent to the last address the individual has communicated in writing to the Industrial Relations Office of the Company at Cooper Cliff. Upon lay-off the individual will receive from the Company written instructions as to his rights and obligations for recall under this Section 11.05.
b)	The notice shall stipulate the job to which the
24
individual is being recalled and the proposed time and place of rehiring. The individual shall indicate his acceptance within a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing of such notification and shall report for duty within twenty-eight (28) days from such date. If the individual reports for work within such twenty-eight (28) day period, his continuous service with the Company will be conclusively deemed to have recommenced from the date he was requested to report for duty.
c)	Individuals who accept the recall and report for duty within the specified time set out in paragraph (b) hereof and at the specified place will be rehired in inverse order to that in which they were laid off.
d)	No individual shall be denied rehiring solely because of a medical or physical condition which existed at the time he was laid off.
e)	The Company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending the rehiring of individuals with recall rights.
1) An individual who is unable to report for work as specified in his notice of recall because of sickness or accident and so advises the Company within the fourteen (14) day period specified in paragraph (b), and provides satisfactory medical evidence on or before the specified date of rehiring, shall not lose his recall rights solely because of his failure to so report.
g)	On being rehired on recall there shall be deemed to have been no break in such employee’s continuous-service.
h)	An individual who fails to indicate his acceptance of recall or to report for work as specified in paragraph (b) shall lose all'recall rights, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Article 11.
I) An individual may decline a recall to a job of an
25
expected duration of less than thirty (30) days without loss of recall rights.
11.06	An individual with recall rights may present a grievance at Stage Two of the Grievance Procedure and process sucn grievance through the Grievance and Third Party Determination Procedures if he believes that his lay-off or the Company’s failure to recall or rehire him was in contravention of this Agreement. Should such grievance succeed and the individual is not otherwise disqualified, he shall be reinstated and any compensation shall be on the basis of the regular basic rate of the job and its normal hours of work (not to exceed forty (40) hours per week) plus any off shift premium or Sunday premium applicable to such normal hours of work, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance, any applicable Nickel Price Bonus and any holiday pay he would have otherwise been entitled to for the time lost after the receipt of the written grievance by the Company, and during a period of up to thirty (30) days prior to such receipt, less any earnings during such time lost
11.07	An employee who is employed by the Company in any of the classifications mentioned in Schedule 'E (including an apprentice in the case of a trade classification or a helper who has previously held an unlimited-job with the Company as a tradesman) may, within four (4) working days of transfer or demotion to another classification due to lack of work, elect to be laid off and shall be governed by the recall provisions set out in this Article 11. Any other employee who is demoted as a direct result of a lay-off due to lack of work may, within four (4) working days and subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, elect to be laid off and shall be governed by the recall provisions set out ‘in this Article 11. In addition, any such employee laid off either by his own election or for lack of work shall not lose his recall rights by
26
reason only of his failure to report for rehiring in any job other than one in his former classification.
Application of Seniority in a Department
11.08	Promotions - Any promotion within a Department (other than promotions of a temporary nature for a period not in excess of seven (7) days or promotions to or in supervisory or confidential positions) will be filled with regard to the job posting provisions hereinafter set forth.
11.09	(l)Demotions - In all cases of demotions within a
Department (other than demotions of a temporary nature for a period not in excess of seven (7) days) resulting from a change or reduction in operations in such Department, the following two factors shall be considered in determining which employees are to be demoted:
a)	seniority ranking in the Department of the employee affected;
b)	the requirements and efficiency of operations
and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to fill the normal requirements of the job. Where factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern except as hereinafter provided.
(2)	Inter-Plant Work Assignments - In making a work assignment or a temporary work assignment in excess of seven (7) days from a Plant listed in Schedule ‘P’ of this Agreement to another such Plant within a multi-Plant Department, the Company Wil! to ite sxient permitted by the requirements of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of employees in the same occupational dassification as the available job.
27
An employee on such a temporary work assignment will be returned to the Plant from which he was assigned within sixty (60) days.
(3) It is reco§cuzad that iSmsybenecassary from time to time to assign an employee in any occupational classification within a working group to another working group within the same Plant for a period in excess of seven (7) days. In making such assignment, the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the same occupational classification within the working group,
This subsection (3) will not apply to the Power and Construction Plant.
11.10 Application of Seniority - Curtailment in Operations
a)	Transfers - If, due to a change or reduction in operations within a Department it becomes necessary to transfer employees out of the Department for a period in excess of seven (7) days the employees affected will be transferred in the inverse order of their seniority ranking in the Department, unless the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee or employees to fill the normal requirements of the job require otherwise.
b)	If the Company decides to discontinue a Department or any substantial portion of a Department it will notify the Union and the local Union in writing and will discuss with it the employees who are to be transferred from the Department or Plant. When additional employees are required in other Departments, such employees will be given the opportunity to transfer in accordance with their
28
seniority ranking in the Department into one of the other Departments, providing the efficiency of operations in the curtailed Department shall not suffer.
c)	In any transfer under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) the Company will give preference in accordance with their seniority ranking to the requests of employees to be transferred in determining the Plant and Department to which they will be transferred from among the jobs which the Company determines are available.
11.11	Temporary Promotions, Demotions and
Transfers
a)	In making temporary promotions, demotions and transfers not in excess of seven (7) days, the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available in the Department. With respect to temporary promotion of employees in all Departments except Mines, such preference shall be given to employees who are working on their regularly scheduled shifts.
b)	If the Company transfers an employee from one Department to another and signifies to the employee that such transfer is temporary only, the employee will be returned to the Department from which he was transferred within ninety (90) days. In making such transfers the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency ol operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of employees within the Department. During the period of temporary transfer he will not acquire any seniority ranking in the Department to which he was transferred but will be able to use his seniority for the purpose of temporary
29
promotions only. In the event an employee is transferred contra^ to his preference and seniority ranking to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than the occupational classification from which he was transferred, he shall continue to be paid at the rate applicable to the occupational classification from which he was transferred.
Job Posting
11.12	Where a vacancy (other than a vacancy resulting from absence on vacation or of a xempotar}’nature} occurs in any job, limited or unlimited, in wage step three (3) n or higher in the case of surface jobs, or in wage step five (5) or higher in the case of underground jobs, notice of such vacancy shatLba posted for seven (7) calendar days on the bulletinboarcforbaardslri the-Department concerned. If such vacancy occurs as the result of a job being vacated the job posting notice will apply to the vacated job. The notice shall include:
a)	the shift (day, afternoon or night) on which the vacancy exists on the date of posting:
b)	in the case of an underground job in the mines, the level or levels (and, if the vacancy is in a stope or pillar, the number of such stope(s) or pillar(s) and areas of such stopes or pillars) to which the successful applicant will be assigned;
c)	in the case of jobs in the Exploration Diamond Drilling Department and surface Departments, the plant and the operating Department or Departments, building or shop to which the successful applicant WttVJa assigned] and
d)	the schedule number and position of the vacancy on the date of posting;
e)	in the case of the Electrical or Maintenance Department the working group to which the successful applicant will be assigned.
30
11.13	Any employee In such Department may apply In writing for such job within the seven (7) day posting period:	.
a)	whose wage rate is greater or less than the rate of the posted job;
b)	whose wage rate is the same but who is in a different occupational classification;
c)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to shift work while the posted job is for daytime work or vice versa;
d)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to steady night shift while the posted job is for steady afternoon, night or rotating shift or vice versa;
e)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to swing-shift while the posted job is for steady afternoon, night or rotating shift or vice versa;
f)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to a two (2) shift rotation while the posted job is for a three (3) shift rotation or vice versa;
g)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to a limited job while the posted job is for an unlimited job.
In addition to the foregoing, an employee may apply in writing for a posted unlimited job in his Department within the seven (7) day posting periods if he is in the same occupational classification and assigned to the same shift, including daytime work, as the posted job. If the employee is the successful applicant for such job, he will not be eligible to make a new application under the terms of this section for a period of six (6) months from the posting of his name as the successful applicant
Any application under this Section shall be made in duplicate, one (1) copy to be initialled by the Com-
31
pany official receiving it and returned to the applicant.
11.14	In deciding which applicant shall fill the vacancy, the Company shall consider the following two (2) factors:
a)	the seniority ranking in the Department of the applicants affected;
b)	the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the applicant to fill the normal requirements of the job. When factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two (2) or more employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern, except where otherwise specifically provided in this Article.
11.15	Part-Time Relief Jobs - The Company will determine the maximum number of employees required to fill regularly recurring part-time relief jobs in each classification in each Department and shall post and award each such job in accordance with the foregoing job posting provisions subject to the following additional conditions:
a)	where a work schedule includes a relief job which consists of working two (2) or more shifts in the same classification within the work week with one
(1)	or more scheduled changes of shift, the whole sequence of such shifts shall be deemed to constitute one (1) regularly recurring part-time relief job and the complete job must be accepted by the successful applicant
b)	where a regularly recurring part-time relief job involves steady day work, steady afternoon work, or steady night-work or work on a particular rotation of shifts, fnis fact will be indicated and no employee will be permitted to hold such job unless his regular work is scheduled to coincide with the work involved in such regularly recurring part-time relief job.
32
/
/
Schedule ‘P’ of the Agreement, the Company will give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the affected occupational classification in the Plant.
Transfers General
11.21	An emgloype.who has_a.t least one (1,1 year of continuous service may, if he wishes to transfer from one Department to another, file a written application for such transfer with the Company. A duplicate of the application will be given to the employee. Preference will be given to the employee’s application, subject to Section 11.22, before filling any vacancy in the Department from outside the Department (other than a student hired for a fixed term) upon consideration of the following factors:
a)	the length of continuous service of the employee;
b)	the wishes of the employee and his reasons for requesting a transfer;
c)	the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee to progress in the Department to which he has made application.
11.22	a) An employee who is transferred out of a Depart-
ment due to a general lay-off for lack of work or a reduction of force within the Department or for other Company requirements may, within ninety (90) days of his transfer out, make written application to retransfer to the Department. When a vacancy occurs in the Department and after making any transfers pursuant to Section 11.10 other than in the circumstances described in subsection (b) of this Section, but before making any transfers pursuant to Section 11.21, preference will be given to the employee’s application for retransfer considering his length of continuous
35
service and his ability, knowledge, training and skill to fill the normal requirements of the vacancy.
b)	Before making any transfers pursuant to Section 11.10, preference in filling the initial vacancies which the Company has declared for the purpose of effecting Section 11.10 transfers will be given to employees who have made application to retransfer to the Departments) where such vacancies exist and who are senior to the employees being transferred under Section 11.10. Any subsequent vacancies created by these retransfers will be filled under Section 11.10 without regard to any retransfer applications.
c)	An employee who is transferred out of a Department in the Mines Section for a reason described in subsection (a) of this Section, may within ninety (90) days of his transfer out make special written application for one time retransfer right to the next job in a Department in the Mines Section available after the other requirements of Section 11.22 are fulfilled. Should the employee refuse such a retransfer when offered, his special application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
11.23 a)
If an employee is temporarily or permanently unable to perform his regular work due to age, disease nr .injury, the Company will endeavour to find employment in his own Department or failing his Department another Department, which in the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner is suitable for him. In making such an assignment, the Company may disregard the seniority provisions of this Agreement except that such incapacitated employee shall not be assigned to take over a job occupied at the time by another employee. If employment is found for such an employee in another Department and a duly qualified medical practitioner later determines that he is able to return to regular work, he shall be deemed
36
to have applied under Section 11.22 for retransfer to his original Department Each employee who obtains employment under this Section shall, upon request, provide proof satisfactory to the Company that he is unable to perform his regular job.
b)	If an employee who obtains employment under this Section is subsequently transferred pursuant to Section 11.10 and is not capable of performing any available job in the Department to which he is transferred, he may displace the junior employee in the District who occupies a job obtained under this Section, providing he is capable of performing that job.
Leaves of Absence
11.24	The Company will upon the presentation of satisfactory medical evidence of sickness grant sick leave as follows:
a)	an employee with seniority rights and less than one (1) year of continuous service - up to one (1) year’s leave of absence without pay;
b)	an employee with one (1) or more years’ continuous service - up to two (2) years’ leave of absence without pay.
The Company may extend such leaves for such further period as it may decide.
11.25	Upon written request from the Local Union given at least one (1) week in advance, the Company will during each year of the term of this Agreement grant leave of .absence, without pay, to the employees named in the request tor the'purpose of attending:
Os'
it
a)	one (1) National Policy Conference of the UniorfT
b)	one (1) Ontario Federation of Labour Convention;
37
c)	one (1) International Convention of the Union:
d)	one (1) Canadian Labour Congress Convention;
e)	one (1) Nickel Conference or in lieu thereof one other convention, conference, school or seminar of the Union, Ontario Federation of Labour or Canadian Labour Congress;
0 four (4) Local Union Schools.
Such leaves of absence will be limited for each conference, convention, school or seminar to not more than thirty-five (35) employees in the	of
which not more than a reasonable number shall be from any one Department Not more than twenty-one (21) calendar days’ leave In the case of each convention and not more than seven (7) days’ leave in the case of each school shall be granted to any employee. The granting of such leave may be withheld when it would be unreasonable having regard to the requirements of operations.	-
11.26	Upon written request by the Local Union given at least _ one (1) week in advance, the Company will, during ^ - each year of the term of this Agreement, grant leave
iiiiIUamI nnu Mr « mAulmnm nAHAM At kim
(2)	months, to each of the three (3) employees named in the request, for the purpose of attending the recognized Labour College. _
11.27	Upon request by the LocaTUnion to the Industrial Relations Office at Copper Cliff, at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance, the Company will, subject to the requirements of operations, grant casual leave of absence to employees for Local Union business for not less than one (1) day or more than fourteen (14) consecutive days at any one time.
The total of all such casual leaves granted during each year of the term of this Agreement shall not exceed twelve hundred (1,200) man days.
However, time spent by employees on Local Union
of absence, without pay, for a maximum period of two
38
Negotiating Committee during negotiations for renewal of this Collective Agreement and in preparation for such negotiations during the ninety (90) days preceding the commencement of such negotiations or on Local Union Committee at in-Term Review Meetings scheduled by agreement between the Company and the Local Union shall not be included
in such twelve hundred (1,200) days. No more than five (5) employees shall be absent from any Department on such casual leave at any one time.
11.28	Upon application by the Union, the Company will grant .tes«£«soLabSROCft withnut-pay
more than seven (7) man years during each year of the term of this Agreement. In addition, upon application by the Local Union, the Company will grant, without pay, leaves of absence aggregating not more than six (6) man years during each year of the term of this Agreement to Local Union officers for Local Union purposes. No leave granted under the terms of this paragraph shall be for a period in excess of one
(1)	year or less than two (2) weeks. However, on request of the Union or Local Union, as the case may be, the period of leave may be extended for not more than one (1) year. No more than thirteen (13) employees will be absent on leaves of absence granted or extended as aforesaid under the provisions of this or any previous Collective Agree- , ment.	n,
11.29	In the event that a pregnant employee advises herV immediate supervisor in writing that she is unable tp% \ perform the normal duties of her job, the Company ' will grant her a pregnancy leave of absence without pay for the period of time preceding the date of her delivery and for the six (6) week period immediately following the date of her delivery. If at the conclusion of such six (6) week period, the employee presents the Company with the written opinion of a qualified
39
medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her normal duties, she will be reinstated to her former position or provided with alternate work of a comparable nature, subject to the requirements of operations. A pregnant employee may be required by the Company to commence a pregnancy leave of absence at such time as she cannot, in its opinion, perform the normal duties of her job. The Company may require an employee entitled to a leave of absence pursuant to this Section to provide at any time certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and' actual date of her delivery. In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of tne six _ week period because of complications arising out of 0"iO her pregnancy and delivery, she will be granted an extension of up to six (6) months in her pregnancy ^ leave of absence.
11.30	Upon written request by the individual concerned, the Company will grant leave of absence without pay to any employee elected to, campaigningfarrtttaeleSlon
or acting as tfielfampaign-manager for an individual’s election to any municipal, provincial or 'Ip	federal governmentoffiee.~Such feave~shall be for a
f maximum period of two (2) months in the case of his campaigning or for the term of such office in the case of his election. Leave of absence for an employee acting as the campaign manager shall be for a maximum of two (2) months and shall be limited to one employee for each candidate.
11.31	Upon written application to his immediate supervisor by an employee with ten -“t more years con-inuous service, the Company may grant such
^ employee a one time special personal leave of ab-'y sence without pay of not less than two (2) months and not more than six (6) months. Any such leave of absence shall be taken outside the prime vacation
il
40

ARTICLE 12 - ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW DEPARTMENTS, TRANSFERS AND SPECIAL SENIORITY PROVISIONS
12.01	It is understood that during the currency of this Agreement th£'Company nwe&T&Bnfen'a hefa Department or Departments. Such new Department or Departments may include employees employed in other existing Departments.
12.02	It is recognized that the putting into operation of a new Department or Departments may require the transfer of employees from other Departments and that in these circumstances it is recognized that the application of the provisions of Article 11 would not be in the interests of either the Company or the employees involved and that it IS'Hcwrrtifngfy desirable to declare the provisions with respect to transfer of employees and their seniority which should be applied during the period of putting into operation a new Department or Departments.
12.03	It is also recognized that it is not possible at this time to determine when a new Department may be established or to fix the date of commencement of first operation of any new Department or Departments. Consequently, when the Company establishes any new Department it shall notify tne Union of the establishment and of the affected Departments as herein defined. The Company will subsequently fix a date for the commencement of first operation of such new Department (hereinafter called the ‘starting date’) as soon as it becomes possible to do so and shall notify the Union thereof not less than ten (10) days before such starting date of such new Department.
12.04	During the period commencing with the starting date of any new Department and continuing until such date as the Company shall have declared such new Department to be in full scale operation (the date of full scale operation being hereafter defined), the fol-
43
lowing provisions shall apply notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement:
a)	For the purposes of this Article 12, the expression ‘affected Department’ shall mean such existing Departments 3smrayWiianiu6‘tjy tno'C.ompany, and the expression ‘new Department’ shall mean the new Department which nas been determined by the Company and of which notification has been given to the Union as aforesaid.
b)	The date of full scale operation shall in the case of a new Mine Department be not more than six (6) months after the starting date, and in the case of any other new Department be not more than ten (10) months after the starting date, provided, however, that in the event of technological or major mechanical difficulties in a new Department other than a Mine Department the Company may extend the date of full scale operation for a further period not exceeding five (5) months.
c)	As soon as practicable after the giving of notice of the establishment of a new Department the Company will post a notice in all affected Departments which will list the occupational classifications of employees (other than Surface Labourers, Process Labourers, and Shovellers) and the number in each classification which is required at the time. Such notice will also fix a date up to which applications for transfer to the new Department and to specific occupational classifications will be received by the Plant Pessowral Qftit&r, or other designated Company representative. Any em-
S5e in an affected Department will be eligible to e application. The Company will on the starting date transfer the applicants to the number required in the order of what would be their seniority ranking at that time in the new Department provided that the requirements and efficien-
cy of operations in the affected Department and the new Department do not suffer and that the applicants have the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fill the normal requirements of the job for 'which they have applied. Whenever following the starting date the Company requires additional employees in the new Department it will post a notice or notices in the new and affected Departments similar in form and content to the notice hereinbefore referred to and any employee in the new and affected Departments will be eligible to apply. Subject to the same conditions set out with respect to what would be their seniority ranking at that time in the new Department if they are transferred to the new Department and to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the applicants the Company will transfer to the new Department or promote the number of employees required.
d)	At any time during the said period an employee who has been transferred from an affected Department to a new Department may be retransferred at his own request or by the Company to his original Department, in which event, however, he shall be returned to the classification of the unlimited job most recently held by him in such affected Department.
e)	During the said period the expression 'limited job as defined in Article 11 hereof shall be enlarged to include any job in an affected Department which may be limited in duration by reason of the possible retransfer to that affected Department of any employee who has been transferred to such new Department.
9 If at any time during the said period a vacancy occurs in any job in any of the affected Departments other than a Mine Department, such vacan-
45
cy shall be posted in the new Department in addition to such affected Departments and any employee who is then employed in the new Department and has been transferred from such affected Department under the provisions of subparagraph (c) hereof shall be entitled to apply for such job in accordance with and subject to the provisions contained in Article 11.
g)	In making temporary promotions and demotions In the new Department during the said period the Company will, to the extent permitted by the re-auirements of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available. With respect to temporary promotions of employees in other than a Mine Department the Company will give such preference to employees who are working on their regularly scheduled shifts.
h)	In the event of an employee wishing to transfer from any Department to the new Department, he may file with the Company a written application in accordance with Article 11.
12.05	At the end of the said period the seniority ranking of the employees in the new Department and affected Departments shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions as of the date on which the Company shall have dedared-ttvenew. Qapartroftnt.to be in full scale operation, Thereafter the provisions of Article 11 shall govern all questions of seniority in the said Departments.
ARTICLE 13 - RUORS OFWOHK'- OVERTIME
13.01	The work day for each employee is as follows:
a)	Day Workers - The day for each day worker commences with the start of his regular working hours in that day. Day workers shall normally com-
46
mence work at eight (8) a.m. but in the interest of efficiency of operations certain day workers may be required to commence work earlier or later than eight (8) a.m. Day workers shall be given a continuous .t i	staJJ
commence not later than five (5) hours after the start of their work but such lunch period shall not be considered as time worked.
c)
Shift Workers - The day for each shift worker commences with the start of his day shift hours. Shiftworkers will ha allowed thirty (30) minutes per shift to eat a meal and such time will be considered ' as time worked. A day worker who receives a change of shift instruction before the end of his shift on Friday of the preceding week which requires him to work two or more afternoon and/or night shifts during a week will be considered a shift worker for that week.
Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half
(Vfc)hour.
13.02	The work week for each employee commences with the start of his day on Monday.
13.03 Applicable Hourly Rate - means the straight time rate per hour provided under Schedules ‘F’ and ‘G’ and applicable to the work an employee is performing at any time, but does not include holiday pay, Sunday premium, shift premium or overtime premium.
13.04	Overtime
The overtime rate will be one and one-half (11/fe) times the applicable hourly rate.
13.05	Daily Overtime - An employee who has worked eight (8) hours at his applicable hourly rate in any twenty-four (24) hour period wiil be paid at the overtime rate for any additional time worked in such period, except where the additional time worked is due to his regularly scheduled change of shift.
47
Weekly Overtime
13.06	a) An employee who has worked forty (40) hours at
his applicable hourly rate in hisworkWeek will be paid at the overtime rate for any additional time worked in such week less amounts paid to him pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph of this Article.
b)	Hours paid to an employee at the overtime rate because of an unscheduled short change of shift will be considered time worked at his applicable hourly rate in calculating weekly overtime, provided he has not worked more than eight (8) Hours in either day involved in the change of shift
13.07	Should an employee be instructed by the Company to change his regular day or days off in a work week to another day or days in that week, and receive such instruction after the end of his shift on Friday of-tl^e preceding week, he shall be considered.as having worked his normal working hours on those days rescheduled as his days off, Dut for the purpose only of determining entitlement to the overtime rate for any other time actually worked by him.
13.08	Should an employee be instructed by the. Company to change his shift and he receives such instruction after the end of his shift on Friday of the preceding week, such employee shall, except in the case of an unscheduled short change in shift, be considered as having worked an additional eight (8) hours in his work week but for the purpose only of determining entitlement to the overtime rate for any other time actually worked by him.
13.09	When overtime work, other than that performed on a statutory holiday, is scheduled by the Company it shall distribute such work as evenly as practicable among the employees in the working group and for this purpose it shall take into consideration the availability of the employees in the same classifica-
48
tion who can do the work and the wishes of the employees. Upon request to his immediate supervisor an employee or his Grievance Steward (or if there is no Grievance Steward in his working area, his Plant Committeeman) may examine the record of his immediate supervisor pertaining to overtime distribution within the employee’s working group.
13.10	Notwithstanding anything in this Article, an employee shall not be -erfifteS to' more than two and one-half timeshis applicable hourly rate for time workecTon plant holidays or to more than one and one-half (1 Vi) times his aDDlicable hourly rate for time q worked on other days, unless such additional pay- 0$ ment is made in respect to premiums for shift work or/ \ Sunday work or the four (4) hours minimum for a 'call * out’.
Recognized Holidays
13.11	The Plant holidays recognized under this Agreement shall be:
New Year’s Day Good Friday Victoria Day Canada Day Civic Holiday (the first Monday in August)
‘In addition, each employee will be entitled to one floating holiday with pay in each year of the Agreement. Such holiday will be scheduled on a day agreed upon between the employee and his supervisor subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the wishes of the employee.
Each employee shall take his floating holiday by May 31 st for each year of the Agreement or shall forfeit the holiday. Any employee who forfeits the holiday shall
49
Labour Day Thanksgiving Day Remembrance Day Christmas Day Boxing Day
be paid eight (8) hours at his applicable hourly rate.
13.12	Should an employee be required to work on a recognized holiday he shall be paid for work performed at the rate of two and one-half (2VS) times his applicable hourly rate. If the employee did not volunteer to work on the recognized holiday and is assigned to a shift other than the shift he would otherwise have worked on that day, he shall also be paid eight (8) hours at his applicable hourly rate.
13.13	Where work, including overtime work, is scheduled by the Company on a recognized holiday it shall assign such work among the employees in the working group (excepting those employees for whom the recognized holiday is their regular scheduled day off) and for this purpose it shall take into consideration the availability of the employees in the same classification who can do the work, the wishes of the employees and their seniority ranking. Overtime work performed by an employee on a recognized holiday will be recorded for tne purpose of overtime distribution under Section 13.09 of the Agreement. In the case of non-continuous operations, work will be assigned on a voluntary basis.
13.14	An employee who does not work on a recognized
holiday will be paid eight (8) hours at what would have been nis applicable hourly rate had he worked on that day, provided he will not be so paid:
a)	if he has been absent from work on either of the qualifying days which are his last regular work day or shift before and his first regular work day or shift after such holiday: or
b)	if he has been instructed to report for his regular work on such holiday and has failed to do so; or
c)	if he has been granted leave of absence or casual time off for that holiday.
An employee will be granted holiday pay if his absence on days referred to in (a) or(b) above is due to
50
leave of absence for Jury Duty, Bereavement or Local Union business, or due to being subpoenaed as a crown witness in any court of law in the District in which he resides or due to illness or accident which requires the employee to be absent from work for five (5) consecutive days, including the holiday in the case of an employee instructed to work on such holiday, or including any qualifying days on which he was absent in the case of an employee not instructed to work on such holiday, and a doctor’s certificate to that effect is submitted by the employee. An employee who has worked Ip. tha thirty (aty day ps^.Jmmediately preceding such holiday shall not be entitled to compensation hereunder.
13.15	Where by proclamation or otherwise another day is established as a holiday in lieu of Canada Day, the provisions of this Article shall apply to the holiday so established and not to July 1 st.
13.16	Except where the employee’s regular day off occurs on a recognized holiday, when an employee is entitled to be paid for a recognized holiday not worked, the time so paid shall be considered time worked at his applicable hourly rate but for the purpose only of determining entitlement to the overtime rate for any other time actually worked by him.
13.17	When an employee works on a recognized holiday
the time so worked shall be considered time worked at his applicable hourly rate but for the purpose only of determining entitlement to the overtime rate for any other time actually worked by hinry	^ ^
13.18 Sunday Premium */"*	&
A Sunday premium of one dollar ($1.00) will 'be paid for all time worked by an employee between the start of the day shift on Sunday and the start of the day shift on Monday.
13.19	Shift Premium
An employee shall be paid an off shift premium of fifty
51
13.20
(50) cents per hour for time worked by him during his afternoon shift hours and an off shift premium of seventy (70) cents per hour for time worked by him during nis night shift hours.
Collar to Collar
Hoisting and lowering schedules at the Company’s Mines will be arranged to provide approximately eight (8) hours from collar to collar for each shift, but variations from such schedules, not exceeding ten (10) minutes, which do not occur consistently, shall be disregarded. Delays in such schedules in excess of ten (10) minutes shall be considered time worked but not for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Article.
13.
214-Hour Minimum
When an employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, In good faith, and is advised there is no work available he shall receive four (4) hours’ pay at what would have been his applicable hourly rate but such four (4) hours shall not be considered time worked for dhe(luipajise sf sppfymg the overtime provisions of this Article. This paragraph shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work and has failed before reporting for work to inform his foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of hi intention to return.
13.22	Call Out
An employee reporting for work on a call out shall be paid for work performed at one and one-half (1 Vfc) times his applicable hourly rate, or at least four (4) hours at his applicable hourly rate, whichever is the greater.
To qualify for call out allowance, an employee shall have:
a)	been requested to work outside of his regularly scheduled hours; and
52
b)	been notified to commence work at a time other , than time immediately following a shift worked by
the employee or at a time which is more than one (1) hour immediately preceding a shift worked by the employee; and
c)	received notice from the Company less than sixteen (16) hours before the time he was to commence such work.
An employee who reports for work on a call out on a recognized holiday and who qualifies to recognized , holiday pay under Section 13.14 of this Agreement shall not have any reduction made in that holiday pay because of the call out.
13.23	Transportation
Transportation to and/or from call out work will be provided by the Company when public bus transportation is not reasonably available or when in the opinion of the Company the urgency of the call outwork requires it. _ /	£
13.24	Lunches	3 *7 /	^ '
Where an employee is held at work for a period of more than two (2) hours immediately following the end of his regular working hours in a day, the Com-pany-e him with a lunch. Such employees shall be provided with an additional lunch if such period of being held at work is more than five (5) hours.
if an employee who reports for work on a call out performs more than four (4) hours of work outside his regularly scheduled hours, he will be provided with a lunch. The Company will use its best efforts to supply a hot lunch to any such employees where practicable.
13.25	Work Day - Work Week
The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee, nor to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force.
13.26	The Company and the Union may enter into agree-
53
merits to give effect to shift schedules which alter or exceed the daily and/or weekly hours of work.con-tained in this Agreement.
13.27	In situations where the parties have agreed to implement twelve (12) hour shift schedules, the provisions of Schedule ‘Q’ shall apply to those employees working on twelve (12) hour shift schedules.
ARTICLE 14 - WAGES
14.01	The Company and the Union agree that, during the term of the Agreement and except as otherwise provided, the wage rates shall be as set out in Schedules ‘F and ‘G’ attached, with increases effective as of the dates set out in such Schedules.
14.02	The wage rate for tradesmen, including leaders and intermediates, shall be two job class increments above their wage rates as set out in Schedule ‘F.
14.03	An employee who is temporarily assigned to work in an occupational classification carrying a higher rate of pay than the occupational classification from which he was assigned shall receive such higher rate of pay immediately.
14.04	An employee who is temporarily transferred or assigned to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than the occupational classification from which he was transferred or assigned shall be paid in accordance with the following provisions:
a)	If there is no work reasonably available for him in the occupational classification from which he was transferred or assigned he shall be paid the rate of the occupational classification to which he is transferred or assigned.
b)	if there is work reasonably available for him in the occupational classification from which he was transferred or assigned he shall continue to be
54
paid at the rate applicable to the occupational classification from which he was transferred or assigned. Provided that an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.,
%
14.05 a) Technological Change - For the purpose of this Section, ‘technological change’ means the introduction of an innovation in equipment, material or process used by the Company in its Departments and Plants in the Sudbury District as described in Schedules ‘D* and ‘P’ of this Agreement or at the Port Colbome Plant which directly results in a change in the manner in which the Company carries out its work. If the Company decides to effect a technological change that will affect the security of employment of a significant number of employees, it will give the Union and Local Union written notice of the.change at least sixty (60) days grToTtoJaSooIbgical .change. (^IngArtsxeffect.
A joint Technological Change Committee will be established consisting of six (6tm5fflt>ers, three
(3)	to be appointed by the Local Union and three
(3)	to be ^rjDointed bv the ComDanv. The Committee will meet at least once’ every three (3) months and at more frequent times if agreed upon for the purpose of discussing matters in connection with technological change.
The Company shall pay employee members of the Committee at their applicable hourly rate plus any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus for any time lost during their regular working hours while attending Committee meetings.
The following provisions shall apply to any employee who has one (1) year or more seniority
b).
4/
7*
C)
55
and who is either transferred from his Department as a result of technological change, or who remains in his Department and is directly affected by such change by reasons of the fact that his occupational classification is discontinued, or he is placed in a different occupational classification. As of the date of his occupational classification being altered, the employee’s rate of pay shall not be reduced for a period of three (3) years below tfierateof occupational classification which he previously held and shall not subsequently be reduced by more than one (1) step in rate in each succeeding year up to a maximum of eight (8) years from the date of his occupational classification being altered. It is a condition of this Section that any such employee:
i)	must accept any-training in any occupational classification which is offered to him by the Company otherwise:
ii)	will be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his Department for a job the rate for which is higher than the rate of his actual occupational classification at the time of posting and that if he is named as the successful applicant for any such job he cannot refuse to accept the promotion otherwise:
iii)	if he applies under the provision of Section 11.21 of this Agreement for transfer from the Department in which he is located subsequent to the technological change and he is transferred as a result of his application, he will cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section 14.05.
d)	If an employee who has one (1) year or more seniority is laid off for a period exceeding one (1) year as a direct result of a tecbnologiraLchange. he shall be paid in ^weekly amounts a sum equal
2^
to fojly_(40)4iroes-theapplicable hourly rate of his occupational classification at the time of lay-off multiplied by his years of Continuous Service, to a maximum of twenty-six f?fiV asof the date of such lay-off. An employee shall not be entitled to continue to receive wee!'	' "' returns to
Should an employee b .	, >rt on his
regular work day for iurv duty or as a witness due to being subpoenaed as a crown witness in any court of law in the District in which he resides and produces a satisfactory statement that he did so report, he will be paid the difference between eight (8) hours’ pay at his applicable hourly rate plus any applicable shift premium and any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and Nickel Price Bonus and the jury duty pay or witness pay and/or conduct money received by him for that day.
A maximum bereavement leave of absence of thre consecutive days, not to extend beyond the da following the funeral will be granted to an employee (who has acquired seniority rights) upon a death in his immediate family. Where any such day occurs on a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, he shall be paid on the basis of the standard number -of hours which he otherwise would have worked at his applicable hourly rate of pay plus any applicable shift premium and any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and Nickel Price Bonus. To qualify for bereavement leave, the employee shall notify his immediate supervisor as soon as possible following the bereavement. 'Immediate family’ shall mean mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, spouse’s brother, spouse’s sister, employee’s brother’s spouse,
work.
14.06 Jury Duty
14.07 Bereavement Leave
57
employee’s sister’s spouse, grandparent or grandchild. This maximum bereavement leave of absence will be increased to five (5) consecutive days, including the day of the funeral, in the case of the death of the spouse, son or daughter of the employee.
ARTICLE 15 - VACATIONS
15.01 During the vacation year commencing January 1st, 1991, each employee whose first (1st) or any sub—sequent anniversary of employment falls within the said vacation year shall receive two (2) weeks’ vaca-With pay which shall not commence until after £> ' , such anniversary. Each employee whose eighth ' 0 ^	(8th) or any subsequent anniversary of employment
falls within the said vacation year shall receive an 'zTot additional one (1) week’s vacation with pay which ■^^3 stlaH not commence until after such anniversary. Effective January 1, 1992, ‘eighth (8th)’ shall be
w changed to “third (3rd)’. Each employee whose '—Oy eighteenth (18th) or any subsequent anniversary of employment falls within the said vacation year shall receive an additional one (1) weeks’ vacation with pay — /ft"Which shall not commence until after such anniversary. Each employee whose twenty-fifth (25th) orany subsequent anniversary of employment falls within the said vacation year shall receive an additional one 1) week’s vacation with pay which shall not com-0 mence until after such anniversary, and each employee whose thirtieth (30th) or any subsequent * % anniversary of employment falls within the said vaca-, y- tion year shall receive an additional one (1) week’s £-) vacation with pay which shall not commence until after such anniversary.
15.02	During the vacation years commencing January 1st, \ 'J-'	1992, January 1st, 1993, and January 1st, 1994, the
provisions of Section 15.01 shall be equally ap-
58
plicable in respect of an employee’s vacation during each of such vacation years except that the period within which an employee’s anniversary of employment falls shall be the vacation years commencing January 1 st, 1992, January 1st, 1993, and January 1 st, 1994, as the case may be instead of January 1 st, 1991.
15.03	A week of vacation means seven (7) consecutive days including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays (normally eight (8) a.m. Monday to eight (8) a.m. the following Monday). Where an employee is entitled to two (2) weeks’ vacation such weeks shall be consecutive. An employee entitled to three (3) or more weeks may split his vacation into not more than two
(2)	parts, each of which must consist of a period of one (1) or more complete weeks and only one (1) of
- such parts shall commence between May 30th and
the following September 1st. Notwithstanding the foregoing in the event of a vacation shutdown employees will be expected to take their vacation during the period of shutdown, subject to the requirements of operations.	'
15.04	An employee will be granted and shall take his vacation for each vacation year within twelve (12) months of the anniversary of his employment at such times as the Company finds most suitable, considering in each Department the employee’s seniority, his wishes and the efficient operation of the Plant. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company when it considers it necessary for efficient operations. A vacation list will be posted in each Department as soon as practicable after vacations for the employees of the Department have been scheduled, the list to show the name, number and seniority of each employee and date of his scheduled vacation.
15.05	An employee will be paid, for each week of vacation to which he is entitled in a vacation year, an amount
59
equal to 2% of his earnings from the Company in the s-ty,/ twelve (12) months immediately preceding his an-tjvl niversary of employment falling within that vacation / year. An employee will receive an additional $235.00
under this Article.
15.06	In cases where an employee's employment with the Company has been interrupted the Company may grant to such employee, in whole or in part, the vacation pay to which such employee would have been entitled had no such interruption occurred.
15.07	Wherever in this Article the expression ‘date of employment’ is used it shall mean the date of last hiring and the expression ‘anniversary of employment’ shaf.1 bane a comparable meaning; provided that in the case of each employee whose date of employment is more than one (1) year prior to the second January 2nd which occurs during his employment, the second anniversary of his employment and all subsequent anniversaries thereof shall for the purposes of this Article be deemed to be
__ January 2nd in each year.
15.08	On cessation of employment, and in lieu of vacation with pay, the Company will pay to an employee an amount equal to the sum of.
a)	the vacation pay for any vacation to which he is entitled at the time of cessation but which he has not received, and
b)	a percent of his earnings from the Company in the period since the date of his employment or of the last preceding anniversary of his employment, whichever shall be later, up to the date of such cessation in accordance with the following:
-	before 3rd anniversary of employment 4%
-	after 3rd and before 18th anniversary of
employment 6%
60
-	after 18th and before 25th anniversary of
employment 8%
-	after 25th and before 30th anniversary of
employment 10%
-	after 30th anniversary of employment 12%
ARTICLE 16 - SPECIAL VACATIONS
16.01 The Company will during the currency of this Agreement provide Special Vacations with pay in accordance with the following provisions: a* a) Each ejuplpyee who completes his first five (5) ^years on the anniversary date of flis employttieOL jT-	shall become entitled to five (5) weeks of Special
Vacation with pay in addition to vacation entitle-1^ ^ments under the provisions of Article 15 of this Agreement.
Each employee upon completion of each additional five (5) years on the anniversary date of his ■ v /^employment since last becoming entitled to a Spe-f ST' S cia) Vacation with pay shall thereupon similarly ‘ rV7 become entitled to five (5) weeks of Special Vacation with pay.

c) The expression ‘anniversary date of his employment' in this Article shall be determined on the same basis as set out in Section 15.07.
d)	Tbe.pay foriurcb.weekoL^oec^l Vacatipn-Which is taken shall be equal to two per cent (2%) of the employee’s earnings from the Company in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which such week of Special Vacation is taken.
e)	Should an employee after becoming entitled to Special Vacation with pay fail to take it within five (5) years of the date of entitlement for any reason including death or retirement, the Company will pay the employee or his estate in lieu of the vacation time. The amount of payment will be
61
calculated as though the employee had taken the vacation immediately prior to the fifth (5th) anniversary of his entitlement or to the date of his termination of employment or his death as the case may be.
f)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven (7) consecutive days including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period.
g)	The allocation of Vacations with Pay under the provisions of Article 15 shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations grartaf&wfJar. this Article.
h)	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company, in its discretion, may determine but subject thereto due consideration will be given to the wishes of the individual employee. It is anticipated that, in most cases, an employee’s Special Vacation will be taken within the five (5) year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it and it is hoped early in that period.
i)	In the case of any employee who retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to the payment provided for in subparagraph (e) of this Article, to an amount equal to two per cent (2%) of his earnings in the calendar year preceding nis retirement, cessation of employment or death for each full year .fcntv date of his last entitlement to a Special Vacation.
j)	Effective January 2,1992, an employee who is
entitled to Special Vacation with pay and assigned to eight (8) hour shifts may take a week of that vacation in any year in five (5) days of eight (8)
hours each with pay of one-fifth (1/5) of the pay to which he is entitled under Subsection (d) above. An employee assigned to twelve (12) hour shifts may take three (3) days of twelve (12) hours each with pay at	'(M3) tfi the pay to which Vie
is entitled under Subsection (d) above.
An employee who in any year has taken one or more days but not a full week of his Special Vacation under this Subsection, will be paid the balance owing.
ARTICLE 17 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT
17.01 The Company, Union and Local Union acknowledge their common concern for maintaining a safe and healthy working environment. In order to effect a thoroughly understood and accepted safety, health and environment program for employees at work it is agreed that joint and cooperative methods should be encouraged.
To this end, joint Safety, Health and Environment Committees will be established for Areas and for the Operations coming within each Area as set out in Schedule ‘J’ attached to this Agreement. In addition, the Union, the Executive of the Local Union and at the request of the Executive of the Local Union the General Safety, Health and Environment Committee of the Local Union shall have the right at any time to discuss matters dealing with safety, health and environmental conditions affecting employees while at work.
17.02	The Company shall continue to make provisions for the safety and health of its employees and shall
63
Operation at least one (1) of whom shall be from either the Maintenance or Electrical Department and up to five (5) to be appointed by the Company from among management representatives familiar with the Operation, one (1) of whom shall be the Superintendent of the Operation, or his designate. In addition, the Local Union may appoint up to five (5) alternate members, any one of whom may replace a regular member of the Committee. The Local Union and the Company shall each designate a member of the Committee as Co-Chairman. The Committee shall meet at least once but not more tfian twee eacn month for the purposes of reviewing the on-going Safety, Health and Environment Program at the Operation, exchanging and discussing safety and- health information and considering specific safety and health problems at work locations within the Operation. The Committee may make recommendations concerning matters discussed to its Area Safety, Health and Environment Committee. The Co-Chairman shall meet at least five (5) days prior to eactescheduled meeting in order to discuss the matters teftse dealt with by the Committee at that meeting. The Company shall supply minutes of each such meeting to the members of the Committee, the members of the appropriate Area Safety, Health and Environment Committee and the Local Union.
Each Co-Chairman of the Committee shall designate one (1) Committee member for the purpose of forming anjospeetten-teamr This inspection team shall conduct a monthly inspection of up to eight (8) hours within the Operation and report its findings at the next Committee meeting. The ■ Company_shaH 7pay employee members of the Operation Safety, IHeaith and Environment Committee at their applicable hourly rate plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and any
applicable Nickel Price Bonus for anv time lost during their regular working hours while attending Committee meetings or making inspections as part of the Committee’s inspection team.
17.05 The Area Safety .Yrt-dto.	Environment Committee
established for each Area shall consist of the CoChairmen of the Operation Safety, Health and Environment Committees within the Area, an employee of the Area appointed by the Local Union, the Manager of the Area or his designate and two (2) special members, knowledgeable in safety matters, one (1) to be the General Chairman of the Local Union's General Safety, Health and Environment Committee, or in his absence either the permanent Mine Co-Chairman or permanent Operations CoChairman, or permanent Maintenance and Electrical Co-Chairman, or permanent Recording Secretary, and one (1) to be appointed by the Company. The Local Union and the Company shall each designate a member.'tfftferithan a special member/jfiMha Committee as a Joint Chairman. If a Co-Chairman of an Operation Safety, Health and Environment Committee is unable to attend, the party appointing him may substitute another-member of that Committee as a replacement for such Co-Chairman at the meeting.
The Committee shall meet quarterly each year for the purpose of reviewing and discussing the performance of and changes in the Safety, Health and Environment Program and in Personnel Protective Programs both in the Area and elsewhere in the Company’s operations in the Sudbury District. In addition, the Committee will consider recommendations received from its Operation Safety, Health and Environment Committees. The Area Safety, Health and Environment Committee may hold extra meetings during the year if agreed to between the Joint Chairmen.
67
mittees. The Co-Chairmen shall meet and prepare an agenda at least fourteen (14) days prior to any scheduled meeting. The Company will supply minutes of such meetings to the members of the Committee, the Union and the Local Union.
17.08	Where an employee, after he has commenced work in any day or shift, suffers either an industrial accident or a recurrence of the effects of a previous industrial accident, if, in the opinion of a duly qualified medical
Kractitioner, such accident or recurrence prevents im from continuing at work he shall be paid at his applicable hourly rate plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus for the balance of the time he would have worked in such day or shift had such accident or recurrence not occurred.
17.09	In any case where subsequent to his last date of hiring the Company requires that an employee undergo a medical examination or obtain a medical certificate as a condition of his employment with respect to a job, the Company will, if any such examination takes place outside the employee's regular working hours, pay such employee at nis applicable hourly rate for any time spent on such examination.
17.10	An employee member of the appropriate Operation Safety, Health and Environment Committee from within the area shall be notified as soon as possible in order that he may be accompanied to the site of a fatality, an employee death at work or an accident which has resulted in the injured employee being admitted and confined to hospital.
17.11	If an employee suffers a fatal accident while at work, or if the Company calls the police as a result of an employee having had a serious accident while at work, the Company shall notify the President of the Local Union in order that he may designate two (2) employee members of the Local Union Inquest Com-
69
mittee who shall, as soon as possible, be accompanied on an inspection of the accident site and, at the same time, provided with all available pertinent information concerning the incident. Each such employee shall be given a leave of absence of up to two (2) CfiDSSGUlLve days, for the purpose of making sucn inspection and investigating the incident. If either of such days occurs on a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, he shall be paid for that day on the basis of the standard number of hours which he otherwise would have worked at his applicable hourly rate of pay, plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance, any applicable Nickel Price Bonus and any applicable incentive earnings.
If a Coroner’s inquest is held with respect to such fatality an employee who is subpoenaed by the Coroner to testify at the inquest will be given a leave of absence of one day for each day he is required to attend at the inquest. Where any such day occurs on a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, he shall be paid on the basis of the standard number of hours which he otherwise would have worked at his applicable hourly rate of pay, plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Al-• lowance, any applicable Nickel Price Bonus and any applicable incentive earnings. If the Coroner’s inquest results in recommendations being issued, the Company will meet within a reasonable time following their issuance with the two (2) designated employees who investigated the fatality for the purpose of discussing such recommendations. Where such meeting occurs P.h J? /f^jj.la.ri/jaihftriiilfid.wc'rkiog day for the employee, he shall be paid on the same basis as employees subpoenaed by the Coroner to testify at the inquest.
17.12	If an Inspector or Engineer of The Mining Health and
70
Safety Branch of the Ministry of Labour is making an inspection in an Area, as defined in Schedule ‘J’ attached to this Agreement, the Local Union may designate a member of an Operation Safety, Health and Environment Committee from that Area for the purpose of accompanying the Inspector or Engineer on his inspection. Such member shall be paid for the time spent while on the inspection on the basis of his applicable hourly rate, plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus.
17.13	The Company and the Union agree to establish a system of worker safety representatives having the duties and responsibilities set out in Schedule ‘R’ of this Agreement. Worker safety representatives will, notwithstanding Article 11 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, be appointed, removed and replaced by the Local Union from among the employees in the locations where they work, as set out in the table contained in Schedule *R\ Upon completion of his appointment he will return to his regular job which will have been posted as a limited job for the period of his absence..
Worker safety representatives will receive training and on the job experience in relation to internal responsibility, the Company Loss Control Program, the Neil George Safety System, the Standard St. John Ambulance certificate, the Safety and Health Committees, the Occupational Health and Safety Act, the Occupational Exposure Monitoring Program and such other training as may be agreed upon.
Worker safety representatives will, notwithstanding Article	Apoymwmt be
paid at Job Class twenty (20) or at the rate of his regular occupational classification, whichever is greater, plus any applicable Nickel Price Bonus, and will be supervised by the Local Union and the
71
18.03	The Company on receipt of the necessary information from the Local Union shall from time to time post on the bulletin board space for each Plant the names of the Grievance Stewards designated by the Local Union to handle matters under the Grievance Procedure in such Plant, and shall also post on the same bulletin board space lists indicating the supervisory personnel designated by the Company to handle matters underthe Grievance Procedure in such Plant at each of the first two stages of the grievance procedure.
18.04	For the purpose of the above described notices, the Company will provide general bulletin boards or bulletin board space conveniently located for the purpose of bringing such notices to the attention of employees in each Department.
ARTICLE 19 - MISCELLANEOUS
19.01	Nothing in this Agreement contained shall be construed to bind the Company to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement when such provisions may be impractical "having regard to any law which shall be binding upon the Company.
ARTICLE 20 - TRADES AND STATIONARY ENGINEERS
A.	Trades
20.01 The trades in the Company’s operations in the Sudbury District are at the date of this Agreement:
Blacksmith Carpenter Car Repairer S.G. Communications Serviceman Combustion Serviceman
Lineman
Machinist
Maintenance
Electrician
Maintenance Mechanic
Mason
Moulder
73
Construction Mechanic Drill Fitter
Fitter Loco Car Fitter, Locomotive
Painter
Patternmaker
Plateworker
Plumber
Power Protection &
& Shovel Garage Mechanic Heavy
RiyySr
Vulcanizer
Control Serviceman
Mechanic
Industrial Mechanic Instrumentman
Welder
Winder
Lead Welder
and in the said trades there are, or may be, Leaders, Tradesmen and Tradesmen Helpers.
20.02	It is the Company’s intention to provide opportunity for intermediate tradesmen to improve their qualifications in order that they may have the opportunity to advance in their respective trades. It is also the Company’s intention to provide additional opportunity for helpers in each trade for which the Company has not established an apprenticeship program to attain the necessary qualifications to become tradesmen.
20.03	Therefore the Company will provide for helpers in non-apprenticed trades and intermediate tradesmen up to the number which are required to be trained in any trade at any time training programs consisting of 'on the job' training combined with appropriate study courses.
20.04	Any intermediate tradesman or any helper in a non-apprenticed trade who desires to participate in such a training program may make application to register as a trainee with the Company’s Training Supervisor. Such applicants as may be selected will be informed as to the appropriate study course or courses that they must take, the nature of any such course or . courses being dapmtert \sipw\ *y?i> •ptar. training which may have been taken by the successful ap-
74
plicant In selecting applicants the Company will give preference to their lengths of continuous service provided they have sufficient aptitude, knowledge or education to take the training.
20.05	The Company will upon the successful completion of
any such approved study course by an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course for all courses in his training program, provided that at the time of completion of the course, the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work. ____________
20.06	B. Apprentices ^	" 7
Apprentices now or hereafter in the Company’s employ will be trained and upgraded in the manner heretofore customary in the Company’s service but as may be modified by the provisions of this Article, They will be given an opportunity for training in as many branches of their trade as the Company’s facilities will reasonably permit. At no time will the ratio of apprentices to tradesmen in any trade exceed the ratio of one (1) to three (3). It is understood that age alone will not prevent entrance into the apprenticeship training program.
20.07	No apprentice, during his apprenticeship, may apply in writing under the job posting provisions of this Agreement to fill any job vacancy notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11 hereof.
20.08	Apprentices will be required to take and successfully complete such study courses during their apprenticeship as-are^tpprupfRfrtAo crssiSttnumlv qualify in their respective trades, and the Company agrees that upon the successful completion of each such course it will reimburse the apprentice for the cost of such course provided:
1) that the taking of each course by an apprentice
75
shall, prior to the commencement of such course and during the currency of this Agreement, have been approved in writing by the Supervisor of Apprentices; and
2) that such apprentice shall be in the employ of the Company at the time of successful completion of such courses unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
20.09	The trades in which apprenticeship training may be provided are as follows;
1.	Blacksmith
2.	Carpenter
3.	Communications Serviceman
4.	Drill Fitter
5.	Fitter Loco Car
6.	Garage Mechanic
7.	Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
8.	Industrial Mechanic
9.	Instrumentman
10.	Lead Welder
11.	Lineman
12.	Machinist
13.	Maintenance Electrician
14.	Maintenance Mechanic
15.	Mason
16.	Patternmaker
17.	Plateworker
18.	Power Protection & Control Serviceman
19.	Rigger
20.	Welder
21.	Winder
and such other trades as may be designated from time to time by the Company. In the case of any additional trade being so designated, the Company shall inform
76
the Local Union in writing and discuss it with the Trades Committee prior to implementation.
20.10	The length of apprenticeship shall be up to four (4) years depending upon the particular trade and as may be determined by the Company. The Company may reduce the regular period of apprenticeship training where it is satisfied that an apprentice has received equivalent training or experience in his trade outside the Company’s apprenticeship program. Upon the successful completion of the period of apprenticeship training an apprentice will, subject to the requirements of operations, be employed as a tradesman in the trade for which he has apprenticed and for this purpose the job posting provisions of this Agreement shall be applied in the following manner. The Company will post a tradesman job in the trade in which the apprentice has graduated with the name of the apprentice on the posting. Any applicant for the job must be qualified as a tradesman in such job and employed as a tradesman in the trade line for such job and cannot be employed in the plant under Schedule I? for which the vacancy is posted and assigned to the same shift, including daytime work, as the posted job. The graduating apprentice will be assigned to the job vacated by the successful applicant if they are both in the same classification.
If not in the same classification, the vacated job will be posted and the graduate apprentice will be assigned to the new vacated job if he and the successful applicant for the first vacated job are in the same classification. This process will continue until the graduate apprentice can be assigned to a vacated job.
20.111f the Company establishes an apprenticeship program for trades not currently apprenticed the employees in the helper classification of the trade concerned will, if they make application for appren-
77
ticeship training in such trade, at the time of establishment of the program and up to the number which are required to be trained in such trade, be given preference in the order of their departmental seniority ranking to enter such apprenticeship program provided they possess sufficient knowledge, ability and skill to justify their being accepted for training. In the event of a force reduction apprentices will be subject to the provisions of Section 11.02 to the same extent as other employees.
20.12 An employee who is transferred to an apprenticeship shall receive the rate of the occupational classification from which he was transferred, up to a maximum of Job Class 13, or the rate payable under Schedule •G\ whichever is greater.
C.Stationary Engineers, Refrigeration Operators and Compressor Operators
20.13	It is the Company’s intention to provide opportunity for employees in the classifications of Stationary En-
Sineer, Refrigeration Operator and Compressor perator and others who are required by law to have Government certificates, to improve their qualifications in order that they may have the opportunity to advance in their respective classifications.
20.14	Therefore the Company will provide training programs consisting of 'on the job’ training combined with appropriate study courses for up to the number of such employees which it requires to be trained at any time.
20.15- Any employee in the classifications referred to in * Section 20.13 hereof who desires to participate in such a training program may make application to register as a trainee with the Company's Training Supgryiaor. Such applicants as may be selected will be informed as to the appropriate study course or
78
courses that they must take, the nature of any such course or courses being dependent upon any prior training which may have been taken by the successful applicant. In selectinq_ applicants the Company will give preference to their lengths of continuous service provided they have sufficient aptitude, knowledge or education to take the training.
20.16	The Company will upon the successful completion of any Company approved study course by an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
D.	Incentive for Study Courses
20.17	It is the Company’s intention to further assist those employees referred to in this Article in the completion of any study courses (including any course the satisfactory completion of which would be required to qualify an employee for a Government certificate! approved under the provisions of this Article, and with this in view the Company will pay to each employee who successfully completes such a study course an amount equal to the employee’s applicable hourly. rate for one-half 0 of the standard hours specified for thecompletioTTofsiuchstudy course. The determination of the standard hours specified for the completion of such study course shall be made by the Company and shall be final following consultation by the Company with the school or other agency supplying such course.
&
ARTICLE 21 - GENERAL TRAINING
21.01	A joint training committee will be established consist-
79
ing of eight (8) members, four (4) to be appointed by the Local Union from among the employees of the Company, one (1) of whom shall be from the Mining and Milling Section.njnb^J/rryjTi Mtva Stnelteng and Refining Section and one (1) from either the Maintenance or Electrical Department, and four (4) to be appointed by the Company from among Management Representatives, one (1) of whom shall be from the Mining and Milling Section, one (1) from the Smelting and Refining Section and one (1) from the Maintenance Department. The Local Union and the Company shall each designate a member of the committee as Co-Chairman. The committee shall meet at least once, but not more than twice each month for the purposes of exchanging and discussing information pertaining to training, discussing the occupational classifications for which the Company has created trainee jobs, reviewing Company training programs, and considering specific problems arising out of these programs. The committee may make recommendations to the Company concerning matters discussed. The Co-Chairmen shall meet at least five (5) days prior to each scheduled meeting in order to discuss the matters to be dealt with by the committee at that meeting. The Company will supply minutes of each such meeting to the members of the committee. A committee member who is unable to attend a meeting owing to sickness, vacation or leave of absence may be replaced for that meeting by an alternate from the Section or Department of the regular member. The Company shall pay employee members of the committee at their applicable hourly rate plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus for any time lost during their regular working hours while attending meetings of the committee.
80
21.02	The Company desires to provide an opportunity for employees to qualify for certain occupational classifications by providing training during working hours. The jobs in which employees may be employed for these purposes are hereinafter called ‘trainee jobs’.
21.03	Whenever the Company decides that additional employees are required to be trained in such occupational classifications it shall post vacancies for trainee jobs as limited jobs as hereinbefore in this Agreement defined. If the successful applicant for a posted trainee job is from outside the working group where temporary relief wll lut required,the Company may assign an additional employee from within such working group to such trainee job without posting such job. In making such assignment, the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in such working group who, in its judgment, possess sufficient knowledge, ability and SK,\tu#juS'i‘)iyrHucepr<ana»*r-; training.
No employee shall be eligible to apply for a trainee job:
a)	who in the judgment of the Company is qualified in such occupational classification;
b)	who has been successfully trained as a result of a previous training posting within the previous six (6) nipjith period unless waived by the Company;
c)	who within the six (6) month period prior to his application has failed to qualify in the same trainee job for which he is currently applying;
d)	who does not possess sufficient knowledge, ability anA ■oklli Vc, ‘justify his being accepted for training:
e)	who within the six (6) month period prior to his application has voluntarily withdrawn from a trainee job before its completion, unless waived by the Company.
81


The employees required to fill the vacancies for trainee jobs will be determined in accordance with their respective seniority ranking.
21.04	A successful applicant for a trainee job shall be paid during the training period at the rate of his regular occupational classification.
In the case of Double Drum Hoistmen, Haulage Truck Driver, Electric Loco Engineer and General Brakeman a successful applicant for a trainee job shall be paid at the rate of the occupational classification for which he is being trained or his regular occupational classification whichever is greater.
21.05	Any employee who desires to take a home study course snail prior to commencing such course obtain written approval from the Company's Training Supervisor who shall advise the applicant whether or not the proposed course is a work related course and is acceptable to the Company for that individual under the provisions of this Article..
21.06	The Company will upon the successful completion of a work related study course, accepted under the provision of Section 21.05, by an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course up to a maximum cost to the Company of six hundred dollars ($600) for all courses taken by the employee provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
ARTICLE 22 - INCENTIVES
22.01	A joint incentive committee will be established consisting of eight (8) members, four (4) to be appointed by the Local Union from among the employees of the Company, and four (4) to be appointed by the Com-
Efrom among Management Representatives.
.ocal Union and the Company shall each designate a member of the committee as Co-Chairman.
82
The Committee will be provided with written notice of new incentive standards, changes to established incentive standards or extensions of the present program, prior to their implementation. The committee shall meet once each month for the purpose of exchanging and discussing information pertaining to incentives and reviewing the Company incentive program including methods employed to develop work standards, factors affecting the application of the program, alterations in work standards, the introduction of new standards or the extension of the present program. The committee may make recommendations to the Company concerning matters discussed. Committee members and the designated alternates will be provided with instruction in the calculation and application of incentive rates. The Co-Chairmen shall at least five (5) days prior to each scheduled meeting discuss the matters to be dealt with by the committee at that meeting. The Company will supply minutes of each such meeting to the members of the committee. Each party will designate four (4) alternate members to the Committee and may appoint such an alternate to replace a regular Committee member who is unable to attend a meeting owing to sickness, vacation or leave of absence. The Company shall pay employee members of the committee and designated alternates at their applicable hourly rate, plus any applicable shift premium, any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus for any time lost during their regular working hours while attending meetings of the committee.
22.02	The Local Union may establish for each of the Plants in which an incentive system has been introduced and such other Plants in which an incentive system may be introduced a Plant Incentive Committee to consist in each case of not more than five (5) employees in the Plant in question. Committee mem-
83
bers will be provided with instruction in the calculation and application of incentive rates.
22.03	Each such Plant incentive Committee shall be entitled at reasonable times but not more often than twice per month to present to the Superintendent of its Department and/or such other officials of the Company as the said Superintendent may desire to be present, any complaints or objections with regard to any incentive applied in its Plant during the preceding month and any matters pertaining to a particular contract on which an individual or crew may be working currently or during the preceding month. The Plant Incentive Committee shall notify the Superintendent of the Department concerned at least two (2) working days prior to any such meeting of the particular contracts to be considered thereat. The Company will on request furnish the Union and the Plant Incentive Committee with all reasonable information as to the factors involved in the calculation of any incentive.
22.04	If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the Plant Incentive Committee, it shall be entitled, on application in writing to the Superintendent of Industrial Relations, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection at a meeting with a Company Committee. Such application in writing shall be made at least three (3) working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Superintendent of the Department referred to in Section 22.03. The Company Committee will meet each Plant Incentive Committee as may be required for the dispatch of business but not more often than once in each month to consider complaints or objections of which notice has been given as aforesaid by the Plant Incentive Commit-
84
tee prior to such meeting. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the Superintendent of Industrial Relations and notice thereof shall be given to such Plant Incentive Committee. At each such meeting the Plant Incentive Committee may be accompanied, if it so desires, bv a representative of the Union and/or an officer of the Local Union or a Local Union member of the Joint Incentive Committee.
22.05	Employees working on a particular contract to be considered may be represented at any meeting provided for in this Wacte.'oj nc&
from each shift working on the contract. The provisions of Article 7 of this Agreement with respect to time off for Grievance Stewards and payment for time lost by them shall apply equally to the members of the Plant Incentive Committee and the representatives of the employees herein mentioned.
22.06	An employee may initiate a grievance under Article 7 * 7-where he claims that his pay has been incorrec^-ii— calculated or the number of units of work has been ^ wrongly determined.
22.07	The Company’s incentive system will be based on the present modified standard hour plan under which bonus earnings are expressed as a percentage of the employee’s applicable hourly rate so that the incentive earnings automatically increase with increases in the wage structure.
22.08	Employees in the Copper Refinery when required to work on piece work on a recognized holiday, in addition to their piece work earnings, will be paid eight (8) hours at one and one-half (1 Vfe) times their applicable hourly rate provided that they complete their daily work quota for that day.
ARTICLE 23 - PENSIONS	^
23.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will con-
85
tinue to receive the benefits of the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees of the Company (Ontario Division, Sudbury District), Schedule T hereto.
23.02	Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees; or between the Company and the Union covering the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of thei provisions of the Pension Plan, such difference shall be settled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure or arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 24 - INSURANCES, HEALTH AND HOSPITAL SERVICES
4
24.01	The employees covered by this Agreement shall receive the benefits of a Group Term Life Insurance I Plan, a Group Non-Occupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance PlanTa^roup'Non->} jOccupatiShaTSlc^ess and Accident Insurance Plan f/'as reflected irTSecGons 24.04 and 24.07, a Blue CP Cross Plan for Prescription Drugs - Formulary 2 (35$
deductible) - (descriptions of which are annexed to this Agreement) - the Blue Cross Supplementary fsemt-orivateiPlan. and the Ontario Blue Cross Dental Plan Number 7 as in effect July 10, 1972 plus coverage for endodontics and periodontics and for Blue Cross dental coverage of orthodontics (50% of fees, maximum $1,500) or equivalent coverage, as described in Section 24.02, all subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Article and in the said Plans, ail of which, except the Group Non-Occupational Sickness & Accident Insurance Plan form part of this Agreement.
\
24.02 The Company will provide the Ontario Blue Cross
Dental Plan Number 7 (Preventative Basic Dental Care) plus coverage for endodontics and periodon^. tics and for Blue Cross Dental coverage of orthodoru-
86
ticg (50% of fees, maximum $1,500) with the 1991 <Jntario Dental Association Schedule of Fees for Dental Services provided by General Practitioners. Etf active June 1,1993, the applicable fee schedule will be the 1992 Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees for Dental Services provided by General Practitioners. Upon completion of any necessary enrolment forms, employees will be covered by the Dental Plan on the first day of the month following the month in which the employee has acquired seniority.
24.03	During the term of this Agreement the Company/
agrees to pay the premiums payable in respect of a employees under the above Plans.	.
24.04	The Group Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident-^T"
Insurance Plan will provide for a weekly benefit $430 per week. Effective June 1,1992 such weekly’’ benefit will increase to $450 per week and effective^J June 1,1993, such weekly benefit will further in^* crease to $470 per week.	^*j
24.05	The Group Term Life Insurance Plan for persons irrS^n the active employment of the Company will be * $35,000 with a maximum coverage of $5,000 for employees who retire on a disability pension with 3 -7 ■ or mara cf rfsmttoiisuiF senica a? praiKtef
the Plan. The Group Non-Occupational Accidental &' Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan for persons in the active employment of the Company will be $15,000.
. 24.06-Effective the first day of the month following the month
in which the Collective Bargaining Agreement com- -7^1 mences, the Company will pay the premiums for a—< Group Optical Insurance Plan which will provide up /* totwohuriared and fifty dollars ($250.00) coverage in each two (2) year period for each employee, the spouse of the employee and all unmarried, un-emDjtoypd_cbildreo up tatbe.aqp.of21 or yD.to 23 if an unmarried full time student
87
24.07 The long term disability protection plan for ail employees who have completed one year of service will provide that employees who are disabled within the meaning of the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid '* ' Employees will he planed directly on disability pension under the Pension Plan uponT^mplotlon 01 ^ maximum of 1 Mwee'RstJi'Giroup Won-Occupational * Sickness and Accident coverage for any one continuous period of disability.
24.08	In consideration of improved employee benefits paid for by the Company, the Union for the employees releases the Company from any obligation it might hereafter have to pay to employees any Unemployment Insurance rebate available because of the existence of a wage loss replacement plan. (Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan.)
ARTICLE 25 - COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
25.01	A cost of living allowance will, if applicable, be paid to each employee as set out below. This allowance will be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items - base: 1961-100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as the ‘CPI’) and will be calculated as follows:
a)	The CPI published for April, 1991, shall be cornel pared with the CPI published for July, 1991, and
> j effective the pay period immediately following the publication of the July, 1991 CPI, the allowance | shall be one cent (1) per hour worked for each zero point three five (0.35) point increase by which the July, 1991 CPI exceeds the April, 1991 CPI.
b)	Such allowance, if any, shall continue until the publication of the CPI for October, 1991, at which time the October, 1991 CPI shall be compared with the CPI published for July, 1991, and effective the pay period immediately following the publica-
88
tion of the October. 1991 CPI. the allowance shall be adjusted by one cent (1) per hour worked for each zero point three five (0.35) point increase by Wtto (the\Sixtsikir: 1 I exceeds (fte July, 1991 CPI.
c)	A similar comparison and adjustment shall be made thereafter on the basis of the CPI published every three (3) months apart as follows:
FOLLOWING THE RELEASE OF THE CPI FOR:
January, 1992 April, 1992 July, 1992 October, 1992 January, 1993 April, 1993 July, 1993 October, 1993 January, 1994 April, 1994
BASED ON
THE COMPARISON
OF:
January, 1992 with October, 1991 April, 1992 with January, 1992 July, 1992 with April, 1992 October, 1992 with July, 1992 January, 1993 with October, 1992 April, 1993 with January, 1993 July, .ia993 with AoriJ.1993 October, 1993 with July, 1993 January, 1994 with October, 1993 April, 1994 with January, 1994
d)	If there is a decrease in the CPI on the basis of the quarter to quarter comparison, the allowance shall be adjusted downward by using the formula mentioned above but an employee’s applicable hourly rate shall not be affected by any downward adjustment.
e)	The amount of the cost of living allowance in effect at any time shall not form part of an employee’s qgqiicable hourly rate but will be included for the calculation of vacation pay under the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
9 No adjustment retroactive or otherwise shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada.
89
g) The continuance of the cost of living allowance shalt depend upon the availability of the CRI calculated on its present basis and in its present form. Should this occur, the parties will meet and agree upon an appropriate alternative conversion of the CPI.
ARTICLE 26 -SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS PLAN (SUB)
26.01
The employees covered by this Agreement will receive the benefits of the Supplementary Unemployment Benefits Plan (SUB) for Hourly Paid Employees of the Company in trie Sudbury District Schedule ‘L’ hereto.	<a/
i?u/ '
ARTICLE 27 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
27.01	The Co-operative Wage Study Manual (herein 7	referred toss ttfw Atenua/?,datea Hwerrber 1,1981.
shall be incorporated into this Agreement as Schedule ‘M’ and its provisions shall thereafter apply as if set forth in full herein.
27.02	Each employee’s job shall be described and classified and a rate of pay applied to it in accordance with the provisions of the Manual and this AgreemenL
27.03	The scale of rates beginning at Job Class 1, and progressing upwards by equal increments shall be known as the Standard Hourly Wage Scale and will be Schedule ‘F to this Agreement.
27.04	Effective June 1,1983 all employees shall have their rates of pay adjusted as follows:
a)	If the employee is not receiving an out-of-line differential prior to that date, the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the standard hourly rate for that employee’s job, as provided in Schedule 'F.
b)	If the employee is receiving an out-of-line differen-
90
tial prior to June 1,1983, the rate of pay of such employee shall be increased by the amount by which the rate for Job Class 1 has been increased, as provided in Schedule ‘F and the following shall govern:
1.	If the employee's new rate resulting from such increase is greater than the standard hourly fate for the job, as provided in Schedule 'F, the amount by which such employee’s new rate is greater than the rate provided in Schedule 4F shall become such employee's new out-of-line differential (which shall replace the former out-of-line differential) and shall apply in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2.	If the employee’s new rate resulting from such increase is equal to or less than the standard hourly rate for the job, as provided in Schedule ‘F, the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the standard hourly rate for the job as provided in Schedule ‘F and the former out-of-line differential shall be terminated.
27.05	As of June 1,1983 the standard hourly rate for each job class shall be the standard hourly rate for all jobs classified within such job class and shall so continue for the duration of the Standard Hourly Wage Scale and shall be applied to any employee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
27.06	The Company and the Local Union shall agree on a list of employees who are to be paid out-of-line differentials. Such list shall contain the following information:
at Name of employee to whom such out-of-line differential is to be paid,
b)	Job title of job on which out-of-line differential is to be paid,
c)	Job class of such job,
91
d)	Wage rate of such job,
e)	Amount of out-of-line differential and
f)	Date such out-of-line differential became effective.
27.07	Except as such out-of-line differential may be changed by the means hereinafter provided, any employee included in the list referred to in Section 27.06 shall continue to be paid such out-of-line differential during such time as the employee continues to occupy the job for which the out-of-line differential was established.
27.08	If an employee with an out-of-line differential is required by the Company to either transfer or be assigned to a job having a higher hourly rate, then the differential shall be reduced by the amount of the increase in the hourly rate.
27.09	If, as a result of a force adjustment and/or the exercise of seniority rights, an employee with an out-of-line differential is moved to a job having a lower hourly rate, then the out-of-line differential shall be cancelled.
27.10	If such employee referred to in Sections 27.08 and 27.09 shall be returned to the job for which the out-of-line differential was established, the out-of-line differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by other means.
27.11	When an employee would, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, be entitled to receive his applicable hourly rate, he shall also receive any out-of-line differential to which he is entitled.
27.12	In addition to the means herein provided, increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate out-of-line differentials.
27.13	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
27.14	Except as otherwise provided in the Manual no basis
92
shall exist for an employee to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
27.15	There shall be a committee known as the 'CWS Committee’ consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Local Union ionepresent SteAtaisn an* three (3) individuals appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its representatives from time to time by written notification to the other.
27.16	Meetings of the CWS Committee will be held as frequently as required at mutually agreeable times.
27.17	Leaves of absence shall be granted to Local Union representatives on the CWS Committee to the extent required for handling new or changed job descriptions and job classifications in accordance with the requirements of the Manual. Time lost by the Local Union representatives on the CWS Committee shall be paid for by the Company at their applicable hourly rates, plus any applicable shift premium and Cost of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus. The Company may at any time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse of the privilege.
27.18	Any arbitration under the terms of the Manual shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 28 - SPECIAL SHORT TERM SHUTDOWN PROTECTION PLAN
28.01	The Company may, upon forty-five (45) days’ written notice to the Union, declare a special shutdown of all or part of a Department for a period not to exceed four
(4)	months, which period may immediately precede or follow a vacation shutdown.
28.02	In the event such a shutdown is declared, the employees working in the Department or the part of
93
the Department to be shut down will, notwithstanding Article 11 of the Collective Agreement, be placed on layoff for the period of the shutdown and covered by the provisions of the Special Short Term Shutdown Protection Plan described in Schedule ‘O’ hereto and hereinafter called the ‘Plan’.
28.03	The Company may recall individuals during the period of the shutdown to perform work in the shutdown Department or shutdown part of the Department, as the case may be. For this purpose, the Company shall determine which individuals off work from the Department and covered by the provisions of the Plan are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the jobs available and shall give preference in recalling to work such individuals cm the basis of MtSiUeiyifb of continuous service with the Company and the provisions of Section 11.05 (a) to (g) shall apply. An individual may decline such recall if the Company is able to recall another individual from the Department who is covered by the Plan and is qualified to fill the normal requirements of the job and has less seniority than the declining individual.
28.04	The Company will not declare a special shutdown of a particular part of a Department or the Department as a whole more than once during the term of the
Collective Agreement.
28.05	The Company will meet with the President of the Local Union, a representative of the Union and one additional employee upon request and with reasonable notice for the purpose of discussing matters in connection with the Plan.
ARTICLE 29 - AUTHORITY
29.01	United Steelworkers of America and its officers agree that they have authority from the members of the said Union to enter into this Agreement and agree that this Agreement shall be binding upon its members.
94
ARTICLE 30 - FURTHER CONFERENCES

30.01	Joint conferences between representatives of the / Company and of the Union shall commence in Copper Cliff, Ontario, not less than sixty (60) days nor x more than ninety {90} days before aw A rrrmration date of this Agreement for the purpose of considering, and, if thought fit, negotiating an Agreement with regard to wages, hours and conditions of employment
to take effect upon the expiration of this Agreement
30.02	The In-Term Meetings between the Company, the Local Union and the Union to deal with problems arising from the administration of this Agreement and to improve communications between the parties will be continued. The In-Term Meetings wHI also provide an opportunity to discuss the implementation °fnew experimental programs designed to improve job satisfaction and productivity, and the application of this Agreement to such programs.
ARTICLE 31 - TERMINATION
31.01	This Agreement shall become. effectiye_Qn.tb.e_l.st_day of June, 1951 and shall terminate at midnight-31 st day of May, 1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF Inco Limited has caused this Agreement to be signed by its proper officers, and the officers of United Steelworkers of America and the Bargaining Committee of Local 6500 have hereunto set their hands on behalf of the said Union and on their own behalf.
95
EXECUTED at the City of Sudbury, Ontario, this' 28th day of JUne, 1991'.
UNITED STEELWORKERS
OF AMERICA
LW. Gerard
Director, District 6
H.T. Seguin Area Supervisor
W. Fraser
Staff Representative
LOCAL 6500,
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA AND ITS NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
D.R. Campbell President
D. McGraw
Chairman, Safety &
Health Committee
B.	Young Treasurer
L Bona
Chief Steward, Mines
J. Kmit
Chief Steward, Reduction/Operatons
D. O’Reilly
Chief Steward, Maintenance R. Taylor Steward
INCO LIMITED
W.P. Clement President, Ontario Division
A.L Cruthers Manager, Copper diff Copper Refinery Complex
J.H. LeMay Manager, Central Maintenance & Utilities
R.C. Aelick
Manager, Creighton complex
D.	D. Sheehan
Manager, Erripldyee Relations
E.	R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations
96
SCHEDULE ‘A
CLASSIFICATIONS OF EMPLOYEES EXCLUDED FROM THE BARGAINING UNIT
Mines Section
Mining Underground Superintendents Asst. Superintendents Underground Superintendents General Foremen Senior Foremen Junior Foremen Surface Foremen Relieving Surface Foremen Supply Foremen Drill Fitter Foremen Salvage Foremen Shift Bosses *Rel. Shift Bosses Drill Fitter Bosses Matrons Supply Bosses.
Open Pits
Superintendents Asst Superintendents Senior Foremen Junior Foremen Blasting Foremen Asst Blasting Foremen Supply Foremen Shift Bosses *Rel. Shift Bosses Drill Fitter Bosses
* Including individuals In other classifications who automatically act for shift
boss in the latter's absence.
97
Mechanical - All Mines
Master Mechanics of Mines Asst Master Mechanics of Mines Mine Master Mechanics Asst Mine Master Mechanics Garage Foremen Asst. Garage Foremen Rockhouse Foremen Mechanical Shift Foremen Steel Shop Foremen Carpenter Shop Foremen Garage Shift Foremen Machine Shop Foremen Plate Shop Foremen Crushing Plant Foremen Rockhouse Bosses Steel Shop Bosses Crushing Plant Bosses Picker Bosses Rigger Bosses
Reduction Section
Mill
Superintendents Asst. Superintendents General Foremen Flotation Foremen Shift Bosses • Rel. Shift Bosses Screening Plant Bosses Grinding Bosses Dewatering Bosses Flotation Bosses General Labour Bosses
* Including individuals in other classifications who automatically ad forshift
boss in the latter's absence.
98
Bin Bosses Metallurgists Statisticians Matrons
Smelters
Supts. Reverb Supts. Convtrs.
Supts. Orford Supts. Coniston Asst to Supts.
General Foremen Asst. Supts.
Shift Bosses Smelter Foremen
Blast ,Puraa£S‘JJjCVv\uJr. Siga|tQRsesv(nonisJoj)J
Transportation Foremen
*Rel. Shift Bosses
Converter Slag Bosses
Puncher Bosses
Lining St Bosses
Sinter PI. Bosses
Flue Dust Bosses
Cottrell Bosses
Bin Bosses
Slag Dump Bosses
Matrons
Watchmen
Copper Cliff and Coniston Mechanical Master Mechanics Asst Master ,Mss:te.nics General Foremen
* Inducting individuals in other classifications who automatically ad for shift
boss in the latter's absence.
99
Night Supervisors General Foremen Shift Foremen Foremen, Tank House Aisle Foremen, Acid Plant Foremen, Selenium Plant Foremen, Lead Burner Foremen, Coal Plant Foremen, Transportation Foremen, Watch & Patrol Shift Bosses, Electric Furnace Shift Bosses, Anode Furnace Shift Bosses, Tank House Shift Bosses, Silver Refinery Shift Bosses, Acid Plant Shops Foremen Chief Electricians Asst Chief Electricians Chief Inspectors (Refined Shapes)
Gold Room Operators
Chief Sampler
P.H. Switchboard Operators
Matrons
Watchmen
General Exclusions
All employees of the Geological Department, excepting Geological helpers. (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Metallurgical Dept, excepting samplers, sampler helpers and labourers. (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Safety and First Aid Dept excepting drymen. (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Purchasing and Warehousing Dept excepting storemen and storemen helpers. (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Research Dept, excepting Test Mill Operators and sampler helpers.
101
All employees of the Efficiency Dept (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Personnel and Employment Dept. (M. & S. and C.R. Divisions)
All employees of the Mines Engineering Dept. (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Hospital and Clinical Depts.
All employees of the Accounting Dept (M. & S. Division) All employees of the Civil and Mechanical Engineering Dept (M. & S. Division)
Ail Real Estate Agents, Ventilation Engineers, Plant Clerks and Stenos, Agriculturists, Fire Prevention Men, Process Engineers, Watchmen (Brae* Mines), Janitors (Community Halls). (M. & S. Division)
All employees of the Metallurgical, Chemical apd Research Dept, except drillers and drill room men. (C.R. Division)
All employees of the Accounting Dept including plant clerks and janitors. ( C.R. Division)
All employees of the Safety and First Aid Dept. (C.R. Division)
All employees of the Purchasing and Warehousing Dept except stsi'es itei^sra (C.R. Division)
Employees in any new classifications having supervisor or confidential status at least equal in degree to that of any employees herein excluded.
102
4
!}
I l
^ 5 i
?/
U 5
SCHEDULE ‘D’
DEPARTMENTS
1.	Frood-Stobie Mine (indudes Littfe Stobie)
2.	Creighton Mine
3.	Garson Mine
4.	Levack Mine (indudesMcCreedy West)
5.	Lower Coleman Mine (indudes McCreedy East)
6.	Crean Hill Mine
7.	Copper Cliff North Mine
8.	Copper Cliff South Mine
9.	Clarabelle Open Pit
10.	Exploration Diamond Drilling
11.	Concentrators, Mills and Crushing
12.	Furnaces (formerly Reverbs and Roasters
Copper Cliff)
13.	Converters
14.	Matte Processing (indudes Acid & SO2 Plants)
15.	Nickel Refinery (Nickel Products)
16.	Sulphur Products
17.	Canadian Alloys/Oxide
18.	Refinery (formerly Tank House Group,
Copper Refinery)
19.	Casting-Yard, Transportation and Sampling (Copper Refinery)
20.	Transportation
21.	Electrical
22.	Maintenance
23.	Purchasing and Warehousing
24.	Safety and Miscellaneous
25.	Mines Research
26.	All Mines Development
27.	All Mines Construction
105
SCHEDULE ‘E’
CLASSIFICATIONS ENTITLED TO PREFERENTIAL RECALL
Blacksmiths
Carpenters
Car Repairers S.G.
Combustion Serviceman
Communications Serviceman
Fitter Loco Car
Fitters, Loco, and Shovel
Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic
Industrial Mechanic
Instrumentman
Lead Welders
Linemen
Loco. Repair Electricians S.G. Machinists
Maintenance Electricians Maintenance Mechanics Masons
Mechanics (Garage)
Moulders
Painters
Patternmakers
Plateworkers
Plumbers
Powerhouse Engineers
Power Protection & Control Serviceman
Riggers
Stationary Engineers Vulcanizers
Welders
Winders
106
Q
SCHEDULE *F	/
WAGE RATES
Class 1 2	June 1,1990 $/Hr $15.37 15.59	June 1,1991 June 1,1992* June 1,1993’ $/Hr $/Hr $/Hr $17.25 $17.50 $17.75 17.47 17.72 17.97		
3	" 15.81	17.69	17.94	18.19
4	16.03	17.91	18.16	18.41
5	16.25	18.13	18.38	18.63
6	16.47	18.35	18.60	18.85
7	16.69	18.57	18.82	19.07
8	16.91	18.79	19.04	19.29
9	17.13	19.01	19.26	19.51
10	17.35	19.23	19.48	19.73
11	17.57	19.45	19.70	19.95
12	17.79	19.67	19.92	20.17
13	18.01	19.89	20.14	20.39
14	18.23	20.11	20.36	20.61
15	18.45	20.33	20.58	20.83
16	18.67	20.55	20.80	21.05
17	18.89	20.77	21.02	21.27
18	19.11	20.99	21.24	21.49
19	19.33	21.21	21.46	21.71
20	19.55	21.43	21.68	21.93
21	19.77	21.65	21.90	22.15
22	19.99	21.87	22.12	22.37
23	20.21	22.09	22.34	22.59
24	20.43	22.31	22.56	22.81
25	20.65	22.53	22.78	23.03
• Wage rates effective June 1,1992 and June!, 1993 will be mcreaserbyany Cost of Living Allowance in effect on those dates and the Cost of Living Allowance will be reduced by the same amounL
107
SCHEDULE ‘G’
SCHEDULE OF APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING (1040 HOURS TRAINING PERIOD)
C.W.S. WAGE CLASS PAYABLE FOR APPRENTICESHIP PERIODS
				4-Year	Apprenticeship			
1st 2nd			3rd 4th		5th	6th 7th	8th	Trade Job
	5			9				Class
3	5		7	9	12	15 17	19	21
3	5		7		11	14 16	18	20
3	5		7	9	10	12 15	17	19
3			7	8		11 14	16	18
3	5		7	8	9	10 13	15	17
3	5		7	8	9			16
3	5		7	8	9	10 11	13	15
				3-year	Apprenticeship			
1st		2nd		3rd	4th	5th	ern	Trade Job
								Class
3		6		9	14	17	19	21
3		6		9	13	16	18	20
3		6		9	12	15	17	19
3		6		9	12	14	16	18
3		6		8	11	13	15	17
3		5		7	10			16
3		5		7	9	12	14	15
3		5		S	8	10	12	14
3		5		6	7	9	11	13
3		5		6	7	8	10	12
				2-Year	Apprenticeship			
1st			2nd		3rd	4th		Trade Job
								Class
3				8	14	19		21
3				8	13	18		20
3				8	13	17		19
3				8	12	16		18
3				7	11	15		17
3				7	11	14		16
108
SCHEDULE ‘H’
The working areas listed below	Number of
will be considered Plants for the	Plant Committeemen
purpose of the Collective Agreement	at each Plant
1.	Garson	2
2.	Frood	3
3.	Stobie	3
4.	Little Stobie	2
5.	Creighton Complex	6
6.	Levack Mine and Shops	3
7.	McCreedy West	2
8.	Lower Coleman (includes McCreedy East)	1
9.	C.C. North Mine - .including Clarabelle Open
Pit & Reconditioning Shop & Mines Research 2
10.	Naim-High Falls & Wabageshik	1
11.	C.C. South Mine	3
12.	Crean Hill	2
13.	Nickel Refinery & Sulphur Products	4
14.	Copper Refinery	3
15.	Central Mills a) Clarabelle Mill	3
b) Copper Cliff Mill
(includes Sample House)	2
16.	Smelter a) Furnaces	3
b) Converters	3
17.	Matte Processing	2
18.	Lower Yard a) Transportation	2
b)	Shops	2
c)	Purchasing & Warehousing	1
19.	Divisional Shops	1
20.	Construction	1
If additional working areas are opened or present working areas closed or the number of employees in a working area substantially changes, the Company and the Local Union shall meet to determine the number of Committeemen required.
109
SCHEDULE ‘J’ The following will be considered Areas for the purpose of Article 17, Safety, Health and Environment	The following will be considered Operations within an Area for the Purpose of Article 17, Safety, Health and Environment
1. Frood-Stobie Mine	Frood Stobie Little Stobie G arson
2. Creighton Mine	Creighton #7 Shaft Creighton #9 Shaft Copper Cliff South Mine Crean Hill Mine
3. Levack	Levack Mine McCreedy West Lower Coleman Mine (including McCreedy East)
4. Copper Cliff North Mine	Copper Cliff North Mine & Mines Research Clarabelle -Reconditioning Shop
5. Central Mills	Copper Cliff Mill Clarabelle Mill
110
6. Copper Cliff Smelter	Copper Cliff Smelter Furnaces Copper Cliff Smelter Converters Matte Processing (including Acid & SO2 Plants)
7. Copper Refinery	Fine Shapes, Anode & Services Tankhouse Electrowinning
8. Nickel Refinery	N.R.C. I.P.C. Canadian Alloys/Oxide Sulphur Products
9. Transportation	Transportation
10. Warehousing	Warehousing
11. Exploration Diamond Drilling	Exploration Diamond Drilling
12. Construction, Divisional Shops, Utilities and Power	Divisional Shops Construction Utilities Power IORP Modified Work Center
111
SCHEDULE ‘N’
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our agreement with respect to the-payment of a NickeLPrice Bonus to employees, as set out below. This Bonus will be based on the average realized price per pound of nickel, in U.S. dollars, including intermediates, published by the Company in its Quarterly Reports for periods ending March 31st, June 30th, September 30tb and December 31st (hereinafter called the 'Average Realized Price').
If the Average Realized Price for any Quarter in which the Company has net earnings is $2.25, each employee will receive a lump sum payment in an amount equal to the number of hours worked by him in that Quarter multiplied by ten cents (IOC) Canadian. If the Average Realized Price exceeds $2.25, the multiplier used to calculate the lump sum payment will be increased by one cent (1 C) Canadian for each one cent (1C) U.S. by which the Average Realized Price exceeds $2.25.
All payments will be made in the second pay period follow-112 '
irig the publication of a Quarterly Report containing an Average Realized Price of $2.25 or greater.
Vours very truly,
Eric fi. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations;
113
SCHEDULE ‘O’
SPECIAL SHORT TERM SHUTDOWN PROTECTION PLAN
An employee who is covered by this Special Short Term Shutdown Protection Plan will, notwithstanding anything to the contraiy contained in the Collective Agreement, receive the following special protection during the period of the shutdown:
1.	He will continue to accumulate continuous service with the Company;
2.	He will be considered to have worked his regular hours in his occupational classification for the purpose of calculating his Years of Employment With Pay under the provisions of the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees of the Company;
3.	He will be considered to have worked his regular hours in his occupational classification and to have continued to receive incentive pay, where applicable, based on his Weekly Incentive Pay for the purpose of calculating his entitlement of vacation pay and Special Vacation pay under Articles 15 and 16 of the Collective Agreement.
4.	He will continue to receive all the insurance benefits described in Article 24 of the Collective Agreement.
5.	He will be entitled to the benefits of the Special Short Term Shutdown Protection section of the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
114
SCHEDULE ‘Q’
1.	For the purpose of and applicable to employees
working on twelve (12) hour shifts, the Collective
Bargaining Agreement will Aa amended as follows:
a)	Section 9.02 and 11.06: The words ‘(not to exceed forty (40) hours per week)' shall be replaced with '(not to exceed the standard number of hours which he otherwise would have worked at his applicable hourly rate)'.
b)	Section 13.01 (b): The words ‘thirty (30) minutes per shift’ shall be replaced with two (2) thirty (30) minute periods per twelve (12) hour shift’.
c)	Section 13.05: The words 'eight (8) hours’ shall be replaced with 'his regularly scheduled hours'.
d)	Section 13.06 (a): The words ‘forty (40) hours at his applicable hourly rate in his work week' shall be replaced with ‘the number of regularly scheduled hours required in his work week at his applicable rate’.
e)	Section 13.06 (b): The words ‘eight (8) hours' shall be replaced with ‘twelve (12) hours’.
9 Section 13.14: The words in the first sentence beginning with ‘An employee’ and ending with 'will not be so paid.' shall be replaced with ‘An employee who does not work on a recognized holiday which occurs on his regular day off or during his vacation will be paid eight (8) hours at what would have been his applicable hourly rate had he worked on that day. If the recognized holiday occurs on what would otherwise have been a work day for the employee he will be paid eight (8) hours or the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, whichever is the greater, at what would have been his applicable hourly rate had he worked on that day. Provided that, in each case, he will not be so paid:”
116
g)	Section 13.19 shall be deleted and replaced with ‘An employee shall be paid an averaged shift premium of eighty (80<t) per hour for time worked by him during his night shift hours.’
h)	Section 14.05: The words ‘aiqh tig),hours’ shall be replaced with 'twelve (12) hours’.
i)	Section 11.20: The words 'twenty (20) working days’ will be replaced with 'fifteen (15) working days’.
2.	An employee regularly working on a twelve (12) hour shift schedule who is elected or appointed to the position of Chairman of the General Safety, Health and Environment Committee or Chief Steward will be deemed to be in a job with a regular five (5) day, eight (8) hour per day schedule.
3.	For purposes of Section 13.13 of the C.B.A., employees working on twelve (12) hour schedules will be considered to be in a separate working group.
4.	The implementation of a twelve (12) hour shift is subject to the parties making a joint application for such twelve (12) hour shift to the Director of Employment Standards and receiving her approval.
5.	Either the Company or the Union may cancel any particular twelve (12) hour shift upon at least thirty (30) days’ written notice to the other.
6.	An employee who is temporarily assigned to a twelve (12) hour shift schedule will be offered such additional hours of non-overtime work as are necessary to insure that the employee’s scheduled work averages forty (40) hours per week over the period of the assignment.
117

Work Location	No. of Worker Safety Representatives
Levack Area	1
Creighton, C.C.S.M. C.C.N.M., C.O.P., Murray,	2
Crean Hill	1
Frood-Stobie Complex, Garson	2
Central Mills	1
C.C. Smelter Complex	1
Copper Refinery	1
Nickel Refinery Complex Power, Construction,	1
Divisional Shops, Utilities	1
Transportation, Warehousing	12
119
SCHEDULE ‘U’
(1) The company will introduce in October, 1991, a new comprehensive procedure to be known as The Contracting Out Information and Review System. The System shall have the following components:
a)	Major Projects (Projects which are in excess of one million dollars)
As soon as reasonably possible after receiving final
3roval for funding a Major Project, the Company notify the Local Union in writing of the Major Project using the Notification Format. The Local Union executive and the Committee will meet with the Company within seven (7) days of receiving notification to review the work content of the Major Project and the Company shall give consideration to any comments or suggestions proposed at such meeting for the performance of any contract segment of the work by bargaining unit employees.
b)	Mid-size Projects (Projects which are in excess of ten thousand but not more than one million dollars)
The Company will provide the Committee every month with a list of the Mid-size Projects for which either final funding approval has been received or which have been contracted out in the last one month reporting period. The list shall show for each project the nature of the work, its expected duration and the approximate number of contractor workers involved. In the case of Mid-size Projects for which funding approval has been received, the Company will endeavour to provide the Committee with notice of such Mid-size Project as soon as reasonably possible after receiving the final approval. At the next Contracting
120
Out Committee meeting, the Company and the Committee will review the work content of the Mid-size Projects and the Company shall give consideration to any comments or suggestions proposed at such meeting forihsperformance of any contract segment of the work by bargaining unit employees. In cases where the work has already been contracted, such consideration shall relate, to the extent It Is reasonable and possible, to future contracting out of similar work. The parties shall also use this information to develop trend analyses of the contracting of specific types of work.
c)	Small Contracts (Work contracts which are up
to ten thousand dollars)
The Company will, to the extent the information is reasonably available, provide the Committee every month with a list of the Small Contracts which have been contracted out in the last one month reporting period in order that the Committee can review the work content of the Small Contracts and develop trend analyses of the contracting of specific types of work.
d)	The Notification Format for Major Projects will
contain the following information.
a)	The location of the work;
b)	The type of work;
c)	A description of the work;
d)	An outline of the skills and equipment involved;
e)	An estimate of the duration of the work;
f)	At outline of arej avtirc:f?»tfcrt.Us© of bargaining
unit employees;
g)	A description of the factors affecting the work
schedule.
121
(2)	Trend Analyses and Base Load
Trend analyses of the Small Contracts referred to above will be performed on a Division-wide basis by trade/skill taking into consideration a variety of factors including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the location of the work, its type, duration and frequency, the skills and equipment involved and any operating constraints associated with the work. A principal purpose of this trend analysis of Small Contracts is to assist the parties in agreeing on an appropriate definition or definitions of Base Load in the type of work normally performed by bargaining unit employees. Once agreement is reached and a base load is identified, the Company shall ensure an adjustment in the amount of such work performed by bargaining unit employees.
(3)	Mobile Equipment
In order to minimize the use of contractor operated mobile equipment in conjunction with work performed by employees, the Company will revise the method of contracting for such equipment by introducing in October, 1991 a new system whereby, except in cases of emergency, contracts for operated mobile equipment will be arranged for by the Transportation Department.
(4)	Annual Review
On or before December 15th of each year, the Company shall meet with the Committee and review all work or types of work which it anticipates will be performed by contractors in the next twelve (12) months.
The Company will consider any comments or suggestions proposed at such meeting to have any contract segment of the work performed by bargaining unit employees, including specific types of work, taking into consideration
122
the trend analyses developed during the previous year.
The Union may appoint a full time co-ordinator to work in connection with the Contracting Out Information and Review System, including the development of trend analyses. The Company will pay the co-ordinator at his applicable hourly rate plus applicable Cost of Living Allowance and Nickel Price Bonus for up to forty (40) hours in each week, other than vacation weeks.
123
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
The following descriptions of Employee Benefit plans are presented here for the convenience of employees. They describe the_ Dpncipal features in non-technical language. The insurance contracts between the insurance carrierand the Company will govern in all cases.
GROUP TERM LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
This plan provides for -
Amount of	Amount of	Total Amount
Basic Insurance Additional Insurance of Insurance $2,500	$32,500	$35,000
The additional $32,500 of Life Insurance will automatically terminate on retirement except as described below for employees who become totally and permanently disabled and retire on disability retirement with 3 or more years of continuous service.
Life Insurance
Benefits will be paid in a lump sum or in installments to the beneficiary designated by the employee. The beneficiary may be changed at any time in accordance with the applicable provincial laws.
Permanent Total Disability
If the employee with 3 or more years of continuous service becomes totally arid permanently disabled while insured, $5,000 of his ilitfe- Irisbrancewm be paicf fo him either (in a lump sum or in installments instead of to his beneficiary at death. The remaining portion of life insurance coverage will be cancelled. The entire and irrevocable loss of sight of both eyes, or of the use of both hands or both feet, or
124
of one hand and one foot will in itself be considered permanent and total disability.
Eligibility and Effective Date of Insurance
All employees are eligible for insurance upon completion of six months of continuous service. Insurance coverage will automatically become effective, without medical examination, upon the completion of six months’ continuous service provided the employee is then actively at work.
Premiums
The Company will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premiums payable under this Plan.
Benefits (Employees Out Sick) -Employees off for less than two years on account of disability resulting from accident or bodily disease will be considered a^ccn,t'niiiqj>..in thpjsecvioftof	in
order that their Group Life Insurance may be continued during their unavoidable absence from this cause.
If an employee is off on account of accident or bodily disease for more than two years his insurance may be continued only upon written application to and approval by the Company. ThR/xvmjtete.terms of Ms Group Insurance coverage are set forth in the Group Insurance Policy issued by the Carrier. An employee who becomes insured will receive an individual certificate outlining the details of his insurance coverage.
Termination of Employment and Conversion of Life Insurance
The Life Insurance of an employee will cease upon termination of employment except with respect to the life insurance
125
continued for retired employees as described elsewhere. However, if death should occur within thirty-one days after termination of employment the full death benefit will be payable. Within this thirty-one day period an employee may convert his Group Life Insurance coverage to an individual Whole Life or Endowment Plan, by making application to the Aetna Life Insurance Company. This individual policy will be issued without medical examination and at the Insurance Company’s regular rates.
126
GROUP NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE PLAN
This Plan provides benefits in the event of an employee's loss of life, limbs or the entire and irrevocable loss of sight, excluding such losses resulting from occupational accidents. Benefits are payable only if the loss results directly from bodily injuries caused by an accident and occurs within 90 days after date of the accident causing the loss.
Benefits
$15,000 will be paid for the loss of life, both hands, both feet, one hand and one foot, one hand and the sight of one eye, one foot and the sight of one eye, sight of both eyes. $7,500 will be paid for the loss of one hand, one foot, the sight of one eye. In no case will more than $15,000 be paid for all losses resOi'trng'Trom-efte accident
Exclusions
No benefits are payable due to a loss contributed to or caused by bodily or mental infirmity, ptomaines, bacterial infections, disease, medical or surgical treatment not made necessary by injuries covered under the Plan, war, suicide, or the commission by the insured or any attempt by the insured to commit an assault or an offence under the Criminal Code of Canada.
Eligibility
All employees will be automatically covered by the Group Non-Occupational Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance Plan on the date of hire.
127
Premiums
The Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the premiums payable under this Plan.
The complete terms of this Group Insurance coverage are set forth in the Group Insurance Policy issued by the Carrier. An employee who becomes insured will receive an individual Certificate outlining the details of his insurance coverage.
Termination of Employment
All coverage under this Plan will cease on the date of termination of employment, including Retirement.
128
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN (35$ Deductible) (Formulary - 2)
Benefits
The Blue Cross Plan for Prescription Drugs (35$ deductible) (Formulary - 2) covers drugs, serum, injectibies, insulin and diabetic supplies purchased on the prescription of a medical doctor for the use of the employee or a dependent under the Plan.
The Plan does not cover patent medicines, vitamins, unless injected, or drugs paid for by any other agency.
All jjJjpiblP-doyLbills ydU-hepaaid under this Plan, less a deductible of 35$ for each prescription which will be paid by the employee.
The Plan provides full benefits for the subscriber, wife or
husband and all unmarried, unemployed children up to the age of 21 or up to 23 if an unmarried full time student. Newborn children are covered automatically by the Plan.
Eligibility
Employees are eligible on the first day of the month following the month in which the employee was hired. Premiums
The Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the
premiums payable under this Plan.
Certificates
Each employee will receive a personal Certificate showing his name, group number, amount of deductible and the date on which coverage begins.
Cancellation
Insurance will be cancelled on the date employment is terminated.
129
NON-OCCUPATIONAL SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE PLAN
A^Twuptt&uTcmv&p^aTlYm&iHpTO'viuaaWTOKlySiCruioSS ptr
accident insurance. Benefits
Effective June 1,1991 Weekly Benefit - $430 Effective June 1,1992 Weekly Benefit - $450 Effective June 1,1993 Weekly Benefit - $470
Eligibility
You will automatically become insured on the day after you complete three months of continuous service without medical examination, if you are then actively at work; otherwise, on the day you return to active work.
Premiums
The Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the premiums payable under this Plan.
Benefits Paid
Benefits commence with the first day you are either totally disabled by a non-occupational accident, admitted to and confined to a hospital, or on the fourth day of total disability due to non-occupational sickness, ypu must be under the cdiu oi*a'pnysiban licensed1 to practice mecndne.
Benefits will continue as stated above during any one continuous period of disability due to one or more causes. Successive periods of disability will be considered as one continuous period of disability unless the disability is due to
130
a different and unrelated cause and commences after you have returned to work.
Benefit Duration
The Plan Wl!! provide up to 52 weeks of benefits while
disabled for employees with less than one year of service prior to the start of the disability and up to 104 weeks for employees
with one or more years of service prior to the start of the disability.
Cancellation
Insurance will be cancelled on the date employment is terminated or when you retire.
131
DENTAL PLAN
Benefits
The Plan provides for basic dental care and covers ex-arvw^j^a,cop.'s;Jfatjfiy?s,Ix-j:^s,sftalin'^,2f. .taatb, fillings, surgical removal of teeth and endodontics, periodontics and orthodontics (50% of fees, maximum life time benefit of $1500). The Plan does not cover treatment paid through any other source.
The Plan provides covered benefits in accordance with the 1991 Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees for the subscriber, wife or husband and all unmarried, unemployed children up to the age of 21 or up to 23 if an unmarried full time student. Effective June 1,1993, the applicable fee schedule will be the 1992 Ontario Dental Association Schedule of Fees.
Eligibility
Employees are eligible for coverage on the first day of the month following the month in which the employee has completed three months of continuous service.
Premiums
The Company will pay one hundred per cent (100%) of the premiums payable under this plan.
Certificates
You will receive a personal Certificate showing your name, group number and the date on which the coverage begins.
Cancellation
Insurance will be cancelled on the date employment is terminated.
132
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
The following are the letters of Agreement between the Company ■arru'itlwijlTiLnr, and atewterfiteitoithe purpose of information. They do not form part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Rood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir.
By way of clarification of the Collective Agreement effective June 1,1991, between Inco Limited and United Steelworkers of America covering employees of the Company in the Sudbury District and of the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees in the Ontario Division of the Company represented by United Steelworkers of America, the following is agreed to by all parties.
A person who makes an application which is accepted by the Company Medical Examiner for any pension under the Pension Plan or a person who is retired under the terms of the Pension Plan ceases to be an employee and he shall not be entitled to continue to accumulate Years of Employment with Pay (YEWPs).
134
If such a person is in receipt of a benefit payable under the Group Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan at the time he makes an accepted application or is retired by the Company, he shall receive the monthly pension benefit to which he is entitled under the Pension Plan. However, if the monthly amount of that pension benefit is less than the monthly amount he would have received if he had continued to be an employee and had received his Sickness and Accident benefit under the Collective Agreement, he shall be entitled to an additional amount equal to the difference between his pension benefit and the Sickness and Accident benefit he would otherwise have received for that month. This additional monthly amount shall continue until he has exhausted all of his Sickness and Accident benefits in the same manner as if he was still an employee.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
135
Junel,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir.
The parties agree that the words ‘will’ and ‘shall’ bear the same meaning in the Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
136
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 65DOr United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
An individual whose name appears on the recall list for the Port Colborne Plant shall be given preference, subject to meeting the normal employment standards, when it is necessary to hire new employees in the Sudbury District.
When hired in the Sudbury District, such individual shall be credited with service accumulated at Port Colborne, for pension and vacation purposes only, if he abandons or loses his recall rights to the Port Colborne Plant
An individual who is hired in the Sudbury District and
subsequently is recalled to the Port Colborne Plant shall not receive credit except for pension purposes for service accumulated while working IH the Sudbury District.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
137
Junel, 1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local dSHX?,	.aMk-herica,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
An Individual whose name appears on the recall list for the Sudbury District shall be given preference, subject to meeting the normal employment standards, when it is necessary to hire new employees at the Port Colbome Plant
When hired at the Port Colbome Plant, such individual shall be credited with service accumulated at Sudbury, for pension and vacation purposes only, if he abandons or loses his recall rights to the Sudbury District.
An individual who is hired at the Port Colborne Plant and subsequently is recalled to the Sudbury District shall not receive credit except for pension purposes for service accumulated while working at the Port Colborne Plant.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
138
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
Re: Credit Union Deductions
The Company will continue to distribute deductions made by the Company on behalf of employees for deposit to Credit Unions or Caisse Populaire Branches. Such deductions will be made from the wages of employees who sign the necessary authorization.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
139
Junel, 1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sin
The Company recognizes the need for improving communications between the Union and employees and therefore supports the principle of the Plant Committeeman having in each Plant reasonable access to existing telephone facilities and designated areas for meetings with employees or Grievance Stewards and for the storage of Union files and other papers for the processing of Grievance documents. The Company agrees that existing facilities for Plant Committeemen will be maintained during the life of this Agreement.
Yours truly,
Eric Ft. Fenton,
Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
140
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the ‘continuous service’ and Years of employment with pay’ of
current employees who were formerly full-time local union officers for either Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers’ Union, Local 598 or Local 637.
1.	Continuous Service: for the purpose of the lay-off, rehiring fom lay-off, promotion, demotion and transfer provisions of-Article 11 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union, no full-time leave of absence for local union business granted to such an employee pursuant to the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement .hpJwasn Jha/'.nmpany and either Mine, Mill, Local 598 or Local 637 shall be deducted from his continuous service.
2.	Years of Employment with Pay: for the purpose of the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees in the Ontario Division represented by the United Steelworkers of America any full-time leave of absence for local union business granted to such an employee pursuant to the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement between the Company
141
and either Mine, Mill, Local 598 or Local 637 will be counted as paid hours of employment.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
142
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir.
This will confirm the agreement between the Union and the Company to establish a Joint Occupational Health Study Program for both the Sudbury and Port Colbome operations of the Company. This program will be for the purpose of developing a better understanding of the working environment at these locations through independent industrial health surveys^arfu i eseat fci hfi Tsji i? iStriOn wfm'p'uientia! occupational illness and disease.
To this end a Joint Occupational Health Committee (hereinafter called the “Committee”) will be created consisting of eight (8) members, as follows:
For the I Ininn	_____
The President of Local 6500
The President of Local 6200
The Chairman of the General Safety, Health and
Environment Committee
Aseriior staff representative of the Union,
For thP Company
Medical Director
Three senior management representatives, one of whom shall be Vice-President
143
n
a
■j
tional environments at Sudbury and Port Colbome. The Study Group will be required to report annually to the Committee, summarizing the work completed during the previous year and the work in progress at the time of the report. Upon its completion of any major occupational health study, the Study Group shall provide the Committee with a written report outlining the nature of the research undertaken and the results.
The Committee shall meet semi-annually under the Joint Chairmanship of one member appointed by the Union and one member appointed by the Company, or more frequently if agreed to between the Joint Chairmen.
In order to assist the Study Group in the performance of its duties, the Company shall, to the extent its legal and contractual obligations permit, make available to the Study Group for its sole and exclusive use, such statistical information in the possession of the Company as is needed by the Study Group. Any information so supplied shall be treated as private and confidential and is not to be released to any person or party including the Committee, without the prior written approval of the Company.
The Study Group shall have the right to make independent studies on the premises of the Company at Sudbury and Port Colborne with the understanding that any such studies shall be conducted whenever possible without interfering with the requirements of operations.
Reports, recommendations and/or findings of the Study Group shall be made on a confidential basis to the Company and to the Committee and shall not be released to anyone else without the prior written approval of the Company and the Committee.
The Company shall pay all necessary expenses of the'
145
Study Group to a maximum of $150,000 in each year for the next three (3) years. If such necessary expenses are less than $150,000 in any year, the unused amount shall also be made available to pay such necessary expenses in the immediately following year. For the purpose of this understanding a year shall commence on June 1st and end on May 31 st.
The expenses of any member of the Committee shall be paid by the party appointing such member.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
146
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sin
This will confirm our understanding with respect to monitoring the working environment and in connection with published material pertaining to hazardous substances.	^
As soon as is reasonably possible, each Operation Safety-HejBtLand Environment Committee shall discuss at its f meetings appropriate arrangements for the training of up to five (5) Local Union appointed members and five (5) alter/T*^ nate members of each such Committee in the use ot^*4 draeger-type meters ‘and noise meters for use by such members on their regular monthly inspection tours provided for under the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
As soon as is reasonably possible, each Area Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall discuss at its meetings the times at which and the places where dust samples should be taken at the locations within its Area where dust sampling is currently carried out.
In addition, each Area Committee shall consider the methods by which published material pertaining to potentially hazardous substances used in the Area can be obtained for the information of the Area Committee.
147
As soon as reasonably possible following the request of any Operation Committee, representatives of the Company will attend at a regular meeting of that Committee to review and explain the function of all monitoring equipment normally used by the Company in that Operation.
The Company will provide each Operation Committee with the results of the Occupational Exposure Monitoring Program pertaining to the work performance in that Operation.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
148
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: tat. UTHT CarnpbeiV, Ftesrcfertt, Locaf 6500
Dear Sir
This will confirm our agreement with respect to job posting as provided for pursuant to the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
All job postings will be made on Monday of each week (unless Monday is a recognized holiday under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, in which case such postings will be made on the next day, Tuesday) and shall be removed from the bulletin board or boards concerned on the next Monday.
The successful applicants for such postings will be posted no later than Thursday of the week in which such postings are so removed (unless a recognized holiday under the Collective Bargaining Agreement occurs during that week, in which case me” successthi’ applicants WiA postdalio later than the next day, Friday) and the Company will endeavour to assign the successful applicants to their new jobs on the next Monday. In the case of an unlimited job posting in the Maintenance or Electrical Department (other than one made to accommodate a new hire), the successful applicant will be moved to his new job within five (5) weeks of	V-firame as the successful applicant.
149
In the case where a successful applicant for a trainee job is not so assigned to his new job, he will be deemed qualified in the occupational classification of the trainee job for the purpose of any unlimited, ipb posting Qf such occupational classification in his Department occurring after the date he would have otherwise completed his training.
In order to put this job posting procedure into effect, job posting applicants will be required to fully complete the job posting application form. No such application form will be accepted by the Company as a job posting application unless ri'is so bompieied.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
150
/
ll

■J
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
Upon application by the Union or the Local Union to the Superintendent, Industrial Relations, the Company will meet with the Union or Local Union to agree upon space on the Company’s premises in the Sudbury District for the holding of Union or Local Union elections or votes.
Yours very truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
152
c%
Junel,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local etioo, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
We confirm the advice given to you during negotiations that with respect to benefits to which an employee may be entitled under the Group Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan (Metro), including the Long Term Disability Protection Plan outlined in Section 24.07, any increase which may be provided will take effect as of the date of the increase even though an employee may have been receiving a lower rate at the commencement of his disability.
Yours very truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
154
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir:
The parties agree that the Grievance Commissioners under the 1991 Collective Agreement will be:
Professor C.G. Simmons Professor W.B. Rayner
Yours very tally,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
155
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to various matters in connection with vacations.
Tine appropriate vacation lists wiii 6e posted in each Department by April 1st in each year of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Although it is the intention of the Company to endeavour to operate during the period of July - August each year, if it is of the view that conditions do not warrant continuation of regular operations during such period, it may shut down for a period of up to five (5) weeks for vacation purposes subject to retaining such employees as the Company feels is necessary. If the Company is of the view that conditions warrant continuation of regular operations during such period, it will notify employees not later than the first day of December of the preceding year.
The prime vacation period in any year shall be thirteen (13) consecutive weeks between June 1 st and September 15th.
Years truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
156
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr, D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to information concerning overtime of employees in a Maintenance or Electrical Department working group within the meaning of Section 13.09 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The Company will continue to post monthly, in appropriate locations, lists showing the cumulative amount of overtime hours worked by each employee within such a working group, commencing with the first month of such posting.
In addition, the lists will indicate the number of overtime hours each such employee has been unavailable or refused to work when overtime was offered.
Commencing the first work week in January, 1989, the provisions of this* letter will apply to the posting of information concerning overtime of employees in working groups in all other Departments of the Company.
Yours very truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
157
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and
Llvftetfi'itflsilMCi'terS of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sic
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the payment of a certificate allowance to certain stationary engineers.
If a stationary engineer possesses a Government certificate which carries a higher rating than the certificate required for his occupational classification, such stationary engineer shall, when working in such occupational classification, receive a certificate allowance equivalent to having his applicable hourly rate increased by one (1) pay step.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
158
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding in connection with the travel compensation for Construction Group Employees.
Payments to such employee travelling to the job will be made on the following basis:
The distance travelled from his home to his job site less the distance from his home to the Copper Cliff Smelter Parking Lot equals the distance for which payments will be made at the rate of twenty-seven cents ($0.27) for each such kilometer.
However, if such employee’s job site is within a four (4) kilometer radius of the Copper Cliff Smelter Parking Lot, no payment will be made.
If, during the course of his working day, a Construction Group employee is instructed to. and uses his own vehicle to travel from one job site to another, he shall be paid such rate for the distance travelled even if part or all of the
159
distance is within the four (4) kilometer radius.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
160
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury,Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our agreement that the current practice of involving employees in training will be continued and enlarged.
For this purpose, the Company will introduce surface trainer instructor classifications for operations job classifications training.
Jobs (limited or unlimited) will be posted as required in surface plants for the purpose of classroom and other training needs determined by the company. The provisions of section 11.14 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be applied to determine the successful applicants.
It is understood, however, that any training required may be performed ty employees oir other persons.
Yours very truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
161
June-!, 1991
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
The company recognizes the principle of distributing overtime as evenly as possible under Section 13.09 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement when it is practical to do so. The Union recognizes the difficulty involved in the administration of Section 13.09 as it pertains to call out overtime under Section 13.22 and confirms its commitment to the	iW6.
In accordance with this policy, and bearing in mind that overtime opportunities are not equalized within any time limit, it is also agreed that neither will an employee be equalized at the time he is no longer part of the working group or his classification changes.
The parties agree to establish an overtime review committee for the duration of this Agreement consisting of two (2) employees appointed by the Local Union and two (2) persons appointed by the Company for the purpose of meeting every three (3) months and reviewing the administration of Section 13.09 as it pertains to call out overtime.
(signed) E.R. Fenton	(signed) H.T. Seguin
For the Company	For the Union
162
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir:
This will confirm our understanding with respect to Union participation in the orientation of new employees, excluding students. A member of the Local Union Executive or a staff representative of the Union will have the opportunity to address new employees for up to two hours during the course of their introduction to employment. It is understood that this opportunity will not be used to have new employees sign applications for union membership cards and that employees will be advised that membership in the union is voluntary.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
163
June 1.1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United <S)CBt!iworK,ers‘Ci* America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding in connection with permanent partially disabled employees. In order to assist in the placement of such employees, a Committee will be formed consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Local Union and three (3) persons appointed by the Company.
This Committee will meet as required. It will be notified of and will review .all placements of permanent partially disabled employees under Section 11.23 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and may make recommendations to the Company regarding new and alternate placements. In addition, the Committee will insure that the matters outlined in the letter of agreement dated June 1,1991 are actively pursued. Finally, the Committee will advise in connection with the placement of those employees in training and rehabilitation programs sponsored by the Workers’ Compensation Board.
The Company will pay one of the employee members of the Committee eight (8) hours per week at his applicable hourly
rate plus any applicable shift premium and any applicable Cost of Living Allowance and Nickel Price Bonus for attend-
164
ing meetings of the Committee and the Occupational Medicine Department Mini-Tribunal and for assisting in the administration of the programs and procedures applicable to Section 11.23 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Yours very truly,
E. R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
165
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to Section
11.02	of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Employees who are absent from work for any reason, including leave of absence and illness or injury (whether in receipt of any kind of benefits from the Company or the government) are subject to lay-off in accordance with their seniority ranking pursuant to Section 11.02 of the Collective Agreement in the same manner as any employee at work.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations;
166
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the entitlement of individuals on lay-off with recall rights to apply for a Disability Retirement under the Pension Plan for Hourly Paid Employees in the Ontario Division of the Company.
In order to be eligible for a Disability Retirement, the individual must be totally and permanently disabled within the meaning of the Pension Plan and his disability must have resulted from injury or^tisaas»iu.ifferednccnotractedbM hiro while in the employment of the Company and not while on lay-off.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
167
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the application of Section 11.22 (a) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Any employee who was transferred out of his Department prior to June 1,1985 is not required to have filed a written retransfer application within ninety (90) days of such transfer out and may make such an application at a future date during the term of this Agreement. However, the provisions of the Section shall apply in all other respects to such employee.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
168
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
We wish to confirm our discussions and understanding with respect to the existing trades classifications listed in Section 20.01 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The need for improved productivity and competitiveness has resulted in changes in operating requirements. The increased manpower flexibility that was required to meet -this need is a continuing one and, as a result, it may be necessary to create new trade classifications.
Therefore, the parties agree to continue the Trades Committee consisting of three (3) people appointed by the Company (a Manager of Mines, a Manager of Mills, Smelting and Refining and the Manager of Maintenance and Utilities) and three (3) persons appointed by the Union. The committee will meet at least once every three (3) months, and at such other times as may be agreed upon, for the purpose of exchanging and disa^ssinginfcrmaticn pertaining to existing and new trades and considering specific problems relating to the trades.
The Company shall pay employee members of the Committee at their applicable hourly rate plus any applicable Cost -
169
of Living Allowance and any applicable Nickel Price Bonus for any time lost during their regular working hours while attending Committee meetings.
The parties agree that existing tradesmen who wish to remain in their present trade classifications may do so, and they will neither be required to take any additional training in connection with any new trade classification nor be required to work in any new trade classification, unless they so elect.
In cases where iteve is an increase .In the, *ph. dess. of. a trade classification because of a change in job content, existing tradesmen in that trade classification will not be demoted if they cannot successfully complete any additional required training.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
170
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, Lifted Steelworkers. of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. -Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir:
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the Special Short Term Shutdown Protection Plan.
An individual who is off work from the shutdown Department or shutdown part of the Department, as the case may be, and iVt receipf‘tufuupT^bSi-u&upatidHQt1 Sickness and Accident insurance benefits will be covered by the provisions of the Plan when he is medically fit to return to his regular work and is unable to do so because of the special shutdown.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
171
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local. 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm the agreement of the Company and the Union to implement the following matters with respect to all present and future assignments made under Section 11.23 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
1.	All Section 11.23 assignments are considered temporary assignments.
2.	The regular job occupied by an employee (Home Department job) who is so assigned will be posted limited for the first ninety (90) days of the assignment. If the assignment continues beyond ninety (90) days, his Home Department job will be posted unlimited.
3.	An employee who is assigned to a job under Section 11.23 (Section 11.23 employee) or an employee waiting for such an assignment will be deemed to be an applicant for each unlimited job posted in his Home Department and the following considerations apply:
a)	in deciding which applicant shall fill the vacancy, the provisions of Section 11.14 will apply; however, the Company reserves the right to train an employee to fill a vacancy without a trainee posting:
b)	if the medical condition of the Section 11.23 employee is in dispute, it shall be reviewed by a
172
physician selected by the employee and the Company’s physician;
c)	if Jta* Jtssfcn f S.23 Arrpilsyra? is Jhe successful
applicant, he will have a four (4) week trial period in the new job during which time he may, at the option of either the employee or the Company, be returned to the job to which he was assigned under Section 11.23, and, for that puipose, such job will not be reassigned during the trial period;
d)	if the Section 11.23 employee is the successful applicant for more than one job at the same time, he may choose which job he wishes to fill.
4.	If a Section 11.23 employee is retransferred to his Home Department he will be placed in a process labourer or shoveller job. He will receive the rate of his Section 1123 job for the first fourteen (14) days he is in his Home Department.
5.	A Section 11.23 employee assigned to a Department other than his Home Department will maintain his Continuous Service for all purposes other than applying for posted jobs in the Department to which he is assigned.
6.	In cases where the Home Department job for a Section 11.23 employee is in a multi-plant Department, his Home Department will be for the purpose of this letter the multiplant Department in the Plant listed in Schedule ‘P’ of the Agreement.
Yours very truly,
E.R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
173
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
Sudbury, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to Lower Coleman. For the purposes of this Agreement, Coleman and Lower Coleman shall have the same meaning.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
174
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding that any employee who is tempcrwty transferred by toe Company from one Department to another, or temporarily assigned from one Plant to another within a Multi-Plant Department, or is a successful applicant on a job posting and is not moved within thirty (30) days of the posting of his name as the successful applicant, is entitled to travel compensation on the following basis:
In the case of the temporary transfer or assignment, the distance from his home to his new job site less the distance from his home to his former job site equals the distance for which he will be compensated at the rate of twenty-seven cents ($0.27) for each kilometer;
In the case of the job posting, the distance from his home to his former job site less the distance from his home to his new job site equals the distance for which he will be compensated at the rate of twenty-seven cents ($0.27) for each kilometer.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
175
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R, Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the Inco Mines Development Department for the Sudbury District
The purpose of the Department is to undertake project development drifting in accordance with established project schedules irArii/Sjcfifoury District
When additional employees are needed in the Department, following any required retransfers, full time job postings will be posted in all Mines Departments listed in Schedule *D\
Successful applicants will be expected to meet and sustain appropriate performance standards and, when applicable, wiirTdCBiv&'spBcidryrgecbbnDspayrnwrfts fa addition to normal incentives. Force reductions in the Department will be earned out in accordance with Article 11.1 0 except that the affected employee will have first preference to return to the Department he was in prior to being transferred into the Mines Development Department. They will also receive travel compensation on the same basis as an employee temporarily transferred from one department to another. The parties will meet at agreed upon times to evaluate and discuss the work. Future applications of the Department in
176
conjunction with major projects will be assessed taking into consideration that the work can be performed in accordance with the schedules and performance standards established by the Company for the project.
E.R. Fenton For the Company
H.T. Seguin
For the Union
'hs
,\
Jf

Life Insurance protection under Section 24.05 of the Colleo tive Bargaining Agreement.
Yours truly,
EricR. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
179
Junel, 1991
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
This will confirm our agreement with respect to the Steelworkers Education Fund and the Steelworkers Humanities Fund.
1.	Steelworkers Education Fund
The Company will allocate by arrangement satisfactory to the parties two (2C) cents of the Cost of Living Allowance in existence on May 31,1988 to the Steelworkers Education Fund to be administered by a committee consisting of a representative appointed by the Union and a representative appointed by the Local Union.
2.	Steelworkers Humanities Fund
The Company will allocate by arrangement satisfactory to the parties one (1 C) cent of the Cost of Living Allowance in existence on May 31,1988 to the Steelworkers Humanities Fund.
(signed) E.R. Fenton For the Company
(signed) H.T.Seguin
For the Union
180
?
I
I
k/
!<
R
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America^ and Local 6500, united a&efa/orke’rs of America,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sin
This will confirm our understanding with respect to scheduling work which the company requires employees to perform during any vacation shutdown.
Commencing with the 1992 vacation year, the company and the union agree to introduce on a trial basis the following method of scheduling such work.
1.	An Employee with insufficient regular vacation entitlement to cover the whole vacation shutdown period will be scheduled (by considering in each Department the employee’s seniority, classification and the efficient operation of the Plant) to work during the shutdown for the number of weeks by which the shutdown exceeds, his or her cupular .vacation entitlement under the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	The remaining work will be scheduled by considering in each Department the employees’ seniority, classification, wishes and the efficient operation of the Plant. For this purpose, an employee can elect to work one or more weeks of the remaining work, provided that no employee may split his or her regular vacation more than once during any vacation year.
182
3.	In the event that the shutdown work requirements are
still not satisfied, the remaining work will be scheduled in accordance with past practice.
This understanding is in all respects subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability and qualifications of the employees concerned to do the required work.
The company and the union agree to meet and review the results of this method of scheduling work during a vacation shutdown in September following the shutdown.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton, Superintendent, Industrial Relations.
183
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY. Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the Warehouse Travel Crew1 as it relates to Schedule ‘P’ of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
The Company will, for the duration of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, consider the Warehouse Travel Crew1 as an individual Plant for the purpose of administering Schedule ‘P’ of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
184
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir
As a resuit of discussions by the Joint Trades Committee, the Company agrees to adopt the following practice when assigning bargaining unit employees for welding work requirements, including tack welding:
Only employees who hold the classification (stencil) of Welder, Welder Leader, Welder Specialist or Welder Apprentice will be assigned to perform this work.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
185
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sin
This will confirm our understanding with respect to force reductions at the Levack Mine (includes McCreedy West) Department.
If as a result of a reduction in operations at the Levack Mine (includes McCreedy West) Department it is necessary to permanently transfer employees out of the Department, the Company will in making such transfers apply the provisions of Section.1J	thai.it will .first give preference
according to the seniority ranking of employees who wish to be transferred.
If after following the above procedure it is still necessary to permanently transfer additional employees out of the Department, the provisions of Article 11 shall apply in all respects.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
186
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir.
This will confirm our understanding with respect to an employee who has been in receipt of benefits under the Group Non-Occupational Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan in the immediately preceding calendar year. Such employee will, provided he has returned to work, be considered to have had earnings in that preceding calendar year (for the purpose of determining his vacation pay in the following vacation year) calculated on the basis of eight (8) hours per day at the applicable hourly rate of his occupational classification at the time he began receiving benefits for each day he was in receipt of such benefits, provided that the total hours on which his vacation pay is calculated do not exceed 2,080.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
187
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America,
92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500 Dear Sir
This will confirm our understanding with respect to advance notification of Small Contracts at Creighton Mine Complex and the Copper Refinery.
The Company will, except in cases of emergency, endeavour to provide the Local Union with notice of Small Contracts at Creighton Mine Complex and the Copper Refinery ID advance of the commencement of the contract work. It is recognized that while it will not be possible in all cases to provide this advance notification, it is the desire of the parties to make this effort to assist them in better understanding the application of the notification process.
This procedure will be introduced in the stated locations on a trial basis for the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, commencing in October, 1991. The Company and the Local Union will meet once each six (6) months to review and assess this advance notification.
Yours truly,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
188
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Attention: Mr. D.R. Campbell, President, Local 6500
Dear Sir:
This will confirm our understanding that should Whistle Mine come into underground production, with ramp access, all development work and production mining will be done by bargaining unit employees. If shaft sinking is involved, bargaining unit employees will do all production mining and development work other than that associated with the shaft or immediately adjacent to the shaft.
Yours tally,
Eric R. Fenton,
Superintendent,
Industrial Relations.
189
June 1,1991
United Steelworkers of America, and Local 6500, United Steelworkers of America, 92 Frood Road,
SUDBURY, Ontario.
Dear Messrs. Gerard and Campbell:
The Company and the Union agree to establish a special senior level committee in connection with environmental matters relating to the operations of the Ontario Division.
This committee shall be known as The Environmental Awareness Committee and will consist of the following members:
Fnrthp Union
-	the President of Local 6500
-	the President of Local 6200
-	the Chairman of the General Safety, Health &
Environment Committee
-	the Director of District 6 of the Union
Fnr the Company
-	Three Senior Management representatives
one of whom shall be a Vice-President
-	The Vice-Chairman of Inco Limited
The Committee will be co-chaired by the Director of District 6 of the Union and the Vice-Chairman of Inco Limited.
190
8 M
JANUARY T W T F 12	3	4
6	7 6	9 10 11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31	
		FEBRUARY			
s	M	T	W	T	F
					1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10	11	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24	25	26	27	28	
MARCH
S	M	T	w	T	F
					1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10	11	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24 31	25	26	27	28	29
		APRIL			
S	M	T	w	T	F
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	2S	26
28	29	30	MAY		
S	M	T	w	T	F
			1	2	3
5	8	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	31
		JUNE			
■s	M	T	w	T	F
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30					
JULY
M	T	w	T	F	S-
1	2	3	4	5	6
6	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31			
	AUGUST				
M	T	w	T	F	s
			1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	31
	SEPTEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	S
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	2t
23	24	25	26	27	28
30					
	OCTOBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30	31		
	NOVEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
				1	2
4	5	6	7	8	9
11	12	13	14	15	16
18	19	20	21	22	23
25	26	27	28	29	30
	DECEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30	31				
1991
s	s
5
12	7
19	14
26	21
28
s	s
2
9	4
16	11
23	18
25
s	s
2	1
9	8
16	15
23	22
30	29
s	s
6
13	6
20	13
27	20
27
s	s
4
11	3
18	10
25	17
24
s	s
1	1
8	8
15	15
22	22
29	29
JANUARY
s	M	T	w	T	F
			1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13.	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	31
		FEBRUARY			
s	M	T	w	T	F
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
		MARCH			
s	M	T	w	T	F
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31			
		APRIL			
S	M	T	w	T	F
			1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	
			MAY		
S	M	T	w	T	F
					1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10	11	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24 31	25	26	27	28	29
		JUNE			
s	M	T	w	T	F
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30			
JULY
M	T	w	T	F	s
		1	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31	
	AUGUST				
M	T	w	T	F.	s 1 8
3	4	5	6	7	
10	11	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24 31	25	26	27	28	29
SEPTEMBER					
M	T	w	T	F	S
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30			
	OCTOBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
			1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	31
	NOVEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30					
	DECEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30	31		
1992
s	s
4
11	5
18	12
25	19
26
s	s
1
8	2
15	9
22	16
29	*1
30
S	S
7
14	6
21	13
28	20
27
S	S
4
11	4
18	11
25	18
25
s	S
2	1
9	8
16	15
23	22
30	29
s	s
6
13	6
20	13
27	20
27
JANUARY
s	M	T	w	T	F 1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10	11	12	13	14	15
17	16	19	20	21	22
24 31	25	26 27 28 FEBRUARY			29
S	M	T	w	T	F
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28
MARCH
s	M	T	W	T	F
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30	31		
		APRIL			
s	M	T	w	T	F
				1	2
4	5	6	7	8	9
11	12	13	14	15	16
18	19	20	21	22	23
25	26	27	28	29	30
			MAY		
s	M	T	w	T	F
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
X	31				
		JUNE			
s	M	T	w	T	F
		1	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30		
JULY
M	T	W	T	■ F	S
			1	2	3
5	6	7	6	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	31
	AUGUST				
M	T	w	T	F	S
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30	31				
	SEPTEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
		1	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30		
	OCTOBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
				1	2
4	5	6	7	8	9
11	12	13	14	15	16
18	19	20	21	22	23
25	26	27	28	29	30
	NOVEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30				
	DECEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	S
		i	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23'	24	25
27	28	29	30	31	
1993
s	s
2
9	4
16	11
23	18
30	25
s	s
6	1
13	8
20	15
27	i22
29
S	s
6
13	5
20	12
27	19
26
s	s
3
10	3
17	10
24	17
.	24
31
S	S
1
8	7
15	14
22	21
29	28
s	s
5
12	5
19	12
26	19
26

JANUARY
s	M	T	w	T	F
2	3	4	5	6	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	26	27	28
30	31				
		FEBRUARY			
S	M	T	w	T	F
		1	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
14 15 16 17 18 21 22 23 24 25 28
		MARCH			
s	M	T	w	T	F
		1	2	3	4
8	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	28	29	30	31	
		APRIL			
s	M	T	w	T	F
					1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10 i	i	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24	25.	26	27	28	29
			MAY		
S	M	T	w	T	F
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31			
		JUNE			
s	M	T	w	T	F
			1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	
JULY
M	T	w	T	F	s.
				1	2
4	5	6	7	8	9
11	12	13	14	15	16
18	19	20	21	22	23
25	26	27	28	29	30
	AUGUST				
M	T	w	T	F	s
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27
29	30	31			
SEPTEMBER					
M	T	w	T	F	S
			t	2	3
5	6	7	8	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	
	OCTOBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
					1
3	4	5	6	7	8
10	ii	12	13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22
24 31	25	26	27	28	29
	NOVEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	S
	1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29	30			
	DECEMBER				
M	T	w	T	F	s
			1	2	3
5	6	7	6	9	10
12	13	14	15	16	17
19	20	21	22	23	24
26	27	28	29	30	31
1994
s	s
1
8	3
15	10
22	17
29	24
31
S	s
5
12	7
19	14
26	21
28
S	S
5
12	4
19	11
26	18
25
s	s
2
9	2
16	9
23	16
30	“
30
s	s
7
14	6
21	13
28	20
27
s	s
4
11	4
18	11
25	18
25
T'INCO Ltd.,
Wages:
Cost-of-Living
Allowance:
Nickel Price Bonus:
Hours of Work: Shift Premium: Paid Holidays: Paid Vacation:
O'
Sudbury and Port Colborne and United Steelworkers of America, Locals 6500 and 6200 (AFL-CIO/CLC) (6,330 employees): Two 36-month renewal agreements effective from June 1,1991, to May 31,1994, settled in May at the bargaining stage. Duration of negotiations - 3 months.
Effective	June 1/91	June 1/92	June 1/93
COLA Fold-ins	880	First year accumulation	Second year accumulation
General Increases	$1.00	250	250
Hourly Rates			
Job Class 1 (not filled)	$17.25 ($15.37)		
Job Class 12 (includes Driller)	$19.67 ($17.79)		
Job Class 19 (includes instrument man)	$21.21 ($19.33)		
Electrician Job Class 23(21)*	$22.09 ($19.77)		
* Effective June 1,1991, all trade classifications were improved by two job-class levels.
Twelve quarterly adjustments of 1 cent per 0.35 point increase in the CPI (1961=100), commencing in August 1991 by comparing the July 1991 Index with that of April 1991. Similar comparisons and adjustments made thereafter on the basis of the CPI published every three months. Folded into wage rates annually except for the third year accumulation (same as previous formula).
For any calendar quarter in which the company has net earnings and INCO’s Average Realized Price for nickel is $2.25 (U.S.) a pound, each employee will receive a lump-sum payment equal to 10 cents per hour worked in that quarter. An additional 1 cent per nour worked will be paid for each 1 cent that the Average Realized Price exceeds the $125 tdggsc (formula unchanged)
Note: The average worker grossed approximately $14,000 in bonuses since June 1988, and would receive in excess of $11,000 over the next three years if the average 1991 price for nickel ($3.94 U.S. through May) were to hola for the life of the agreement.
40 per week (unchanged).	. ...	.
0-500-70* ((WO0-5O0).	i ■
11 (unchanged).
,	3 weeks after 3 (8) years. Also, 2 weeks after 1 year, 4 after 18,5 after 25, and 6
■y'.A after 30 (unchanged).
COLA to be included in vacation pay calculation for all regular weeks of vacation entitlement (previously, applied to first 2 weeks of entitlement only).
Employee returning to active employment after utilization of Sickness and Accident benefit to have vacation pay calculated on the basis of having worked a full year of regular employment - ie. 2,080 hours (new).
Special Vacation - 5 weeks above and beyond regular entitlement for every 5 years of completed service (unchanged).
Vacation Bonus Pay - $235 ($135) per week of vacation entitlement.
Life Insurance • $35,000 ($25,000).
Accidental Death and Dismemberment - $15,000 ($10,000).
Sickness and Accident • $430 ($400) per week; June 1,1992, $450; June 1, 1993, $470.
Vision Care - $250 ($150) every 2 years for employees and eligible dependents. Eligibility for dependent children extended to age 21 (19) or to age 23 if dependent child is unmarried and in school full-time (new).
Dental plan - Coverage based on 1991 (1988) Ontario Dental Association fee schedule; June 1,1993,1992 fee schedule. Eligibility for dependent children extended to age 21 (19) or to age 23 if dependent child is unmarried and in school full-time (new).
Coverage for Pre-1972 Widows (new) - Spouses of former employees widowed prior to 1972 to become eligible for insurance benefit coverage. In addition, each pre-1972 widow to receive an annual $500 gift, commencing in December 1991 (new).
Basic Benefit Per Month Per Year of Service - For retirements on or after June 1,1991, $37 ($30).
Supplementary Benefit Per Month Per Year of Service, Maximum 30 Years; Payahln.ta Age.65 - For retirements on ot after June. J -1991, $24 ($18).
Minimum Monthly Disability Benefit • 20 (15) times basic monthly benefit;
plus either the Pre-Age 65 supplement for employees aged 55 and over, or if applicable, the disability supplement of $12 ($9) per month per year of service payable to age 55.
Special Early Retirement - $2,000 Pre-Age 65 Benefit (new) - For retirements on or after J APP1. and applicable to employees with at least
30 years’ service, a minimum monthly Pm-Age 65 benefit of $2,000, inclusive ofv basic and supplemental benefit. Such minimum to increase by $15 per month for x each year of service in excess of 30. Also, indexation adjustments to basic benefit will increase the $2,000 minimum.
Pension Indexation - Adjustments to basic benefit - made July of each year -are dependent on the rise in the CBI measured during the 12-montn period ending in the month of March preceding the adjustment period. Benefit ranges froml per i cent, with CPI percentage increase of 1.0 per cent but less than 2 per cent, to a cap : of 5 per cent, with CPI percentage increase of 7 per cent or more (unchanged).
Pensionable Service Reinstatement - Effective for retirements on or after June 1,1991. all prior periods of actual service not currently recognized for pension purposes because of interruption of service due to long-term layoff or termination of employment (ie. quit -rehire) are to be reinstated (new).
Also, for retirements on or after June 1,1991, the periods covering the August 1, 1982 - April 30, 1983 production shutdown, and up to one
year of the 1962-1963 layoff period, are to be considered pensionable service for those employees subsequently recalled at the expiration of such layoff periods (new).
Immediate family extended to include spouse’s brother or sister, and spouse of employee’s brother or sister.
Employee to receive Nickel Price Bonus for paid time-off under Bereavement or Jury Duty provisions (new).
/ Retention of Current Rate - Occupational rate of effected employee v will not be reduced for a period of 3 (1) years.
/ Joint commitee to be established to examine environmental issues. Envelopment of J an employee snyironn,entai ajucBUonJOTJgrajg.u to be.one. of the priorities of the committee.
.DATE 03 JUN 91	10:41:30	REPORT GENERATION	CASSIDY
WAGE CARD FOR AGREEMENT NO. 0017603
JURISDICTION
FED
PROV
PSSRA
AGREEM. EFFEC. DATE: AGREEM. EXP. DATE : MO. OF EMPLOYEESs
910601
940531
6100
SIC: 059
COMPANY:	Inco Ltd.
UNION:	United Ste el workers o-f America
SETTLEMENT DATE:
WAGE EFFECTIVE DATE: WAGE REOPENER DATE:
STAGE OF SETTLEMENT: DUR. OF NEGOTIATION:
910531
910601
B
03
LOCATION: Sudbury. Ont.
COLA:	NONE	DELETED	EXISTS X INACTIVE
COMMENTS:
> JB WITH 230 RESEARCH AND DISTRIBUTION CENTER EMPLOYEES AT PORT CQLBQRNE
OCCUP.:	JOB CLASS 2
HOURS WORKED:	40.00
PREV. MEG. BASE RATE:
14.370 -!- COLA FOLD-IN AMT: ( 2.100
) * 16.470
DATE , RATE
J j
7.
910601	17.470	6.07
DATE
920601
/
RATE
17.720
y
7,
1.43
DATE
(
930601
RATE
c J
17 „ 97?)	1.41 !
WAGE INCREASES:
> 910601 - *1.00 ATB	920601 - *0.25 ATB	930601 - *0.25 ATB
LUMP SUM PAMNTS:	>	•=
CHMGS. IN INCR.s	>	<
SPEC. ADJ.:	>
OTHER:
> EFFECTIVE 910601 ALL TRADE CLASSIFICATIONS IMPROVED BY 2 JOB-CLASS ADDITIVES <
*** PREVIOUS COLA INFORMATION ***
CARRY-OVER FLOAT = 0.000	FOLD INS OF CARRY-OVER FLOAT:	(Y err N>
DATE AMOUNT I DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT ! DATE AMOUNT
*** CURRENT COLA INFORMATION ***• CPI TYPE:	>	CAM61	<	#	OF	CALC.:
COL.A TYPE:
>	*0.01 PER 0.35 POINT INCREASE IN CPI
TRIGGER:	>
CAP:	>
COMP. PER.:
>	FIRST CALCULATION - JULY 91 OVER APRIL 91
>	LAST CALCULATION - APRIL 94 OVER JAN 94
FOLD-IN DTSs >	920601 AND 930601
OTHER:
12 COMP. FQ.: 03
>
END REPORT