1991
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
Between
FALCONBRIDGE LIMITED (the "Company")
and
SUDBURY MINE, MILL & SMELTER WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 598
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
Article Article Article Article Article Article Article Article 8 Article 9 Article 10 Article 11 Article 12 Article 13 Article 14
Article 15 Article 16 Article 17
Article 18 Article 19 Article 20 Article 21 Article 22 Article 23 Schedule “A’
Schedule "B” Supplement to
Schedule “D” Schedule “Q”
—	Scope
—	Recognition
—	No Discrimination
—	Management
—	Union Security
—	No Cessation of Work
—	Grievance Procedure
—	Discharge and Discipline
—	Mines Bonus
—	Seniority
—	Hours of Work
—	Technological Change
—	Job Evaluation
—	Tradesmen and Apprentices
—	Vacations
—	Safety and Health
—	Pensions and Health Benefits
—	Wages
—	Bulletin Boards
—	Authority
—	General
—	Further Conferences
—	Termination
—	Classification of Employees Excluded from the’Bargaining Unit
—	Hourly Wage Rates Schedule “B”
—	Occupation and Job Class Schedule
—	Apprentice Training
—	Letters
Page
1
1
6
7
7
8 8
22
24
27
55
66
69
73
75
82
85
90
94
95
95
96 96
98
102
103
110
111
ARTICLE 1 — SCOPE
1.01	The employees covered by this Agreement shall be all the employees of the Company in the Sudbury District, except:
(a)	office, clerical and technical employees,
( b ) supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisor including those supervisory personnel in the classifications set forth in Schedule "A" attached hereto, and
(c) all other employees of the Company set forth in Schedule "A".
The words "employee" and "employees" wherever used in this Agreement refer to such employees as are covered by this Agreement.
1.02	Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
ARTICLE 2 — RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all the employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions.
2.02	The Company agrees with the principle cf retaining for employees the work normally done by them. Accordingly, supervisory personnel shall not perform
1
M
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
work which is normally done by employees (except work of an emergency or casual nature) where qualified employees are reasonably available to do such work, provided that it shall not be a violation of this section for supervisory personnel to perform such work where it is done: in the course of instructing or training employees;
to overcome production and maintenance difficulties;
in the course of research and development programs; or
to protect the safety of employees or equ ipment.
2.03
/
Non-supervisory individuals employed by the Company who are not employees (as defined herein) shall not perform work not normally done by them which work is normally done by employees.
2.04 (a) The Company will give its qualified regular employees the opportunity to transfer to new areas after the pre-production period; should additional employees be required, the Company will recall qualified laid off individuals before any new employees are hired by the Company.
2
(b)	The Company will, having regard to the availability of manpower, equipment, skills, engineering, supervision and services, to operating efficiency and to the time required to do the work, use its best efforts to employ its own employees reasonably available to do construction work. Jp— i
(c)	No regular employee of the Company shall be demoted, laid off or discharged as a direct result of any work being contracted out by the Company.
The Company shall, having regard to the availability of equipment and the time required to do the work, promote employees who have been demoted and recall individuals who have been laid off provided those employees and individuals can fill the normal requirements of the job and are readily available before work which could be performed by the bargaining unit of a duration of 14 calendar days or longer is contracted out.
For the purposes of this article demotion shall mean a move to a lower job classification and paid the lower job classification wage rate or being removed from a job
3
which pays mine bonus to a job which does not pay mine bonus.
(d)	The Company will discuss with the Union as rapidly as possible any problems with regard to sections 2.02, 2.03, and this section 2.04 and in any case, will review with the Union at three-month intervals the contracting out situation. This provision is not intended to deny to employees or the Union its rights under Article 7.
(e)	The parties agree to establish a JointCompany-Union Committee to resolve issues related to the contracting out of work.
The purpose of the Joint Committee is as follows:
1.	To meet monthly to review work the Company intends to contract out in the forthcoming quarter and to recommend how the work could otherwise be done by Company employees.
2.	To identify those contractors working on Company property on anon-going basistosuchan extent that the Committee recommends the replacement of such Contractor with an employee.
4
3.	To otherwise recommend changes in staffing, organization and structure whereby it would be more effective to use Company employees to perform the work of contractors.
The recommendations of the Committee will be submitted to the Union Executive. However, the Union will not be bound to accept the recommendationsand should the Union not endorse them this will not limit the Company’s right to implement those recommendations or the Union’s right to grieve any alleged violation of the Collective Agreement.
Apart from the monthly meetings referred to in item #1 above the Joint Committee will meet as required to discuss any issue with respect to contracting out.
The Committee will consist of two representatives from both the Company and the Union. The Company agrees to pay the wages, cost-of-living allowance and nickel bonus to those members
5
of the Union’s committee that would otherwise have been payable for time absent from work while performing committee work and such time shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime under section 11.02.
ARTICLE 3 — NO DISCRIMINATION
3.01	No person shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a member of any union or other organization, and no statements or representations to the contrary shall be made.
3.02	There shall be no discrimination by the Company or the Union or its members against any employee because of Union activity or membership or nonmembership in any trade union, or
\ because of the employee’s sex, race, ^ \ creed, color, nationality, ancestry, place of origin or political opinions.
Stewards, Union safety representatives or employees filling any other Union position shall not be denied promotions, training opportunities, transfers or overtime because of their Union activity.
3.03	There shall be no solicitations cf membership in any union organization
6
or collection of union dues or any union activity anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and the Plants or anywhere on the Company’s property inside the gates. This clause shall not be construed to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
ARTICLE 4 — MANAGEMENT
4.01	The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the Plants and Mines, direct the working forces and to hire, promote, transfer, demote or lay off, and to suspend, demote, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause. Provided, however, that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers in conflict with any of the provisions in this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 5 — UNION SECURITY j’-'?	7
5.01	The Company shall, during the life cf this Agreement, and as a condition of each employee’s continued employment, deduct an amount from each pay of each employee which in total over two pays shall equal the Union’s monthly dues. Deductions will be remitted to the Union together with
7
a list of names cf employees from whom such deductions were made on the Monday following each pay day.
If no deduction is made from any pay by reason solely ofthe employee being away on vacation, that deduction will be made from the next pay due to such employee.
The amount of Union monthly dues currently in effect in accordance with the Union's constitution shall be certified by the Union to the Company by letter signed by the President or the Financial Secretary cf the Union.
ARTICLE 6 — NO CESSATION CF WORK
6.01	Neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, sit down, slow down, or any suspension of work against the Company which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall the Company engage in any lockout at its Plants or Mines.
ARTICLE 7 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Should any difference (hereinafter called a "grievance'? arise between the Company and any employees as to the
• interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such grievance without
undue delay in the following manner: Stage One
An aggrieved employee shall, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, state his representations in writing to the designated management representative^) at Stage One who shall be his immediate first line Supervisor and the second line Supervisor cf the area in which the grievance arose. The management representative shall establish a mutually agreed upon date for a Stage One hearing which shall not be more than 10 days from the date the management representative was advised cf the request for a Stage One meeting. Such representations in writing shall state the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and provisions of this Agreement upon which it is alleged the grievance is based, provided that:
(a)	any omission of such a provision shall not prejudice the determination of the grievance on its merits at any stage of the procedure including arbitration, and
(b)	reference to any provision shall not prevent the employee from relying on any other provisions of the Agreement.
In making such representations he shall be accompanied and represented by a
9
Grievance Steward in his Department who is reasonably familiar with the work in which the employee is engaged, if this requirement is relevant along with the Division Grievance Committeeman cf the respective area. The Management representative(s) shall give his or their decision in writing within 7 days from the date upon which such representations were presented. The Executive Staff Representative cf the Union shall be sent a copy of the answer at Stage One by Labour Relations. If the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, then:
Stage Two
(i) Notice in writing requesting further consideration cf the grievance shalt, within 15 calendar days after the decision cf the management representative(s) for Stage One has or should have been given, be given by the Executive Staff Representative cf the Union to the designated management representative(s) for Stage Two. Such management representative(s) shall notify the Executive Staff Representative of the Union of a meeting place and shall arrange to meet within 14 calendar days to discuss the grievance. There shall be one meeting held weekly except for any shutdown week or Christmas week. At such meeting
10
the written Stage One representations of the Union shall be presented to the designated management representative(s) by the Executive Staff Representative and the Division Committeeman for the area concerned together with one Grievance Steward who wherever practicable shall have been the Grievance Steward at the Stage One hearing. At the inception of or during this Stage, the Executive Staff Representative of the Union or the management representative(s) may require that an officer of the Union be present at such meeting. The management representative(s) shall give his or their decision on behalf cf the Company within 21 calendar days from such meeting.
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, notice in writing requesting consideration cf layoff grievances shall, within 15 calendar days from the date of layoff, be given by the Executive Staff Representative of the Union to the designated management representative(s) for Stage Two. An earnest effort shall be made to hear such grievances as soon as practicable. The management representative(s) shall give their decision on behalf of the Company within 21 calendar days from such meeting.
11
7.02	The Company will post a notice in each Department setting out the management representatives designated to handle matters in each Department at Stages One and Two of the grievance procedure.
7.03	If no management representative has been designated by the Company for any cf the stages through which a matter must proceed such matter may proceed directly to the next higher stage for which a management representative shall have been so designated.
Direct Difference
7.04	Any difference arising directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, may be submitted in writing by either of such parties to the other requesting a meeting to discuss the difference. Such meeting between the officers of the Union and representatives of the Company shall be held at a mutually acceptable time within 21 days after receipt cf such submission. Ifthe parties are unableto settle such adifferencewithin 14 days from such meeting then the party to whom the said notice was delivered shall reply in writing to such difference within 21 days from such meeting.
12
ARBITRATION
7.05	In the event that
(a)	any grievance , including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, has not been satisfactorily settled under section 7.01, such grievance may then by notice in writing given to the other party within two months from the date when the written decision cf the management representative(s) at Stage Two was or should have been delivered or
(b)	any difference directly between the Union and the Company has not been satisfactorily settled in accordance with section 7.04, such difference may then by notice in writing to the management representative within two months from the date when the written decision of the management representative(s) was or should have been delivered
be referred either by the Company or the Union to arbitration for final and binding settlement, without stoppage of work, as hereinafter provided.
7.06	In any case in which a Board of Arbitrators shall be required under this Agreement, the Company and the Union shall each appoint one arbitrator
13
and the two arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third. No person may be named as an arbitrator who has participated directly in an attempt to settle the grievance. The arbitrators to be appointed by the Company and the Union shall be appointed within 10 days from the date of receipt of notice of arbitration. In the event that either party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within the time provided, the other party may request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint an arbitrator on behalf of the defaulting party. The findings of the majority of the Board of Arbitrators as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation cf this Agreement, including the question as to whether the matter is arbitrable, shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no event shall the arbitrators be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part cf this Agreement.
Where an arbitration board determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the Company for just cause, the board may substitute such other penalty for the discharge or discipline as to the board seems just and reasonable in all the circumstances.
14
7.07	The Company and the Union shall respectively pay the expenses and fees payable to the arbitrator selected by each, and the Company and the Union shall each be responsible for one-half of the reasonable expenses and fees payable to the third arbitrator.
7.08	If the arbitrator appointed by the Company and the arbitrator appointed by the Union fail to agree within 3 weeks upon the appointment of a third arbitrator, the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission shall be requested to choose a third arbitrator.
Single Arbitrator
7.09	(a) Notwithstanding section 7.06, the
Union or the Company may, in the notice in writing given to the other party pursuant to section 7.05 referring any grievance, including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or any difference directly between the Union and the Company to arbitration, propose that such arbitration be dealt with by a single arbitrator. The other party shall within 14 days of the receipt of such notice reply in writing stating whether arbitration by a single arbitrator is acceptable.
15
(b)	The single arbitrator shall be selected in rotation from the following:
M. Teplitsky, K. Burkett,
D. Stanley and G. Charney.
(c)	A single arbitrator shall have all the powers of a board of arbitrators as provided in this agreement or under the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, as amended from time to time, and the provisions herein with respect to such a board shall apply to a single arbitrator, with the necessary changes being made.
(d)	If in the reply referred to in (a) the other party states that arbitration by a single arbitrator is not acceptable, then in such reply such other party shall name its arbitrator to be appointed to a board of arbitrators which is to arbitrate the matter. Thereafter the parties shall proceed with the matter in accordance with this Agreement as if it had been submitted originally for arbitration.
7.10	In any arbitration the written representation of the Union made at Stage Two and the decision cf the Company at Stage Two of the grievance procedure (or in the case of a difference directly between the Company and the Union the written submission by the party initiating the
16
discussion of the difference and the written reply thereto of the other party) shall be presented to the arbitrators and the award of the arbitrators shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
This provision shall not modify the provisions of the third sentence of Stage One of section 7.01.
General Provisions
7.11	Where any step in the procedure provided for in Article 7 or 8 is to be taken within a period of 7 days or less, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in counting such number of days.
7.12	Failure to process a grievance from one Stage to the next Stage or arbitration within the specified time limits will be deemed an abandonment of such grievance; failure to reply to a grievance within the specified time limit will permit the grieving party to proceed to the next higher Stage, including arbitration.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, any time limit fixed by this Article or Article 8 may be extended by agreement of the Company and the Union.
7.13	A grievance alleging that any employee has failed to receive the rate of pay to which he is entitled under this
17
Agreement, having regard to the application of seniority or rates of pay, must be presented in writing within 10 days after the pay day for the pay period in which the grievance arose. The Company shall extend the period of 10 days where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such period.
7.14	An aggrieved employee, if he so desires, may be present at all stages of the grievance procedure.
7.15	Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal matters to the Company.
7.16	Any notice of discharge or notice of suspension, other than investigatory suspension, shall be given to the employee in the presence of a Grievance Steward in his Department, but if such a steward is not available then in the presence cf any other steward who is reasonably available provided that should there be no steward available, such lack of availability of a steward will not nullify such notice of discharge or suspension.
G rievance Committeemen and Stewards
7.17	The General Grievance Committeemen and Grievance Stewards herein referred to and who shall be designated
18
by the Union, shall be employees and shall consist of an aggregate total of not more than one for each thirty employees.
7.18	The General Grievance Committee shall be divided into three Division Grievance Committees, one from each cf the Mines, Reduction and Services Divisions and each Division Committee shall consist cf one employee from each of the areas of Falconbridge and Onaping to be referred to as the Division Committee.
7.19	A Grievance Steward and the respective Division Grievance Committeeman of the area concerned shall act at Stage One and Stage Two. The Union shall notify the Company of any change in members of each Division Greivance Committee.
7.20	In the discretion of the Union any member of the General Grievance Committee may also be a Grievance Steward but the total number of employees designated by the Union as Grievance Stewards shall in no event exceed the aggregate total set out in section 7.17.
7.21	Any Grievance Steward or member of the General Grievance Committee shall be allowed such time cff as shall be reasonably required to attend such
19
necessary meetings with supervisory personnel as are hereinbefore provided in this Article, subject, however, to obtaining permission (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) from his supervisor designated by the Company to act for it at Stage One.
The Company shall pay members of the General Grievance Committee and Grievance Stewards at their basic rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus any applicable off-shift premium, for any time lost during their regular shifts or from overtime in connection with any of the above-mentioned duties. However, payment shall not be made for any time which is held to be an abuse of the provisions of the above paragraph. The Company shall notify the Union of any such withholding of payment and the details of the alleged abuse.
7.22	(a) To enable the General Grievance Committee to meet and review decisions of the Company at Stages One and Two of the grievance procedure the Company shall grant monthly at the request of the Union to each of the six members of the Committee one day’s leave without pay and one day’s leave with pay at his basic rate, plus cost-
20
of-living allowance, plus nickel bonus, plus any applicable shift premium.
The Company will grant an additional day's leave per month for each cf the six members of the Committee for the above mentioned purposes. The Company and Union will pay on alternate months the employee's basic rate plus cost-of-living allowance and any applicable shift premium for the day; however the Company shall pay the nickel bonus on the additional day's leave regardless of whether it is paying his basic rate of pay.
(b)	In addition to the above the Company will grant grievance stewards one day per month to attend to Union business. Such time will be paid at the employee's base rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus nickel bonus.
7.23	Where the Company grants a Steward a leave of absence with pay from his regularly scheduled shift for the purposes of Union business, such time will be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating entitlement to overtime under section 11.02.
21
ARTICLE 8 — DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
8.01	A grievance alleging that an employee has been discharged without just cause shall be dealt with under the provisions of Article 7 except that such grievance shall be initiated at Stage Two of the grievance procedure and must be presented within 10 calendar days after the date of discharge. The Company shall extend such 10 day period where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such period.
In the event the Company discharges an employee, it shall notify the Union within 24 hours of such discharge provided that failure to notify shall not be construed as nullifying such discharge.
8.02	If a discharged, demoted or suspended employee is reinstated pursuant to arbitration the Company shall pay him the following compensation with respect to the period for which he is reinstated:
(a) earnings lost based on his regular rate for the time lost during the period of discharge, demotion or suspension limited to a maximum of 40 hours per week, less the amount of money earned by the employee during the time lost;
22
(b)	shift premium applicable to his normal hours cf work lost;
(c)	Sunday premium applicable to his normal hours of work lost;
(d)	holiday pay he would otherwise have been entitled to; and
(e)	premiums for any or all of Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan, Supplementary Plan, Drug Plan, Group Lfe Insurance Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Dental Plan provided that the employee;
(i)	has notified the Company within 14 days following his discharge that he intends to pay such premiums during the period pending the disposition of his discharge in the grievance procedure or by arbitration and;
(ii)	has actually paid such premium.
8.03	The Company will give an employee a copy of any written warning in the presence of a steward, if requested,
without requiring the employee to sign for it and will notify an employee of any oral reprimand entered on his record. Written warnings (but not suspensions) for absence without leave
23
or for failing to notify the Company of intended absence shall be removed from an employee’s record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline for subsequent infractions of a like nature if after three calendar months there is no repetition of such offence.
Any other written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employees record and snail be disregarded in determining discipline if in the 6 months^ following such warnirsgTRere is no further misconduct. In any event a written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee’s record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline 12 months after the issuance of such warning.
A suspension notice other than a suspension notice for breach of Article 6 shall be disregarded in determining discipline two (2) years after the issuance of such suspension. A suspension notice for breach of Article 6 shall be disregarded in determining discipline three (3) years after the issuance of such suspension
ARTICLE 9 — MINESJBONUS
9.01	The Union may establish for each of the Company’s mines, as outlined in Schedule "C", a Bonus Grievance
24
Committee to consist of not more than two employees per mine, each of whom must be reasonably familiar with contract work in the mine. The Union shall advise the Company forthwith of the names of the members of such committees and shall notify the Company whenever any changes are made.
The Company will give the members of the Bonus Grievance Committee special training each year in the Company’s bonus system with no loss in pay, including any bonus, to the persons involved.
9.02	Each Bonus Grievance Committee shall be entitled at reasonable times, but not more than twice a month, to present to the Superintendent of its department and such other representatives of the Company as may be present, any complaints or objections with regard to any mines contract bonus applied in its department during the preceding or current month including any matters pertaining to a particular contract on which an individual or crew may have been working during the preceding month or may be working currently. The Bonus Grievance Committee shall notify the Superintendent of the department concerned in writing at
25
least three working days prior to any such meeting of the particular contracts to be considered thereat, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection. The Superintendent shall make every effort to give his answer in writing not later than 10 days from any such meeting.
9.03	If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the Bonus Grievance Committee, it shall be entitled to apply in writing to the Manager Mines, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection to a meeting of the Company Committee composed of the Manager Mines, the Superintendent Planning and Control Engineering, and the Work Study Engineer, or their respective designees, and not more than three other representatives appointed by the Company, including a representative from the department concerned. Such application shall be made in writing at least three working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Superintendent referred to in section 9.02. The Company committee will meet each Bonus Grievance
26
Committee as may be required for the dispatch of business but not more than once in each month to consider such complaints or objections of which notice has been given as aforesaid. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the Manager Mines and notice thereof shall be given to the particular Bonus Grievance Committee. At such meeting the Bonus Grievance Committee may be accompanied by an officer of the Union. The Company Committee shall make every effort to give its answer in writing not later than 7 days from any such meeting.
ARTICLE 10 — SENIORITY 10.01 The Company agrees with the principle
p, \of granting preference to employees in A,-y proDIQfions, demotions resulting from any change or manpowex_red«ction, lay-offs, ^and rehiring after lay-offs in accordance with theTFrelative seniority ranking as hereinafter set out.
10.02	For the purpose cf this Agreement:
(a)	"seniority date" shall mean an employee's most recent hiring date with the Company (except where such date is the date of rehiring after a lay-off in accordance with section 10.09).
27
(b) an employee’s “seniority” shall mean the length of time from his seniority date and such seniority shall be maintained and accumulated during:
(i)
a lay-off within any period during which he has recall rights,
any leave occasioned by illness or injury,
(iii)	any leave of absence granted by the Company, or
(iv)	any leave of absence granted under section 10.23 (b): and
“credited service” sfiaTrm'ean an employee’s seniority less any period of
(ii)
(c)
(i)
(ii)
leave in excess of four weeks for some reason other than disabling injury, illness or compassionate grounds, leave granted for Union purposes or jury duty.
absence from work due to any illegal strike,
(iii) lay-off for a period continuing through five full payroll periods (based on bi-weekly payroll periods).
10.03	An employee shall lose whatever seniority and credited service he may have accumulated if he:
28
(a)	quits and does not rehire within a period of 6 months,
(b)	is discharged,
(c)	is laid off for lack of work for a period which exceeds the duration of his recall rights as set out in section 10.08,
(d)	fails without reasonable cause to return to work immediately upon the completion of any leave of absence which may have been granted, or
(e)	retires or his employment is terminated by mutual agreement.
10.04	Lists showing the relative seniority dates for each employee in each department will be prepared and maintained by the Company. A master list for all departments shall be available at the Company’s General Office at Falconbridge, and a departmental list shall also be available in the office cf each department with respect to the employees in such department for reference by employees at reasonable times to determine questions of seniority ranking. The lists shall be revised by the Company and brought up to date at least once during each 6-month period, and a copy of the master list shall be forwarded to the Union.
29
The Company will provide the Union with a list of individualswho have been laid off. The list will show the seniority date, occupation and job class the individual held prior to his lay-off.
Each month, the Company will provide the Union with a list of employees recalled to work. The list will show the employee’s seniority date, the occupation and job class to which he was recalled.
Each month the Company will provide the Union with a list of employees it attempted to recall and the address to which the recall notice was sent.
10.05	For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement, the divisions and departments shall be as follows:
(a)	Mines Division
(1)	FalconbridgeMine Department
(2)	Lockerby Mine Department
(3)	Onaping Mine Department
(4)	Fraser/Strathcona Mine Department
(5)	Development Projects Department
(b)	Mineral Processing Division
(1)	Smelter Department
(2)	Strathcona Concentrator Department
30
(c)	Services Division
(1)	Mechanical Department
-	Falconbridge
(2)	Electrical Department
-	Falconbridge
(3)	General Surface Department
-	Falconbridge
(4)	Mechanical Department
-	Onaping
(5)	Electrical Department
-	Onaping
(6)	General Surface Department
-	Onaping
The Company will, in consultation with the Union, allocate new or renewed operations into the existing Divisions and Departments; or in consultation with the Union, create additional Divisions and Departments or delete or combine Departments as may be required.
Application of Seniority
(lay-offs and Curtailment of Operations)
10.06	In all cases of lay-offs and/or demotions (other than lay-offs and demotions of a temporary nature, i.e. having a duration of 2 weeks or less, or of an emergency nature) employees shall be relocated within the same occupational classification where possible in their department or in their division, relocated in the same job class where possible in their department or in their
31
division, demoted within their department or division or laid off from the Company in reverse order of their seniority ranking provided that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirements of operations.
An employee may, within 4 calendar days of being notified of being transferred to the lowest job class in another department due to a reduction in work force, if he has sufficient seniority rankingto retain a job with the Company, elect to be laid off and when laid off, the recall provisions set out in section 10.08 shall apply, provided that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirements of operations.
10.07	An employee who is transferred to another department as a result of a reduction in production requirements or the closing down, either permanently or for a period of indefinite duration, of all or any part of a department (whether or not such reduction or closing down includes any layoffs) shall, if an additional employee is required in the department from which he was transferred, have the right to be retransferred in order of his
32
seniority ranking, if he can meet the normal requirements of the job. Should a vacancy remain unfilled as a result of the foregoing and the Company requires an employee in the Division from which the employee was transferred, the Company will offer a retransfer opportunity to the employee’s former Division in order of seniority ranking if he can meet the normal requirements of the job.
Should an employee accept a retransfer to his former Division prior to a vacancy occurring in his former Department he shall not lose his opportunity to retransfer to such former departmerrt'if a vacancy occurs therein within thirty-six months of his transfer •^ / / from his formeTdepartment. However, if the employee has on one occasion declined to exercise such right of retransfer, he shall be deemed to have abandoned such right. An employee who on one occasion declines a retransfer to his Division shall be deemed to have abandoned such right except as hereinbefore mentioned.
Application of Seniority (Recall)
10.08	If an employee is laid off he shall have recall rights for rehiring as set out in
33
section 10.09,	in the event the
Company intends to hire individuals for work other than that of an emergency nature. He shall have recall rights in accordance with his seniority for the following lengths of time commencing from the date of such lay-off: Seniority	Length of
Recall Rights
Under one year’s
seniority	18 months
Over one year and up to
three year’s seniority	36 months
Over three year’s seniority and up to four year’s seniority	48 months
Over four year’s
seniority	_ 60 months
Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the Company requires any individuals for work of an emergency nature, it shall give any laid off individual an opportunity, consistent with the emergency requirements, to do such work if he:
(a)	has informed the Company he is readily available;
(b)	is readily available, and
(c)	can perform such work.
34
Prior to being laid off, the Company will provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availability for such emergency work.
10.09	The Company shall maintain a recall list of individuals who are laid off. When hiring employees, the Company shall give preference in rehiring to individuals on such list who are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the available jobs in reverse order to that in which they were laid off subject to the following provisions:
I (a) notice cf recall shall be sent to the individual by registered mail to the last address which he has recorded with the Company or by such other method as may be reasonably available in the circumstances;
(b)	the notice shall stipulate the job to which the individual is being recalled, its probable duration, and the proposed time (which shall be not less than 14 calendar days from date of mailing) and place to report. The individual shall indicate his acceptance as promptly as possible prior to such time;
35
(c)	individuals who accept the recall and report for duty at the time and place specified in paragraph (b) hereof will be rehired in accordance with their seniority ranking;
(d)	no individual shall be denied rehiring solely because of a
which existed at the time he was laid off;
(e)	the Company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending the rehiring of individuals with recall rights provided it shall give any senior laid off individual an opportunity, consistent with the requirements of such temporary job, to do such work if he:
(i)	has informed the Company that he is readily available,
(ii)	is readily available, and
(iii)	can perform the normal requirements cf such work.
Prior to being laid off, the Company will provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availability for such temporary work.
medical or physical condition
36
(f)	an individual who is unable to report for work as specified in his notice of recall because of injury, illness or other reasonable excuse and who:
(i)	informs the Company of the injury, illness or other reasonable excuse prior to the time specified in paragraph (b);
(ii)	confirms in writing as soon as possible that he has so informed that Company of the injury, illness or other reasonable excuse; and
(iii)	provides satisfactory medical or other evidence of such injury, illness or other reasonable excuse,
shall not lose recall rights solely because of his failure to so report; and
(g)	aside from paragraph (f), if an individual is recalled in accordance with paragraph (b) to an occupational classification other than that from which laid off he may refuse such recall once. If he has so refused, the Company shall not be required to offer a second recall to an occupational classification other than the one from which laid o//unless that
37
occupational classification has been eliminated. If he refuses recall to the occupational classification from which laid off, he shall lose his recall rights.
10.10	Notice of a vacancy occurring in a bargaining unit job classification belonging to job Class 3 or more, or in the case of underground work, Job Class 4 or more except a Mine Labourer, shall, if the work is going to v? Jbe continued, be posted within one ' ^calendar week'tor 5 working-days on the related departmental bulletin boards. There shall be excluded from the foregoing, jobs considered by the Company to be temporary only, i.e., of 23 calendar days duration or less. All notices shall designate:
n't'
Part 1
(a)	With respect to underground classifications, where applicable, the type of shift, the initial duties (including the type of stope), the name of the Captain in charge and the wage rate.
(b)	With respect to classifications in the Mineral Processing and Services Divisions, the shift, the name of the first lineSupervisorin charge in the Services, Strathcona
38
Concentrator and Acid Plant, and the second line Supervisor in charge in the Smelter Operations and the wage rate.
(c)	If the Company knows the vacancy is temporary with a duration of more than 23 calendar days, an estimate of its probable duration.
(d)	The Union will be supplied with copies of posted job vacancies.
Every six months the Company will review and re-post temporary job postings as necessary.
Part 2
Any employee in such department (including an employee absent from work by reason of illness, injury or vacation):
(a)	who is in a different occupational classification; or
(b)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to one type of shift while the posted work is for another type of shift;
may apply in writing for such posted work within 5 working days.
Part 3
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee in such department in a redesigned occupation may apply for a
39
vacancy within his occupational classification which is a contract work occupation or an employee in a contract work occupation may apply for a vacancy within his occupational classification which is a non contract work occupation within 5 working days.
In addition to the immediate foregoing an employee in such department in a redesigned occupation may apply for a vacancy within his occupational classification which is for a different shift no more than once a year. Where the Company has reorganized the duties of a number of occupations and combined those duties under one job title, the Company will for the three month period immediately following such job redesign add as supplementary information on the notice of vacancy of such redesigned job, the former job title of the occupation in which the successful candidate is required initially.
If such vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the Collective Agreement respectively, 10.07 (retransfer), 10.09 (recall), and 10.20 (transfer). If the job still remains vacant, the Company will
40
post an opportunity to transfer (1 0.20) notice for a period of 5 days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, apprentices being excluded from making application for such transfer. Any subsequent vacancy which may result from the posting of the opportunity to transfer shall be filled by the application of the following sections of the Agreement in the following sequence: 10.07 (retransfer), 10.09 (recall), and 10.20 (transfer); if the job still remains vacant, the Company will hire an individual.
Any employee who fills a temporary vacancy shall, on its termination, revert to his former occupational classification. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, an employee who fills a temporary vacancy shall at his option, on its termination exercise his seniority and displace the employee within his respective first-line supervisor's group (second line supervisor's group for repair crew personnel and mechanical personnel) who has the least seniority and who occupies the same occupational classification on a temporary basis. Such employee who is displaced shall revert to his former occupational classification.
41
If through the grievance procedure (including arbitration) the action of the Company in promoting an employee to fill a vacancy or in demoting an employee is reversed, such employee and any employees filling any vacancies created by such promotion or demotion shall revert to their former occupational classification.
10.11	In all cases of promotions to fill such vacancies the Company shall consider the following two factors in determining which employees are to be promoted:
(a)	seniority rankingof the employees in that department, and
(b)	the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the individual to do the job.
10.12	When in the judgment of the Company, which shall not be exercised in an unfairand unreasonable manner, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their seniority ranking shall govern except as hereinafter provided.
10.13	If an arbitration board decides that the Company failed to exercise its judgment pursuantto section 10.12 in a fair and reasonable manner the Company shall fill the vacancy with
42
the applicant having the higher seniority ranking if he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to do the job.
10.14	When, in the interest of efficiency of operations, the Company assigns an employee in any job classification from one type of shift to another in the same job classification it will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably avai lable.
10.15	In the event of the closing down, either permanently or for a period of indefinite duration, of all or any part of a department, each employee in that department shall have the right to apply for a permanent vacancy in any other department within his division that has been posted by the Company on the same basis as if he were an employee in such other department; provided that an employee may make such application only after notification by the Company of such closing down and only during a period of 12 weeks surrounding the date of such closing down . Within 23 calendar days of the posting cf the notice of closure of all or part of a Department, the Company will commence posting permanent vacancies hereinbefore mentioned.
43
10.16	Within 14 calendar days after the expiration of the posting period required by section 10.10, the Company shall choose the successful applicant, if any, and place him in the vacancy if it then exists. If the successful applicant agrees to fill the job vacancy and the Company fails to place him in the vacancy by the end of the 14th day, it shall, commencing on the 15th day, pay him the rate applicable for that job. If the successful applicant declines to accept the job the Company shall forthwith by written notice post the name of the applicant declining the job along with the date thereof and the name of the successful applicant who has agreed to take the job. The Company shall pay the successful applicant who has agreed to accept the job the rate applicable thereto from the date such successful applicant was selected for the job.
The Company will, after the 15thday, if the successful applicant has not been placed in the vacancy, pay a travel allowance to the employee based on the allowance currently in effect for the difference in distance the employee is required to travel between his home and the location of his former job and his home and the location of the job he successfully
44
applied for. The travel allowance is not applicable to any employee other than the applicant initially selected to fill the vacancy which was posted in the first instance. The name and employment number of the successful applicant for every such vacancy shall be posted for at least 2 working days during the aforesaid period of 14 calendar days on the bulletin board on which notice of such vacancy was posted. With respect to vacancies so filled the seniority date of the successful applicant shall be noted. Where there is no successful applicant, the name of the employee assigned to the job shall be posted on the bulletin board and he shall be paid the applicable hourly rate from the date of his assignment.
10.17	In making temporary promotions, demotions and transfers cf a temporary nature (i.e. having a duration of between 3 working days and 23 calendar days) the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operation, have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available.
10.18	An employee who has been promoted under section 10.11 and 10.12, demoted under section 10.06 or who has been transferred under section 10.20 shall be given a reasonable period (not to exceed 10 shifts) to
45
familiarize himself with the particular work place or area of the job in order to apply his ability, knowledge, training and skill.
10.19	(a) An employee who is transferred temporarily to another department at the Company’s request shall retain all his rights under Article 10 in the department from which he was temporarily transferred and shall acquire no posting rights in the department to which he is temporarily transferred as a result of such temporary transfer.
(b)	An employee who is transferred temporarily to another department at his own request shall acquire posting rights in the department to which he is temporarily transferred and shall not retain posting rights in the department from which he was temporarily transferred. However, if within 30 calendar days from the date of such transfer the employee so requests, he shall be retransferred to his former department and occupational classification and he shall thereupon reacquire his posting rights. Any employee who may have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancy
46
created by such temporary requested transfer shall thereupon revert to his former occupational classification.
Transfers
10.20	An employee who has at least one year of seniority shall have the right to transfer from an occupational classification in one department to an occupational classification in another department, including an occupational classification in a department which is newly established or a department in another Division.
An employee wishing such transfer shall file a written application with the Company and a copy shall be given to him. On any such application an employee may state he wishes to be transferred to a particular occupational classification in one or more of the departments within a division that are located in Sudbury Operations, listing such departments in order of preference.
An employee’s application shall lapse one year after the date of filing but may be renewed from year to year at his request. However, in no event may an employee have more than one such application on file at any one time. The filing of an application in addition to the one on file shall be deemed to be
47
a withdrawal of his earliest application on file.
If a vacancy exists or occurs in the occupational classification in a y. department into which the employee ^y wishes to transfer the senior applicant shall be so transferred provided he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job before a new employee is hired to fill the vacancy.
The Company shall at the request made by the employee so transferred within 14 calendardays from the date of such transfer retransfer him to his former department and to the actual occupation he held immediately before having been transferred. Any employees who may otherwise have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer shall thereupon revert to the actual former occupations they held.
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this section, in the event of an actual or layoff anticipated within one month, the Company shall not be required to consider any applications for transfer on file.
48
Leaves of Absence
10.21	The Company will, on application by the Union, grant leaves of absence without pay aggregating not more than five man years. No leave granted to any individual hereunder shall be for a period in excess of one year nor less than six months. Leave granted to any individual hereunder will on the request of the Union be extended for a period of not more than one year at a time. Not more than five employees shall at any one time be absent on
leaves of absence.	, „ ..
e-'
10.22	Upon written requesttothe Company by the Union given not less than one week in advance, wherever possible, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to employees named in such request to absent themselves to attend Union conferences, or educationals. For each such conference or educational not more than two employees from each of the Plants and Services Division and three employees from the Mines Division will be granted leaves of absence of not more than 21 working days off for each of two such events annually for each employee. The granting of such leaves of absence may be witheld when the granting cf same
49
would be unreasonable having regard to the requirements of operations.
10.23	(a) The Company will grant an employee a leave of absence without pay up to six months for personal^ reasons if:
(i)	he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 15 days, if possible, in advance and
(ii)	the Company is satisfied the leave is for good reason and will not unduly interfere with operations.
Such leave may be extended i f
(i)	the Company is satisfied there is good reason for such extension and it will not unduly interfere with operations and
(ii)	the employee requests such extension in writing before completing his current leave.
(b)	Maternity Leave
A pregnant employee who has completed her probationary period and who advises the Company in writing that she is unable to perform the normal duties of her job shall be granted a leave cf absence without pay for not more than six months.
50
A pregnant employee may be required by the Company to commence a pregnancy leave of absence at such time as she cannot, in the opinion of Occupational Health Services, perform the normal duties of her job. The Company may require at any time an employee entitled to a leave of absence pursuant to this section to provide certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and actual date of her delivery. If at the conclusion cf her leave, the employee presents the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her normal duties, she shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to such former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with alternate work of a comparable nature. In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of her pregnancy leave because of complications arising out of her
51
pregnancy and delivery, she may be granted an extension of up to upon written request made to the Personnel Department.
(c)	Paternity Leave
An employee whose spouse is to give birth shall, if he wishes a leave of absence, make his request to the Company in writing for such leave at least 5 weeks in advance of the expected date of birth.
*	A leave granted under this section
shall be limited to six months and the employee may commence such leave at any time surrounding the birth cf the child.
Leave granted will be without pay and the Company may request the employee to submit a certificate of birth for the child.
General
10.24	Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Company from transferring any individual to the category of an employee; provided, however, that the seniority date of an individual who has never been in the bargaining unit shall be the date on which he first entered the bargaining
52
unit. An individual who leaves or has left the bargaining unit and re-enters it at any time or times shall be entitled to bring his full Company service with him for the purpose of determining his seniority ranking.
An individual re-entering the bargaining unit shall return to the same occupational classification he held when he left, and then section 10.06 shall apply. If his former occupational classification no longer exists then the individual shall re-enterthe bargaining unit provided he does notjdNsplace anyone in the bargaining u nit with greater seniority.
10.25	A probationary employee shall not acquire any rights under Article 10 hereof nor have the right to grieve and take to arbitration any dispute involving discipline, including discharge (except discharges or discipline alleged to be in contravention of section 3.02 of this Agreement), until he has been in the employ of the Company for 75
calendar days fo 11 o wi n g th e date of h is most recent hiring. At the expiration of such 75 calendar days, however, such employee’s seniority date shall be the date of his most recent hiring. If a probationary employee is discharged, the Company will discuss the case with
53
the General Grievance Committee at its request. Notwithstandingsection 4.01, the Company may discharge or otherwise discipline a probationary employee if the Company believes that he is not suitable for or able to perform adequately the job for which he was hired or is required to do.
10.26	Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union individuals / who. subjectto their consent, are to be */ given £gecialjexpexience.or-tcaix)jng in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company (including also students in part-time employment) not exceeding at any one time 3% of the employees and to promote and demote such individuals, engage, retain or dispense with their services and direct their efforts from time to time free from any limitations provided for in this Article; provided, however, that no such individual shall be assigned to take over the job occupied at the time by an employee if such assignment should result in the demotion cf such employee.
54
The Company shall collect, from any member of the bargaining unit who is designated under this section, dues in the manner set out in section 5.01 cf this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11 — HOURS OF WORK
Overtime
11.01	Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half hour.
11.02	Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-halftimes the applicable Tiburly rate for time worked:
(a)	in any 24-hour period in excess of
8 hours except where such excess time is worked due to regular change of shift.	y > / ^ ■ ■ -■> -r$
y
(b)	in any scheduled work week in excess jjf-4£LjTOurs less amounts paid pursuant to (a) above.
11.03	Overtime work shall be distributed as equally as practicable among those employees who would normally perform such work within their respective first-line supervisor’s group or in their particular work place or area.
An employee excused from working overtime shall be regarded as having been given an opportunity to work overtime for the purpose of this provision. Records of such amounts of
55
overtime worked and of declined opportunities shall be made available for inspection by an employee concerned on request.
It is understood that an employee temporarily promoted to a job excluded from the bargaining unit is not entitled to share in the distribution of overtime work and is excluded from working overtime in any bargaining unit job on any day that he is temporarily promoted.
11.04	Should the Company call out any employee to work he shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half times the
. applicable hourly rate for time worked / by him with a minimum of 4 hours at '	his applicable hourly rateT'"*’’"
The hours worked or the hours the employee is paid for call-out shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime pay under section 11.02.
A travel allowance will be paid in accordance with the Company policy.
Holiday Pay Provisions
11.05	In this Article:
(a)	“Holiday” means New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day,
56
Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day or Boxing Day or suchy / a* day as may be established as a holiday' V*~-in lieu thereof by statute, proclamation or otherwise. The Company will consult with the Union before establishing such a day as a holiday in , lieu thereof; and	£, J &
(b)	"qualifying day" means an employee's last scheduled work day or shift before or first scheduled work day or shift after a holiday.
11.06	In addition to the holidays set out in section 11.05(a) an individual or any employee who has completed his probationary period and has accumulated any credited service in the calendar year shall be entitled to
each calendar year. Such holiday shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. Time taken as a floating holiday shall be counted as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay.
Each employee shall take his floating holiday for each calendar year by the
with pay during
57
end cf that calendar year or shall forfeit such holiday, provided that any employee so forfeiting (which shall include termination) his floating holiday shall be paid for such holiday on the basis of 8 hours at straight time at his applicable hourly rate.
11.07	An employee who is required to work on a holiday shall be paid for work so performed at the rate ojLfa&g and one-half times his hourly ratebuTF"RlTfails to report for such required work he shall not be entitled to any pay in respect cf that holiday. Hcwever, an employee who works a holiday may, instead cf being paid for all hours worked, opt to take 12 hours pay plus bank 8 hours which shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. If the employee does not use such extra day of within a period of three months tf such holiday worked, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
11.08	An employee who
(a)	is employed by the Company beyond his probationary period;
58
(b)	has worked or was on his vacation in the 30-day period immediately preceding the holiday; and
(c)	works on both qualifying days shall, if he S on his vacation or if the Company does not require him to work on such holiday, be paid at his hourly rate for 8 hours. If a holiday falls within an employee’s scheduled vacation he shall be given, if entitled as per a, b, and c, above
(i)	8 hours pay at his hourly rate, or
(ii)	if mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee, an extra day off in lieu thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months from the date of such holiday, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
An employee who is not entitled to such holiday pay by reason cf his absence from work on the holiday or on either qualifying day shall nevertheless be entitled to such holiday pay if his absence was due to:
(i) leave of absence for jury duty or by reason of being subpoenaed as a witness; or
59
(ii)	leave of absence by reason of a death in his immediate family. "Immediate family” shall mean spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law, daughter-in-law; or
(iii)	illness or accident which required him to be absent for 5 or more consecutive days which absence is supported by a doctor's certificate to that effect.
11.09	(a) When an employee works on a holiday or when an employee is paid for a holiday not worked, except where the employee's regular day cff occurs on a holiday, the hours so worked or the hours for which the employee is paid shall be considered hours worked at his applicable hourly rate for the purpose only cf determining entitlement to the overtime rate under section 11.02 for any other time actually worked by him.
(b) Where the employee's regular day off occurs on a holiday he shall be offered an extra day cff in lieu
60
thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months from the date of such holiday he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.	_ „	. ^
Shift Premiums	'&
11.10	Employees shall be paid an off-shift premium of 50 cents per hour for work performed by them during afternoon shift hours and not within their scheduled day or night shift hours, and an off-shift premium of^JL cents per hour for work performed by them during nipht shift hours and notwithin their scheduled day or afternoon shift hours. Employees regularly working on shift whose hours of work are changed either temporarily or permanently to the day shift shall be paid only their applicable hourly rate. Forthe purpose of calculating overtime pay such off-shift premiums shall not be considered as part cf an employee's applicable hourly rate.
Sunday Premium
11.11	Employees who work between 8:00 a.m. Sunday and 8:00 a.m. on the immediately following Monday shall be paid a Sunday premium of one
61
dollar and sixty ($1.60) cents per hour T? , « for work performed during such hours. f C o V For the purpose of calculating overtime pay, such premiums shall not be considered as part cf an employee's applicable hourly rate.
11.12	An employee must be notified of any change in his day off or days off to another day off or days off at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of the work week. If he is not so notified he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate cf one and one-half times his hourly rate for the time worked by him on such days which were initially scheduled as a day cr days off. Any such time worked by him shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime pay under section 11.02. The provisions cf the above may be waived by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
11.13	In no case shall an employee be entitled apart from any shift or Sunday premiums to more than one and one-half times (two and one-half times for work performed on a holiday) his applicable hourly rate for any time worked.
62
11.14	Hoisting and lowering schedules at the Company’s mines shall be arranged to ■ __ | provide approximately 8 hours from
variations trom sucn scneduies not exceeding 10 minutes which do not occur consistently shall be disregarded. Delays in schedules in excess cf 10 minutes shall be paid for on the following basis:
in excess cf 10 minutes to 30 minutes 1/2 hour at straight time
in excess of 30 minutes to 60 minutes an additional 1/2 hour at straight time,
and so on, on the same basis for delays in excess of 60 minutes. In addition, any applicable off-shift premium shall be paid.
11.15	The Company will continue to recognize the principle of paying an employee who is temporarily assigned to work in a job classification carrying a higher rate cf pay than the job classification from which he was assigned the higher rate immediately.
In addition, where an employee spends at least 4 hours working in a job classification carrying a higher rate of pay than his normal job classification, he shall be paid for his whole shift
63
at a rate not less than that higher rate. Where an employee is assigned to temporary work in a job classification carrying a lower rate cf pay than his normal classification, he will be paid the rate he would otherwise have received in his normal classification up to a maximum cf ten working days.
11.16	When an employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will f\U be available, reports for work on v f schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receivg^Jaaurs pay at his applicable hourly rate without being required to work the said 4 hours but such 4 hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shalt not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose cf his intention to return.
Bereavement leave
11.17	Where an employee by reason of a death of his spouse or child requires leave from work, the Company shall
64
6 % *:? y
grant leave up to five consecutive regularly scheduled working days within the period cf 7 calendar days from the date of death with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate. Where an employee by reason cf a death in his immediate family, other than in the foregoing, requires leave from work, the Company shall grant leave up to three consecutive regularly scheduled working days within the period of 7 calendar days from the date of death with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate. “Immediate family” shall mean mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
The Company shall not unreasonably withhold additional bereavement leave without pay, in unusual circumstances.
Jury Duty
11.18	An employee who is called f o r -duty or is subpoenaed as a witness and who as a result thereof loses time from work shall receive for the time so lost the difference between what he would have been paid for the number cf hours lost at his regular rate, including cost-of-living allowance, nickel bonus, and /rs fi
t~> C >'■' !	'
65
the jury or witness fee to which he is entitled. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court before making any such payment. Such time off will be considered as time worked for the purposes of calculating entitlement to overtime under section 11.02.
11.19	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee or to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force.
11.20	The work week shall commence at 8:00 a.m. Sundays. This section shall not be construed to mean that all men on the day shift wll I start exactly at 8:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 12 — TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
12.01	Technological Change means the automation of equipment or the mechanization or automation of operations which directly results in a change in the manner in which the Company carries out its work.
If such technological changes are to be introduced, the Company shall notify the Union in writing at least 90 days in advance of the proposed date cf introduction. p rh.fJ*1
66
A*
12.02	If technological changes are introduced at any time in the Company’s operation that result directly in the demotion of an employee, the rate of pay cf such employee shaft - not be reduced hy more than one job class at the time the demotion takes place for a period of one year subsequent to the demotion and shall not be reduced subsequently by more than one job class in each succeeding year up to a maximum cf three years from the date of such demotion. It is a condition of this section that any such employee:^ g ^
(a)	shall accept any training in any job classification which is offered to him by the Company unless there are reasonable grounds for his declining;
(b)	will be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the rate of his actual job classification at the time of posting;
(c)	if he applies pursuant to section
10.20	of the Collective Agreement for transfer from the department in which he is located subsequent to his demotion and he is transferred as a result of his application;
•/
67
He will cease to be entitled to the benefits cf this section.
(d)	Should an employee who has been offered training by the Company under (a) above be unable to successfully complete such training within a reasonable time, the Company shall demote such employee to an occupation he is able to perform and his wage rate shall be protected by the provisions of this section.
12.03	When technological changes are introduced that result directly in the demotion cf an employee, the procedures set forth in section 10.06 shall be used in making the demotion of such employee and any other employee who is subsequently affected provided that any employee whose job was not directly affected shall not be entitled to the benefits of this section, technological change.
12.04	A Joint Technological Change Committee will be established
\ consisting of not more than two employees from the Union with whom ^	the Company will discuss
technological changes which result directly in the demotion of an employee. Time off work to attend meetings to discuss technological changes will be without loss of pay.
68
ARTICLE 13 — JOB EVALUATION "
13.01	The Joint lob Evaluation and Classification ProgfaTrrfor Production and Maintenance jobs dated April 1, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Program’) is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix I and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein provided that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this Agreement with respect to the Administration of the Program, the provisions of the Program shall prevail.
13.02	Except as otherwise provided in sections 2.04 and 2.05 (Referee and Umpire procedure) of Part II of the Program, no basis shall exist for an employee to allege that a wage rate inequity exists and no grievance on behalf cf an employee alleging a wage rate inequity shall be filed or processed during the term of this Agreement.
13.03	A list of job titles and job classes of all jobs performed by employees in the bargaining unit is incorporated into this Agreement as Schedule "B".
13.04	If as a result of the evaluation of his job on the implementation of the Program the job of an incumbent employee falls into a lower job class such job for such
69
employee shall be known as a “red-circled” job. The amount by which such employee’s new rate exceeds the standard rate for such job as ~ determined by such evaluation shall be Vy known as his “red-circled differential”.
An employee’s wage rate while he remains in such job shall be increased by the amount by which the rate for Job Class 1 is increased from time to time.
13.05	If an employee’s job is not made a red-circled job on the date the Program is implemented, the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the applicable hourly wage rate for that employee’s job as provided for in section 13.01.
13.06	The Company shall furnish to the Union a list of all incumbents who by reason of the implementation of the Program will be in a red-circled job. Such list will contain the following:
a)	Name of Employee
b)	Job Title
c)	Job Classification
d)	New Hourly Wage Rate
e)	Amount of red-circled differential
f)	Date such red-circled differential became effective
13.07	The term “incumbent” as used herein, shall mean an employee regularly
70
assigned to a job at the date the Program is made effective.
13.08	Except as such red-circle differential may be changed as contemplated by sections 13.05 or 13.14, any employee included in the list referred to in section 13.06 above shall continue to be paid for the duration cf this Agreement such redcircled differential during such time as the employee is assigned to the job for which the redcircle differential was established.
13.09	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is promoted to a job of higher job class, a new red-circle differential shall be established if the employee is assigned to an applicable rate level which is less than his current rate.
13.10	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is demoted to a job cf lower job class, payment of his differential shall be terminated.
13.11	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is transferred, at the request of the Company, to another job in the same job class, there shall be no change in his differential except as provided in section 13.05 and 13.14.
71
13.12'lfsuch employee referredto in sections 13.09, 13.10, or 13.11 is returned to the job for which the red-circle differential was established, the red-circle differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by the provisions of sections 13.05 and/or 13.14.
13.13	Increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate red-circled differentials in addition to the means provided in section 13.05.
13.14	The provisions cf sections 13.05 to
13.14	inclusive shall be applicable only with respect to jobs of employees which as a result of the implementation of the Program fall into a lower job class. If subsequent to such implementation a job is reclassified downward, the incumbent employee's current wage rate while he remains in such job shall be held constant ("red-circled") and shall remain so until the new standard rate becomes greater than his current wage rate, at which time he shall receive the new standard rate. Subject to the foregoing sentence, the provisions of sections 13.09 to 13.14, inclusive, shall apply to such red-circled jobs and to any redcircled differential being paid in connection therewith.
72
ARTICLE 14 — TRADESMEN AND APPRENTICES
14.01	The Company will not hire or create any third or fourth classes of tradesmen.
14.02	Upon successful completion by an apprentice cf an approved job related course taken during the term cf his ^pp^£nticeshipr the Company will indemnify such apprentice for an amount not exceeding 100% cf the cost to the apprentice of such course, provided that he is in the employment of the Company on thejcompletion of such course. 7 *T f l
During a period of authorized leave while the apprentice is in required attendance at a college or trade school the Company will pay him the difference between his current wage rate and allowances from government sources for which he is eligible.
The hourly rate cf such apprentice who stays with the Company and works within his trade shall be no less than the hourly rate he was receiving from the Company during his last period of apprenticeship training.
An entrant to the apprenticeship program will normally start such program at job Class 4 and progress from one job class to another thereafter in accordance with Schedule "D".
73
An employee who enters the apprenticehsip programfrom ajob in Job Class 7 or less will start such program at Job Class 4 and progress from one job class to another thereafter in accordance with Schedule "D". An employee who enters the apprenticeship program from a job in Job Class 8 or higher shall start such program at Job Class 8 and his rate of pay shall be maintained at J.C. 8 until such time as he has completed the required number of hours to move to the next progressive job class.
14.03	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 thereof, no apprentice during his apprenticeship may apply under the job posting provisions of this Agreement to fill any job vacancy.
14.04	Notice of requirements for apprentices shall be placed on all Company bulletin boards, Applications in writing will be received for such apprenticeships from interested employees and such applications shall be given consideration prior to hiring new employees for the apprenticeships.
14.05Where training is required for tradesmen it shall be offered to the senior tradesman who normally
74
performs such work within his respective first line supervisor’s group.
ARTICLE 15 — VACATIONS
15.01	On January 1st of any year each employee who has been in the employ of the Company for less than one year of credited service shall be entitled to a vacation of one week with pay in the amount of 2% of his total earnings in the preceding calendar year, and when he has completed one year of credited service with the Company, to one additional week with the same amount of pay.
15.02	On January 1st of any year each employee who has been in the employ of the Company for one or more years of credited service shall be deemed to have commenced his employment on the January 1st immediately preceding the actual date of his employment, and if not entitled to vacation under 15.01 hereof, shall be entitled to an annual vacation with pay as follows:	^ ^
(a) two weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company less than eight years of credited service;
(b) effective January 1, 1993, three weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company less than sixteen years but for eight or more years of credited service; & /p j?
75
* A
effective January 1, 1993, four weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for less than twenty-four years but for^ixteen, or more years of credited service;
effective January 1, 1993, five weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for less than tjjirty but for twenty-four or more years of credited service;
six weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for thirty or more years of credited service. seven weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for thirty-five or more years of credited service.
15.03	Vacations shall be commenced in the calendar year for which such vacations are due or shall be forfeited. However, the employee so forfeiting his vacation period shall nevertheless be paid the vacation pay to which he is entitled.
15.04	Effective January 1, 1992, in cases where an employee has been absent from work and in receipt of Sickness & Accident or Workers Compensation Board benefits for at least four consecutive weeks in the previous year, the Company may grant to such employee, in whole or in part, the
76
vaction with pay to which such employee would have been entitled had no such absence occurred.
15.05	In determining the length of a vacation, a week shall mean seven consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period. Where an employee is entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive, except when the Company and employee otherwise agree. Where an employee is entitled to three weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations.
During the term of this Agreement only, employees may commence annual vacations on any calendar day unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations. For the purposes of this trial, a week shall mean the equivalent of 40 hours worked.
When an employee takes vacation in periods of less than 40 hours in a week, such days of vacation shall be counted as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay under Article 11.02.
77
15.06	Vacations will be granted at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering seniority, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations.
15.07	"Vacation Pay" in this Article shall mean 4% of the earnings received from the Company for all work done by the employee in the preceding calendar year if he is entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay, to 6% of such earnings if he is entitled to three weeks' vacation with pay, to 8% of such earnings if he is entitled to four weeks' vacation with pay, to 10% of such earnings if he is entitled to five weeks' vacation with pay, and to 12% of such earnings if he is entitled to six weeks' vacation with pay, and to 14% of such earnings if he is entitled to seven weeks' vacation with pay.
15.08	Effective January 1st, 1992 an
n-ftemployee shall be entitled to receive, f'Cv m addition to any vacation pay to 'Q which he is entitled under section 15.07, the sum of $235.00 for each week of vacation granted and taken under this Article other than any Special Vacation. An employee shall
78
first be entitled to receive such additional vacation pay after he has accumulated two years of credited service with the Company when taking his vacation.
Should the Company refuse to grant Annual Vacation in the calendar year to an employee, the Company will pay the additional vacation pay to such employee, for each week of Annual Vacation refused by the Company, provided he has sufficient credited service to be so entitled.
15.09	Every employee who ceases, during the life of this Agreement, to be an employee after having completed one or more years of credited service shall receive in lieu of vacation with pay, vacation pay for any accrued vacation period which he has not taken at the rate of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 12% or 14% as the case may be, of his earnings for all work performed by him for the Company during the said period.
15.10	The Company will provide five weeks cf Special Vacation with pay for employees who have completed five or more years cf credited service on Januaryl, 1967 and an additional five weeks of Special Vacation with pay upon completing each additional five-year period of credited serviceTUfter
79
January 1, 1967 on the basis of the following provisions which shall apply during the life of this Agreement:
Each employee who on Januaryl, 1967 has completed five or more years of credited service shall become entitled to five weeks of Special Vacation with pay in addition to all vacation with pay to which he is entitled under the provision of Article 15 cf this Agreement.
(b) All other employees upon completing their first five years of credited service during the currency of this Agreement shall thereupon similarly become entitled to five weeks of Special Vacation with pay.
(c)	The pay for each week cf Special Vacation which is taken shall be equal to 2% of the employee’s earnings received from the Company for all work done by the employee in the calendar year immediately precedingthe year in which such week of Special Vacation is taken.
(d)	If an employee who is entitled to any Special Vacation with pay, fails for any reason to commence the same within five years after
80
becoming entitled thereto or if he retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies before taking the same, the Company will, in lieu of granting such Special Vacation, pay to such employee, or to his estate if he has died, the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such Special Vacation immediately prior to the fifth anniversary cf his becoming entitled thereto or immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death, as the case may be.
(e)	If an employee terminates his employment with the Company or is terminated by the Company for any reason including retirement, or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to any payment in accordance with clause (d) of this section, to an amount calculated on the basis of two percent (2%) of his earnings in the calendar year preceding his retirement or death for each full year and one-sixth of one per cent for each whole month comprising a broken year from the date of his last entitlement to a Special Vacation.
81
(f)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven consecutive days including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period.
(g)	The allocation of vacations with pay under the provisions of sections 15.01 to 15.09 inclusive shall have priority over the allocation cf Special Vacations hereunder.
(h)	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its sole discretion may determine but, subject thereto, due consideration will be given to the wishes of the employee concerned. It is anticipated that in most cases an employee will take his Special Vacation within the five-year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it. The Company can require that at least 20% of those entitled take such vacation in each year and that not more than 25% may take such vacation.
ARTICLE 16 — SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company and Union share a mutual concern for the safety and
82
health of employees and recognize that this concern can best be expressed by a joint and mutual effort.
The Company and Union recognize "The Manual for Safety and Health Cornrriiitee. Members" as a working document for matters relating to safety and health. This Manual will bejointly developed and reviewed through our CUSH organization and is not subject to arbitration. All changes are subject to mutual agreement.
16.01	(a) To direct our joint and mutual efforts the Company and Union agree there shall be the following committees as outlined in the "Manual":
(i)	The Sudbury District and Health Committee
(ii)	Operations Safety and Health Committee
(iii)	Department Company-Union Safety and Health Committees.
(b)	The Company will pay the wages,\ cost-of-living allowance, incentive! bonus and Nickel Price bonus that \ might otherwise have been earned J by the Safety Committeemen/ during their absence to attencj
/ f ->	/
meetings.	Q& ' /'
(c)	All time paid while in attendance at Company-Union Safety and
83
Health Committee meetings will be considered as time worked for the purposes of calculating «yertimejgay.
16.02	For requirements regarding medicals refer to the Occupational Health and Safety Act (Bill 208) or the Manual for Safety and Health Committee Members.
16.03	Occupational Health and Safety Act An Act Respecting the Occupational Health and Occupational Safety of Workers.
If new Ontario Government legislation is promulgated that affects Safety and Health, the parties will meet to consider any changes that may be appropriate in such circumstances.
16.04	The Union shall appoint an employee as a full time Executive Safety and Health Chairman. The Company shall pay such employee a rate two Job Classes higherthan an Electrician II rate pluscost-of-living allowance and nickel price bonus and will pay the cost of benefits premiums for those items set out in section 17.03(a) of the Collective Agreement. During his appointment the employee shall accumulate seniority and credited service. Upon termination cf his appointment the employee shall return to his former
84
department and occupation if it still exists; if his occupation no longer exists the provision of section 10.06 shall be applied to determine a new occupation.
16.05	The Union shall appoint three full time Safety and Health Representatives, which number may be changed by mutual agreement cf the parties. The Company shall pay such representatives at a rate equivalent to an Electrician II rate or his regular rate, whichever is greater plus cost-of-living allowance and nickel price bonus and will pay the cost of benefits premiums for those items set out in section 17.03(a) of the Collective Agreement. During his appointment the employee shall accumulate seniority and credited service. Upon termination of his appointment the employee shall return to his former department and occupation if it still exists; if his occupation no longer exists the provisions of section 10.06 shall be applied to determine a new occupation.
ARTICLE 17 — PENSIONS AND HEALTH BENEFITS
17.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will continue to receive the benefits provided under the Company’s
85
Revised General Pension Plan (the "Pension Plan") which was effective the 1st day of January 1971, as amended January 1, 1973 and as amended January 1, 1976, and as amended January 1, 1980, and as amended January 1, 1983, and as amended January 1, 1985, and amended January 1, 1986.
(EffectiveJanuary 1, 1992 employees will receive the benefits of "The Revised General Pension Plan For Employees cf Falconbridge Limited."
17.02	If any differences arise between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of the Pension Plan, such differences shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure of arbitration set out in this Agreement.
17.03	(a) The Company shall ensure the payment of the premiums"of''the to 11 owing—PtaTTS in" order tor-” employees covered by this— Agreement to receive the benefits cf such Plans all subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Article, in any insurance policy issued in
86
respect thereof and in the Plan or Program itself or any successor thereof.
(i) Ontario Health msurance Plan l $^with Supplementary (semi-private) . Plan, the benefits cf which shall ->f r	not be less than those of the Blue
Cross Supplementary (semiprivate) Plan
(ii)	Plan for Prescription Drugs (35 : - rcents deductible), the benefits of
' "which shall not be less than those of the Blue Cross Plan for Prescription Drugs.
(iii)	Group Life Insurance Plan
(iv)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan
(v)	Long Term Disability - Insurance Plan
(vi)	Dental Plan, the benefits of which ..n shall not be less than those of the
Blue Cross Dental Plan No, 9, Rider^3, based on the 1991 "t)ntaricr "Dental Association Fee Schedule, effective September 1, 1991. On September 1, 1993 the benefitsof the above plan will be based on the 1992 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule.
(vii)	Vision Care Plan to provide a
87
maximum payment of $250.00, not more than once every two years per family member, toward the cost of prescription glasses, including frames and lenses, or contact lenses.
(viii)Hearing Care Plan to provide a * ^Hearing Care Programme, "7^ ("fH® providing a lifetime payment of $250.00 to cover hearing aids as prescribed.
(ix)	Sickness and Accident Benefits ^ ff|0 Effective at 8 a.m. on January 1, 1	1992, the current weekly Sickness
i ^ _	and Accident Benefit will be
+&	increased to $430 per week for
eligible employees. This new amount will be provided to employees who are then in receipt of this benefit.
Effective January 1, 1993, the current weekly Sickness and Accident Benefitwill be increased to $450 per week for eligible employees. This new amount will be provided to employees then in receipt of this benefit.
Effective January 1, 1994, the current weekly Sickness and
88
Accident Benefitwill be increased to $470 per week for eligible employees. This new amount will be provided to employees then in receipt of this benefit.
(b) The Company shall during the term of this Collective Agreement pay 100% of the premium costs for the plans itemized in (a) above. In any case where Government sponsored Plans become available in whole or in part as substitutes for any of the above plans, the Company's obligation regarding premium costs shall be accordingly changed. The Company will pay any increases in Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums during the currency of the Agreement provided that if there are any decreases in such premiums during the currency of the Agreement the Company may, notwithstanding any legislation or regulation to the contrary, pay on the basis of such decreased premiums without paying the amount of such decrease to or for the benefit of the employees.
In consideration of improved employee benefits paid for by the
89
Company, the Union for the employees releases the Company from any obligation it might hereafter have to pay to employees any Unemployment Insurance reduction available because of the existence cf a wage loss replacement plan. (Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan)
ARTICLE 18 — WAGES
18.01	All 1988 wage rates now in effect shall
'ncreased in accordance with ( schedule "B" attached hereto.
The Company shall maintain such wages as increased for the life cf this Agreement; provided that the foregoing shall not prevent the Company from making such upward adjustments as it sees fit during the currency of this Agreement.
18.02	A Cost-of-Living Allowance (the “Allowance”) based on the Consumer Price Index (1961 =100) (the “Index”) issued by Statistics Canada will, if applicable, be paid to each employee calculated as hereinafter set out.
(a) The First Index shall be the Index issued for the month cf Jujy-tS^f The Second Index shall be issued for October 1991. The Third Index shall be that issued for January 1992.
90
The Fourth Index shall be that issued for April 1992. The Fifth Index shall be that issued for July 1992. The Sixth Index shall be that issued for October 1992. The Seventh Index shall be that issued for January 1993. The Eighth Index shall be that issued for April 1993. The Ninth Index shall, be that issued for July 1993. The Tenth Index shall be that issued for October 1993. The Eleventh Index shall be that issued for January 1994. The Twelfth Index shall be that issued for April 1994. The Thirteenth Index shall be that issued for July 1994.
(b)	Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Second Index, the Allowance shall be one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point three five (0.35) increase by which the Second Index exceeds the First Index.
(c)	The Allowance referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, if any, shall continue until the issuance of the Index for the month of January 1992 (the "Third Index") at which time the Third Index shall be compared with the Second Index.
91
Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Third Index the Allowance shall be adjusted by one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point three five (0.35) increase by which the Third Index exceeds the Second Index.
(d)	A similar comparison and adjustment shall be made on the basis of the Index issued every three months thereafter until the issuance cf the Thirteenth Index. No further comparisons and adjustments, and consequently no further Allowances shall be paid on the basis of any Index issued after the Thirteenth Index.
(e)	Effective8 a.m. on August20,1992 the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the Fifth Index and being paid on August 19, 1992 shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
(f)	Effective 8 a.m. on August 20,1993 the Allowance, ifany, in effectafter the issuance of the Ninth Index and being paid on August 19, 1993 shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
92
(g)	Effective 8 a.m. on August 20, 1994 the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the Thirteenth Index and being paid on August 19, 1994 shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
(h)	If there is a decrease in the Index on the basis of the quarterly comparisons, the Allowance shall be adjusted downwards by using the above-mentioned formula, but an employee’s applicable wage rate shall not be affected by any downward adjustment.
(i)	The amount cf the Allowance in effect at any time shall not form part of an employee’s applicable wage rate, except where it has been added in to the applicable wage rate as hereinbefore set out, and shall not be included for the calculation of vacation pay in excess of the requirements of The Employment Standards Act, 1980 or any amendment thereof.
(j)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made as a result of any revision which subsequently may be made in any Index.
93
(k)	The continuance of the Allowance shall depend upon the availability of the Index calculated on its present basis and in its present form.
In the event the Index is not so available the parties shall mutually agree to an alternative equitable arrangement.
ARTICLE 19 - BULLETIN BOARDS
19.01	No bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills, or other documents shall be posted or distributed anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and Plants of the Company by the Union or by any employee of the Company. The Company at the request of the Union will, however, from time to time post on the bulletin boards, designated by the Company at the Plants and Mines, notices of the time, place and purpose of meetings and of Union Conventions, the names of speakers, notices of results of Union Elections, the names of delegates to Union Conventions and notices of recreational and social affairs, provided such notices have received the approval of the Company.
19.02	The Company upon receipt of the necessary information from the Union will from time to time post on the
94
bulletin board for each department herein mentioned the names of the General Grievance Committeemen and Grievance Stewards designated by the Union to handle matters under the grievance procedure in such department, and will also post on the same bulletin boards lists designating the supervisory personnel to handle matters under the grievance procedure in such department on behalf cf the Company at each of the first two stages of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 20 — AUTHORITY
20.01	The Union and its bargaining committee agree that they have authority from the members cf the Union to enter into this Agreement and that this Agreement shall be binding upon and enforceable against the Union and/or its members. The Company agrees that this Agreement shall be binding upon and enforceable against it.
ARTICLE 21 — GENERAL
21.01	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to bind the Company, the employees or the Union to comply with any of the provisions cf this Agreement when such provisions may be impractical, having regard to any law which shall be
95
binding upon the Company, the employees or the Union.
ARTICLE 22 — FURTHER CONFERENCES
22.01	Either party to this Agreement may require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of this Agreement on 10 clear days' notice given to the other party within the period of 3 months immediately prior to its expiry date.
22.02	Negotiationspursuantto section 22.01 shall be held at Sudbury, Ontario.
ARTICLE 23 — TERMINATION
23.01	This Agreement as amended following the notice delivered to the Company, shall become effective at 8 a.m. on August 21,1991, unless expressly '■stated herein to the contrary, and shall terminate at 8 a.m. on the 21st day of August, 1994.
96
IN VMTNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have caused their corporate seals to be affixed under the hands of the proper officers in that behalf, and the authorized representatives of the Union have hereunto set their hands and seals.
EXECUTED at Falconbridge Ontario the twenty-second day cf June, 1992.
FALCON BRIDGE LIMITED
SUDBURY MINE, MILL AND SMELTER WORKERS' UNION LOCAL 598
President	/ /
Ceradttee^tfeifeer
,	X,
OGs&ttes/Meaber
B. ttacOcrald Ocmrittas wnfeer
SCHEDULE "A"
Classifications of Employees Excluded From the Bargaining Unit
MINES
Mine Superintendent Assistant Mine Superintendent Mine Foreman Mine Captain Mine Shift Bosses Mine Relieving Shift Bosses All employees in Mine Geological Department, excepting Underground Samplers All employees of Mine Engineering Department, including Surveyors, Draughtsmen, Bonus Engineers, Ventilation Engineers and Ventilation Construction Foremen Mine Yard Foreman Mine Clerk Timber Scaler
SMELTER
Plant Superintendent General Foremen Shift Bosses
Relief Foremen and Shift Bosses Day Labour Foremen Sub Foremen (Smelter)
Shovel Foremen Repair Foremen Smelter Office Clerks Experimental Engineer
98
MILL AND ORE DRESSING PLANTS
Mill Superintendent General Foreman Shift Bosses Experimental Engineer Repair Foreman Mill Clerk Messenger
GENERAL SURFACE
Superintendent Truck Fleet Foreman Foreman
All Police Forces and Guards Gatemen and Watchmen First Aid Nurses
Field Engineer and Assistant Field Engineers
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND LABORATORY
Chief Metallurgist Chief Chemists Chemists
Assistant Chemists
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Mechanical Superintendent Master Mechanic Surface Master Mechanic Designing Engineers Draughtsmen Office and Shop Clerks Power House Supervisors
99
Machine Shop Foremen Steel Shop Foremen Plate Shop Foremen Underground Maintenance Foremen Pump House Foreman
OFFICE STAFF
Chief Accountant
Accountants, Assistant Accountants, and Accounting Clerks Secretaries Stenographers Office Messengers Payroll Accountants Payroll Clerks Stores Accountant Stores Clerks Warehouse Supervisor Warehouse Men Telephone Operators Purchasing Agent Timber Agent Employment Agent Assistant Plant Transit Officer
ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
Superintendent
Foremen
Clerk
TOWNSITE
Superintendent
Foreman
Caretakers and Janitors (School and Community Hall)
100
SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Safety Engineer Safety Inspector Safety Office Clerks
CARPENTERS AND PAINTERS
General Carpenter Foremen Carpenter Foremen Painter Foremen
SURFACE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
Superintendent
Foremen
Clerk
All part time employees who are regularly employed for 24 hours per week or less.
Employees employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations.
Charwomen
101
SCHEDULE"B" HOURLY WAGE RATES AS AT DATE OF RATIFICATION
JOB CLASS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
17.86
18.08
18.30
18.52
18.74 18.97 19.18 19.40 19.62 19.84 20.06 20.28 20.50 20.82 21.14 21.46 21.78 22.10 22.42
22.74
102
SUPPLEMENT TO SCHEDULE"B" OCCUPATION AND JOB CLASS SCHEDULE PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCE BARGAINING UNIT
MINES DIVISION	
Occupation	Job Class
Mine Production Leader	17
Mine Development Leader	
Shaft Inspector	16
Miner - A	14
Shaft Repairman	
Hoistman	
Miner - B	13
Driller-Exploration	12
Miner - C	
Mine Serviceman - A	
Ground Support inspector	11
Mine Serviceman - B	10
Tailing Fillman - Lockerby	9
Mine Helper	8
Bit Grinder	
Fork Lift Operator	
Hoistman-in Training	7
Mine Serviceman - C	
Mine Labourer	4
Labourer - Surface	2
Trainee	1
103
MINERAL PROCESSING
Occupation
Converter Skimmer Converter Craneman Control Room Operator
-	Strathcona
Refractory Mason Acid Plant Operator Concentrator Operator - A
Matte Tapper Concentrator Operator - B Flotation Operator
-	Strathcona
Locomotive Engineer - Slag & Yard Crusherman - Fine Crushing Plant Melting Furnace Operator Locomotive Brakeman
-	1 st (Slag & Yard)
Grinding Mill Operator
-	Strathcona
Roasting Section Fieldman
Cottrell Operator
Crusherman - Mill
Operator- Feed Preparation
Matte Room Leader
Secondary Crushing Plant Operator
Tailings Fillman - East
Slag Tapper
Fill Plant Operator
-	Falconbridge
Acid Plant Operator’s Assistant
Job Class
17
16
14
13
12
11
10
104
Occupation
Tailing Fillman - Onaping Bailman
Flotation Circuit Attendant Converter Puncher Craneman-in-Training Fettling Conveyorman Mill Blaster
Mill Utility Man
-	Falconbridge Fork Lift Operator
Heavy Mobile Equipment Operator Locomotive Brakeman
-	2nd (Slag & Yard)
Tailing Lineman - Falconbridge
Refractory Mason Helper
Sample Processor
Truck Driver
Operator - Screen
Flux Crusherman
Mill Loader Operator
Mill Process Helper - Stna
Matte Braker Operator
Slurry Receiving/Matte Loadout Man
Feederman
, Conveyorman - Smelter Sample Process Helper Clay Mill Man Concentrator Operator - C Smelter Shift Process Helper Ore Dressing Plant Helper
105
Job Class
9
8
7
6
5
Occupation
Conveyorman - Strathcona Dustman
Tailing Lineman’s Helper Tool Room Man - Strathcona Fireguard - Plants Craneman-in-Training (Start)
Mill Blasting Helper
Weighman
Clay Mill Helper
Mill Process Labourer Stna
Smelter Day Labourer
Mill Shift Labourer (Falconbridge)
Smelter Shift Labourer
Dryman
Trainee
Job Class
5
3
2
1
SERVICES DIVISION
Electrician III	21
Electrician II	19
Machinist
Industrial Mechanic - Mine Hoist Industrial Mechanic - Millwright Industrial Mechanic - Maintenance	18
industrial Mechanic - Mobile Equipment Stationary Engineer II
Welder	17
Plateworker
Electrician I
Machinist - Intermediate
106
Occupation	Job Class
Maintenance Man - Hydraulic Blacksmith Garage Mechanic Rigger Pipefitter Maintenance Inspector	16
Industrial Mechanic-Maintenance-intermediate Industrial Mechanic-Mobile Equipment - Intermediate	
Carpenter Bricklayer Maintenance Man - Smelter Welder - Intermediate Plateworker - Intermediate Mill Hole Welder Electrode Casing Man	15
Maintenance Man - Mill Stationary Engineer III Hoistman Blacksmith - Intermediate Garage Mechanic - intermediate Rigger- Intermediate Pipefitter - Intermediate	14
Power House Operator Mine Mechanic Painter Carpenter - Intermediate Bricklayer - Intermediate	13
Locomotive Engineer - Yard Operator- Motor Truck Crane 107	12
Occupation	Job Class
Stationary Engineer IV Leader Track Crew Mine Locomotive Repairman - Falconbridge Rock Drill Repairman - Surface Painter- Intermediate	11
Mine Locomotive Repairman - Onaping Rock Drill Repairman - Underground Locomotive Brakeman - 1st (Yard) Repairman - Smelter Insulation Man	10
Repairman - Mill Boom Truck Operator Fire Equipment Serviceman - Surface	9
Operator- Fork Lift Mine Battery Repairman - Onaping Operator - Heavy Mobile Equipment Truck Driver	8
Handyman Sandblaster Operator- Poker Shop Services Helper Lampman Hoistman-in-Training	7
Trackman Steelyard Man Operator- Pipe Shop	6
108	
Occupation	Job Class
Dispatcher - Services Tool Room Man - Shops	5
Labourer Dryman	2
Trainee	1
109	
SCHEDULE "D" Apprentice Training
PERIODS MONITORED IN HOURS 1-3120
3121-4160	4161-5200
5201-6240	6241-7280
Completed 7281-8320	8321
JOB CLASS 4-YEAR
PROGRAM 4
1-1560
5	6	7	8	10
1560-2080 2081-2600 2601-3120 3121-3640 3641-4160
12
4161
2 YEAR
PROGRAM 45	6	7	8	10	12
SCHH3ULE "Q
August 16, 1991
Sudbury Mine, Mill & Smelter Workers’s Union Local 598 19 Regent St. S.
Sudbury, Ontario P3C 4B7
Dear Sirs:
Listed below are the letters to be printed in the Collective Agreement. The Company agrees that the matters set out below will be adhered to during the currency cf this Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
D.W. Mills
Personnel & Labour Relations Superintendent
1.	Apprentice Training Committee
The Company will, upon receipt of a request, with an agenda, meet periodically with a committee of the Union to discuss matters relating to the Company's Apprenticeship Program.
2.	Students
Students (employed during their vacation periods or co-operative students on their work semester) hired by the Company for temporary work as employees shall not, during the period of such work (not to exceed 5 months
111
at any one time), be covered under the Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan, Long Term Disability Insurance Plan, Drug Plan, Dental Plan, Insured Death Benefit Plan or Revised General Pension Plan, or be entitled to the Floating Holiday under section 11.06 of the Collective Agreement; nor shall the Company be obliged to pay any portion of the premium payable with respect to any such students covered under the Ontario Health Insurance Plan and Supplementary (Semi-Private) Plan or the Group Life Insurance Plan and the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
Notwithstanding the above, the foregoing provisions shall not apply to summer vacation students who remain in the employ of the Company beyond the 15th day of September in any year.
The Company agrees that it will not hire any students while there are former employees on layoff with recall rights who are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the available jobs.
3.	Protective Clothing
The Company will continue the practice of subsidizing or replacing protective clothing in specific work areas.
112
In addition, the Company will provide, as required by the employees in the Smelter, spark resistant pants at one-half cost (f.o.b. factory). Special gloves will be supplied, as required, at no cost to those employees working as tappers, tapper helpers, slagman, slagman helper as well as hand punching tuyeres.
The Company will supply to employees who work in areas where special clothing is required up to 2 pairs of acid resistant pants and 2 acid resistant shirts per year at one-half cost (f.o.b. factory), and in extraordinary circumstances consideration will be given to further replacement of such clothing.	^	£>«*
7 / / * ; i .S
4.	Hot Meals ^
If an employee works for more than one hour of overtime, he will be given one-half hour cff with pay at normal meal time to give him an opportunity to obtain- a hot meal which the Company will provide if practitable. If it is not practicable to provide a hot meal, the Company will provide a cold meal. Every four hours thereafter, the CompahywTTrsuppTy a lunch and hot beverage.
5.	Christmas Gift
The Company will make a gift of
113
$100.00 each Christmas to each employee hired before the first day of September of the year in which the Christmas falls.
6. Stage One & Stage Two Meetings
For the purpose of the meetings referred to in section 7.01 Stage One of the Collective Agreement, the Grievance Steward and the Division Grievance Committeeman will be allowed one-half hour off for discussion plus reasonable travel and clean-up time prior to such meetings;
for Stage Two meetings the Grievance Steward and Division Grievance Committeeman will be allowed one hour off for discussion plus reasonable travel and clean-up time prior to such meetings.
7. Tools
The Company will discuss with the Union any discrepancies in its practice regarding replacement of tools caused by loss, including theft, where the employee has exercised due care, and worn out tools with a view to arriving at a consistent policy of replacement.
8.
Employee Assistance Program This will confirm the Company and Union's intention to continue the Employee Assistance Program at
114
Sudbury Operations.
The Company and Union believe that by recognizing alcoholism and drug abuse as an illness, employees will be encouraged to come forward for assistance and treatment. Supervisors, representatives of the Union and employees are urged to encourage those who have or are suspected of having alcohol or drug problems to obtain medical assistance, advice and treatment.
The Company and Union believe that every reasonable means should be used to rehabilitate an employee and restore him to normal health and productivity. To this end, the Company and Union Committee which has been established to jointly administer this policy will be continued.
Employees who are resource persons shall be allowed such time off without loss in pay as shall be reasonably required to attend to matters related to the Employee Assistance Program.
9.	Construction Pool
The Company will after the completion of negotiations for the renewal cf the 1985 collective agreement set up a construction pool of 12 First Class Tradesmen, comprised cf 4 Electricians, 4 Welders, 2 Carpenters and 2 Pipefitterswho will be deployed
115
to crews doing construction work. Employees in the construction pool will be part cf the Services Division in either the Electrical or Mechanical Department. Should there be a temporary lull in construction work it is understood employees in the construction pool would perform maintenance work.
The Company and Union agree that vacancies for the aforementioned jobs will be posted in the Services Division in both the Onaping Area and the Falconbridge Area; subsequent vacancies resulting from the selection cf candidates to fill the 12 jobs in the construction pool will be posted according to the terms of section 10.10 of the collective agreement.
10.	Transfer Window
During the term of this agreement the Company agrees to open a 14 day transfer window each year. The first such window will open in October of 1991 and thereafter in each of the subsequent years cf this agreement the Company will discuss with the Union when the window for that year will be open.
Prior to the transfer window being opened the Company will post on the bulletin boards a notice of vacancies
116
available to be filled. Employees will have the 14 day period in which to file transfer applications with the Company.
In filling a vacancy from amongst the transfer applications the senior applicant shall be transferred provided he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job.
At all times other than the agreed upon 14 day transfer window the Company shall abide by the sequence set out in section 10.10 Part 3 for filling vacancies which have not been filled through the job posting procedure.
11.	Demoted or Recalled Employees
If it is determined at arbitration that the Company in its application of section 2.04(c) failed to promote an employee who was demoted or recall an individual who was laid off the Company shall pay him the following compensation with respect to the period which is in question:
(a)	earnings lost based on his regular rate for the time lost during the period when not promoted or recalled, limited to a maximum cf 40 hours per week, less the amount of money earned by the employee during the time lost;
117
(b)	shift premium applicable to his normal hours cf work lost;
(c)	Sunday premium applicable to his normal hours cf work lost;
(d)	holiday pay he would otherwise have been entitled to;
(e)	cost of living allowance lost based on his normal hours of work lost;
(f)	premiums for any or all of Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan, Supplementary Plan, Drug Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Dental Plan provided any laid off individual has actually paid such premium.
12.	Application of Section 10.23
Subject to the provisions of section
10.23	of the proposed 1991 Collective Agreement, the Company agrees that it will not automatically refuse a request for a leave of absence from an employee making such request solely by reason of his incarceration.
13.	Sickness & Accident Benefits vs. Vacation Pay - At Year End
In order to resolve the issue of offsetting Sickness and Accident payments by outstanding Annual Vacation at year end, it is hereby agreed that the following conditions will apply:
118
i)	At year end, all monies owing to an employee with an outstanding Annual Vacation entitlement, including vacation bonus, will be paid in a lump sum. He will not be considered as being on or taking his vacation.
ii)	His Sickness and Accident payments will not be interrupted as a result of this process.
iii)	Employees affected by this procedure will not be entitled to the paid holidays of Christmas and/or Boxing Day andlor New Years.
iv)	The above procedure will prevent both the Company from granting and the employee from electing to take his vacation on returning to work in the above circumstances prior to year end.
14.	Section 10.05
This is to confirm the parties agreed that where the Company intends to allocate new or renewed operations into existing Divisionsor Departments or create additional Divisions or Departments or delete or combine Departments as may be required, it will, where possible, provide the Union with 30 days' notice of such action.
119
15.	Time Off for Union Representatives for Joint Job Evaluation Duties During the course cf negotiations for the renewal cf the 1985 Collective Agreement the Union requested the Company to grant leave with pay to Union members cf the Joint Job Evaluation Committee when requested by the Union.
The Company’s response to the Union’s demand was an undertaking to allow such time off without loss of pay to the Union Committee as is required to administer the Program including time to interview employees in new or changed jobs and where necessary to observe such new or changed jobs.
In any event, section 3.11 cf Part II cf the Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program clearly sets out the agreement of the parties.
In addition to the foregoing during the course cf negotiations for the renewal cf the 1988 Collective Agreement the Company agreed the Joint Job Evaluation Committee would meet quarterly as a minimum or, as mutually agreed upon in the event there is no necessity for a quarterly meeting.
120
INDEX
Subject Ability .
Application of Section 10.23 Application of Seniority ...
Apprentices.............
Apprentice Training
Committee.............
Arbitration.............
Arbitrator - Single.....
Assignments.............
Authority...............
Benefit Plans...........
Bereavement Leave.......
Bulletin Boards.........
Call-Out................
Change of Days Off ....
Christmas Gift..........
Close Down of (Part) Department..............
Collar to Collar........
Construction Pool.......
Contracting Out.........
Cost -of-Living Allowance
Section
10.11-10.13
10.17
10.18 10.20
Letter 12 10.06-10.20 10.24 14.02-14.04
Letter 1 7.05 7.09
10.14
11.15 20.01
17.03 11.17
19.01-19.02
11.04 11.12
Letter 5
10.07 10.15 11.14 Letter 9 2.04 18.02
Page
42 45 45 47
118
31 52 73
111
13
15
43
63 95 86
64 94 56 62
113
32 43 63
115
2
90
Subject	Section Page
Credited Service........... 10.02	28
Curtailment of Operations .	10.06	31
Demoted or Recalled
Employees Designation ...., Direct Difference
Discharge and Discipline .. Discrimination:
No Discrimination........
Solicitation of Membership
Union Membership.........
Electing Layoff............
Employee Assistance
Program..................
Excluded Employees:
Scope....................
Schedule “A” ............
Letter 11	117
10.26	54
7.04	12
8.01	22
3.02	6
3.03	6
3.01	6
10.06	32
Letter 8 114
1.01 1 98
Exclusion of Personnel
Working		. 2.02-2.03
Familiarization		, . 10.18
Floating Holiday		.. 11.06
Further Conferences		. 22.01
General		. 21.01
Grievances:	
Adjustment of		.. 7.01
Arbitration		. 7.05-7.08
Arbitration Board		. . 7.06
Arbitrator - Single		. . 7.09
Committeemen and	
Stewards		. . 7.17
1
45
57
96
95
8
13
13
15
18
Subject
Section
Page
Direct Differences................. 7.04
Employee Rights.................... 7.14
Failure to Process................. 7.12
General................... 7.11
Management Representative 7.01-7.03
Mines Bonus........................ 9.01
Notice cf Discharge.......	7.16
Payment of Com mitteemen
and Stewards.............. 7.21-7.23
Stage One.......................... 7.01
Stage Two.......................... 7.01
for Discharge.................. 8.01
Time Limits............... 7.11-7.13
Holidays	11.05-11.09
Hot Meals................... Letter 4
Hours of Work:
Temporary Assignment ...	11.15
Cal l-Out................. 11.04
Collar to Collar.................. 11.14
Distribution cf Overtime . .	11.03
Floating Holiday.................. 11.06
Hoisting Schedule................. 11.14
Holiday Pay....................... 11.08
Holidays.......................... 11.05
Jury Duty......................... 11.18
Overtime.................... 11,01-11.03
Overtime Calculation...... 11.01-11.02
12
18
17
17 8
24
18
19
9
10
22
17
56
112
63
56 63
55
57 63
58
56 65 55 55
Subject
Section
Page
Shift - Change cf............... 11.12
Shift Premiums.................. 11.10
Sunday Premiums................. 11.11
Work - Non-Available ....	11.16
Work on a Holiday........	11.07
Impractical Provisions re
laws............................ 21.01
Investigatory Suspension...	7.16
Job Classes
Supp. to Schedule "B".. . .
job Evaluation.................... 13.01
Job Posting....................... 10.10
10.19
Jury Duty......................... 11.18
Lay-Offs................... 10.06
leaves of Absence:
Maternity Leave................. 10.23
Paternity Leave................. 10.23
Personal Business............... 10.23
Union Business.................. 10.21
letters....................Schedule “Q”
Management Rights.................. 4.01
Maternity leave................... 10.23
Medicals................... 16.02
Mineral Processing Division..	10.05
Mines Bonus................... 9.01-9.03
62
61
61
64 58
95
18
103
69
38
46
65 31
50
50
50
49 111
7
50 84 30 24
Subject
Section
Page
Mines Division............. 10.05
No Cessation of Work	....	6.01
No Discrimination...... 3.01
No Guarantee of Work....	11.19
N o lockout or Strike.......	6.01
Occupation and Job Class Schedule:
Mines Division...........
Mineral Processing.......
Services Division........
Mineral Processing. Services Division . .
Overtime		. .. 11.01-11.03
Calculation cf		. .. 11.01-11.02
	11.09
Distribution of		. .. 11.03
Paid Holidays		. .. 11.05-11.08
Paternity leave		. .. 10.23
Pay Grievances		. .. 7.13
Personal Matters		. .. 7.15
Pension and Health	
Benefits:	
Differences		17.02
Extent of Coverage		17.03
Pension Plan		17.01
Posting Vacancies		10.10
Premiums:	
Shift		11.10
Sunday		11.11
30
8
6
66
8
103
104 106
55
55
60
55
56 50
17
18
86
86
85
38
61
61
Subject
Section
Page
Probationary Employees
Promotion Factors......
Protective Clothing----
Qualifying Day.........
Recall.................
Recognition............
Re-opener Provisions...
Re-transfer............
Safety and Health
Committees...........
Medicals.............
Schedule “A”	.........
Schedule "B"...........
Supplement to
Schedule "B" ........
Schedule "D"...........
Schedule "Q"...........
Scope..................
Section 10.05..........
Seniority:
Application of.......
Close Down...........
Definitions
Demotions
10.25
10.11-10.12 Letter 3 11.05 11.08 10.08-10.09 2.01 22.01 10.07
16.01
16.02
1.01
Letter 14
10.06-10.20
10.24
10.07
10.15
10.01-10.02
10.06
53
42 112
56
58
33
1
96
32
83
84 98
102
103
110
111'
1
119
31 52
32
43 27 31
Subject
Section
Page
Divisions and Departments
Factors in Promotion......
Familiarization Period ....
General...................
Layoffs...................
Leaves of Absence.........
Lists cf Seniority........
Loss of Seniority and
Credited Service .....
Posting Vacancies.........
Probationary Employees. . . Recall....................
Re-transfer...............
Temporary Promotion and Demotion..................
Temporary Transfer Time for Choosing
Applicants............
Transfers.............
Service...................
Services Division.........
Shift Change..............
Shift Premiums............
Sickness & Accident Benefits vs Vacation Pay at Year End
10.05
10.11-10.12
10.18
10.24
10.06 10.21-10.23
10.04
10.03
10.10
10.25 10.08
10.09 10.07
10.17-10.18
10.19
10.16
10.20 10.02
10.05 11.12
11.10
Letter 13
30 42 45
52
31 49 29
28
38
53 33 35
32
45
46
44
47 28 31 62 61
118
Subject
Section Page
Sickness and Accident
insurance..............
Stage One & Stage Two
Meetings..............
Stewards and Committeemen
Students.................
Subpoenaed Witness.......
Sunday Premium...........
Supplement to Schedule "B'
Suspension...............
Technological Change.....
Temporary Demotions and
Promotions.............
Temporary Transfer.......
Termination..............
Time Off for Union Reps
for JJE...............
Tools....................
Tradesmen and
Apprentices............
Training.................
Transfer Wndow...........
Transfers................
Travel Allowance.........
Union Dues...............
Union Membership.........
17.03	86
Letter 6	114
7.17	18
7.17-7.22	18
19.02	94
Letter 2	111
11.18	65 11.11 61
103 7.16	18
12.01 66 10.17	45
11.15	63
10.19	46
23.01	96
Letter 15	120
Letter 7	114
14.01	73
10.26	54
Letter 10 116
10.20	47
11.04	56
5.01	7
3.01-3.03	6
Subject
Section
Page
Union Recognition Union Security ... Vacations (Regular): Bonus............
Commencement..
Entitlement............
Interruption of Service Pay....................
Scheduling... Termination of
2.01
5.01
15.01-	15.09 15.08
15.03
15.01-	15.02
15.04 15.01 15.07
15.05-15.06
Employment...........
Time of Granting.......
Vacations (Special).....
Wage Rates - Schedule "B"
Wages...................
Warnings................
Work Week...............
15.09 15.06
15.10
18.01
8.03
11.20
1
7
75 78
76
75
76 75
78
77
79
78
79 102
90
23
66