1998
OFFICE CLERICAl AND TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES COLL^VI AC; REE MENT
Between
IALCONI5RIDC.E IIMEEED (ttie “Company")
and
UNHID S1CILWORKERS C)F AMI RICA, LOCAI f,8!Cr>
(the "Union") 00179 (06)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article 1	Recognition	1
Article 2	No Discrimination	4
Article 3	Management	5
Article 4	No Cessation of Work	5
Article 5	Adjustment of Grievances	6
Article 6	Discharge	23
Article 7	Hours of Work	25
Article 8	Overtime, Sunday and Shift Premiums, Standby Pay, and Call-In Pay	29
Article 9	Holidays	34
Article 10	Vacations	37
Article 11	Leave of Absence	45
Article 12	Seniority	53
Article 13	Wages	87
Article 15
Article 16 Article 17 Article 18 Article 19 Article 20
Article 21 Schedule "A'
Schedule "B"
Schedule ”C" Schedule "D" Schedule "E" Schedule "Q"
Pension Plan and Welfare Benefits
Technological Change Safety and Health Union Security General
Further Conferences
Termination
Classification cf Employees Excluded from the Bargaining Unit
Rules Governing Proceedings cf Grievance Commissioner
Rules of Arbitration
Wage Rate Scales
Job Titles and Classifications
Letters
97
104
107
115
115
119
119
122
123
124 126 128 132
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all the employees covered by this Agreement with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions.
1.02	The employees covered by this Agreement shall be all the office, clerical and technical employees of the Company in the District of Sudbury, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, employees covered by subsisting collective agreements binding upon the Company and employees of the Company in the classifications set forth in Schedule A attached hereto and made part hereof. The words "employee" and "employees" wherever used in this agreement refer to such employees as are covered by this agreement. The words "individual" and "individuals" wherever used in this agreement refer to someone not covered by this agreement but who is nevertheless an employee of the Company.
1.03	Notwithstanding the grievance and arbitration procedure set out in this Agreement, any and all questions relating to whether any person should be included in or excluded from the bargaining unit shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure
1
set out in section 4.01 of the "Experimental Agreement on the Status of Jobs" as amended April 26, 1989, and in no other manner.
1.04	The phrase "Local Union" as used herein shall referto Local 6855 of the Union.
1.05	Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
1.06	The Company recognizes the Union's concern over "contracting out" of work and agrees to establish a Joint Company-Union Committee to minimize the requirement for contracting out of work apart from the design and construction phase of major capital projects. There shall be two employees selected by the Union and two employees appointed by the Company who will serve on the Committee. The Company will pay the wages of the employees for time in attendance at Committee meetings plus cost-of-living allowance and Nickel Price Bonus.
The mandate of the Joint Committee is to:
I.	Meet quarterly to review work the Company intends to contract out, the reasons for the work being contracted out, the expected duration of such work, the number of contractors to be employed, the type of work to be
2
performed and to recommend how the work could otherwise be done by Company employees.
2.	Identify those contractors working on Company property on an on-going basis to such an extent that the Committee recommends the replacement of such contractor with an employee.
3.	Recommend changes in staffing, organization and structure whereby it would be more effective to use Company employees to perform the work of contractors.
Furthermore the Company agrees it will promote employees who have been demoted and recall former employees who have been laid off and who have recall rights, provided those employees and former employees can fill the normal requirements of the job and are readily available before work which could be performed by the bargaining unit employees of a duration of 14 calendar days or longer is contracted out.
No one outside the bargaining unit shall perform work that is normally performed by employees to the extent
3
and volume that such work results in the layoff or demotion of an employee.
1.07	No individual employed by the Company shall perform work that is normally performed by employees to the extent and volume that such work results in the layoff, demotion or displacement of an employee. The foregoing is not intended to preclude individuals from performingwork of a casual or emergency nature.
ARTICLE 2 - NO DISCRIMINATION
2.01	No person shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a member of any union or other organization, and no statements or representations to the contrary shall be made.
2.02	There shall be no discrimination by the Company or the Union or any employee against any employee because of membership or non-membership in any lawful union, or because of his race, creed, colour, sex, nationality, ancestry, place or origin, political opinions, family status, ethnic origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, age, or marital status.
Stewards, Union safety representatives or employees filling any other Union position shall not be denied promotions, training
4
opportunities, transfers or overtime because of their Union activity.
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT
3.01	The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the Offices, Plants and Mines, direct the working forces and to hire, promote, transfer, demote, layoff and to suspend, demote, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause; provided, however, that any exercise of the foregoing rights and powers in conflict with any of the provisions in this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 4 - NO CESSATION OF WORK
4.01	(a) Neither the Union nor any employee
shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, sit-down, slow-down or any suspension of work against the Company which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall the Company engage in any lockout at its Offices, Plants or Mines.
(b) In the event of a strike, sit-down, slowdown or any suspension of work against the Company in which the employees covered by this agreement
5
are not directly involved, any employee unable to report to his normal work location and who reports for work on schedule to an area outside the gate, designated by the Company, will, on the first day of the suspension of work, and on any subsequent day of the work suspension when the Company asked the employee to report to work, be paid 4 hours pay at his applicable hourly rate. The said 4 hours shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 -ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
5.01	Any difference between the Company and any of its employees as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall hereinafter be called a "grievance". An earnest effort shall be made to settle such differences without undue delay.
Sundays, Saturdays, and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken under the provisions of this Article. The time limits set out for any stage in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement,
A grievance shall be dealt with in the following manner:
6
5.02	Stage One - The aggrieved employee may within a reasonable period from the time such grievance arose present his grievance orally or in writing to the designated management representative. In presenting such grievance and receiving any answer thereto he may, if he desires, be accompanied and represented by a steward designated by the Local Union from the Area of the grievor to handle such grievance at this stage.
Stage One of the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual agreement of the grievor, or the steward if one has been designated, and the designated management representative at Stage One if such grievance pertains to a job posting or transfer to a vacancy in a work location or Area other than the grievor's.
5.03	Stage Two - If within 3 days from the time when the grievance was presented to the First Stage management representative a decision satisfactory to the employee is not given, provided the parties to the grievance have not mutually agreed to waive Stage One, then the Area Grievance Committeeman, may, within 3 days after the decision of such management representative has been or should have been given, or within 3 days from the date it was agreed to waive Stage One, submit on a form the intent to process the grievance to
7
Stage Two to the Labour Relations Supetvisor- O.C.T. The information on this form shall not prejudice the Union's position with respect to subsequent submissions or representations regarding such grievance at this stage. The Labour Relations Supervisor - O.C.T. shall, when so notified, establish a date for a Stage Two hearing. The date of the hearing shall not be more than 10 days from the date the Labour Relations Supetvisor - O.C.T. was advised of the employee's intent to process the grievance to Stage Two, unless mutually agreed upon.
At the meeting, the employee, accompanied by the Area Grievance Committeeman and the case Steward, shall present the grievance statement, which shall be in writing and shall set out the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and any applicable section or provision of this Agreement, provided that failure to properly identify such section or provision shall not prejudice the determination of the grievance on its merits. The management representative shall give to the employee, the case Steward, and the Area Grievance Committeeman his decision in writing within 7 days from the date of the Stage Two hearing.
5.04	(a) Stage Three - If the matter is not
satisfactorily disposed of, then notice in writing requesting further consideration
8
of the matter may, within 7 days after the decision of the Stage Two management representative has been given or should have been given, be given by the Grievance Committee to the Stage Three management representative designated by the Company. Such management representative shall notify the Chairman of the Grievance Committee of the time and place at which he (and other management representatives) will meet such Grievance Committee and the case Steward to discuss the matter. At such time the written Stage Two grievances shall be presented to the Stage Three	management
representative by not more than two members of the Grievance Committee accompanied by the case Steward and an International Representative of the Union and the decision of the Stage Two management representative shall be considered. The Stage Three management representative shall give the decision in writing on behalf of the Company within 15 days from the date of receipt of the written notice.
(b) Backlog Procedure
If the Grievance Committee Chairman notifies the Superintendent of Labour Relations that there is a backlog of 4 or
9
more Stage Three grievances in either the Onaping Area or Falconbridge Area (including	Lockerby),	the
Superintendent will then schedule a meeting to hear such grievances not later than 15 days from receipt of the notice. Two members of the Grievance Committee accompanied by the case Steward and an International Representative of the Union may represent the Local Union.
The Stage Three management representative shall give the decision in writing on behalf ofthe Company within 10 days from the date of the backlog procedure hearing. Members of the Grievance Committee will be allowed up to a half day for preparation for such meetings and up to a half day for attendance at such meetings with no loss in pay; Stewards will be allowed such time off as is reasonably required without loss in pay for preparation and attendance at such meetings.
The foregoing backlog procedure is intended to be utilized as an exception rather than the rule, however, if the parties mutually agree to using the backlog procedure for hearing Stage Three grievances, the foregoing "Stage Three" procedure may be waived.
10
5.05	The management representatives designated to handle matters at each of the stages of the grievance procedure shall be the appropriate person, as follows: Stage One, an employee's immediate supervisor; Stage Two, the Department Head (or Superintendent) of the appropriate department or his designee; Stage Three, the Manager of the appropriate department or his designee.
At Stage Two and Stage Three of the grievance procedure, grievances which relate to job postings or transfers shall be handled by the management representative from the department which made the selection to fill the vacancy.
5.06	If no management representative shall have been designated by the Company for any of the Stages through which a matter must proceed such matter may proceed directly to the next higher stage for which a management representative shall have been so designated provided that the Company will, wherever possible, designate a First Stage representative for each department.
5.07	Any difference (hereinafter called a "direct difference") arising directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, instead
11
of following the procedure set out in sections 5.01 and following, shall be submitted in writing within a reasonable period by the grieving party to the other.
The written notice shall specify the nature of the complaint, the remedy sought and any applicable provision of this Agreement but failure to properly identify such provision shall not prejudice the determination of the direct difference on its merits. There shall be a discussion of such direct difference between the officers of the Local Union, and International Representative of the Union and representatives of the Company. The party to whom the notice was delivered shall reply in writing to such direct difference within 21 days from the delivery of the notice.
Arbitration
5.08	If any grievance or direct difference, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, is not satisfactorily settled under the foregoing provisions, the matter may then by notice in writing given to the other party within 60 days from the giving of the decision of the Stage Three management representative (or in the event of a direct difference within 60 days from the date when the written reply was delivered) be referred either by the Local Union, the
12
Union or the Company to arbitration for final and binding settlement, without stoppage of work, as provided in section 5.11. Failure to provide a written answer does not mean an automatic concession.
In the event such notice of arbitration is not delivered then the Company shall, prior to the expiry of any time limit which may have been imposed on such grievance, ask the Union, in writing, of its intention. If the Union does not notify the Company of its intention within 10 days from the date of the Company's letter, the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned.
5.09	(a) In the event that any grievance or direct
difference, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, is not satisfactorily settled under the foregoing provisions, the matter may then by notice in writing given to the other party within 60 days from the giving of the decision cf the management representative at Stage Three or from the date when such decision should have been given (or in the event of a direct difference within 60 days from the date when the written reply to the submission was or should have been delivered) be referred either by the Local Union, the Union or the Company directly to arbitration or to Third Party Determination.
13
Within 14 days after a grievance or direct difference has been referred to Third Party Determination, the designated representative(s) from Labour Relations and the Chairman of the Grievance Committee, an officer of the Local Union and a representative of the Union may meet and agree in writing to submit the grievance or direct difference to a Grievance Commissioner as provided in section 5.09(b). Failing such agreement, the grievance or direct difference will proceed to Arbitration as provided in section 5. 10.
(b)	Grievance Commissioner
A Grievance Commissioner to be selected by mutual consent of the parties from time to time will set aside each month or other period such time as may be requested by the Company and the Local Union to consider and determine grievances and direct differences referred to him for final and binding arbitration. A Grievance Commissioner shall have the same powers and be subject to the same limitations as a Board of Arbitration except as provided in paragraphs (b) to (e) hereof.
14
(c)	Through the Grievance Commissioner the parties desire the expeditious means for the effective disposition of grievances and direct differences which the parties have agreed may be handled in a summary manner. The rules governing the summary proceedings of the Grievance Commissioner are set out in Schedule 'B' hereto.
(d)	The decision of the Grievance
Commissioner shall be applicable only to the case in question and shall not constitute a precedent nor be used by either party as a precedent in future cases. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement the decision	of	the	Grievance
Commissioner shall:
^ be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(jj) be confined to the grievance or direct difference referred to him.
(e)	The Local Union and the Company
shall each be responsible for one-half (1/2) of the expenses of and fees payable	to	the	Grievance
Commissioner.
15
5.10	Any grievance or direct difference referred directly or proceeding to arbitration as provided in section 5.09(a) shall be heard by a Board of Arbitrators constituted pursuant to section 5.11 for final and binding settlement without stoppage of work.
Board <f Arbitrators
5.11	In any case in which a Board of Arbitrators shall be required under this Agreement, the Company and the Union shall each appoint one arbitrator and the two arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third. No person may be named as an arbitrator who has participated directly in an attempt to settle the grievance or direct difference.
The arbitrators to be appointed by the Company and the Union shall be appointed within 10 days from the date of receipt of notice of arbitration. If either party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within the time provided, the other party may request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint an arbitrator on behalf of the defaulting party. Within a period of 30 days from the later of the dates of their respective appointments the arbitrators representing the Union and the Company shall try to agree upon the appointment of a third arbitrator who shall act as chairman of the board. If they fail to so agree, the arbitrator
16
appointed to represent the party which sent the notice of arbitration shall within a further period cf 30 days after the completion of such first mentioned period of 30 days request the Labour-Management Arbitration Commission of Ontario to select a third arbitrator. However, if such request is not made within such further period of 30 days then the grievance or direct difference will be deemed to have been abandoned.
5.12	The Board of Arbitrators shall hear and determine the grievance or direct difference and shall issue a decision. Such decision shall be final and binding upon the parties and upon any employee affected by it. The decision of a majority is the decision of the arbitration board, but if there is no majority the decision of the chairman shall govern.
In no event shall the Board of Arbitrators be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
Single Arbitrator
5.13	(a) Notwithstanding sections 5.10 and
5.11, the Union or the Company may, in the notice in writing given to the other party pursuant to section 5.08 referring any grievance, including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or any direct difference to arbitration, propose
17
that such arbitration be dealt with by a single arbitrator. The other party shall within 14 days of the receipt of such notice reply in writing stating whether arbitration by a single arbitrator is acceptable.
(b)	The single arbitrator shall be selected in rotation from the following: G.J. Brandt, M. Teplitsky, O. Shime, J. Brunner, G. Brent, K.A. Hinnegan. The parties may mutually agree to by-pass the arbitrator scheduled through rotation to take the next arbitrator.
(c)	A single arbitrator shall have all the powers of a board of arbitrators as provided in this Agreement or under the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, as amended from time to time, and the provisions herein with respect to such a board shall apply to a single arbitrator, with the necessary changes being made.
(d)	If in the reply referred to in (a) the other party states that arbitration by a single arbitrator is not acceptable, then in such reply such other party shall name its arbitrator to be appointed to a board of arbitrators which is to arbitrate the matter. Thereafter the parties shall proceed with the matter in accordance with this Agreement as if it had been submitted
18
originally for arbitration by a board of arbitrators pursuant to section 5.08.
5.14	The rules of arbitration annexed hereto as Schedule 'C' shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder.
General
5.15	The parties are desirous of settling grievances on their merits. However, failure to process a grievance or direct difference from one Stage to the next Stage (including referral to arbitration) within the specified time limits will be deemed an abandonment of such grievance or direct difference; failure to reply to a grievance within the specified time limit will permit the grieving party to proceed to the next higher Stage, including arbitration.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, any time limit fixed by this Article or Article 6 may be extended by agreement of the Company and the Union.
5.16	If it should be decided through the grievance procedure (including arbitration) that any employee has failed to receive pay to which he is properly entitled under the provisions of this Agreement, respecting the application of seniority or pay, the Company shall, if his grievance shall have been
19
presented in writing within 60 days after the pay day in respect of the pay period in which the grievance arose, pay to such employee the difference between the pay which such employee should have received and the pay actually received by the employee. The Company shall extend the period of 60 days where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such 60 days.
5.17	An aggrieved employee may be present at all stages of the grievance procedure. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent an employee from discussing any personal matters with the Company.
5.18	At any time during the discussion of a grievance if it is mutually agreed that witnesses would aid in settling the grievance they may be requested to attend.
Grievance Committee and Stewards
5.19	There shall be a Union Grievance Committee of not more than three employees who, together with Stewards designated by the Local Union, shall represent employees in grievance proceedings. The Local Union shall send the Company a list of the names of the
20
Committee members and Stewards and any subsequent changes.
5.20	Such time off without loss of wages as shall be reasonably required shall be allowed to
(a)	a grievor, a steward designated by the Local Union from the Area of the grievor, and a member of the Union Grievance Committee to process (including any investigation) grievances in accordance with this Article,
(b)	up to three Officers of the Local Union to process a direct difference in accordance with section 5.07,
(c)	one officer of the Local Union while at a meeting with a representative from Labour Relations concerning the submission of a grievance or direct difference to a Grievance Commissioner pursuantto section 5.09,
provided permission is obtained from his Supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company may refuse to grant such permission at any time if the privilege of requesting time off for the aforesaid purpose is being abused.
5.21	The Company will pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current rates to a grievor, a steward and a member of the Grievance
21
Committee to attend any Stage One, Stage Two or Stage Three grievance meeting who, at the request of the Company, are required to use their own personal transportation to travel from one Area to another Area for his grievance meeting. The allowance payable will be a return trip travel allowance from their permanent work location to the location of the meeting.
5.22	(a) If the Company issues a written
warning to an employee, it shall give two copies of such written warning to the employee provided such employee acknowledges receipt of such warning on the original thereof.
Written warning (but not suspensions) for absence without leave or for failing to notify the Company of intended absence shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline for subsequent infractions of a like nature if, after three calendar months, there is no repetition of such offence.
Any other written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline if in the 6 months following such warning there is no further misconduct.
22
A suspension notice other than a suspension notice for breach of Article 4 shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline 12 months after the issuance of such notice.
A suspension notice for breach of Article 4 shall be disregarded in determining discipline two years after the issuance of such suspension.
(b) Any notice of discharge or notice of suspension, other than investigatory suspension, shall be given to the employee in the presence of a Grievance Steward who is readily available provided that should there be no Steward available, such lack of availability will not nullify such notice of discharge or suspension.
ARTICLE 6 - DISCHARGE
6.01	If an employee who is discharged from his employment believes that such discharge was the result of a misinterpretation or a violation of any of the provisions of the Agreement, such discharge shall constitute a grievance to be dealt with under Article 5. The President of the Local Union shall be notified as soon as possible of the discharge of any employee, however it is not necessary to state reasons for such
23
discharge nor will failure to notify the Union be construed as nullifying such discharge. Any such grievance may be presented at Stage Two of the grievance procedure within fifteen (15) working days of the date of such letter or such further period as the parties may agree.
6.02	An employee who has brought a grievance concerning his discharge may, to the extent permitted by the respective carriers thereof, continue at his own expense his participation in any of the Company's group insurance plans until such time as his grievance has been finally disposed of.
6.03	If it should be decided at any stage of the grievance procedure (including arbitration) that such discharge grievance was the result of a misinterpretation or a violation by the Company of any of the provisions of this Agreement the Company shall
(a)	reinstate such employee in his job without loss of seniority,
(b)	credit him with a period of continuous service equal to the time he was absent from his employment as a result of his discharge less any period of suspension given to him as a result thereof,
24
(c)	pay such compensation, less any monies earned during the period of discharge, as is considered just and equitable in the opinion of the parties or in the opinion of the Board of Arbitrators, and
(d)	shall reimburse him for any premiums or portions thereof paid pursuant to section 6.02 which the Company would have paid if the employee had not been discharged.
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK
7.01	The regular work day will be 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with a half hour off for lunch. However, where the efficiency of operations so requires or an employee or groups of employees so request the Company may change such hours to 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. with an hour off for lunch.
7.02	The regular work week shall be 5 work days, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
7.03	Certain employees may be scheduled to work at hours other than as set out in section 7.01, but the number of hours shall not exceed 8 hours inclusive of the lunch period in a two or three-shift operation.
25
Certain employees may be scheduled on a work week other than as set out in section 7.02; provided, however, that there are 5 consecutive work days within the calendar week in such schedules other than those pertaining to employees in the Instrumentation Department, First Aid/Security, Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgical Technology Group, Smelter Technology and Mill Technology and such other groups as the operations of the Company may require from time to time and the Local Union agrees to provided
(a)	that the weekly schedules for such employees provide for at least 2 consecutive days off; or
(b)	the schedule for such employees has been agreed to by the Local Union.
7.04	In order to effect
(a)	a longer work day but shorter work week or other schedule variations which may result in a shorter or longer work week employees in certain departments or groups may wish to work a schedule in excess of eight (8) hours per shift as outlined in section 7.01 or
(b)	changes in the time of arrival and departure of employees in certain
26
departments or groups on the basis of what is commonly called "Flextime."
The Company and the Union agree:
(1)	the concepts set out in (a) and (b) are experimental and shall extend only for the term of this agreement;
(2)	the concepts will not be applied to any department, employee or groups of employees without the written consent of the Union;
(3)	either party may terminate any such schedule agreed upon by giving thirty (30) working days written notice to the other party;
(4)	the overtime provisions as outlined in section 8.01 will apply only for any daily and/or weekly time worked in excess of the agreed to schedule;
(5)	the shift premiums set out in section
8.01	would not apply to hours of work changed solely by reason of the application of Flextime.
7.05	The Company does not guarantee to
provide work for any employee.
7.06	An employee must be notified of any change
in his regular work schedule at least 40
27
hours prior to the commencement of the work week, which commences at 8:00 a.m. Sundays. If he is not so notified he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of one and one-half times his applicable pro-rated hourly rate for the time worked by him during the first day or shift of such changed schedule.
The provisions of the above may be waived by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
7.07	When an employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive 4 hours pay at his applicable hourly rate without being required to work the said 4 hours but such 4 hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of his intention to return.
28
ARTICLE 8 - OVERTIME, SUNDAY AND STANDBY PAY AND CALL-IN PAY
8.01	An employee who is required by the Company to work overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times his applicable pro-rated hourly rate for time worked by him:
(a)	in excess of 8 hours in a work day provided that such excess time is not 15 minutes or less;
(b)	in excess of 40 hours in a work week, less time worked under (a) above;
provided that the Company shall deduct from such excess time the amount of time off- on casual leave without loss of pay (other than for serious illness or death in immediate family or personal emergency, all as provided in section 11.01, or for leave under section 11.07, or for reasons of the employee's sickness) which such employee may have received during the work week in which such excess time was worked.
Such excess time shall be paid in units of one-quarter hour applied as follows:
29
Minutes Worked
Time Paid For
Nil
1/2 hour 3/4 hour etc.
Employees may bank the premium part of overtime hours worked to a total of 48 hours in a year. Banked time not taken by year end will be paid out.
8.02	The Company will endeavour to give reasonable notice to an employee required to work overtime. Overtime work will be distributed as equally as practicable amongst those employees at the same geographic location and second line supervisor's work group as that in which the overtime is required with the exception of the Smelter, where overtime will be distributed as equally as practicable amongst those employees in the first line supervisor's work group and the Metallurgical Technology Group, where overtime will be distributed as equally as practicable amongst those employees in each individual project group, and who are in the same job classification in which the overtime occurs and who would normally perform such work. Should all of the above work group of employees decline or be excused from working overtime, then
30
the junior employee in that group will be required to perform the overtime work. Those employees so declining or who are excused from working overtime shall be regarded as having been given an opportunity to work overtime. Records of such amounts of overtime worked and of declined opportunities shall be posted monthly at the various department locations.
8.03	Effective March 1, 1995 employees who work between 8:00 a.m. Saturday and 8:00 a.m. on the immediately following Monday shall be paid a Weekend premium of one dollar and seventy-five ($1.75) cents per hour for work performed during such hours. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay, such premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
8.04	Effective March 1, 1995, employees shall be paid an off shift premium of 60 cents per hour for work performed by them during afternoon shift hours and not within their scheduled day, or night shift hours, and an off shift premium of 80 cents per hour for work performed by them during night shift hours and not within their scheduled day or afternoon shift hours. Employees regularly working on shift whose hours of work are changed either temporarily or permanently to the day shift shall be paid only their applicable rate. For the purpose of
31
calculating overtime pay such off shift premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable rate.
8.05	An employee required to stand-by for a possible call in to work shall be paid an amount equal to 15% of his pro-rated regular wage rate for each hour he has stood by provided
(a)	failure to respond to a call in to work shall absolve the Company from any obligation to pay stand-by pay to an employee for .the period he was required to stand-by, and
(b)	stand-by pay is not payable for time actually worked when called in.
8.06	An employee who has already left the premises of the Company after completion of his work and who is recalled for emergency work shall be paid at a rate of one and one-halftimes the applicable prorated hourly rate with a minimum of 4 hours at his applicable pro-rated hourly rate unless such work immediately preceded his scheduled shift. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay such 4 hours or time worked shall not be included. If such work immediately preceding his scheduled shift exceeds one hour he shall be allowed one-half hour without loss in pay for a hot meal which the Company will provide. If it
32
is not practicable to provide a hot meal the Company will provide a cold meal.
8.07	An employee who has already left the premises of the Company after completion of his work and who is called at home to provide know-how and assist in the resolution of a problem will be paid a minimum of one and one-half hours of pay at his regular wage rate.
This payment is based on the amount of time required to resolve the problem, not on the number of phone calls required.
Should the employee, after attempting to resolve the problem over the phone, be required to return to the workplace, he shall be paid a minimum of one and one-half hours of pay at his regular wage rate for the time he spent attempting to resolve the problem from home and callout pay as per 8.06 for the time worked on site.
An employee who is on stand-by and is being paid as per 8.05, will not be entitled to pay for the time he spent resolving problems over the phone.
33
ARTICLE 9 - HOLIDAYS
9.01	In this Article "holiday" means New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or such day as may be established as a holiday in lieu of any said days by statute, proclamation or otherwise as may be agreed upon by the Local Union and the Company. If the Employment Standards Act of Ontario or other statute requires that where a holiday falls on a Sunday the next day following shall be a holiday in lieu thereof, then for the purpose of this Agreement such substituted day shall be regarded as the holiday notwithstanding the foregoing definition.
9.02	(a) An employee shall be entitled to each of
the holidays without any loss in pay if:
he was not on a strike or a leave of absence without pay for a period of time that encompasses the holiday in question; or
he was not absent without leave on his last scheduled work day or shift before or his first scheduled work day or shift after such holiday. It is understood that the Company may request a
(i)
('■)
34
physician's certificate to support a casual sick leave; or
(iii) he is a probationary employee, except if such probationary employee is a student employee.
To resolve any lack of clarity in this clause (a) it is understood that a former employee while on lay-off is not entitled to any paid holiday.
(b)	If a holiday falls
(i)	within an employee's scheduled vacation, or
(ii)	on his day off
he shall be given an extra day's pay at his applicable pro-rated daily rate or, if mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee, an extra day off in lieu thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of two months from the date of such holiday, he shall receive a day's pay at his applicable pro-rated daily rate in lieu thereof.
(c)	the foregoing (a) and (b) shall not apply to any employee in receipt of benefits under the Wage Continuance Program.
35
9.03	For authorized work performed on any holiday an employee shall be paid holiday pay at two and one-half times his regular rate.
9.04	Forthe purposes of computing overtime pay in accordance with section 8.01, time for which an employee
(a)	receives holiday pay, or
(b)	has taken an extra day off pursuant to section 9.02(b), or
(c)	has taken a floating day off pursuant to section 9.05
shall be regarded as time worked
9.05	An employee (other than a student) who has completed his probationary period shall be entitled to an annual day off with pay (to be called a "floating day"). Such floating day shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. The floating day is considered essential to the well being of each employee and pay in lieu thereof will be considered only in exceptional circumstances. However, if the floating day is not taken by an employee by the end of
36
the calendar year he shall receive an additional day's pay at his regular wage rate. Notwithstanding the above, no employee nor individual under any circumstances shall be entitled to more than one floating holiday with pay during each calendar year.
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS
10.01	Annual vacations with pay shall be in accordance with length of service on the following basis:
(a)	2 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 12 months but less than 5 years of continuous service, one of which weeks may be taken on completion of 6 months' continuous service;
(b)	effective March 1, 1998, 3 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 5 years of service;
(c)	4 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 16 years f service;
(d)	5 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 24 years of service;
37
(e)	6 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 30 years of service.
(f)	7 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 35 years of service.
The pay for each such week of vacation shall be equal to the current rate of pay to which the employee is entitled at the time he takes his vacation but if the employee has been demoted to a lower rate of pay prior to taking his vacation he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of pay which he received immediately prior to his demotion if his vacation had been scheduled at the time of such demotion.
An employee who has been temporarily promoted for at least 3 consecutive months and takes his vacation while so temporarily promoted shall be entitled to receive vacation pay equal to the rate of pay he is then receiving.
An employee who had been temporarily promoted for less than 3 consecutive months will not normally be allowed to take either his regular or special vacation while so promoted. If, however, with the consent of his immediate supervisor, an employee so promoted is permitted to take a vacation
38
he shall be paid the rate of pay he is then receiving.
Vacations shall be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime pay under Article 8.01.
The pay for each week f vacation for an employee returning to or entering the bargaining unit shall	be equal to the
employee's current O.C.T. rate of pay at the time he takes his vacation.
10.02	For the purpose of improving the scheduling of his annual vacation, each employee, after completing 12 months of continuous service, shall be deemed to have commenced his employment on the January 1st immediately preceding the actual date of his employment.
10.03	Vacations shall be commenced in the calendar year for which such vacations are due or shall be forfeited, provided that each employee so forfeiting his vacation period shall, nevertheless, be paid the vacation pay to which he is entitled. Vacations are considered essential to the well-being of each and every employee and pay in lieu thereof will be considered only in exceptional circumstances.
39
10.04	An employee who has been on a leave of absence pursuantto section 11.05 in excess of 6 months in any calendar year shall have the length of his vacation with the pay therefor to which he is otherwise entitled pro-rated but he may elect to take his regular length of vacation and receive such pro-rated pay.
An employee who has been absent from work by reason of illness or accident and in receipt of Long Term Disability payments therefor shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the following basis:
(a)	to his regular annual vacation with pay during the first calendar year in which he is so absent but during such vacation he shall not be entitled to any payment undertheLTD Plan;
(b)	to his regular annual vacation with pay if he returns to work as an employee in the second calendar year before the first 6 months thereof; and
(c)	if he returns to work as an employee after 6 months in such second calendar year to his regular annual vacation with pay pro-rated.
10.05	An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated for any reason will receive in lieu of vacation an amount equal
40
to the pro-rata portion of his wages for the unused period of the vacation to which he is entitled.
10.06	In determining the length of a vacation, a week shall mean 7 consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period. Where an employee is entitled to 2 or 3 weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive, except when Company and employee shall otherwise agree. Where an employee is entitled to 4 or more weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations.
10.07	Vacations will be granted at such times as
the Company finds	most	suitable
considering seniority, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the Plants and Offices. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary	for	efficient
operations.
10.08	(a) Upon the completion of two years of
service an employee shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any vacation pay to which he is entitled under section 10.01, the sum oftwo hundred and seventy-five dollars for each week
41
	of Annual Vacation thereafter granted and taken under section 10.01.
(b)	An employee who was rehired by the Company as a result of being recalled following his lay-off pursuant to section 12.18 and
	(i) had at least two years' service at the time of such lay off; or
	(ii) subsequently attains two years' service including any service with the Company prior to such lay off;
	shall be entitled to receive the additional vacation pay referred to herein but only with respect to any such annual vacation taken by him after he has completed such two years.
(c)	An employee who forfeits his vacation by reason of a request from the Company shall be paid the sum referred to in (a) to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such vacation.
Special Vacation	
10.09 The Company will provide 5 weeks of special vacation with pay for employees who have completed five or more years of	
	42
continuous service on January 1, 1967 and an additional 5 weeks of special vacation with pay upon completing each additional five year period of continuous service after January 1, 1967 on the basis of the following provisions which shall apply during the life of this Agreement:
(a)	Each employee who on January 1, 1967 has completed 5 or more years of continuous service shall become entitled to 5 weeks of special vacation with pay in addition to all weeks of vacation with pay to which he is entitled under the other provisions of this Article.
(b)	All other employees upon completing their first 5 years of continuous service during the currency of this Agreement shall thereupon similarly become entitled to 5 weeks of special vacation with pay.
(c)	The pay for each week a£ special vacation which is taken shall be equal to the current wage rate of the employee at the time when such week of special vacation is taken.
(d)	Should an employee who is entitled to any special vacation with pay fail for any reason, including retirement, discharge, quitting or death, to
43
commence such vacation within 5 years after becoming entitled thereto, the Company shall, in lieu of granting such special vacation, pay to such employee, or to his estate should he have died, the special vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such special vacation immediately prior to the fifth anniversary of his becoming entitled thereto or immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death, as the case may be.
(e)	If an employee terminates his employment with the Company or is terminated by the Company for any reason, including retirement, or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to any payment in accordance with clause (d) of this section, to an amount equal to one week's wages for each full year of continuous service, and a pro-rata portion thereof for each whole month comprising a broken year, from the date of his last entitlement to a special vacation to the date of termination or death.
(f)	In determining the length of a special vacation a week shall mean 7 consecutive days including Saturdays,
44
Sundays and holidays falling within the period.
(g)	The allocation of vacations with pay under section 10.01 shall have priority over the allocation of special vacations hereunder.
(h)	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, special vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its sole discretion may determine but, subject thereto, due consideration will be given to the wishes of the employee concerned. It is anticipated that in most cases an employee will take his special vacation within the 5 year period following the date on which he becomes entitled.
The Company can require that at least 20% of those entitled take such vacation in each year and that not more than 25% may take such vacation.
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE
11.01	The Company Mill grant to an employee reasonable
time off without loss in pay in theevent of
(a)	a serious illness of a member of his immediate family (i.e. spouse <r children) and
45
(b)	the death of any member of his immediate family or of any of his parents, sisters, brothers or parents-in-law, sister-in-law,	brother-in-law,
grandparents and grandchildren, son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
Apart from the foregoing, the Company will grant an employee reasonable time off without loss in pay for other personal emergencies where the Company is satisfied that the circumstances of the personal emergency justify such leave being given. A personal emergency is a sudden, unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding the employee's immediate attention.
11.02	(a) The Company shall grant an employee
a leave of absence without pay up to 30 calendar days for personal reasons if
(j) he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 10 working days, if possible, in advance and
(ii) the Company is satisfied the leave is for good reason and will not unduly interfere with operations.
(b)	Such leave may be granted for a longer period or may be extended if
46
11.03
11.04
|(i)	the Company is satisfied there is
good reason for such longer period or extension and it will not unduly interfere with operations and
(ii) the request for any extension of leave is made by the employee in writing before he has completed his current leave.
The Company may in its discretion grant an employee a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed one year in order to attend a recognized university, or trade or technical school full time if
(a) the course of instruction is related to the employee's employment opportunities with the Company and
(b) such leave does not unduly interfere with operations.
(a) The Company shall grant a total of 44 weeks of leave of absence consisting of not more than 26 weeks maternity leave and 18 weeks parental leave without pay to a pregnant employee who has completed her probationary period, If at the conclusion of her leave, the employee presents the Company with the written opinion of a
47
qualified medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her normal duties, she shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to her former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with similar work in the same job class and area. In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of the above period of leave because of complications arising out of her pregnancy and delivery, she may be granted an extension of up to 3 months upon request.
(b)	An employee who has completed her probationary period and requests parental leave due to legal adoption shall be granted leave for not more than six months. At the conclusion of her leave the employee shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to her former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with similar work in the same job class and area.
(c)	An employee whose spouse is to give birth or who is adopting a child shall, if he wishes a leave of absence, make
4a
his request to the Company in writing for such leave at least 2 weeks in advance of the expected date the leave will begin and 4 weeks notice if the date leave is to end is either earlier or later than expected.
A leave granted under this section shall be limited to 18 weeks and the employee may commence such leave no more than 35 weeks after the child is born or comes into custody, care and control of the parent for the first time.
Leave granted will be without pay and the Company may request the employee to submit a certificate of birth for the child.
(dj The Company will continue benefits coverage for employees on maternity or parental leave cf absence.
(e)	An employee shall be covered under basic sick leave for up to 6 weeks of sick benefits, upon receipt of medical documentation that she was unable to work immediately following the birth.
11.05	Upon written request by the Local Union, the
Company will grant leaves of absence
49
without pay to employees if such leaves do not unduly interfere with operations,
(a)	to attend Union conferences, or Union conventions provided such leaves (i) do not exceed an aggregate of 12 man-weeks in any one year hereunder and (ii) such notice is given not less than 10 working days in advance;
(b)	to attend Union schools provided such leaves (i) do not exceed an aggregate of 12 man-weeks in any one year hereunder and (ii) such notice is given not less than 20 working days in advance: and
(c)	to attend labour college provided (i) such leaves do not exceed an aggregate of 8 man-weeks in any one year hereunder and (ii) such notice is given not less than 20 working days in advance;
Upon written request by the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to employees if such leaves do not unduly interfere with operations,
(d)	to attend to work of an official nature for the Union and notice is given not less than 20 working days in advance, if possible.
50
If the Company believes that any such requested leave of absence, if granted, will unduly interfere with operations it will notify the Local Union thereof as soon as possible and, upon request, discuss the matter with representatives of the Local Union.
11.06	The Company shall grant leaves of absence without pay of not less than one month and not more than 2 years, on written request by the Local Union not less than 10 working days in advance to the Company, aggregating not more than 2 man-years in any one year hereunder to an employee to work in an official capacity for the Local Union or the Union.
The Company shall also grant leaves of absence without pay to Local Union Officers or their designated representatives, if such leaves do not unduly interfere with operations, for the normal administrative functions of the Local Union. Requests for such leaves shall be submitted in writing or orally to the Labour Relations Supervisor -O.C.T.. at least 24 hours in advance.
11.07	An employee who is called for jury duty or is
subpoenaed as a witness and who as a result thereof loses time from work shall receive for each day so lost the difference between his applicable pro-rated daily or hourly rate including	cost-of-living
51
allowance, any shift or Sunday premiums and any Nickel Bonus in effect, and the jury or witness fee to which he is entitled for such day. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court before making any such payment.
11.08	An employee on a leave of absence without pay, other than under the Wage Continuance Program, for at least 30 calendar days duration may continue to be covered by the Company's health insurance, dental and drug plans, and group life insurance, to the extent permitted under the respective contracts or legislation governing same, if he pays the total cost of the premiums therefor. If the leave of absence without pay is for less than 30 calendar days, the Company and the employee shall continue paying their respective portions (if any) of such premiums.
11.09	The Company will grant to an employee who is required to take an X-ray under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1978 sufficient leave without loss in pay to enable him to take such X-ray.
The Company will grant to an employee who requires vision testing by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist sufficient leave without loss in pay to enable him to take such test.
52
11.10	The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absence without pay for up to two months to campaign for his election to any municipal, provincial or federal government office, or International Union office if he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 10 working days, if possible, in advance.
11.11	The Company will grant full time leave of absence to the Local Union President to serve Local Union purposes for the direct interest of the Company's employees in the Nickel Division - Sudbury Operations. While on leave of absence the President will be paid at Job Class 14 plus any applicable Cost of Living Allowance or Nickel Bonus for hours worked. Credited service and seniority shall be maintained and accumulated for vacation and pension purposes.
The Company also agrees to grant one day's leave with pay per month to a Local Union Officer to be designated monthly by the Local Union President.
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY
12.01	"Seniority" is the principle of granting
preference to employees in promotions, demotions, transfers, resulting from change or manpower reduction, lay-offs, and
53
rehiring after lay-offs in accordance with length of continuous service.
12.02	(A) For the purposes of this Agreement an
employee’s “Seniority” shall mean the length of time from his most recent hiring date (other than as a result of a recall after a lay-off) with the Company and shall be maintained and accumulated during:
(i)	a lay-off within any period during which he was entitled to be recalled,
(ii)	any sickness or accident, and
(iii)	any leave of absence granted under Article 11
(iv)	any temporary assignment for the Company outside Sudbury Operations for up to one year.
(B)	Notwithstanding the definition of ‘seniority’ in sub-section 12.02 (A):
(i)	The seniority date of an individual who has never been in the bargaining unit shall be the date on which he first entered the bargaining unit.
54
(ii)	The seniority of an individual re-entering the bargaining unit from a job excluded therefrom by Schedule 'A' to this Agreement, or by the Ontario Labour Relations Act, or from a job in the production and maintenance bargaining unit, shall for the purposes of section 12.10 and 12.18 only. for a period of 48 months from the date of such re-entry, be the total length of time he has been an employee in such bargaining unit. Upon the completion of such period, his seniority shall then, for all purposes, be computed in accordance with the definition in sub-section 12.02 (A).
(C)	For the purposes of this Agreement, the Wage Continuance Program, and other such plans, "continuous service", "service", or "the 6 months" periods of incremental increases shall be determined by the length of his actual service with the Company and shall not include any period of time while he was absent from work because he was on:
55
(i)	leave of absence in excess of 30 calendar days, except for reasons of maternity or parental leave,
(ii)	lay-off,
(iii)	strike or lock-out, or
(iv)	long term disability or Workers' Compensation
Notwithstanding the foregoing,
(a)	a leave granted to a Local Union Officer or designated representative to serve Local Union purposes for the direct interest of the Company's employees in the Nickel Division -Sudbury Operations under section 11.06 or to attend labour college under section 11.05 or
(b)	any period of up to 104 weeks while off under the Wage Continuance Program or off on Workers' Compensation.
(c)	any period for a vacation shutdown
56
(d)	any temporary assignment for the Company outside Sudbury Operations for up to one year.
shall be included in the computation of "continuous service", or "service" for the purpose of determining the length of vacation to which an employee is entitled under sections 10.01 or 10.09.
(D)	An individual who is employed as a casual employee shall, for the purpose of this agreement, not accumulate seniority while so employed.
12.03	Seniority shall cease if an employee:
(a)	quits, or
(b)	is discharged, or
(c)	is laid off for lack of work for a period which exceeds the duration of his recall rights as set out in section 12.21, or
(d)	fails without reasonable cause to return to work immediately upon the completion of any leave of absence which may have been granted, or
57
(e)	if his employment is terminated for justifiable reasons of innocent absenteeism.
12.04	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for the first 55 working days of his employment. When such employee finishes the probationary period he shall be entered on the seniority record and shall rank for seniority from the date he was last hired. There shall be no seniority among probationary employees. Notwithstanding section 3.01, the Company may discharge or otherwise discipline a probationary employee if the Company believes that he is not suitable for or able to perform adequately the job for which he was hired or is required to do.
12.05	The seniority unit shall be as set forth in section 1.02 above as amended by Schedule 'A'.
12.06	(a) The Company will keep an up-to-date
seniority record and a copy of such record shall be reasonably available for inspection in the departmental office to the extent reasonably necessary for any Steward to ascertain the seniority status of any employee within his jurisdiction.
The Company shall provide the Local Union with up-to-date seniority lists and
58
lists of casual individuals every month, and at the same time will furnish the Local Union President with a seniority list showing the current salary of each employee and a list of overtime worked and declined opportunities.
(b)	Upon request by the Local Union President, the Company shall provide the union, by Canada Post, with the following as it relates to employees:
(1)	list of employees showing their names and classifications, ranked according to seniority;
(2)	copies of job postings, job awards, promotions, demotions and transfers;
(3)	list of employees hired or discharged;
(4)	list of retirements and deceased employees;
(5)	copies of job classifications, job descriptions and job evaluation data;
(6)	copies of health and insurance plans including the O.C.T. pension plan.
59
(7)	list of employees and the number of overtime hours worked on a monthly basis.
12.07	The Company may hire individuals for temporary work provided that the Company shall give prior consideration and due preference to hiring for such work any laid off former employees having recall rights who are willing and qualified to do the work.
The Local Union will be informed of the expected duration of such work, which will not exceed 23 days except by mutual agreement.
Transfers, Promotions & Training
12.08	(a) All permanent vacancies and
temporary vacancies in excess of 23 calendar days, whether for an existing job or for a newly created job within the bargaining unit shall be posted within 5 working days of the Occurrence of the vacancy.
The notice for the initial vacancy in a job shall be posted for a period of S working days on the bulletin boards. The notice shall state the job, its class, title, location, the name of the immediate supervisor, its wage in the case of a vacancy in
60
an existing job and its proposed wage in the case of a newly created job.
An employee, except a newly hired employee, who wishes to transfer to this vacancy or to any subsequent vacancies in the same job which result from the filling of the initial vacancy, must submit an application form, indicating up to 5 site preferences, in priority order, to the department or person designated by the Company on the notice.
An employee in a different job than that of the posted vacancy, except a newly hired employee, who wishes to apply to this vacancy or to any subsequent vacancies in the same job which result from the filling of the initial vacancy, must submit an application form, indicating his preferences, in priority order, to the department or person designated by the Company on the notice.
The employee so selected to fill the initial or subsequent vacancies shall have until 10:00 a.m. on the day following the day that he was
61
notified that he was successful to inform the Company of his intention to accept or decline the transfer or posting. Failure to notify the Company will be deemed a refusal.
An employee will be ineligible to apply for a transfer or posting, if he has already been accepted for a transfer or posting twice in the calendar year (January 1st to December 31st).
A newly hired employee must attain one years' seniority before being eligible to apply for a transfer or job posting.
Transfer and job applications become null and void when the posted vacancy and each subsequent vacancy that resulted from the first posting is filled.
(b) Transfers
In cases of permanent vacancies or temporary vacancies in excess of 23 days, the Company shall transfer the senior employee who submits an application to transfer to the same job at a different location and
62
who can fill the normal requirements of the job before promoting an employee to fill the initial vacancy that was posted. For each subsequent vacancy that results from the initial posting, the Company shall transfer the senior employee who submits an application to transfer to the same job at a different location before promoting an employee to fill a vacancy.
(c)	Promotions
Should a vacancy remain unfilled after the transfer process has been exhausted, the Company, in filling the vacancy will then consider applications from employees who had submitted them during the posting period and shall then apply the provision of sections 12.10 and 12.11.
(d)	Training
Should a vacancy remain unfilled after the transfer and promotion processes have been exhausted, the Company shall fill the position if it still exists and provided it does
63
not adversely effect efficiency of operations, with a candidate who submitted a job application, did not meet the normal requirements of the job, but could be trained in a reasonable period of time.
(i)	If the job applicants are in the same line of progression as that of the posted vacancy, are at the standard rate of their job class and the training would involve a promotion to the next job in the progression, the Company will train the senior of those employees who applied for the posting
(ii)	If the job applicants do not fall under the criteria specified in
12.08	(d) (i), the Company shall select the senior applicant whose qualifications best meet the normal requirements of the job as stated in the primary function of the job description.
If during any calendar year, there are less than 2 employees trained under (d) (i) or (ii) above, the Company shall post sufficient
64
training vacancies to bring the number to 2 for the calendar year.
If an employee accepts a training position in a lower job class, he shall be paid at the starting rate of the job class into which he is being trained.
If an employee accepts a training position in a higher job class, he shall be paid at the starting rate of the new job class or at his old rate, whichever is greater.
The Company will establish performance Standards for training which it will review with employees and the Union. Employees selected for training will be expected to meet the performance standards established.
If an employee is unable to meet such standards he will be returned to the job he held immediately prior to commencing training, or to a suitable vacancy if one exists, in the same job class and at the same increment rate that he held prior to training. Any employee who may have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies
65
created by such transfer, permanent promotion or training shall, if no suitable vacancy exists, thereupon revert to his former job and shall be paid the rate which such employee would have been entitled to had such employee not vacated such former job.
An employee selected to be trained to fill a vacancy will be classified as “in training” and will be ineligible to apply for a transfer or job posting until the training period has been completed. Once the employee has successfully completed the training, he will be deemed to be the successful applicant on the posting
(e)	An employee who is absent from work due to illness, vacation or leave of absence during the time the job is posted shall have the right to apply for a transfer or posting during the period of the 5 days from the day the notice of vacancy was first posted or, prior to or during his absence indicate his desire to be considered for any job that may become vacant.
66
(f)	Within 30 calendar days from the expiration of the posting period required by clause (a), the Company shall choose the successful transferee, applicant, or trainee, if any, and place him in the vacancy, if it then exists, If the Company does not place the successful transferee, applicant or trainee in the vacancy by the end of the 30th day, it shall, commencing on the 31st day, pay him the rate applicable to that job.
The Company will endeavour to move all successful transferees, applicants, and trainees to the vacancy no later than 30 days from the expiration of the posting period.
The Company will, on the 31st day, if the successful transferees, applicants or trainees have not been placed in the vacancy, pay them travel allowance based on the allowance currently in effect.
The travel allowance paid will be the difference in distance the employee is required to travel between his home and the location of his former job and his home and the location of his new assignment.
67
(g)	Temporary Vacancies Up To 23 Days
For temporary vacancies of between 3 work days and 23 calendar days, the Company shall promote the senior employee in the next lower job class who is able to perform the normal requirements of the job, from the line of progression within the managers group at the location where the vacancy occurs.
(h)	Recall
Should a vacancy still remain unfilled, the Company shall then recall a former employee who is laid off and is able to perform the normal requirements of the job providing they have notified the Company they are readily available to perform such work.
(i)	Temporary Employees
Should the vacancy still remain unfilled the Company will utilize a temporary employee capable of performing the work.
Upon completion of the temporary vacancy the individual hired
68
temporarily as an employee will have his employment terminated or shall be returned to his former position and shall have no right of recall.
The Company shall inform the Union of the individual hired temporarily, the vacancy for which hired and its anticipated duration.
Individuals hired temporarily hereunder will receive the applicable OCT rate of pay for the job and will pay union dues but will acquire no job posting rights.
Individuals hired from outside the Company shall receive no benefits coverage while individuals from within the Company shall continue to receive the benefits applicable to their former position.
The Union will be supplied with copies of posted job vacancies, and within 2 working days of the filling of the vacancy, the names of successful transferees, applicants, trainees, and newly hired employees.
(k) An employee accepting a permanent vacancy or transfer, or a temporary job that exceeds six
69
months duration under section
12.08	may return or be returned to his former job within 30 days of starting the job. Notwithstanding the immediately foregoing sentence the Company and Union may agree to extend the 30 calendar days by an additional 30 calendar days where there are performance concerns raised by either the employee or the Company. Any employee who may otherwise have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer or permanent promotion shall thereupon revert to his former job and shall be paid the rate which such employee would have been entitled to had such employee not vacated such former job. An employee may elect to return to his former job, after having accepted a permanent promotion, no more than once a year; should an employee elect to return to his former job, the Company shall, without having to repost the resultant vacancy, attempt to fill such new vacancy from amongst those applicants who applied for the vacancy when it was first posted in accordance with sections 12.10 and 12.11 of this Agreement.
70
12.09	In filling any vacancy including temporary vacancies of an expected duration in excess of 3 months, in any of the following jobs: first aid man, safety advisor, industrial engineering department trainee, warehouseman, and maintenance planner, the Company shall first consider applications and transfer requests from employees in the bargaining unit. If there is no successful applicant, the Company shall then consider laid off former employees whose recall rights have not expired. If the vacancy still remains unfilled, the Company may then consider individuals outside the bargaining unit, including any individual who is excluded from the bargaining unit by reason of being employed by the Company in a confidential capacity with respect to labour relations.
12.10	In all cases of promotions to fill vacancies (other than promotions outside the bargaining unit or promotions considered by the Company to be temporary only; that is, of between 3 work days and 23 calendar days) the Company shall consider the following two factors in determining which applicants are to be promoted:
(a)	seniority, and
(b)	the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge,
71
training and skill of the applicant to do the normal requirements of the job.
12.11	If factor (b) is to all intents and purposes relatively equal as between two or more applicants, their relative seniority shall govern. When considering the application of factor (b) to any applicant the Company shall not act unfairly or unreasonably.
In filling vacancies the Company shall give due preference to Article 12.08 (b), (c), and (d), however the Company shall not be confined to promoting or training any applicant if in the Company's view none of the applicants are qualified to perform the normal requirements of the job.
The Company shall inform, in writing, any unsuccessful candidate for a posted vacancy, who is senior to the candidate selected, the reasons why he was not selected to fill the vacancy.
12.12	If an arbitration board or the Grievance Commissioner decides that the Company acted unfairly or unreasonably in considering the application of factor (b) pursuant to section 12.11, the Arbitrator shall fill the vacancy with the applicant having the most seniority if he has the
72
ability, knowledge, training and skill to do the job.
12.13	In considering promotions or transfers to fill vacancies of J.C. 3 or less, the Company shall disregard the experience gained by an employee on temporary promotions or transfers of 23 days or less.
12.14	Any employee who fills a temporary vacancy shall, on its termination, revert to the job (if such job is still in existence) in which he last worked other than on a temporary basis.
12.15	(a)	The Company may, notwithstanding
section 12.08 of this Agreement, return at any time an individual to the bargaining unit as an employee provided he does not displace anyone. For the purposes of this sub-section 12.15	(a), the seniority of such
individual at the time of re-entering the bargaining unit shall be the length of time he has previously been an employee in such bargaining unit. Thereafter, his seniority shall be determined in accordance with sub-section 12.02 (B) (ii) or sub-section 12.02 (B) (iii), as the case may be.
73
(b)	An individual re-entering the bargaining unit shall return to the same job classification and increment rate that he held when he left and then section
12.18	shall apply. If his former job classification no longer exists then the individual shall re-enter the bargaining unit at the same job class and same increment rate as his former job classification and section 12.18 shall apply.
(c)	(i) The	Company may,
notwithstanding section 12.08 of this Agreement, place an individual from the Sudbury District in the bargaining unit as an employee in a Job Class from 1 to 12, as will be determined by the Joint Job Evaluation Committee, provided he does not displace anyone. For the purposes of this section 12.15 (c), the individuals referred to are those who as a result of agreement of the joint Company Union Work Restructure/Pay For Knowledge Planning Committee are placed in the bargaining unit who have not before been in the unit. After being placed in the bargaining unit, seniority shall
74
be determined in accordance with sub-section 12.02 (B) (i).
(ii)	The	Company	niay
notwithstanding 12.08 of this Agreement place a newly hired employee with special skills not otherwise readily available in the bargaining unit provided he does not displace anyone. After being placed in the bargaining unit, seniority shall be determined in accordance with sub-section 12.02 (B) (i). Prior to placing such new hire in the bargaining unit, the Company will meet first with the Union who must agree to such placement.
For the purposes of sections 12.02 and 12.15, the words 'return' and 're-enter' are synonymous and refer to an employee who was in the bargaining unit, left the bargaining unit and subsequently came back to a job in the bargaining unit.
12.16	An employee accepting a transfer or promotion to a job outside the bargaining unit or an individual transferred into the bargaining unit may return or be returned by the Company to his former job during the
75
two months following such transfer or promotion. Such employee and any employee filling any vacancy created by such transfer or promotion shall revert to his former job classification.
12.17 (a)	The Company may from time to time designate to the Union, by notice in writing given prior to the designation, individuals who are to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capability for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company. The number of such designated individuals shall not exceed at any one time 2.5% or 7, whichever is the greater, of the employees in the bargaining unit except in the case of a reduction in the workforce of at least 2.5% of the employees in the bargaining unit at which time designated individuals would be removed from the bargaining unit. The Company may promote and demote such individuals, engage, retain or dispense with the services of any such individual, and direct the efforts of such individuals from time to time free from any limitations set out in this Article. The Company shall not designate an individual for the purpose of enabling him to qualify immediately
	76
for a job which is required to be posted within the bargaining unit.
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(a)	no such designated individual shall be assigned to take over the job occupied at the time by an employee and
(b)	no individual who is so designated shall be employed in any one job for more than one year and may not be employed again in such job while designated during the twenty-four month period following the first period of designation.
Lay-Off and Recall
12.18	In all cases of lay-offs and demotions due to a reduction in work force (otherthan lay-offs and demotions of a temporary nature, i.e. having a duration of 2 weeks or less, or of an emergency nature), employees shall be laid off or demoted in reverse order of their seniority ranking provided
(a) that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each job to meet the requirements of operations, and
77
(b)	an employee shall be considered for the first job he is able and willing to perform within his job class, and
(c)	an employee to be demoted shall be demoted to the first lower job that he is able and willing to perform, where possible in his department in his area, and
(d)	an employee demoted from his job shall, if he has less than 8 years of continuous service, be provided with an opportunity to be trained for a period not to exceed 30 working days on-the-job, in a job reasonably related to the job from which he was demoted or in a job in his line of progression or in an entry level job, to which he is demoted.
(e)	an employee demoted from his job shall, if he has 8 or more years of continuous service, but less than 18 years of continuous service be provided with an opportunity to be trained for a period not to exceed six months, in a job reasonably related to the job from which he was demoted or, to a job in his line of progression or in an entry level job, to which he is demoted.
(f)	an employee demoted from his job shall, if he has 18 or more years of continuous service, be provided with an
78
opportunity to be trained for a period not to exceed 1 year, in a job reasonably related to the job from which he was demoted or, to a job in his line of progression or in an entry level job, to which he is demoted.
(g)	Where there are no technical assistant positions in the mine, instrumentation, geology, or met research lines of progression, the Company shall provide I training opportunity in each of the above lines of progression for employees who are entitled to I year training provided there is an employee junior to them in a technician's position in such line of progression at Job Class 5.
An employee utilizing this provision must continue to participate in and successfully complete the necessary academic and in-house training courses for the Technician I position.
(h)	In the case of layoffs, demotions or workforce reductions, employees temporarily assigned outside Sudbury Operations will, for the purposes of this Article, be considered as being in their permanent occupation.
79
12.19	An employee who is temporarily transferred or demoted to another job due to a reduction in the work force during a vacation or production shutdown shall, on the termination of the temporary transfer or demotion, revert to the job in which he last worked prior to the commencement of the vacation or production shutdown provided it still exists and he does not displace anyone with greater seniority. If such job no longer exists such employee shall be returned to his former permanent job classification for the purpose of applying Article 12.18.
12.20	The Union and those employees concerned shall be given a list of the employees to be laid off 20 working days, wherever possible, prior to the date of such lay-off.
12.21	If an employee is laid off by the Company pursuantto section 12.18 and has the following years of seniority, he shall, duringthe period of time set opposite such years of seniority from the date of lay-off, have preferential rights (hereinaftercalled "recall rights") for re-hiring in the event workers are required for jobs in the bargaining unit other than jobs of a temporary or emergency nature:
Underone year's seniority............18 months
Over one year and up to three
years' seniority.....................36 months
80
Over three years' seniority and up
to four years' seniority...........48 months
Over four years' seniority..........60 months
However, when the Company requires any individuals for work of an emergency or temporary nature, it shall give any laid-off former employee an opportunity to do such work, consistent with the following provisions:
(a)	Laid-off former employees required by the Company for work of an emergency or temporary nature who have informed the Company they are readily available, are readily available and can perform such work will, if the temporary or emergency work is to be for a period of less than 23 calendar days, be offered the work. When allocating such work the Company will give preference to such aforementioned laid-off former employees who have the greatest seniority. Such	laid-off	former
employees will not acquire any rights provided by the Collective Agreement except those rights to permanent rehire as set out in the relevant portions of sections 12.21, 12.22, 12 23, 12.24 and 12.25 and shall be subject to the dues check-off provisions of section 18.02.
81
The Company may attempt to contact laid off former employees by such method as may be reasonably available in the circumstances and shall confirm such contact by registered mail to the last address recorded with the Company to the senior of such laid off former employees who can perform such work.
1.	laid-off former employees who accept such offer of temporary or emergency work cf less than 23 calendar days receive the current O.C.T. rate of pay for such work including COLA and vacation pay on a prorated basis.
(b)	Laid-off former employees required by the Company for work of an emergency or temporary nature who have informed the Company they are readily available, are readily available and can perform such work, and who have the greatest seniority will, if the temporary or emergency work is to be for a period of morethan 23 calendar days:
1. be employed by the Company for a duration of such temporary or emergency work only; on the expiry of the temporary or emergency work for which the laid-off former employee was required, he will
82
revert to the status of a laid off former employee;
2.	receive the current O.C.T. rate of pay for such work including COLA, Holiday Pay, provided he meets the criteria established by section 9.02 of the Collective Agreement, and Vacation Pay on a prorated basis;
3.	receive O.C.T. benefits, including Casual Leave benefits;
4.	acquire no job posting rights nor transfer rights nor any rights as per section 12.18, but shall be subject to the dues check-off provisions of section 18.02;
5.	accumulate seniority and service while continuously performing the temporary or emergency work which exceeds 23 calendar days.
(c)	Should a laid-off former employee be required by the Company to perform temporary or emergency work which is to be for a period of 23 calendar days or less and subsequently the temporary or emergency work which he is continuously performing exceeds 23
83
calendar days, the five conditions above would retroactively apply.
Should the period of emergency or temporary work become a permanent employment opportunity, any laid-off former employee who has worked in an emergency or temporary capacity and who would be the employee recalled to such permanent employment according to section 12.22, will receive full credit for seniority and service from the date he was initially employed in the temporary or emergency work provided there has been no break in employment of three working days or more between the temporary and permanent employment.
Prior to being laid off, the Company will provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availability for such emergency or temporary work.
12.22	Those former employees laid-off whose recall rights have not expired, who have the greatest seniority and who are able to perform the jobs available shall, as required by the Company, be sent a notice stating the nature of the job, the proposed time and place of hiring. Such notice shall be mailed by registered mail to each person addressed to the last address which he shall have
a4
recorded with the Company or by such other method as may be mutually agreed to between the Local Union and the Company.
The recalled employee must notify the Company of his intention to return to work within 10 calendar days of the date of the recall notice and must return to work within 30 calendar days of such date or make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Company. No such recalled former employee shall be refused re-employment solely because of a medical, mental or physical condition which existed at the time he was laid off.
A former employee who refuses recall to a lower rate job will not, by reason thereof, lose his right to recall but will lose future claim in the current lay-off to the job which he has refused to accept.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of former employees who have refused permanent recall.
12.23	The former employees to whom such notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and place stated in the notice, shall be rehired in accordance with their respective seniority. The Company may fill any available jobs on a temporary basis pending the rehiring of those having recall rights. The Company shall not be
85
required, however, to rehire at any time any former employee who shall have failed to report for rehiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any such notice so sent to him.
12.24	If a recalled former employee prevented by sickness from reporting to work on the day specified in his notice notifies the Company in writing on or before such day he shall not, by reason of such inability to report to work, lose his recall rights.
12.25	Where a former employee, who has been laid off by the Company and still retains recall rights under the provisions of this Article, contends that his lay-off was in contravention of the provisions of this Agreement or that the Company's failure to recall or rehire him constitutes a contravention of this Agreement he shall be considered an aggrieved employee for the purpose of presenting and processing such contention under the provisions of Article 5 above.
In the event that it should be decided that a former employee's lay-off or the Company's failure to recall or rehire him was in contravention of the provisions of this Agreement and such former employee is not otherwise disqualified, the Company shall reinstate such former employee and pay full
66
compensation at his regular salary for the time lost. Upon such reinstatement there shall be deemed to have been no break in the employee's continuous service.
ARTICLE 13 -WAGES
13.01	Effective 8 a m., February 28, 1998, the
Cost-of-Living Allowance of $0.11 per hour worked being paid on February 27, 1998, as an Allowance shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and effective February 28, 1998, the Company will apply an increase of two percent to such rates. Such Allowance and increase is included in the wage rates effective February 28, 1998, set out in Schedule "D" attached.
On February 28, 1999, the Company will apply an increase of two percent to the wage rates in effect on February27, 1998.
13.02	The wage rate scales shall be applied in accordance with the following:
(a)	Newly hired persons do not have to start with the starting rate.
(b)	All employees in Job Class 2 or less shall receive the next incremental increase in the applicable scale automatically every 6 months. The Company may in its discretion withhold
87
one of the first two incremental increases for at least 6 months of employees in Job Class 3 or higher provided the Company gives any employee whose increase is so withheld written reason for such withholding and such employee may grieve with respect: thereto.
(c)	An employee promoted into a vacancy in a job in a higher Job Class shall be paid at least the same wage rate that he was receiving prior to his promotion. If such promotion is to a job in the same occupational stream he shall be paid the next progressive or standard rate whichever is higher.
(d)	If the Company demotes an employee into a lower Job Class or transfers an employee to the same Job Class he shall continue to be paid at the same rate he was receiving prior to such demotion or transfer or the standard rate of the class into which he was demoted or transferred, whichever is the lower.
(e)	If the employee, at his own request, is demoted into a lower or transferred within the same Job Class, he shall be paid at the starting rate of the Job Class into which he is demoted or transferred unless the Company determines that
88
his qualifications are such that he should be paid a higher rate within such Job Class.
(f)	In the event that the Company determines to hire or pay any employee at a wage rate in excess of the standard rate for his job for reasons other than training, or due to technological change, or after March 1, 1997, due to incremental increases attained under Pay For Knowledge or for reasons of accommodation due to Human Rights legislation or because their rate was red-circled through Joint Job Evaluation, then the Company shall increase the wage rate paid to every other employee then employed in such job by the amount of such excess over standard.
13.03	(a)	An employee who is temporarily
assigned to do the work of another employee in a higher Job Class shall receive an increase equal to one increment above the rate he is presently receiving or the starting rate of such higher Job Class, whichever is greater, for work performed.
(b)	Time paid for under this provision shall be credited to the employee for the purpose of determining the applicable
89
increment in the event the employee receives a future promotion or temporary promotion to such higher job.
13.04	(a) Cost of Living Allowance-S'11 Year Only
A Cost-of-Living Allowance (the "Allowance") based on the Consumer Price Index (1986 = 100) (the "Index") issued by Statistics Canada will, if applicable, be paid to each employee as hereinafter set out.
(b)	The First Index shall be the Index issued for the month of December, 1999.
The Second Index shall be that issued for the month of March, 2000.
The Third Index shall be that issued for June, 2000.
The Fourth Index shall be that issued for September, 2000.
The Fifth Index shall be that issued for December, 2000.
(c)	Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Second Index, the Allowance shall be one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point zero eight four (0.084) increase by
90
which the Second Index exceeds the First Index.
(d)	The Allowance referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, if any, shall continue until the issuance of the Index for the month of June 2000 (the "Third Index") at which time the Third Index shall be compared with the Second Index. Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Third Index the Allowance shall be adjusted by one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point zero eight four (0.084) increase by which the Third Index exceeds the Second Index.
(e)	A similar comparison and adjustment shall be made on the basis of the Index issued every three months thereafter until the issuance of the Fifth Index. No further comparisons and adjustments, and consequently no further Allowances shall be paid on the basis of any Index issued after the Fifth Index.
(f)	Effective the later of February 28, 2001, or the start of the pay period immediately preceding February 28, 2001, the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the Fifth Index and being paid on February 27, 2001,
91
shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
(g)	If there is a decrease in the Index on the basis of the quarterly comparisons, the Allowance shall be adjusted downwards by using the above mentioned formula, but an employee's applicable wage rate shall not be affected by any downward adjustment.
(h)	The amount of the Allowance in effect at any time shall not form part of an employee's applicable wage rate, and shall not be included for the calculation of vacation pay in excess of the requirements of The Employment Standards Act, 1980 or any amendment thereof.
(i)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made as a result of any revision which subsequently may be made in any Index.
(j)	The continuance of the Allowance shall depend upon the availability of the Index calculated on its present basis and in its present form.
92
In the event the Index is not so available the parties shall mutually agree to an alternative equitable arrangement.
ARTICLE 14 - JOB EVALUATION
14.01	The Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program for Office, Clerical and Technical jobs dated March 1, 1995 (hereafter referred to as 'The Program') is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix A and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein.
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this Agreement with respect to administration of the Program, the provisions of the Program shall prevail.
Each employee's job shall be described and classified and a rate of pay applied to such employee in accordance with the provisions of the Program.
14.02	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee to allege that a wage rate inequity exists and no grievance on behalf of an employee alleging a wage rate inequity shall be filed or processed during the term of this Agreement.
14.03	A list of job titles and job classes of all jobs performed by employees in the bargaining
93
unit is incorporated into this Agreement as Schedule "E".
14.04	The Company will furnish to the Union a list of all incumbents who are red-circled. Such a list will contain the following:
(a)	Name of employee
(b)	Job title
(c)	Job class
(d)	Weekly wage rate
(e)	Amount of red-circle differential as of March 1,1995
(f)	Applicable progressive rate at which red-circle differential applies.
14.05	Except as such red-circle differential may be changed as contemplated by section 14.11, any employee included in the list referred to in section 14.04 above shall continue to be paid during the currency of this Agreement such red-circle differential for such time as the employee is assigned to the applicable level of the job for which the red-circle differential was established.
14.06	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is promoted to a job of higher job
94
class, a new red-circle differential shall be established if the employee is assigned to an applicable rate level which is less than his current rate.
14.07	If	an	employee	receiving	a	red-circle
differential is demoted to a job of lower job class, payment of his differential shall be terminated.
14.08	If	an	employee	receiving	a	red-circle
differential is transferred, at the request of the Company, to another job in the same job class, there shall be no change in his differential except as provided in section 14.11.
14.09	If such employee referred to in section 14.06, 14.07 or 14.08 is returned to the job for which the red-circle differential was established, the red-circle differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by the provisions of section 14.11.
14.10	The progression from one rate to a higher rate classification on a given job shall operate to reduce the red-circle differential by the amount of the progressional increase or to eliminate such differential if it is less than the amount of the progressional increase.
95
14.11	In addition to other means provided in this Agreement, increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate red-circle differential.
Where the parties agree to across-the-board or percentage increases, employees receiving a red-circle differential will be entitled to the	across-the-board	or
percentage increase in the first year of an agreement; however, any subsequent across-the-board increases will be withheld and will be used to reduce or eliminate the amount of the red-circle differential.
14.12	If during the currency of this Agreement a job is reclassified downward, the incumbent employee's wage rate at the time of such reclassification while he remains in such job shall be held constant ("red-circled") and shall remain so until the new standard rate becomes greater than such wage rate, at which time he shall receive the new standard rate. Subject to the foregoing sentence, the provisions of sections 14.05 to 14.11, inclusive, shall apply to such red-circled jobs and to any red-circled differential being paid in connection therewith.
96
14.13	Direction of Others
When an employee is temporarily
assigned to exercise direction over another employee or employees in his own job class or higher, or is temporarily assigned to exercise direction over individuals or contractors, he will be paid a directional difference of two job classes above hie own job class.
An employee training another employee for replacement on his own job shall not be considered as exercising direction; ordinary communication and requests for co-operation shall not be construed to be direction.
ARTICLE 15 - PENSION PLAN AND WELFARE BENEFITS
The employees shall continue to receive the benefits provided under the Company's Office, Clerical and Technical Workers' Pension Plan (District of Sudbury), Appendix "A" hereto and the Plan shall form part of this collective agreement.
Should any difference arise between the Company or any of the employees or between the Company and the Local Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the
97
15.01
15.02
provisions of the aforesaid Pension Plan, such difference shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure set out in Article 5 including arbitration.
15.03	(a) All employees who have completed
their probationary period shall be entitled to the benefits of the following, all subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Article, in any insurance policy issued in respect thereof and in the Plan or program itself or any successor thereof:
(i)	Ontario Health Insurance Plan with Supplementary (semiprivate) Plan the benefits of which shall not be less than those of the Blue Cross Supplementary (semi-private) Plan;
(jj) Blue Cross Plan for Prescription Drugs (35 cent deductible), or drug plan with benefits and procedures at least equivalent;
Only drugs approved by the Ontario Drug Plan will be added to the coverage list. Lifestyle drugs e.g., the "patch" and similar items are limited to once every five years.
98
Generic drugs are required to be
substituted wherever possible.
Effective date of ratification and thereafter, Falconbridge will reimburse the cost, upon furnishing receipt, of drugs [purchased on or after February 28, 1998) that were not on the Ontario Drug Benefit (ODB) plan at the time of purchase but have since been added since the time of purchase.
Reimbursements will be payable for drugs purchased during the period 3 years immediately prior to the addition of the drug to the ODE? plan. If a prescribed drug has not been added to the ODB but is considered to be medically necessary in life threatening or life sustaining situations or in cases of terminal illness and cannot be adequately substituted by a drug on the ODB, these situations will be reviewed on a case by case basis to
99
determine eligibility for reimbursement.
(jjj) Group Life Insurance Plan with coverage in an amount equal to one and one-half times annual wage rounded up to next $1,000, with Accidental Death and Dismemberment in like amount;
(iv)	Wage Continuance Program;
(v)	Effective the first of the month following ratification by the Union members Basic Dental Plan with first dollar coverage, the benefits of which shall be not less than those of the Blue Cross Dental Plan No. 9, Rider 3, based on the 1997 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule and maintain a one year lag thereafter.
The purchase of dentures and bridges will be added subject to a 50% co-insurance.
(vi)	Major Medical Plan including Vision Care Plan
Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification the Major Medical
100
Plan includes doctor prescribed hearing aids to a lifetime maximum of $400.00. The Plan will also provide hospital and medical expenses outside of Ontario not paid by OHIP, subject te and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Plan, in any insurance policy issued in respect thereof and in the Plan or program itself or any successor thereof.
Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification the service of chiropractors and physiotherapists to be covered to a maximum of $400.00 per family member for active employees.
The Vision Care Plan will provide payment to a maximum of $250.00, not more than once every two years per family member, toward the cost of prescription glasses, including frames and lenses, or contact lenses.
(Vjj) The Company will proceed with Positive Enrolment and Coordination of Benefits process for
101
all applicable benefits for all active and retired employees.
If an employee successfully completes his probationary period he shall be reimbursed for all such premiums as he may have paid.
15.03	(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, student
employees who have completed their probationary period are entitled only to:
(i)	OHIP if not covered by their parent's or spouse's plan or to the extent not eligible for premium assistance;
(ii)	Group Life Insurance Plan with coverage in an amount equal to annual wage rounded up to next $1,000, with Accidental Death and Dismemberment in like amount:
(iii)	Wage Continuance Program benefits for a period not in excess of 52 weeks.
If a student employee successfully completes his probationary period he shall be reimbursed for all such premiums as he may have paid.
102
(iv)	The Company will extend coverage to the sons and daughters of employees in full time attendance at college and university under the age of 25 years for Semi-Private Hospitalization, Major Medical Plan, Vision Care Plan, Drug Plan and Dental Plan.
(c)	Employees who retire as well as current retirees and survivors will be provided with Life Insurance in the amount of $6,000.
(d)	The Company will pay the premiums of the Global Medical Assistance Program (MEDEX) for employees and retirees.
(e)	The Cpmpany shall pay 100% of the premiums and costs of the plans and program set out in clauses (a), (b) and (c) during the currency of this Agreement.
In all cases where Government sponsored Plans become available as substitutes in whole or in part for any of such plans or programs, the Company's obligation regarding premium or other costs shall be accordingly changed.
103
ARTICLE 16 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
16.01 The Company and Union recognize the importance of lessening the effect of technological change upon the job security and the earnings of any employee who may be demoted from his regular job as a result of such change.
Technological change means the automation of equipment or the mechanization or automation of operations or changes in computer applications or introduction of new equipment which directly results in the manner in which the Company carries out its work. Technological change may occur incrementally; however, such incremental changes may, over time, result in a change in the manner in which the Company carries out its work.
If technological changes are introduced which result directly in the demotion of an employee, the wage rate of such employee, if he has at least 5 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent 12 months and if he has at least 10 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent 24 months and if he has at least 20 years of continuous service at the date of
104
the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent 36 months and thereafter such wage rate shall not be reduced by more than one job class or, the Company shall not reduce the employee's rate of pay until the number of months lapsed from the date of such technological changes are equivalent to the employee's continuous service, whichever is greater. This provision shall not apply in the case of demotions resulting from reasons other than technological change.
If the introduction of the foregoing technological change results in the subsequent demotion of any other employee, the rate of pay of such employee, if he has at least 5 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent year and thereafter shall not be reduced by more than one job class in any succeeding year up to a maximum of three years from the date of demotion. It is a condition of this section that any such employee:
(a)	shall accept any training in any job classification which is offered lo him by the Company unless there are reasonable grounds for his declining and such training shall be offered with due preference to seniority;
105
(b)	will be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the rate of his actual job classification at the time of posting and if he is named as the successful applicant for any such job and refuses to accept the promotion, he shall cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section;
(c)	if he applies pursuant to section 12.08 of this agreement for transfer to a job in a lower job classification and he is transferred as a result of his request, he shall cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section.
If such technological changes are to be introduced, the Company will notify the Local Union, as far in advance as possible but at least 90 days priorto the proposed date of introduction, of the nature of the change, the proposed date of introduction of the change and the number and classification of employees likely so to be affected.
The Company will provide such reasonable amount of on-the-job training which shall be not less than 6 months provided training is required, at its expense, where necessary, as will enable an employee affected by such
106
change to acquire the necessary knowledge or skill to retain his job or as will enable any such employee to fill a job, reasonably related to the job from which he has been demoted, in the job class level to which he has been demoted or in an entry level job, in accordance with his seniority rights. Any such demotion shall be made using the procedures set out in section 12.18 of this Agreement.
16.02 The Company and Union shall form a Joint Technological Change Committee consisting of not more than two employees from the Union with whom the Company will discuss technological changes which result in the demotion of an employee. Time off work to attend meetings with the Company to discuss technological changes will be without loss in pay.
The Joint Committee will discuss the effects the change may be expected to have on employees.
ARTICLE 17 -SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company and Union share a mutual concern for the safety and health of employees and recognize that this concern can best be expressed by a joint and mutual effort.
107
The parties agree that if at any time during the currency of this Agreement either of the parties wishes to discuss improvement of Safety and Health programs including the structure or function of Safety and Health Committees, the parties will meet to consider any changes that may be appropriate.
17.01 To direct our joint and mutual efforts the Company and Union shall form the following committees:
(a)	The Sudbury District Safety and Health Committee may meet semi-annually, or at the request of either party. The Committee will be responsible for:
determining and communicating policy and formulating Districtwide programs of accident prevention and occupational health as it relates to employees;
reviewing and evaluating effectiveness of 'Area' wide programs;
resolving problems not settled at the 'Area' Committees level.
Membership Union	President
Safety and Health Chairman Union Safety and Health 'Area' Committee Chairmen (2)
108
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
An International Representative of the Union
Company General Manager
Manager Human Resources & Public Affairs Superintendent Safety
As necessary, designees may be appointed to attend Committee meetings.
(b)	Safety and Health 'Area' Committees
There shall be two Safety and Health 'Area' Committees:
(i)	Falconbridge-Lockerby 'Area' Safety and Health Committee
(ii)	Onaping 'Area' Safety and Health Committee
Members of 'Area' Committees
Local Union	Company
One representative from:
Underground Department Heads(2) Surface	Safety Supervisor
2 Others	1 Other
Where mutually agreed upon, membership at an 'Area' Company-
109
Union Safety and Health Committee may be changed in order to meet scheduling problems.
Each 'Area' Committee may meet semiannually, or at the request of either party.
These committees will be responsible for:
(i)	implementing District Committee programs;
(ii)	determining 'Area' programs;
(iii)	reviewing and evaluating 'Area' programs;
(iv)	resolving 'Area' problems;
(v)	inspecting and reporting on its respective area
The Committee for such inspections shall consist of:
Local Union
2 JHSC Representatives Company
Safety Department Representative Department Supervisor
110
In addition, at the request of the District Union Safety and Health Chairman, he and/or an employee with special knowledge on a specific problem may also join the inspection.
Each 'Area' Inspection Committee will meet and inspect on a monthly basis:
1.	a surface area, and
2.	an underground area
It may not be practical for an 'Area' Inspection Committee to inspect monthly and in such cases the 'Area' Inspection Committee will determine its meeting schedule.
It is understood that the focus of the Area Inspection Committee shall be those areas of the Company where the primary responsibility for the safety condition of the workplace rests with O.C.T. employees. Nothing herein shall be inferred to prohibit the Area Inspection Committee from investigating any work location raised as a concern by an affected O.C.T. employee.
There shall be three inspections in the Onaping 'Area' and two inspections in the Falconbridge-Lockerby 'Area',
111
totalling five inspections at Sudbury Operations during a month.
The inspecting committee will, following the physical inspection, discuss its findings and mutually concur on the report.
(c)	Each of the Local Union and the Company will select a Co-chairman for each committee. Each Co-chairman will provide an agenda for each meeting and act as chairman of alternate meetings.
(d)	No member of any of the	safety
committees set out in (a) and (b) above shall suffer any loss of pay as a result of their absence from work while attending meetings of	such
committees.
(e)	The Company will pay a	travel
allowance pursuant to the	current
rates to a member of the Sudbury District Safety & Health Committee who is required to use his personal transportation to travel to any meeting of such Sudbury District Safety & Health Committee. The	travel
allowance payable will be one-way trip only from his permanent work location to the location of the meeting should the employee not return to work after
112
the meeting. If the employee does return to his permanent work location after the meeting, he will be paid a return trip travel allowance from his permanent work location to the location of the meeting.
17.02	The existing safety devices and practices of the Company for the purposes of protecting employees from injury, accident and unhealthful conditions of work during their work hours shall be continued, subject to change as the Company may from time to time determine to be advisable. Each employee has the right and obligation to report unsafe conditions and practices to his immediate supervisor.
17.03	The Company shall provide the Union Cochairman of the 'Area' Safety and Health Committees with a copy of the monthly list of accidents including non-injury accidents involving employees and lists of employees applying for Workers' Compensation Benefits.
17.04	The President of the Local Union or his designee shall be notified as soon as possible of any fatal accident involving an employee in order that the President or his designee may be accompanied to the site of such accident.
113
17.05	If new Ontario Government legislation is promulgated that effects this Article 17, Safety and Health, the parties will meet to implement any changes as required by such legislation, provided however that such changes do not result in the duplication of existing procedures agreed to by the parties.
17.06	The Company will grant three days' leave with pay per month to the Union Safety and Health Chairman, or his designee, to serve Local Union purposes for the direct interest of the Company's employees at Sudbury Operations.
17.07	Right to Refuse to Perform Unsafe Work
The Company confirms that it will continue its existing policy with respect to the right of an employee to refuse to perform unsafe work.
If the employee has reason to believe that any work, workplace, equipment or machinery is likely to cause a danger to himself or another worker, the employee has a right to refuse to perform the work or operate the equipment or machinery.
An employee shall not be disciplined or suspended without pay for exercising such right.
114
ARTICLE 18 - UNION SECURITY
18.01	The Company shall during the life of this Agreement deduct as a condition of each employee's continued employment, from the pay cheque due in each pay period to each such employee, a sum equal to Union dues in the amount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union Constitution and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the month following the month in which such deductions are made, to the International Treasurer of the Union. The Company shall, at the time of making each such payment to the International Treasurer of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payments have been deducted.
18.02	The following shall govern the deduction of dues in any pay period from the pay of anyone transferred to or out of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement: the amount of Union dues paid by an employee shall be pro rated based on the time spent in the bargaining unit during the pay period.
ARTICLE 19 - GENERAL
19.01	There shall be no solicitations of membership in any union organization or collection of union dues or any union activity
115
in any of the Company's buildings or anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and the Plants. This clause shall not be construed to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
19.02	The Company shall provide the Union with adequate bulletin boards in prominent places for the posting of Union notices and bulletins approved in advance by the Company.
19.03	Subjectto 19.02, and with prior approval of the Company, bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills or other documents may be posted or distributed within any Company building or anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Offices, Mines and Plants of the Company by the Union or by any employee.
19.04	The Company agrees that meetings every six months between members of the Union executive and a Union Staff Representative and top members of local management, including the General Manager, would be beneficial to the betterment of the relationship between the parties. The Company will grant time off without loss in pay for those members of the Union Executive to attend the meeting and such time off will be considered as time worked.
116
19.05	Humanity Fund
The Company will deduct monthly, from each employee an amount of 1 cent for every hour worked and will remit the amounts deducted to the Union. No deductions will be made from employees who opt out of contributing to the fund when the Union informs the Company of such opting out. The Company will provide the Union with information on hours worked and total deductions.
19.06	Nickel Price Bonus
The Company will, commencing April 1, 1989, pay quarterly, a nickel price bonus based on hours worked provided the Company is profitable. The nickel bonus is based on average price realized for sales of refined nickel in all forms for the quarter using the formula wherein the price received of $2.25 US per pound provides 10 cents Canadian per hour and every one cent US per pound increase provides one cent Canadian per hour
Profitability of the Company is the consolidated earnings in the period before extraordinary items.
117
The following table illustrates the nickel bonus in cents per hour Canadian that will be generated by the selling price expressed in US dollars per pound:
Selling Price llfll®	Cents/Hour (Canadian)	Selling Price (US$)	Cents/Hour (Canadian)
2.25	0.10	5.25	3.10
2.50	0.35	5.50	3.35
2.75	0.60	5.75	3.60
3.00	0.85	6.00	3.85
3.25	1.10	6.25	4.10
3.50	1.35	6.50	4.35
3.75	1.60	6.75	4.60
4.00	1.85	7.00	4.85
4.25	2.10	7.25	5.10
4.50	2.35	7.50	5.35
4.75	2.60	7.75	5.60
5.00	2.85	8.00	5.85
118
The Company agrees to pay the nickel bonus to employees who are absent from work but are nevertheless paid and such time is considered as time worked, e.g. leave for stewards time off, Pay Equity, Joint Job Evaluation, Safety and Health, President's leave under section 11.11, etc.
ARTICLE 20 - FURTHER CONFERENCES
20.01	Either party to this Agreement may require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of this Agreement on 10 clear days notice given to the other party within the period of 3 months immediately prior to its expiry date. Such negotiations shall be held at Sudbury, Ontario.
ARTICLE 21 - TERMINATION
21.01	This Agreement shall become effective at 8 a.m. on February 28, 1998, following the ratification by the Union members of the terms of the Company's offer dated February 25, 1998, unless expressly stated herein to the contrary, and shall terminate at 8 a.m. on the 28th day of February 2001.
Any provisions of this Agreement altering the provisions of the Agreement dated February 28, 1995, shall not become effective until the day after the date of ratification, unless so stated herein.
119
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company has caused its corporate seal to be affixed under the hands of its proper officers in that behalf, and the officers of the Union and the bargaining committee of the Local Union have hereunto set their hands and seals on behalf of the Union and on their own behalf.
EXECUTEDat Falconbridge Ontario on the , ta day of March 1998
FALCONBRiDGE LIMITED
WW Holmes
President and General Manager
DW Mills
Labour Relations Superintendent S Abel
Human Resource Manager
JUCL
J McCall
Chief Design Engineer B Susil
Project Engineer J Wilkinson
Human Resource Superintendent
Js.


UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA
for itself and also on behalf of each and every employee of the Company on whose behalf the Agreement has been made
BW Hnatiuk President
R A Champagne Committee Member
P Honkaheimo Cornmittee Member
H Ransom Committee Member
T.M. Smulski Committee Member
^>u/vV
W Fraser Area Coordinator
SCHEDULE "A"
Classification of Employees Excluded from the Bargaining Unit
1.	Senior Surveyors
2.	Employees in the Personnel Department
3.	Employees in the Industrial Relations Department
4.	All Secretaries in the Division Office of the Edison Building
5.	Control Assistant to Management
6.	Property Agent Sudbury
7.	Historian
8.	Professional Engineers
9.	Secretaries to the Manager, Assistant Managers, Chief Accountant and General Superintendents
10.	One Secretary or Clerk selected by the Company in each of the Falconbridge Mines Department, the Falconbridge Services Department, the Onaping General Office, the Strathcona Mines Department, the Falconbridge Plants Office, theFecunis Building
11.	Storekeeper at Falconbridge
12.	Plants Office Supervisor
13.	Accountant, Sudbury Operations
14.	Stores Accountant
15.	Work Study Leaders
122
SCHEDULE "6"
Rules Governing Proceedings of Grievance Commissioner
1.	The parties when referring a grievance or direct difference to the Grievance Commissioner shall also provide him with a summary of the facts agreed to or in dispute, the respective positions of the parties and, in the case of a grievance, the written grievance at Stage Two and the decision of the management representative of both Stage Two and Stage Three or, in the case of a direct difference, the written notice specifying the complaint and the written reply.
2.	The parties shall supply the Grievance Commissioner and each other with additional concise and brief written representations on which they intend to reply provided that such are mailed not less than ten working days before the commencement of the hearings of the Grievance Commissioner.
3.	The purpose of the hearing is to clarify the issues or facts in dispute. At the hearing the part ies may make such further representations or adduce such evidence as the Grievance Commissioner may permit or require, but the Grievance Commissioner shall not be obligated to conform to the rules of evidence.
4.	The Grievance Commissioner must render his decision in writing without reasons to both parties within ten working days of the conclusion of the hearings. Upon request by either party after his decision has been rendered the Grievance Commissioner shall deliver brief reasons, but such reasons shall not form part of his decision.
123
SCHEDULE "C"
Rules of Arbitration
1.	Arbitration shall be heard at a place mutually agreed upon, and in default of agreement at Falconbridge, Ontario.
2.	In any arbitration the written representation of the employee made at Stage Two and the decision, if any, of the Company at Stage Three of the grievance procedure (or in the case of a difference directly between the Company and the Union the written submission by the party initiating the discussion of the difference and the written reply, if any, thereto of the other party) shall be presented to the arbitrators and the award of the arbitrators shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
3.	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled through counsel or otherwise to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party and to present oral arguments. Briefs of argument may be presented by each party and each party shall be entitled to reply to the brief of argument presented by the other. If briefs are to be filed, such briefs and replies, if any, shall be filed within such times as may be specified by the arbitrators. A copy of any brief or reply shall be delivered to the other party forthwith after filing.
4.	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
124
5.	Each party shall pay the fees and disbursements of its own nominee on the board of arbitrators and each party shall pay one-half the fees and disbursements of the Chairman thereof.
6.	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
7.	The award of the arbitrators shall be given within a period of 15 working days after the close of the hearings.
125
SCHEDULE "D"
WAGE TABLE
EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 28,1998 WITH $0.11 COLA ROLL-IN AND 2% NEW WAGES
JOB
CLASS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
2
849.77
872.93
896.07
919.64
942.80
966.37
989.51
1,013.08
1,036.24
1,059.81
1,082.95
1	STANDARD
803.06	826.20
826.20	849.77
849.77	872.93
872.93	896.07
896.07	919.64
919.64	942.8
942.80	966.37
966.37	989.51
989.51	1,013.08
1,013.08	1,036.24
1,036.24	1,059.81
1,059.81	1,082.95
1,082.95	1,106.54
1,106.54	1,129.68
126
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
28,1999 2% NEW WAGES
SCHEDULE "D" WAGE TABLE EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY WITH
2
866.77
890.38
913.99
938.04
961.65
985.70
1,009.30
1,033.35
1,056.98
1,081.01
1,104.81
127
1	STANDARD
819.12	842.72
842.72	886,77
886.77	890.38
890.38	913.99
913.99	938.04
938.04	961.65
961.65	985.70
985.70	1,009.3
1,009.30	1,033.35
1,033.35	1,056.98
1,056.96	1,081.01
1,081.01	1.104.61
1,104.61	1,128.67
1.128.67	1,152.27
SCHEDULE “E
Job Class 2
3
4
Occupation Title
Word Processing Operator I Receptionist/Telephone Operator Warehouseman I
Word Processing Operator II Technical Asst-Analytical Lab Warehouseman Il
Department Clerk Planning Clerk Operations Data Clerk Industrial Engineering Clerk Claims Management Assistant Engineering Clerk Purchasing/Traffic Clerk Geology Clerk
Loss Control Analyst Librarian Plants Clerk Expeditor
First Aid Attendant/Security Accounts Payable/Payroll Clerk Technician I MTC Technician I Instrumentation Technician I Geology
128
Job Class
occupation Title
6	Plants Clerk Planning Clerk Leader Maintenance Clerk Stores Ledgerkeeper Chemist I
Tech I Mine Engineering
7	Warehouseman III Payroll Clerk II
Support Technician Geology Mill Clerk
Exploration Support Technician
8	Jr Financial Accountant Senior First Aid Attendant Technician II Smelter Technician II MTC Technician II Instrumentation Technician Il-Custom Feed Geologist I
Technician II Mill Environment Maintenance Planner
129
Job Class	Occupation Title
9	Technician IIl(Met Projects) Buyer
Draftsman II
Smelter Hygiene Technician Ventilation Technician III Cost Analyst
Technician III Environment Chemist II
Tech lii Ventilation(Mines)
Production Analyst Mill Material Coordinator Chemist II
10	Tech II Mine Engineering Technician IV MTC Technician IV Instrumentation Technician IV Custom Feed Tech Iv Industrial Engineering Loss Control Technician Field Surveyor
Smelter Environmental Tech
130
Job Class	Occupation Title
1 I	Mine Systems Technologist Work Environment Technologist Geologist II Contract Admin Custom Feed Project Planner Sr Financial Accountant Plants Chief Clerk Assistant Paymaster Occ Plygiene - Technologist Tech IV-MTC Tech IV- Equipment Chemist III
12	Technologist MTC Technologist-Mine Engineering Technologist-Instrumentation Technologist-Custom Feed Design Draftsman Technologist-Mine Eng Services Geologist III Technologist-Electrical Systems Analyst II Technologist-Construction Network Analyst
14	Chief Draftsman Union President
* These classifications do not reflect Pay Equity Adjustments, which will remain in effect.
131
SCHEDULE"Q"
February 25, 1998 Mr. B Hnatiuk
United Steelworkers of America Local 6855 92 Frood Road Sudbury, Ontario P3C 4Z4
Dear Sir:
Listed below are the letters to be printed in the Collective Agreement. The Company agrees that the matters set out below will be adhered to during the currency of this Collective Agreement.
I	Hot Meals
II	Transportation
III	Pre Christmas Time Off
IV	Employees Off Work After	104	Weeks of
Wage Continuance Program Benefits and Workers' Compensation Benefits
V	Contracting Out
VI	Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP)
VII	Estoppel
VIII	Pension Plan
IX	Equipment
X	Rest Periods
XI	Shift Limit Times
XII	Welfare Benefits	For	Pensioners
XIII	Alcohol and Drug Abuse	Program
132
XIV	Service
XV	Staff Representatives Serving as Nominees to Boards of Arbitration
XVI	Leave of Absence for Political Office
XVII	Paymentfor Union Representatives’ Time to Attend Company/Union Meetings
XVIII	Travel Allowance
XIX	Working Days
XX	Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive
XXI	Video Display Terminal Operators
XXII	Christmas Gift
XXIII	Single Arbitrator vs Board of Arbitrators
XXIV	Article 12.07 - Laid Off Former Employees and Temporary Work
XXV	Pay For Knowledge
XXVI	Tests
XXVII	Overtime List(12.06(b)
XXVIII	Job Evaluation Committee
XXIX	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit
Yours truly J Wilkinson
Superintendent Human Resources
133
I	Hot Meals
If an employee is requested to work overtime in excess of one hour immediately after his shift he shall be allowed one-half hour at normal meal time for a hot meal which the Company will provide, if practicable. If it is not practicable to provide a hot meal the Company will provide a cold meal, Every 4 hours thereafter the Company will supply a lunch and hot beverage. Time allowed to eat a meal or lunch shall be considered as time worked.
II	Transportation
If the Company requires an employee to come in prior to his regular starting time, to remain on the job after his regular quitting time or calls him out to work at a time other than his scheduled working time and such employee is unable to provide his own transportation, the Company shall provide him with the requisite transportation.
III	Pre-Christmas Time Off
The Company will grant all employees (except those whom the Company requires to remain at their jobs such as First Aid Attendants and Safety Inspectors) time off from 2 p.m. on the day before Christmas without any loss in pay. Where Christmas falls on a Sunday or Monday
134
the time off will be on the immediately preceding Friday.
IV	Employees Off Work After 104 Weeks of Wage Continuance Program Benefits and Workers' Compensation Benefits
With respect to the concerns the Company and Union have about employees off work in excess of 104 weeks and in an endeavour to return such employees to work or otherwise provide meaningful work, the following sets out our understanding of the agreement which we have reached today with you concerning the foregoing:
1.	Following at least 104 weeks during which an employee is in receipt of benefits under the Company's Wage Continuance Program or Workers' Compensation Benefits, the Company will place such employee on the inactive employee list.
2.	(a) An employee on the inactive
employee list who, in the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner, becomes fit to return to his regular full duty job, provided it then exists, shall present himself to the Company's medical director or his designee who, if he concurs with the other medical opinion, shall arrange with Personnel to have the employee
135
return to such job or to another job for which he is qualified by using the provisions of section 12.19.
Should the Company's medical director or his designee not concur with the other medical opinion the Medical Director may request an independent medical opinion from another physician.
(b) In the event such an employee is unable	to return	to	his	regular
employment but is able to return to employment, the	Company will
endeavour to provide such employee with work he is able to perform.
3.	(a) Subject to the provisions in article 1.22(c)(iv) oftheO.C.T. Pension Plan Document, individuals in receipt of Long Term Disability or Workers' Compensation benefits in excess of 104 weeks will receive continuous service	(as defined	in	section
12.02(b) of the collective agreement except as part(iv) thereof is modified by the provisions herein contained) for pension purposes up until either their return to work or their date of retirement.
(b) Article	1.22(c)(iv)	of	the	O.C.T.
Pension Document will be amended
136
in accordance with the above point #3(a).
4.	The Company will pay the cost of the premiums for the Dental Plan, the Drug Plan, Semi-Private Hospitalization and Group Life Insurance for all employees then in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits or Workers' Compensation benefits.
5.	An employee on the inactive list may grieve only on matters relating to his return to work; his entitlement to benefits under section (4) above; seniority, other than for job posting; demotions and layoffs which occurred during his time on the inactive list which affected him; the termination of his employment; pension calculations.
6.	Employees placed on the inactive list after 104 weeks of Wage Continuance Program benefits will no longer have vacation pay off-set from Long Term Disability earnings.
V	Contracting Out
In order to minimize the contracting out of work which could be done by employees of the bargaining unit the Company agrees to recall former employees with
137
recall rights and to promote employees who have been demoted before contracting out work of a duration of 14 days or longer.
The Company commits to the Union that apart from the design and construction phase of major capital projects when the Company is expanding its operations, it will ensure to have work normally performed by bargaining unit employees performed by them and will post vacancies as required. If there are no successful candidates for the postings, the Companywill hire new employees into the bargaining unit to do the work.
It is understood that if there is no Satisfactory qualified person available for hire, the Company may contract out work until it can hire a new employee. Where the Company hires a contractor to perform such work it will deduct dues from the contractor and submit them to the Union.
VI	Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP)
Employees with 10 or more years seniority who have been permanently laid off and retain recall rights will have the option to
138
terminate employment and receive a VTEP payment.
The VTEP payment will be based on years of seniority as of the last day worked.
years	$15,000
years	$17,000
	(increments of $2000 per year)
years	$45,000
VII	Estoppel
The Company will not use Article 12.03 (e) of the Collective Agreement to register a preliminary objection of estoppel in an arbitration case regarding the termination cf an employee on the inactive list covered by Letter #4, ScheduleQ. Note: (The provisions of item I to VII both inclusive, shall be subject to the grievance procedure, including arbitration, of the Collective Agreement.)
139
Pension Plan
VIII
The Parties agree that the pension Plan will be revised to reflect the changes agreed upon during negotiations as outlined in Appendix "A'. The Parties agree that in the event the Plan is not registrable with either the Ministry of National Revenue or the Pension Commission of Ontario, they will meet to negotiate a revision to the Plan, the terms of which will enable the Plan to be accepted again by the Minister or the Commission or both, for registration for the purposes of the Income Tax Act of Canada or the Pension Benefits Act.
Appendix "A"
Pension Improvements
Articles:
1.22 Amend to reflect changes to Schedule Q Letter IV.
6.3 If a member retires on or after January 1, 1992 and has an eligible spouse on his retirement date, the pension shall be paid for a minimum of 5 years and as long thereafter as the member survives, with 66-2/3 percent payable to the surviving spouse.
140
9.	If a member dies on or after June 1, 1992 his surviving spouse shall be entitled to receive a death benefit equal to the commuted value of the pension accumulated by the member or a monthly pension payable for life in an amount equal to the 66-2/3 percent of the pension accumulated by the member, whichever is greater.
10.	Indexing Reserve
During the life of this Agreement, should the indexing Reserve be insufficient to provide for the full 75% indexing of benefits under the plan, the Company will pay the difference to the retirees and survivors out of its general revenues.
12.	The Company will amend Section
12.1 to read February 28, 1995.
IX	Equipment
Drafting and surveying equipment shall be issued by the Company where required. Similar equipment and tools supplied by the Company to members of its Electrical Department will also be supplied to employees in the Instrumentation Department. The employee shall be
141
responsible for maintaining and returning such equipment to the Company in reasonable condition.
X	Rest Periods
It is the Company's policy that employees should, where practicable, have morning and afternoon rest periods not to exceed 15 minutes away from their place of work.
XI	Shift Limit Times
For the purpose of section 8.04, the day shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 5:00 a.m. and before 1:00 p.m.; the afternoon shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 1:00 p.m. and before 6:00 p.m.; the evening shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 6:00 p.m. and before 11:00 p.m.; and the night shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m.
XII	Welfare Benefits For Pensioners
The Company will provide coverage for all retirees and for those surviving spouses (as defined in the Pension Plan) of pensioners who retire on or after March 1, 1973 as follows:
142
(j) the 35 cent deductible Drug Plan and effective date of ratification and thereafter, Falconbridge will reimburse the cost, upon furnishing receipt, of drugs (purchased on op after February 28, 1998) that were not on the Ontario Drug Benefit (ODB) pian at the time of purchase but have been added since the time of purchase. Reimbursements will be payable for drugs purchased during the period 3 years immediately prior to the addition of the drug to the ODB plan. If a prescribed drug has not been added to the ODB but is considered to be medically necessary in life threatening or life sustaining situations or in cases of terminal illness and cannot be adequately substituted by a drug on the ODB, theses situations will be reviewed on a case by ease basis to determine eligibility for reimbursement.
(jj) the Vision Care Plan which provides $250 every two years.
(iii)	the Dental Plan equivalent to Blue Cross Plan 9 with rider #3, and effective on the first of the month
143
following date of ratification the 1997 Ontario Dental Association Bundled Fee Guide will be in effect, with a 1 year lag maintained thereafter.
(iv)	Life Insurance in the amount of $6,000 for both the retired member and their spouse
(v)	Hearing Care Program which provides a lifetime payment of $400.00 to cover hearing aids as prescribed,
(vi)	Semi-private Hospitalization Plan
(v)	Global Medical Assistance Program (Medex)
(vi)	Out-of-Province/Country. Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification, coverage will be changed to reflect the removal of the 80-20 co-insurance rider
(vii)	Christmas Gift of $100.00
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such drug Plan is incorporated into OHIP or Pre-Paid Drugs, or Semi-private Hospitalization are added to OHIP, or ifthe premiums for OHIP and for the Semi-private Hospitalization Plan and/or the Drug Plan are reduced or
144
abolished then the Company's obligation to any pensioner or surviving spouse with respect thereto shall be thereupon terminated and, notwithstanding any legislation to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to pay an amount equal to the whole or any part of the premiums for OHIP and/or such Drug Plan and for such Semi-Private Hospitalization Plan to or for the benefit of any pensioner or any surviving spouse thereof.
XIII	Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program
This will confirm the Company and Union's intention to continue the Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Program at Sudbury Operations.
The Company and Union believe that by recognizing alcoholism and drug abuse as an illness, employees will be encouraged to come forward for assistance and treatment. Supervisors, representatives of the Union and employees are urged to encourage those who have or are suspected of having alcohol or drug problems to obtain medical assistance, advice and treatment.
The Company and Union believe that every reasonable means should be used to rehabilitate an employee and restore him to normal health and productivity. To this end, the Company and Union Committee which
145
has been established to jointly administer this policy will be continued.
XIV	Service
The Company agrees that for the purposes of Article 10 of the Collective Agreement, the Wage Continuance Program and the O.C.T. Pension Plan, but not for the purpose of the application of the progressive steps provided in the Wage Rate Scales set out in Schedule D to the Collective Agreement, it will regard the period during which an O.C.T. Bargaining Unit employee was laid off as a direct consequence of the strike of our Production and Maintenance employees commencing August 21, 1975 and ending Novembers, 1975 as "service" or "continuous service" notwithstanding section 12.02 (b) (ii) of such Agreement.
XV	Staff Representatives Serving as Nominees to Boards of Arbitration
Staff Representatives of the Union may serve as nominees to Boards of Arbitration provided that such Staff Representative has not participated in the presentation of the grievance at any stage of the grievance procedure.
146
Leave of Absence for Political Office
XVI
The Company will grant an employee who is elected to a political office at the municipal, provincial or federal level, a leave of absence without pay if required for the term of his election. While in office, the employee will not accumulate seniority, service or pension credit.
XVII Payment for Union Representatives' Time to Attend Company/Union Meetings
When it would be mutually beneficial to the Company and the Union to hold a meeting to discuss matters of common concern, the Company will grant time off without loss in pay for up to five representatives of the Union for time absent from work to attend such meeting and such time off will be considered as time worked.
Any employee who is required to use his car on a regular basis for Company business shall be reimbursed for the cost of adding an additional $1,000,000.00 of liability insurance to his existing coverage. Reimbursement will be made upon submission of receipts for the difference between his regular coverage and the increased coverage.
147
XVIII Travel Allowance
The Company will, in accordance with its policy, pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current rates to employees who are temporarily assigned to work in a job location other than their regular job location and who are required to provide their own means of transportation from their permanent residences to their new job location.
Employees assigned to a new job location for a period in excess of four weeks are considered to be permanently assigned and will not receive the travel allowance.
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, employees required to provide their own means of transportation for the purpose of attending in-house Company training programs in the Sudbury District will be eligible to receive the travel allowance for the duration of the training program.
The Company will inform the Union of any changes made to the schedule.
An employee required to travel outside Sudbury Operations beyond his regularly scheduled hours of work will receive travel time based on the time he spent travelling from his home to his
148
destination, to a maximum of 12 hours pay at his basic hourly rate for each travel day. For example, an employee travelling for 5 hours will receive 5 hours of pay at his basic hourly rate. An employee travelling for 13 hours will receive 12 hours of pay at his basic hourly rate.
Where travel outside Sudbury Operations is required by the Company, an employee will have the option of being paid at straight time or of taking the travel time as time off in lieu of pay on an hour for hour basis to a maximum of 12 hours.
Where the purpose of the travel is for training purposes, such travel is considered as voluntary and the travel time must be taken as time off in lieu only.
For the purposes of travel time, lieu time must be taken on an hour for hour basis.
XIX	Working Days
For the purposes of the 1992 Collective Agreement "working days" shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or Paid Holidays.
149
XX	Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive
In the event of downsizing op job loss in restructuring, to minimize the number of layoffs, the Company will offer the VERI payment of $20,000 to long service employees who are eligible for early retirement and who retire under the terms ofthe OCTAA/ Pension Plan.
It is understood that where an employee retires and his job is not posted, this does not result in a job loss and therefore does not qualify the employee for a payment under this letter.
XXI	Video Display Terminal Operators
The Company agrees to provide a 10 minute rest period for each continuous hour worked by video display terminal operators. It is to be understoodthatthe 10 minute rest period is non-cumulative and is to be taken after each hour worked at a location away from the video display terminal. Coffee breaks and lunch periods will be used to cover the 10 minute rest period.
Prior to beginning work in a job where video display terminals are used, Occupational Health will arrange for vision testing by an Optometrist and thereafter vision testing by
150
an Optometrist will be done annually. Where an employee has special concerns, Occupational Health will arrange for testing. The Company will pay for the cost of an eye examination and any special glasses as a result of using the video display terminal.
Upon confirmation of pregnancy, those employees who operate video display terminals shall be given the option of transferring to other suitable work should other work be available for which they are qualified. The Company and Union shall discuss the relocation of such employee and such discussions shall include seniority considerations and the wishes of other employees.
XXII	Christmas Gift
The Company will make a gift of $100.00 each Christmas to each employee hired before the first day of September of the year in which the Christmas falls.
XXIII	Single Arbitrator vs Board of Arbitrators
During discussions for the renewal of the 1986 Collective Agreement the Union expressed its dissatisfaction with the Board of Arbitrators being used almost exclusively as the forum for hearing arbitrations due to cost considerations and delays inherent in the procedure.
151
The Company agreed with the Union's concerns and furthermore agrees to use the Single Arbitrator procedure as set out in section 5.13 of the Collective Agreement as the preferred procedure in the majority of cases.
XXIV	Article 12.07	- Laid Off Former
Employees and Temporary Work
The Company agrees that laid off former employees with recall rights who are willing and qualified to do temporary work shall be given prior consideration and due preference for such work before any individual is hired to do such work.
Furthermore the Company commits to paying due diligence to the intent of Article 12.07 and to seek the agreement of the Union should the temporary work exceed 23 days.
XXV	Pay For Knowledge
Beginning with the Pay For Knowledge letter in the 1995 collective agreement, and in respect of subsequent joint deliberations it is currently understood that benefits to the union, membership and company will largely result from implementing Pay For Knowledge within the context of Work Restructuring. Work
152
Restructuring combines the work of related jobs into Whole Tasks. Employees who previously performed single jobs are grouped into Whole Task Work Groups and collectively perform the work of the Whole Task, including the control and coordination of the work. Group members, over time, develop the skills required to perform much of the work that comprises the whole task and from time to time performs these different aspects of the Whole Task. At any particular point in time employees group members possess more work-related skills than they are using in the performance of the task at hand. The employee’s pay is determined by his level of skill to perform the different aspects of the Whole Task, regardless of the work he/she is performing at a point in time. Pay For Knowledge is the system of paying group members for their capabilities with respect to the performance of the Whole Task.
The organization of work into Whole Tasks provides more satisfaction for employees, opportunities for learning and progression, the opportunity to exercise personal responsibility and variety of work. Work effectiveness is improved by de-fragmenting tasks and by giving work groups responsibility for the detection and
153
control of work upsets and Whole Task performance. This also allows work processes to be simplified and cycle times for both the work itself and problems that arise during the course of work performance to be reduced. In certain areas of the operations it is recognized that employees with broader skills can provide several services in an area as opposed to there being a requirement to have several employees provide those services.
Joint Committees
Joint Union/Management Committees will operate to implement PFK/WR. A company wide PFK/WR steering committee oversees broad issues underlying the success of the initiative and responds to roadblocks. The membership of this committee is joint and includes senior company and union representatives, plus members of the company wide PFK/WR planning committee. The PFK/WR planning committee is also joint and, has one has full time Union representative. Other area committees are struck as required. As the intent is to appropriately involve bargaining unit employees in the process of shifting toward Whole Task
154
Work Groups with PFK their involvement in the change process will be managed by joint planning committees. The Union member will be paid his regular rate of pay, Nickel Bonus and Cost-of-Living Allowance, if any, while serving on the committee.
Principles of Pay For Knowledge / Work Restructure
The Company/Union will abide to the following principles:
•	Respect the collective agreement
•	No loss of employment resulting from Work Restructure / Pay for Knowledge
•	People focused and business focused
•	A Joint Company/Union venture at all levels
•	Foster self directed work groups
•	Adhere to Joint Vision and Values (that guide the way we work and behave in this organisation)
•	Restructuring will not be constrained by existing organizational boundaries
•	Management will ensure, by their actions, that the Vision, Values and Principles are adhered to by all employees
155
Goals and Purpose
The goals of a Pay For Knowledge/Work Restructure System are to improve the effectiveness and performance of the organization, provide broader opportunities for learning and growth in the workplace, more challenging and satisfying work and the opportunity to earn higher wages. The intention is to develop the directly work-related skills that are required for performance of the Whole Task so that each Work Group is comprised of members who are broadly capable of performing several aspects of the work.
The Pay For Knowledge System will support the development and functioning of Whole Task Work Groups, by laying out the Skills required to perform all aspects of the Whole Task, a progression path for acquiring the skill, any formal training (off or on the job) or accreditations, internship time and requirements for demonstrating skill proficiencies,
The performance of the organization will benefit from improved effort, a reduction in work upsets and non-value-added work, increased flexibility resulting from
156
employees within Whole Task Work Groups having broader capabilities and responsibilities, the ability to have fewer levels of supervision, reduced cycle times, better control of work outputs by Whole Task Work Groups.
XXVI	Tests
Where the Company requires applicants for a job vacancy to undergo a test, such test will be administered in such a manner and circumstance to provide an objective evaluation of all applicants.
Tests are to be objective, uniform for all employees and relevant to the job posting which has been placed on the bulletin boards. Applicants shall be informed of their test results and where results indicate counselling is required for self improvement purposes, such counselling will be provided by the Company.
Where test results or methods are challenged the employee shall be entitled to the actual test results and methodology used by the Company.
XXVII	Overtime Lists (12.06 (b)
The Company will undertake to make the necessary changes to the computerized time collection system to be able to provide overtime listings which show declined overtime opportunities as well as overtime worked.
157
It is the intent of the Company to have these changes in place by January 1, 1996.
XXVIII	Job Evaluation Committee
This is to confirm our commitment to ensure that a Joint Job Evaluation Committee is established, maintained and operative throughout the term of the Agreement.
XXIX	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit
The Company agrees to apply to Revenue Canada for approval to establish a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan that will provide the following:
Upon ratification and for the life of this Agreement, the Company shall be liable for an amount equal to $150,000.00 which shall be utilized to provide a benefit of $120 per week on a basis of 6 weeks per year of service (with a minimum of 26 weeks and a maximum of 51 weeks) for each employee laid off due to lack of work in excess of 1 week in duration who ha6 no remaining annual vacation.
158
INDEX
Subject	Section Pg
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse
Program................ Letter XIII 145
Arbitration
Single Arbitrator
Board of Arbitrators Powers
Committee and Stewards
Employee Rights
Failure to Process
Payment of Committee and
Stewards
Pension Plan
Recall
Rules
Vacancy and Promotion
Witnesses
Written Warning
5.13	17
Letter XXIII	151
5 11-5.12	16
5.12	17
5.20	21
5 17	20
5 15	19
5 21	21
15 02	97
12 25	86
Schedule 'C'	124
12 12	72
5 18	20
5 22	22
Benefits Plans
15 01-15 03	97
Bereavement Leave
11.01(b)	46
Bill 70
17.05	114
Bulletin Boards
19 02-19 03	116
Christmas Gift
Letter XXII 151
Subject
Section Pg
COLA...................
Adjustments.............
Advance Payment.........
Base...................
Computation............
Revisions Made In Index.
Vacation Pay............
Company/Union Meetings
Payment for Union Representatives.,......
Compressed Work Week
Contracting Out.........
Christmas Gift
13.04	90
13.04(e,f, g)	91
13.04(b)	90
13.04(a)	90
13.04(d)	91
13.04( i)	92
13.04(h)	92
Letter XVII 147
7.04(a)	26
13?
Letter XXII 151
Demotion
By Company. Requested....
13.02(d)	88
13.02(e)	88
Direct Difference.
5.07	11
Direction of Others
14.13	97
Discharge................. 6 01-6.03	23
Continuation of Benefits..	6.02	24
Subject Discrimination No Discrimination Union Membership
Educational Leave
Equipment.....
Estoppel
Fatal Accidents..
Flextime
Section	Pg
2.00	4
2.02	4
2.01	4
11.03	47
Letter IX	141
Letter VII	139
17.04	113
7.04(b)	26
Floating Day
9.05	36
Further Conferences
20.01	119
General....................
Bulletin Boards............
No Posting Bulletins.......
No Solicitation of Membership
Grievances.................
Adjustment.................
Arbitration................
Direct Difference..........
Grievance Commissioner.....
Expenses and Fees..........
Rules Governing............
Vacancy & Promotion........
Laid Off Employees.........
19	115
19.02-19.03	116
19.03	116
19.01	116
5.00	6
5.01	6
5.08-5.09	12
Schedule'C'	124
5.07	11
5.09(b)	14
5.09(e)	15
Schedule ‘B’	123
12.12	72
12.25	86
Subject
Section Pg
Management Representatives
Pension Plan...............
Stage One .................
Intent to Grieve at Stage Two
Stage Two..................
For Discharge..............
Stage Three................
Time Limits................
Travel Allowance...........
5 05-5 06	11
15 02	97
5 02	7
5 02	7
5	03	7
6	Ol	23
5 04	8
5 09(a)	13
5 21	21
Holidays
9 01	34
Holiday Pay.................
During Vacation or on Day Off
Floating Day................
Overtime Pay................
Qualification For Pay.......
Work on a Holiday...........
9 02	34
9 02(b)	35
9 05	36
9 05	36
9 02(a)	34
9 03	36
Hot Meals
Letter I 134
Hours of Work..............
Compressed Work Week....
Flextime...................
No Guarantee of Work.......
Notification of Change in Work
Schedule...................
Other Work Schedules.......
Overtime...................
Calculation Of...........
Distribution Of..........
7 00	25
7 04(a)	26
7 04(b)	26
7 05	27
7 06	27
7	03	25
8	Ol	29
8 01(a)(b)	29
8.02	30
Subject
Recall For Emergency Work.
RegularWork Day.........
Regular Work Week.......
Reporting Pay...... ..
Shift Premiums..........
Standby pay.............
Sunday Premiums..........
Weekend Premiums.........
Section
8.06
7.01
7.02 7.07
8.04
8.05
8.03
8.03
Humanity Fund
19.05
Job Titles & Classes...... Schedule 'E'
Joint Job Evaluation
Committee.........
14.01
XXVIII
Jury Duty
11.07
Layoffs
12.18-12.25
Lett! XXIV
Leave of Absence.........
Bereavement..............
Campaign For Public Office
Continuation of Benefits.
Educational Leave........
Jury Duty................
Maternity................
Mining Act X-Ray.........
Personal Emergency.......
Personal Leave...........
Political Office.........
11.00 I 01(b) 11.10 11.08
11.03 11.07
11.04 11.09 11.01 11.02
Letter XVI
Pg
32
25
25
28
31
32 31
31
117
128
93
158
51
77
152
45
46 53
52
47
51 47
52
45
46 147
Subject
Section Pg
Serious Illness....
Subpoenaed Witness
Union..............
President..........
11.01(a)	45
11.07	51
11.05-11.06	49
11.11	53
Management Rights
Maternity Leave....
Merit increases....
Mining Act X-Ray...
Nickel Price Bonus
3.01	5
11.04	47
13.02(f)	89
11.09	52
19.06	117
No Cessation of Work
4.01	5
On the Job Training Opportunity.........
Overtime
Calculation Of......
Distribution Of.....
Overtime List.......
12.17	76
8.01	(a)(b)	29
8.02	30
12.06(b)	59
Letter XXVII	157
Pay For Knowledge.....
Pension Pian & Welfare Benefits..............
Basic Dental Plan.....
Blue Cross Drugs......
Entitlement...........
Letter XXV 152
15.00	97
15.03(a)(v)	100
15.03(a)(ii)	98
15.03(a)	98
Subject
Global Medical Assistance
Grievance.................
Group Life Insurance Plan....
Life Insurance............
O.H.I.P...................
Pension Plan..............
Pensioners................
Premiums..................
Students..................
Wage Continuance Program.
Section	Pg
15.03(d)	103
15.02	97
15.03(a)(iii)	100
15.03(b)(ii)	102
15.03(a)(i)	98
Letter VIII	140
Letter XII	142
15.03(e)	103
15.03(b)	102
15 03(b)(iii)	98
Posting Vacancies	12.08(a)	60
Pre-Christmas Time Off	Letter III	134
Probationary Period
12.04	58
Promotions
13.02(c)	88
12.08	60
Qualifying Day for Holiday
Pay....................... 902(a)	34
Recall	12-18-12 25	77
Recall for Emergency Work	8 °6	32
Recognition
Red Circles.
Definition..
Demotion....
1.00	1
14.04 -14.12	94
14.12	96
14.07	95
Subject
Elimination of..
Promotion.......
Reinstatement of Transfer........
Section Pg
14.10-14.11	95
14.06	94
14.09	95
14.08	95
Rest Periods
Letter X 142
Safety and Health........
Area Safety and Health
Committee................
Membership...............
Bill 70..................
Fatal Accidents..........
Mutual Concern...........
Reporting Unsafe Conditions Sudbury District Safety and
Health Committee.........
Membership...............
17	107
17.01(b)	109
17.01(a)	108
17.05	114
17.04	113
17.00	107
17.02	113
17.01(a)	109
17.01(a)	108
Seniority.,............
Application of Seniority
Definition.............
Layoff and Recall......
Lists of Seniority.....
Loss of Seniority......
Principle..............
Probationary Period....
Temporary Hiring.......
12.00	53
12.11	72
12.02(A)	54
12.18 -12.25	77
12.06	58
12.03	57
12.01	53
12.04	58
12.07	60
Service......	12.02(B)	54
Letter XIV	146
Subject
Shift Limit Times Shift Premiums Standby
Staff Representatives Serving as Nominees to Boards of Arbitration
Students (Benefits)
Technological Change
Termination of Agreement
Tests
Training
Transfers, Promotion & Training
Section
Letter XI
0 03 - 8.04 8.05 - 8.07
Letter XV
15.03(b) 16.00 21.01 Letter XXVI
12.08
12.08
Transfer Into Bargaining Unit
Transfer Out Of Bargaining Unit
Transportation
Travel Allowance
12.15
12.16 Letter II
Letter XVIII
Pg
142
31
32
146
102
104
119
157
60
60
73
75
134
148
Subject
Union Security...
Union Dues.......
Union Membership
Section Pg
12.08(f)	67
18.00	115
18.01-18.02	115
2.01	4
Vacancies.
12.08(a)	60
Vacations................
Bonus....................
Commencement of, Forfeiture
Entitlement..............
Interruption of Service..
Length...................
Payment in Lieu..........
Scheduling...............
Termination of Employment..
10.00	37
10.08	41
10.03	39
10.01	37
10.04	40
10.04	40
10.03	39
10.09(e)	44
10.05	40
Vacation (Special)....
Video Display Terminal Operators...............
Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive..................
10.09	42
LetterXXI 150 Letter XX 150
Voluntary Termination of
Employment Plan (VTEP)	Letter VI 138
Wage Continuance........ Letter IV 135
12.02	fC) 55
15.03	102
Subject
Wages................
Application ........
Demotion............
Incremental Increases
Merit Increase......
Promotions..........
Requested Demotion.. Withholding Increases
Wage Table...........
Temporary Promotion.
Welfare Benefits for Pensioners..........
Section Pg
13.00	a7
13.02	87
13.02(d)	88
13.02(b)	87
13.02(f)	89
13.02(c)	88
13.02(e)	88
13.02(b)	87
Schedule 'D'	126
13.03	89
Letter XII 142
Working Days	LetterXIX 149
Written Warning.,......... 5.19	22