2001
OFFICE CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
Between
FALCONBRIDGE LIMITED (the “Company”)
and
United Steel Workers of America
Local 2020, Unit6855
(the “Union”) Q0179 (07)
Table of Contents
ARTICLE 1- RECOGNITION.............5
ARTICLE 2 - NO DISCRIMINATION......8
ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT.............9
ARTICLE 4- NO CESSATION OF WORK...10
ARTICLE 5 -ADJUSTMENTOF
GRIEVANCES..............11
ARTICLE 6- “DISCIPLINE & DISCHARGE”.... 24
ARTICLE 7 - HOURS OF WORK.........28
ARTICLE 8 .OVERTIME, SUNDAY AND
STANDBY PAY AND CALL-IN PAY.....................31
ARTICLE 9 - HOLIDAYS..............37
2
ARTICLE 10 - VACATIONS............41
ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE.....50
ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY............58
ARTICLE 13 .WAGES.................89
ARTICLE 14 - JOBEVALUATION........93
ARTICLE 15 - PENSION PLAN AND
WELFARE BENEFITS.......97
ARTICLE 16 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.. 103
ARTICLE 17 - SAFETY AND HEALTH...107
ARTICLE 18 UNION SECURITY........115
ARTICLE 19 - GENERAL.............116
ARTICLE 20 - FURTHER CONFERENCES..... 120
ARTICLE 21 - TERMINATION.........121
3
Schedule "A" Classification of Employees
Excluded from the Bargaining Unit.....122
Schedule "B"- Rules Governing Proceedings of
Grievance Commissioner................123
Schedule "C"- Rules of Arbitration.............125
Schedule “D” - Wage Table......................127
Schedule "E" - Job Titles and Classifications..129
Schedule "Q" - Letters.........................134
4
Article 1- Recognition
1.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all the employees covered by this Agreement with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions.
1.02	The employees covered by this Agreement shall be all the office, clerical and technical employees of the Company in the District of Sudbury, save and except supervisors, persons above the rank of supervisor, employees covered by subsisting collective agreements binding upon the Company and employees of the Company in the classifications set forth in Schedule A attached hereto and made part hereof. The words "employee" and "employees" wherever used in this agreement refer to such employees as are covered by this agreement. The words "individual" and "individuals" wherever used in this agreement refer to someone not covered by this agreement but who is nevertheless an employee of the Company.
1.03	Notwithstanding the grievance and arbitration procedure set out in this Agreement, any and all questions relating to whether any person should be included in or
5
excluded from the bargaining unit shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure set out in section 4.01 of the "Experimental Agreement on the Status of Jobs" as amended April 26,1989, and in no other manner.
1.04	The phrase "Local 2020, Unit 6855" as
used herein shall refer to Unit 6855 of the Union.
1.05	Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
1.06	The Company recognizes the Union's concern over "contracting out" of work and agrees to establish a Joint Company-Union Committee to minimize the requirement for contracting out of work apart from the design and construction phase of major capital projects. There shall be two employees selected by the Union and two employees appointed by the Company who will serve on the Committee. The Company will pay the wages of the employees for time in attendance at Committee meetings plus cost-of-living allowance and Nickel Price Bonus.
6
The mandate of the Joint Committee is to:
1.	Meet quarterly to review work the Company intends to contract out, the reasons for the work being contracted out, the expected duration of such work, the number of contractors to be employed, the type of work to be performed and to recommend how the work could otherwise be done by Company employees.
2.	Identify those contractors working on Company property on an on-going basis to such an extent that the Committee recommends the replacement of such contractor with an employee.
3.	Recommend changes in staffing, organization and structure whereby it would be more effective to use Company employees to perform the work of contractors.
Furthermore the Company agrees it will promote employees who have been demoted and recall former employees who have been laid off and who have recall rights, provided those employees and former employees can fill the normal requirements of the job and are readily available before work which 7
could be performed by the bargaining unit employees of a duration of 14 calendar days or longer is contracted out.
No one outside the bargaining unit shall perform work that is normally performed by employees to the extent and volume that such work results in the layoff or demotion of an employee.
1.07	No individual employed by the Company shall perform work that is normally performed by employees to the extent and volume that such work results in the layoff, demotion or displacement of an employee. The foregoing is not intended to preclude individuals from performing work of a casual or emergency nature.
Article 2 - No Discrimination
2.01	No person shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a member of any union or other organization, and no statements or representations to the contrary shall be made.
2.02	There shall be no discrimination by the Company or the Union or any employee
8
against any employee because of membership or non-membership in any lawful union, or because of his race, creed, colour, sex, nationality, ancestry, place or origin, political opinions, family status, ethnic origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, age, or marital status.
Stewards, Union safety representatives or employees filling any other Union position shall not be denied promotions, training opportunities,transfers or overtime because of their Union activity.
Article 3 - Management
3.01	The Union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the Offices, Plants and Mines, direct the working forces and to hire, promote, transfer, demote, layoff and to suspend, demote, discharge or otherwise discipline employees forjust cause; provided, however, that any exercise of the foregoing rights and powers in conflict with any of the provisions in this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
9
Article 4 - No Cessation of Work
4.01	(a) Neither the Union nor any employee
shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, sit-down, slow-down or any suspension of work against the Company which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall the Company engage in any lock-out at its Offices, Plants or Mines.
(b)	In the event of a strike, sit-down, slowdown or any suspension of work against the Company in which the employees covered by this agreement are not directly involved, any employee unable to report to his normal work location and who reports for work on schedule to an area outside the gate, designated by the Company, will, on the first day of the suspension of work, and on any subsequent day of the work suspension when the Company asked the employee to report to work, be paid 4 hours pay at his applicable hourly rate. The said 4 hours shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement.
10
Article 5 - Adjustment of Grievances
5.01	Any difference between the Company and any of its employees as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall hereinafter be called a "grievance". An earnest effort shall be made without undue delay to settle any complaint or grievance, which may arise between the Company and the Union or an employee.
Sundays, Saturdays, and holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken under the provisions of this Article. The time limits set out for any stage in the grievance procedure may be extended by mutual agreement.
Complaint / Resolution Step
If an employee (or employees) has a complaint he shall present it verbally to his immediate Supervisor within seven (7) days after the incident occurred, or ought to have come to the attention of the employee(s) concerned. If the complaint is not settled to the satisfaction of the employee (or employees) within three (3) 11
days then the grievance may proceed to Stage One. It is understood that an employee has no grievance until he has first given his immediate Supervisor an opportunity to resolve the complaint.
A grievance shall be dealt with in the following manner:
5,02 Stage One -
If within 3 days from the time when the complaint was presented to the Supervisor a decision satisfactory to the employee is not given, the Steward in conjunction with the employee may within 3 days after the decision of the Supervisor (or designee) has been or should have been given, submit the complaint to Stage One of the grievance procedure. The employee (or employees), together with the Steward, shall present such grievance to the Supervisor or designee in writing. The information on
this form shall not prejudice the Union's position with respect to subsequent submissions or representations regarding such grievance at this stage. The Supervisor or his designee shall, when so notified, establish a date for a Stage One hearing. The date of the hearing shall not
12
be more than 5 days from the date the Supervisor received the first Stage grievance, unless mutually agreed upon.
At the meeting, the employee, accompanied by the case Steward, shall present the grievance statement and shall set out the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and any applicable section or provision of this Agreement, provided that failure to properly identify such section or provision shall not prejudice the determination of the grievance on its merits. The Supervisor shall give to the employee, the case Steward, and the Business Unit Chief Steward his decision in writing within 7 days from the date of the Stage One hearing.
The Complaint / resolution step and Stage One of the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual agreement of the grievor, and the Business Unit Chief Steward, and the designated management representative at Stage One if such grievance pertains to a job posting or transfer to a vacancy in a work location or Business Unit other than the grievor's,
13
5.03	- Stage Two
If the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, or has been waived, then notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter may, within 7 days after the decision of the Stage One Supervisor has been given or should have been given (or when the decision was made to waive the grievance), be given by the Business Unit Chief Steward to the Stage Two management representative designated by the Company. Such management representative shall notify the Business Unit Chief Steward of the time and place for a meeting to discuss the matter. At such time the written grievance shall be presented to the Stage Two management representative by the Business Unit Chief Steward accompanied by the case Steward and the Local Union Unit Chair. The Stage Two management representative shall give the decision in writing on behalf of the Company within 15 days from the date of receipt of the written notice.
5.04	Group Grievance
In the event that two or more employees have grievances relating to the interpretation, application,
14
administration or alleged violations of the provisions of this Agreement which are sufficiently common in nature that they may be conveniently dealt with together, the Company and the Local Union may mutually agree that such grievances shall constitute a group grievance. A grievance involving two or more employees shall be presented by not more than one of the employees in the group concerned.
5.05	Backlog Procedure
If the Business Unit Chief Steward notifies the Business Unit Human Resources representative of a backlog of 4 or more Stage two grievances, the Human Resources representative will then schedule a meeting to hear such grievances not later than 15 days from receipt of the notice. The Business Unit Chief Steward, Case Steward and the Unit Chair may represent the Local Union.
The Stage Two management representative shall give the decision in writing on behalf of the Company within 10 days from the date of the backlog procedure hearing. Members of the Grievance Committee will be allowed up to a half day for preparation for such meetings and up to a half day for
15
attendance at such meetings with no loss in pay; Stewards will be allowed such time off as is reasonably required without loss in pay for preparation and attendance at such meetings.
The foregoing backlog procedure is intended to be utilized as an exception rather than the rule, however, if the parties mutually agree to using the backlog procedure for hearing Stage Two grievances, the foregoing "Stage Two” procedure may be waived.
5,06	The management representatives designated to handle matters at each of the stages of the grievance procedure shall be the appropriate person, as follows: Stage One, an employee's immediate supervisor; Stage Two, the Department Head (Manager or Superintendent) of the appropriate department or his designee.
Grievances which relate to job postings or transfers shall be handled at Stage two by the management representative from the department which made the selection to fill the vacancy.
16
5.07	Any difference (hereinafter called a "direct difference") arising directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, instead of following the procedure set out in sections 5.01 and following, shall be submitted in writing within a reasonable period by the grieving party to the other.
The written notice shall specify the nature of the complaint, the remedy sought and any applicable provision of this Agreement but failure to properly identify such provision shall not prejudice the determination of the direct difference on its merits. There shall be a discussion of such direct difference between the officers of the Local Union, and International Representative of the Union and representatives of the Company. The party to whom the notice was delivered shall reply in writing to such direct difference within 21 days from the delivery of the notice.
Arbitration
5.08	(a) In the event that any grievance or direct
difference, including any question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, is not satisfactorily settled under the foregoing provisions, the matter may then by notice 17
in writing given to the other party within 60 days from the giving of the decision of the management representative at Stage Two or from the date when such decision should have been given (or in the event of a direct difference within 60 days from the date when the written reply to the submission was or should have been delivered) be referred either by the Local Union, the Union or the Company directly to arbitration or to Third Party Determination.
Within 14 days after a grievance or direct difference has been referred to Third Party Determination, the designated representative(s) from the Company, the Local Unit Chair, up to three (3) members of the grievance committee, and a representative of the Union (if required) may meet and agree in writing to submit the grievance or direct difference to a Grievance Commissioner as provided in section 5.08(b). Failing such agreement, the grievance or direct difference will proceed to Arbitration as provided in section 5.09.
In the event such notice of arbitration, or referral to third party determination, is not given in writing to the Company 18
within 60 days from the date of the Company's written Stage Two response, the grievance will be deemed to have been abandoned.
(b)	Grievance Commissioner
A Grievance Commissioner to be selected by mutual consent of the parties from time to time will set aside each month or other period such time as may be requested by the Company and the Local Union to consider and determine grievances and direct differences referred to him for final and binding arbitration. A Grievance Commissioner shall have the same powers and be subject to the same limitations as a Single Arbitrator except as provided in paragraphs (b) to (e) hereof.
(c)	Through the Grievance Commissioner the parties desire the expeditious means for the effective disposition of grievances and direct differences which the parties have agreed maybe handled in a summary manner. The rules governing the summary proceedings of the Grievance Commissioner are set out in Schedule ’B’ hereto.
(d)	The decision of the Grievance Commissioner shall be applicable only to
19
the case in question and shall not constitute a precedent nor be used by either party as a precedent in future cases. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement the decision of the Grievance Commissioner shall:
(i)	be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
(ii)	be confined to the grievance or direct difference referred to him.
(e)	The Local Union and the Company shall each be responsible for one-half (1/2) of the expenses of and fees payable to the Grievance Commissioner.
5.09	Any grievance or direct difference referred directly or proceeding to arbitration as provided in section 5.08(a) shall be heard by a Single Arbitrator for final and binding settlement without stoppage of work.
Single Arbitrator
5.10	The single arbitrator shall be selected in rotation from the following: G. J. Brandt, M. Teplitsky, 0. Shime, J. Brunner, G. Brent, K.A. Hinnegan. The parties may mutually
20
	agree to by-pass the arbitrator scheduled through rotation to take the next arbitrator.
5.11	The rules of arbitration annexed hereto as Schedule 'C' shall govern the conduct of any arbitration proceedings hereunder. In no event shall an Arbitrator be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this agreement.
General	
5.12	The parties are desirous of settling grievances on their merits. However, failure to process a grievance or direct difference from one Stage to the next Stage (including referral to arbitration) within the specified time limits will be deemed an abandonment of such grievance or direct difference; failure to reply to a grievance within the specified time limit will permit the grieving party to proceed to the next higher Stage, including arbitration.
	Notwithstanding the above paragraph, any time limit fixed by this Article or Article 6 may be extended by agreement of the Company and the Union.
5.13	If it should be decided through the grievance procedure (including arbitration) that any employee has failed to receive pay to which 21
he is properly entitled under the provisions of this Agreement, respecting the application of seniority or pay, the Company shall, if his grievance shall have been presented in writing within 60 days after the pay day in respect of the pay period in which the grievance arose, pay to such employee the difference between the pay which such employee should have received and the pay actually received by the employee. The Company shall extend the period of 60 days where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such 60 days.
5.14	An aggrieved employee may be present at all stages of the grievance procedure. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent an employee from discussing any personal matters with the Company.
5.15	At any time during the discussion of a grievance if it is mutually agreed that witnesses would aid in settling the grievance they may be requested to attend.
Grievance Committee and Stewards
5.16	There shall be a Union Grievance Committee consisting of the three Business Unit Chief Stewards and a local Union Representative who, together with
22
Stewards designated by the Local Union,
shall represent employees in grievance proceedings. The Local Union shall send the Company a list of the names of the Committee members and Stewards and any subsequent changes.
5.17	Such time off without loss of wages as shall be reasonably required shall be allowed to
(a)	a grievor, a steward, and a Business Unit Chief Steward designated by the Local Union from the Business Unit of the grievor, to process (including any investigation) grievances in accordance with this Article,
(b)	up to three Officers of the Local Union to process a direct difference in accordance with section 5.07,
(c)	one officer of the Local Union while at a meeting with a representative from the Company concerning the submission of a grievance or direct difference to a Grievance Commissioner pursuant to section 5.08,
(d)	the Business Unit Chief Stewards may meet from time to time to review outstanding grievances for the purposes of discussions as per 5.08(a),
23
provided permission is obtained from his Supervisor, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company may refuse to grant such permission at any time if the privilege of requesting time off for the aforesaid purpose is being abused.
5.18	The Company will pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current rates to a grievor, a steward and a member of the Grievance Committee to attend any Stage One, or Stage Two grievance meeting who, at the request of the Company, are required to use their own personal transportation to travel from one Site to another Site for his grievance meeting. The allowance payable will be a return trip travel allowance from their permanent work location to the location of the meeting.
Article 6 - “Discipline & Discharge”
6.01	If an employee who is discharged from his employment believes that such discharge was the result of a misinterpretation or a violation of any of the provisions of the Agreement, such discharge shall constitute a grievance to be dealt with under Article 5.
The Local Union Unit Chair shall be
24
notified as soon as possible of the discharge of any employee, however it is not necessary to state reasons for such discharge nor will failure to notify the Union be construed as nullifying such discharge. Any such grievance may be presented at Stage Two of the grievance procedure within fifteen (15) working days of the date of such letter or such further period as the parties may agree.
6.02	An employee who has brought a grievance concerning his discharge may, to the extent permitted by the respective carriers thereof, continue at his own expense his participation in any of the Company's group insurance plans until such time as his grievance has been finally disposed of.
6.03	If it should be decided at any stage of the grievance procedure (including arbitration) that such discharge grievance was the result of a misinterpretation or a violation by the Company of any of the provisions of this Agreement the Company shall
(a)	reinstate such employee in his job without loss of seniority,
(b)	credit him with a period of continuous service equal to the time he was absent from his employment as a result of his
25
discharge less any period of suspension given to him as a result thereof,
(c)	pay such compensation, less any monies earned during the period of discharge, as is considered just and equitable in the opinion of the parties or in the opinion of a single Arbitrator, and
(d)	shall reimburse him for any premiums or portions thereof paid pursuant to section
6.02	which the Company would have paid if the employee had not been discharged.
6.04	(a) If the Company issues a written warning
to an employee, it shall give two copies of such written warning to the employee provided such employee acknowledges receipt of such warning on the original thereof.
Written warning (but not suspensions) for absence without leave or for failing to notify the Company of intended absence shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline for subsequent infractions of a like nature if, after three calendar months, there is no repetition of such offence.
26
Any other written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline if in the 6 months following such warning there is no further misconduct.
A suspension notice other than a suspension notice for breach of Article 4 shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline 12 months after the issuance of such notice.
A suspension notice for breach of Article 4 shall be disregarded in determining discipline two years after the issuance of such suspension.
(b) Any notice of discharge or notice of suspension, other than investigatory suspension, shall be given to the employee in the presence of the Employee's Business Unit Chief Steward or designate who is readily available provided that should there be no Steward available, such lack of availability will not nullify such notice of discharge or suspension.
27
Article 7 - Hours of Work
7.01	The regular work day will be 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with a half hour off for lunch. However, where the efficiency of operations so requires or an employee or groups of employees so request the Company may change such hours to 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. with an hour off for lunch.
7.02	The regular work week shall be 5 work days, Monday to Friday, inclusive.
7.03	Certain employees may be scheduled to work at hours other than as set out in section 7.01, but the number of hours shall not exceed 8 hours inclusive of the lunch period in a two or three-shift operation.
Certain employees may be scheduled on a work week other than as set out in section 7.02; provided, however, that there are 5 consecutive work days within the calendar week in such schedules other than those pertaining to employees in the Instrumentation Department, First Aid/Security, Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgical Technology Group, Smelter Technology and Mill Technology and such other groups as the operations of the Company may require from time to time and the Local Union agrees to provided
28
(a)	that the weekly schedules for such employees provide for at least 2 consecutive days off; or
(b)	the schedule for such employees has been agreed to by the Local Union.
7.04	In order to effect
(a)	a longer work day but shorter work week or other schedule variations which may result in a shorter or longer work week employees in certain departments or groups may wish to work a schedule in excess of eight (8) hours per shift as outlined in section 7.01 or
(b)	changes in the time of arrival and departure of employees in certain departments or groups on the basis of what is commonly called "Flextime."
The Company and the Union agree:
(1)	the concepts set out in (a) and (b) are experimental and shall extend only for the term of this agreement;
(2)	the concepts will not be applied to any department, employee or groups of
29
employees without the written consent of the Union:
(3)	either party may terminate any such schedule agreed upon by giving thirty (30) working days written notice to the other party;
(4)	the overtime provisions as outlined in section 8.01 will apply only for any daily and/or weekly time worked in excess of the agreed to schedule;
(5)	the shift premiums set out in section
8.01	would not apply to hours of work changed solely by reason of the application of Flextime.
7.05	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee.
7.06	An employee must be notified of any change in his regular work schedule at least 40 hours prior to the commencement of the work week, which commences at 8:00 a.m. Sundays. If he is not so notified he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of one and one-half times his applicable pro-rated hourly rate for the time worked by him during the first day or shift of such changed schedule.
30
The provisions of the above may be waived by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
7.07	When an employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive 4 hours pay at his applicable hourly rate without being required to work the said 4 hours but such 4 hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of his intention to return.
Article 8 - Overtime, Sunday
and Standby Pay and Call-In Pay
8.01	An employee who is required by the
Company to work overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times his
31
applicable pro-rated hourly rate for time worked by him:
(a)	in excess of 8 hours in a work day provided that such excess time is not I5 minutes or less;
(b)	in excess of 40 hours in a work week, less time worked under (a) above;
provided that the Company shall deduct from such excess time the amount of time off on casual leave without loss of pay (other than for serious illness or death in immediate family or personal emergency, all a s provided in section 11.01, or for leave under section 11.07, or for reasons of the employee's sickness) which such employee may have received during the work week in which such excess time was worked.
Such excess time shall be paid in units of one-quarter hour applied as follows:
Minutes Worked	Time Paid For
1 -15	Nil
16-30	1/2 hour
31-45	3/4 hour
etc.	etc.
32
Employees may bank the premium part of overtime hours worked to a total of 48 hours in a year. Banked time not taken by year end will be paid out.
8.02	The Company will endeavour to give
reasonable notice to an employee required to work overtime. Overtime work will be distributed as equally as practicable amongst those employees at the same geographic location and second line supervisor’swork group as that in which the overtime is required with the exception of the Smelter, where overtime will be distributed as equally as practicable amongst those employees in the first line supervisors work group and the Metallurgical Technology Group, where overtime will be distributed as equally as practicable amongst those employees in each individual project group, and who are in the samejob classification in which the overtime occurs and who would normally perform such work. It is understood that the Company will offer any such overtime to an employee prior to canvassing students or temporary employees. Should all of the above work group of employees decline or be excused from working overtime, then the junior employee in that group will be required to perform the overtime work. Those employees so declining or who are excused 33
from working overtime shall be regarded as having been given an opportunity to work overtime. Records of such amounts of overtime worked and of declined opportunities shall be posted monthly at the various department locations.
8.03	Employees who work between 8:00 a.m. Saturday and 8:00 a.m. on the immediately following Monday shall be paid a Weekend premium of one dollar and seventy-five ($1.75) cents per hour for work performed during such hours. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay, such premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
8.04	Employees shall be paid an off shift premium of 60 cents per hour for work performed by them during afternoon shift hours and not within their scheduled day, or night shift hours, and an off shift premium of 80 cents per hour for work performed by them during night shift hours and not within their scheduled day or afternoon shift hours. Employees regularly working on shift whose hours of work are changed either temporarily or permanently to the day shift shall be paid only their applicable rate. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay such off shift premiums shall not be considered
34
as part of an employee's applicable rate.
8.05	An employee required to stand-by for a possible call in to work shall be paid an amount equal to 15% of his pro-rated regular wage rate for each hour he has stood by provided
(a)	failure to respond to a call in to work shall absolve the Company from any obligation to pay stand-by pay to an employee for the period he was required to stand-by, and
(b)	stand-by pay is not payable for time actually worked when called in.
8.06	An employee who has already left the premises of the Company after completion of his work and who is recalled for emergency work shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half times the applicable prorated hourly rate with a minimum of 4 hours at his applicable pro-rated hourly rate unless such work immediately preceded his scheduled shift. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay such 4 hours or time worked shall not be included. If such work immediately preceding his scheduled shift exceeds one hour he shall be allowed one-half hour without loss in pay for a hot meal which the Company will provide. If it
35
is not practicable to provide a hot meal the Company will provide a cold meal.
8.07	An employee who has already left the
premises of the Company after completion of his work and who is called at home to provide know-how and assist in the resolution of a problem will be paid a minimum of one and one-half hours of pay at his regular wage rate.
This payment is based on the amount of time required to resolve the problem, not on the number of phone calls required.
Should the employee, after attempting to resolve the problem over the phone, be required to return to the workplace, he shall be paid a minimum of one and one-half hours of pay at his regular wage rate for the time he spent attempting to resolve the problem from home and call-out pay as per 8.06 for the time worked on site.
An employee who is on stand-by and is being paid as per 8.05, will not be entitled to pay for the time he spent resolving problems over the phone.
36
Article 9 - Holidays
9.01	In this Article "holiday" means New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, or such day as may be established as a holiday in lieu of any said days by statute, proclamation or otherwise as may be agreed upon by the Local Union and the Company. If the Employment Standards Act of Ontario or other statute requires that where a holiday falls on a Sunday the next day following shall be a holiday in lieu thereof, then for the purpose of this Agreement such substituted day shall be regarded as the holiday notwithstanding the foregoing definition.
9.02	(a) An employee shall be entitled to each of
the holidays without any loss in pay if:
(!) he was not on a strike or a leave of absence without pay for a period of time that encompasses the holiday in question; or
(ii) he was not absent without leave on his last scheduled work day or shift before or his first scheduled work
37
day or shift after such holiday. It is understood that the Company may request a physician's certificate to support a casual sick leave; or
(iii) he is a probationary employee, except if such probationary employee is a student employee.
To resolve any lack of clarity in this clause (a) it is understood that a former employee while on lay-off is not entitled to any paid holiday.
(b) If a holiday falls
(i)	within an employee's scheduled vacation, or
(ii)	on his day off
he shall be given an extra day's pay at his applicable pro-rated daily rate or, if mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee, an extra day off in lieu thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of two months from the date of such holiday, he shall receive a day's pay at his applicable pro-rated daily rate in lieu thereof.
38
(c)	the foregoing (a) and (b) shall not apply to any employee in receipt of benefits under the Wage Continuance Program.
9.03	For authorized work performed on any holiday an employee shall be paid holiday pay at two and one-half times his regular rate.
9.04	For the purposes of computing overtime pay in accordance with section 8.01, time for which an employee
(a)	receives holiday pay, or
(b)	has taken an extra day off pursuant to section 9.02(b), or
(c)	has taken a floating day off pursuant to section 9.05
shall be regarded as time worked.
9.05	An employee (other than a student) who has completed his probationary period shall be entitled to an annual day off with pay (to be called a "floating day"). Such floating day shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. The floating day is
39
considered essential to the well being of each employee and pay in lieu thereof will be considered only in exceptional circumstances. However, if the floating day is not taken by an employee by the end of the calendar year he shall receive an additional day's pay at his regular wage rate. Notwithstanding the above, no employee nor individual under any circumstances shall be entitled to more than one floating holiday with pay during each calendar year.
40
Article 10 - Vacations
10.01	Annual vacations with pay shall be in
accordance with length of service on the
following basis:
(a)	2 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 12 months but less than 5 years of continuous service, one of which weeks may be taken on completion of 6 months' continuous service;
(b)	3 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 5 years of service;
(c)	4 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 16 years of service;
(d)	5 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 24 years of service;
(e)	6 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 30 years of service.
41
(f)	7 weeks' vacation shall be granted to employees who have completed 35 years of service.
The pay for each such week of vacation shall be equal to the current rate of pay to which the employee is entitled at the time he takes his vacation but if the employee has been demoted to a lower rate of pay prior to taking his vacation he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of pay which he received immediately prior to his demotion if his vacation had been scheduled at the time of such demotion.
An employee who has been temporarily promoted for at least 3 consecutive months and takes his vacation while so temporarily promoted shall be entitled to receive vacation pay equal to the rate of pay he is then receiving.
An employee who had been temporarily promoted for less than 3 consecutive months will not normally be allowed to take either his regular or special vacation while so promoted. If, however, with the consent of his immediate supervisor, an employee so promoted is permitted to take a vacation he shall be paid the rate of pay he is then receiving.
42
Vacations shall be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime pay under Article 8.01.
The pay for each week of vacation for an employee returning to or entering the bargaining unit shall be equal to the employee's current O.C.T. rate of pay at the time he takes his vacation.
10.02	For the purpose of improving the scheduling of his annual vacation, each employee, after completing 12 months of continuous service, shall be deemed to have commenced his employment on the January
1 st immediately preceding the actual date of his employment.
10.03	Vacations shall be commenced in the calendar year for which such vacations are due or shall be forfeited, provided that each employee so forfeiting his vacation period shall, nevertheless, be paid the vacation pay to which he is entitled. Vacations are considered essential to the well-being of each and every employee and pay in lieu thereof will be considered only in exceptional circumstances.
10.04	An employee who has been on a leave of absence pursuant to section 11.05 in excess of 6 months in any calendar year shall have
43
the length of his vacation with the pay therefor to which he is otherwise entitled pro-rated but he may elect to take his regular length of vacation and receive such prorated pay.
An employee who has been absent from work by reason of illness or accident and in receipt of Long Term Disability payments therefor shall be entitled to vacation with pay on the following basis:
(a)	to his regular annual vacation with pay during the first calendar year in which he is so absent but during such vacation he shall not be entitled to any payment under the LTD Plan;
(b)	to his regular annual vacation with pay if he returns to work as an employee in the second calendar year before the first 6 months thereof; and
(c)	if he returns to work as an employee after 6 months in such second calendar year to his regular annual vacation with pay pro-rated.
10.05	An employee whose employment with the Company is terminated for any reason will receive in lieu of vacation an amount equal to the pro-rata portion of his wages for the 44
unused period of the vacation to which he is entitled.
10.06	In determining the length of a vacation, a week shall mean 7 consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period. Where an employee is entitled to 2 or 3 weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive, except when Company and employee shall otherwise agree. Where an employee is entitled to 4 or more weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations.
10.07	Vacations will be granted at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering seniority, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the Plants and Offices. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations.
10.08	(a) Upon the completion of two years of
service an employee shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any vacation pay to which he is entitled under section 10.01, the sum of three hundred and twenty-five dollars for each week of 45
Annual Vacation thereafter granted and taken under section 10.01.
(b)	An employee who was rehired by the Company as a result of being recalled following his lay-off pursuant to section 12.16 and
(i)	had at least two years' service at the time of such lay off; or
(ii)	subsequently attains two years' service including any service with the Company prior to such lay off;
shall be entitled to receive the additional vacation pay referred to herein but only with respect to any such annual vacation taken by him after he has completed such two years.
(c)	An employee who forfeits his vacation by reason of a request from the Company shall be paid the sum referred to in (a) to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such vacation.
Special Vacation
10.09	The Company will provide 5 weeks of special vacation with pay for employees who have completed five or more years of 46
continuous service and an additional 5 weeks of special vacation with pay upon completing each additional five year period of continuous service on the basis of the following provisions which shall apply during the life of this Agreement:
(a)	Each employee who has completed 5 or more years of continuous service shall become entitled to 5 weeks of special vacation with pay in addition to all weeks of vacation with pay to which he is entitled under the other provisions of this Article.
(b)	The pay for each week of special vacation which is taken shall be equal to the current wage rate of the employee at the time when such week of special vacation is taken.
(c)	Should an employee who is entitled to any special vacation with pay fail for any reason, including retirement, discharge, quitting or death, to commence such vacation within 5 years after becoming entitled thereto, the Company shall, in lieu of granting such special vacation, pay to such employee, or to his estate should he have died, the special vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such special
47
vacation immediately prior to the fifth anniversary of his becoming entitled thereto or immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death, as the case may be.
(d)	If an employee terminates his employment with the Company or is terminated by the Company for any reason, including retirement, or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to any payment in accordance with clause (c) of this section, to an amount equal to one week's wages for each full year of continuous service, and a pro-rata portion thereof for each whole month comprising a broken year, from the date of his last entitlement to a special vacation to the date of termination or death.
(e)	In determining the length of a special vacation a week shall mean 7 consecutive days including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period.
(f)	The allocation of vacations with pay under section 10.01 shall have priority over the allocation of special vacations hereunder.
48
(g)	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, special vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its sole discretion may determine but, subject thereto, due consideration will be given to the wishes of the employee concerned. It is anticipated that in most cases an employee will take his special vacation within the 5 year period following the date on which he becomes entitled.
(h)	Provided an employee has no outstanding Special Vacation he can have access to his next Special Vacation entitlement to the extent of one (1) week of Special Vacation for each completed year of employment during the five (5) year period either before becoming entitled to or between entitlements to Special Vacation. Any Special Vacation taken under this section will be deducted from the employee’s next Special Vacation entitlement.
The Company can require that at least 20% of those entitled take such vacation in each year and that not more than 25% may take such vacation.
49
Article 11 - Leave of Absence
11.01	The Company will grant to an employee reasonable time off without loss in pay in the event of
(a)	a serious illness of a member of his immediate family (i.e. spouse or children) and
(b)	the death of any member of his immediate family or of any of his parents, sisters, brothers or parents-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in- law, grandparents and grandchildren, son-inlaw or daughter-in-law.
Apart from the foregoing, the Company will grant an employee reasonable time off without loss in pay for other personal emergencies where the Company is satisfied that the circumstances of the personal emergency justify such leave being given. A personal emergency is a sudden, unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding the employee's immediate attention.
50
11.02	(a) The Company shall grant an employee a
leave of absence without pay up to 30
calendar days for personal reasons if
(i)	he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 10 working days, if possible, in advance and
(ii)	the Company is satisfied the leave is for good reason and will not unduly interfere with operations.
(b)	Such leave may be granted for a longer
period or may be extended if
(i)	the Company is satisfied there is good reason for such longer period or extension and it will not unduly interfere with operations and
(ii)	the request for any extension of leave is made by the employee in writing before he has completed his current leave.
11.03	The Company may in its discretion grant an employee a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed one year in order to attend a recognized university or trade or technical school full time if
51
(a)	the course of instruction is related to the employee's employment opportunities with the Company and
(b)	such leave does not unduly interfere with operations.
11.04	(a) The Company shall grant a total of 52
weeks of leave of absence consisting of not more than 17 weeks maternity leave and 35 weeks parental leave without pay to a pregnant employee who has completed her probationary period. If at the conclusion of her leave, the employee presents the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her normal duties, she shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to her former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with similar work in the samejob class and area. In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of the above period of leave because of complications arising out of her pregnancy and delivery, she may be granted an extension of up to 3 months upon request.
52
(b)	An employee who has completed her probationary period and requests parental leave due to legal adoption shall be granted leave for not more than 36 weeks. At the conclusion of her leave the employee shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to her former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with similar work in the samejob class and area.
(c)	An employee whose spouse is to give birth or who is adopting a child shall, if he wishes a leave of absence, make his request to the Company in writing for such leave at least 2 weeks in advance of the expected date the leave will begin and 4 weeks notice if the date leave is to end is either earlier or later than expected.
A leave granted under this section shall be limited to 37 weeks and the employee may commence such leave no more than 35 weeks after the child is born or comes into custody, care and control of the parent for the first time.
Leave granted will be without pay and the Company may request the employee 53
to submit a certificate of birth for the child.
(d)	The Company will continue benefits coverage for employees on maternity or parental leave of absence.
(e)	An employee shall be covered under basic sick leave for up to 6 weeks of sick benefits, upon receipt of medical documentation that she was unable to work immediately following the birth.
11.05	Upon written request by the Local Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to employees if such leaves do not unduly interfere with operations,
(a)	to attend Union conferences, or Union conventions provided such leaves (i) do not exceed an aggregate of 12 man-weeks in any one year hereunder and (ii) such notice is given not less than 10 working days in advance;
(b)	to attend Union schools provided such leaves (i) do not exceed an aggregate of 12 man-weeks in any one year hereunder and (ii) such notice is given not less than 20 working days in advance; and
54
(c)	to attend labour college provided (i) such leaves do not exceed an aggregate of 8 man-weeks in any one year hereunder and (ii) such notice is given not less than 20 working days in advance;
Upon written request by the Union, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to employees if such leaves do not unduly interfere with operations,
(d)	to attend to work of an official nature for the Union and notice is given not less than 20 working days in advance, if possible.
If the Company believes that any such requested leave of absence, if granted, will unduly interfere with operations it will notify the Local Union thereof as soon as possible and, upon request, discuss the matter with representatives of the Local Union.
11.06	The Company shall grant leaves of absence without pay of not less than one month and not more than 2 years, on written request by the Local Union not less than 10 working days in advance to the Company, aggregating not more than 2 man-years in any one year hereunder to an employee to
55
work in an official capacity for the Local Union or the Union.
The Company shall also grant leaves of absence without pay to Local Union Officers or their designated representatives, if such leaves do not unduly interfere with operations, for the normal administrative functions of the Local Union. Requests for such leaves shall be submitted in writing or orally to the Business Unit Human Resources Representative, at least 24 hours in advance.
11.07	An employee who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness and who as a result thereof loses time from work shall receive for each day so lost the difference between his applicable pro-rated daily or hourly rate including cost-of-living allowance, any shift or Sunday premiums and any Nickel Bonus in effect, and the jury or witness fee to which he is entitled for such day. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court before making any such payment.
11.08	An employee on a leave of absence without pay, other than under the Wage Continuance Program, for at least 30 calendar days duration may continue to be covered by the
56
Company's health insurance, dental and drug plans, and group life insurance, to the extent permitted under the respective contracts or legislation governing same, if he pays the total cost of the premiums therefor. If the leave of absence without pay is for less than 30 calendar days, the Company and the employee shall continue paying their respective portions (if any) of such premiums.
11.09	The Company will grant to an employee who is required to take an X-ray under the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 1978 sufficient leave without loss in pay to enable him to take such X-ray.
The Company will grant to an employee who requires vision testing by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist sufficient leave without loss in pay to enable him to take such test.
11.10	The Company shall grant an employee a leave of absence without pay for up to two months to campaign for his election to any municipal, provincial or federal government office, or International Union office if he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 10 working days, if possible, in advance.
57
11.11	The Company will grant full time leave of absence to the Local Union Unit Chair to serve Local Union purposes for the direct interest of the Company's employees in the Sudbury Operations. While on leave of absence the Local Union Unit Chair will be paid at Job Class 14 plus any applicable Cost of Living Allowance or Nickel Bonus for hours worked. Credited service and seniority shall be maintained and accumulated for vacation and pension purposes.
The Company also agrees to grant one day's leave with pay per month to a Local Union Officer to be designated monthly by the Local Union Unit Chair.
Article 12 - Seniority
12.01	"Seniority" is the principle of granting preference to employees in promotions, demotions, transfers, resulting from change or manpower reduction, lay-offs, and rehiring after lay-offs in accordance with length of continuous service.
12.02	(A) For the purposes of this Agreement an
employee's "Seniority" shall mean the length of time from his most recent
58
hiring date (other than as a result of a recall after a lay-off) with the Company and shall be maintained and accumulated during:
(i)	a lay-off within any period during which lie was entitled to be recalled,
(ii)	any sickness or accident, and
(iii)	any leave of absence granted under Article 11
(iv)	any temporary assignment for the Company outside Sudbury Operations for up to one year.
(B) Notwithstanding the definition of seniority in sub-section 12.02 (A):
(i)	The seniority date of an individual who has never been in the bargaining unit shall be the date on which he first entered the bargaining unit.
(ii)	The seniority of an individual reentering the bargaining unit from a job excluded therefrom by Schedule A to this Agreement, or by the Ontario Labour Relations
59
Act, or from a job in the production and maintenance bargaining unit, shall for the purposes of section 12.08 and 12.16 only, for a period of 48 months from the date of such re-entry, be the total length of time he has been an employee in such bargaining unit. Upon the completion of such period, his seniority shall then, for all purposes, be computed in accordance with the definition in sub-section 12.02 (A).
(C) For the purposes of this Agreement, the Wage Continuance Program, and other such plans, "continuous service" or, "service", shall be determined by the length of his actual service with the Company and shall not include any period of time while he was absent from work because he was on:
(i)	leave of absence in excess of 30 calendar days, except for reasons of maternity or parental leave,
(ii)	lay-off,
(iii)	strike or lock-out, or
60
(iv)	long term disability or Workers' Safety Insurance (WSIB).
Notwithstanding the foregoing,
(a)	a leave granted to a Local Union Officer or designated representative to serve Local Union purposes for the direct interest of the Company's employees in Sudbury under section
11.06	or to attend labour college under section 11.05 or
(b)	any period of up to 104 weeks while off under the Wage Continuance Program or off on Workers' Safety Insurance (WSIB).
(c)	any period for a vacation shutdown
(d)	any temporary assignment for the Company outside Sudbury for up to one year.
shall be included in the computation of "continuous service", or "service" for the purpose of determining the length of vacation to which an employee is entitled under sections 10,01 or 10.09.
(D) An individual who is hired as a temporary employee to fill a 61
temporary vacancy shall for the purpose of this agreement, not accumulate seniority.
12.03	Seniority shall cease if an employee:
(a)	quits, or
(b)	is discharged, or
(c)	is laid off for lack of work for a period which exceeds the duration of his recall rights as set out in section 12.19, or
(d)	fails without reasonable cause to return to work immediately upon the completion of any leave of absence which may have been granted, or
(e)	if his employment is terminated for justifiable reasons of innocent absenteeism.
12.04	A new employee shall be considered as a probationary employee for the first 55 working days of his employment. When such employee finishes the probationary period he shall be entered on the seniority record and shall rank for seniority from the date he was last hired. There shall be no seniority among probationary employees. Notwithstanding section 3.01, the Company may discharge or otherwise discipline a
62
probationary employee if the Company believes that he is not suitable for or able to perform adequately thejob for which he was hired or is required to do.
12.05	The bargaining unit shall be as set forth in section 1.02 above as amended by Schedule 'A'.
12.06	(a) The Company will keep an up-to-date
seniority record and a copy of such record shall be reasonably available for inspection in the departmental office to the extent reasonably necessary for any Steward to ascertain the seniority status of any employee within his jurisdiction.
The Company shall provide the Local Union Unit Chair with up-to-date seniority lists and lists of temporary employees every month, and at the same time will furnish the Local Union Unit Chair with a seniority list showing the current salary of each employee and a list of overtime worked and declined opportunities.
(b)	Upon request by the Local Union Unit Chair, the Company shall provide the union, by Canada Post, with the following as it relates to employees:
63
(1)	list of employees showing their names and classifications, ranked according to seniority;
(2)	copies of job postings, job awards, promotions, demotions and transfers;
(3)	list of employees hired or discharged;
(4)	list of retirements and deceased employees;
(5)	copies ofjob classifications, job descriptions and job evaluation data;
(^copies of health and insurance plans including the O.C.T. pension plan.
(7) list of employees and the number of overtime hours worked on a monthly basis.
Transfers, Promotions & Training
12.07	(a) All permanent vacancies and temporary
vacancies in excess of sixty (60) calendar days, whether for an existing job or for a newly created job within the bargaining unit shall be posted within 5 working days of the occurrence of the vacancy, Temporary Vacancies will not exceed one year in duration unless 64
such vacancy is created as a result of a Company approved leave of absence or absences such as sickness and accident, and Long Term Disability.
The notice for the initial vacancy in a job shall be posted for a period of 5 working days on the bulletin boards. The notice shall state the job, its class, title, location, the name of the immediate supervisor, its wage in the case of a vacancy in an existing job and its proposed wage in the case of a newly created job.
An employee, except a newly hired employee, who wishes to transfer to this vacancy or to any subsequent vacancies in the same j ob which result from the filling of the initial vacancy, must submit an application form, indicating up to 5 site preferences, in priority order, to the department or person designated by the Company on the notice.
An employee in a different job than that of the posted vacancy, except a newly hired employee, who wishes to apply to this vacancy or to any subsequent vacancies in the samejob which result from the filling of the initial vacancy, must submit an application form, indicating his preferences, in priority 65
order, to the department or person designated by the Company on the notice.
The employee so selected to fill the initial or subsequent vacancies shall have until 10:00 a.m. on the day following the day that he was notified that he was successful to inform the Company of his intention to accept or decline the transfer or posting. Failure to notify the Company will be deemed a refusal.
An employee will be ineligible to apply for a transfer or posting, if he has already been accepted for a transfer or posting twice in the calendar year (January 1st to December 31st).
A newly hired employee must attain one years seniority before being eligible to apply for a transfer or job posting.
Transfer and job applications become null and void when the posted vacancy and each subsequent vacancy that resulted from the first posting is filled.
(b) Transfers
In cases of permanent vacancies or temporary vacancies in excess of sixty 66
(60) calendar days, the Company shall transfer the senior employee who submits an application to transfer to the same job at a different location and who can fill the normal requirements of the job before promoting an employee to fill the initial vacancy that was posted. For each subsequent vacancy that results from the initial posting, the Company shall transfer the senior employee who submits an application to transfer to the same job at a different location before promoting an employee to fill a vacancy.
(c)	Promotions
Should a vacancy remain unfilled after the transfer process has been exhausted, the Company, in filling the vacancy will then consider applications from employees who had submitted them during the posting period and shall then apply the provision of sections 12.08 and 12.09.
(d)	Training
Should a vacancy remain unfilled after the transfer and promotion processes have been exhausted, the Company shall fill the position if it still exists and provided it does not adversely effect 67
efficiency of operations, with a candidate who submitted a job application, did not meet the normal requirements of the job, but could be trained in a reasonable period of time.
(j)	If the j ob applicants are in the same
line of progression as that of the posted vacancy, are at the rate of their job class and the training would involve a promotion to the next j ob in the progression, the Company will train the senior of those employees who applied for the posting.
(jj) If the job applicants do not fall under the criteria specified in 12.07 (d) (i), the Company shall select the senior applicant whose qualifications best meet the normal requirements of the job as stated in the primary function of the j ob description.
If during any calendar year, there are less than 2 employees trained under (d) (i) or (ii) above, the Company shall post sufficient training vacancies to bring the number to 2 for the calendar year.
68
If an employee accepts a training position in a lower job class, he shall be paid one job class lower than the rate of the job for which he is being trained.
If an employee accepts a training position in a higher job class, he shall be paid one job class lower than the rate of the job for which he is being trained or his old rate, whichever is greater.
The Company will establish performance standards for training which it will review with employees and the Union. Employees selected for training will be expected to meet the performance standards established.
If an employee is unable to meet such standards he will be returned to the job he held immediately prior to commencing training, or to a suitable vacancy if one exists, in the same j ob class and at the same rate that he held prior to training. Any employee who may have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer, permanent promotion or training shall, if no 69
suitable vacancy exists, thereupon revert to his formerjob and shall be paid the rate which such employee would have been entitled to had such employee not vacated such former job.
An employee selected to be trained to fill a vacancy will be classified as in training and will be ineligible to apply for a transfer or job posting until the training period has been completed. Once the employee has successfully completed the training, he will be deemed to be the successful applicant on the posting.
(e)	An employee who is absent from work due to illness, vacation or leave of absence during the time the job is posted shall have the right to apply for a transfer or posting during the period of the 5 days from the day the notice of vacancy was first posted or, prior to or during his absence indicate his desire to be considered for anyj ob that may become vacant.
(f)	Within 30 calendar days from the expiration of the posting period required by clause (a), the Company shall choose the successful transferee, applicant, or
70
trainee, if any, and place him in the vacancy, if it then exists. If the Company does not place the successful transferee, applicant or trainee in the vacancy by the end of the 30th day, it shall, commencing . on the 31 st day, pay him the rate applicable to that job.
The Company will endeavour to move all successful transferees, applicants, and trainees to the vacancy no later than 30 days from the expiration of the posting period.
The Company will, on the 31 st day, if the successful transferees, applicants or trainees have not been placed in the vacancy, pay them travel allowance based on the allowance currently in effect.
The travel allowance paid will be the difference in distance the employee is required to travel between his home and the location of his formerjob and his home and the location of his new assignment.
(g) Temporary Vacancies Between Three (3) Work Days and Sixty (60)
Calendar Days
71
For temporary vacancies between three (3) Work Days and sixty (60) calendar days, the Company shall promote the senior employee at the site where the vacancy exists who is able to perform the normal requirements of the job. If the vacancy is not filled at the site, the Company shall promote the senior employee within the Business Unit where the vacancy exists who is able to perform the normal requirements of the job.
(h)	Recall
Should a vacancy still remain unfilled, the Company shall then recall a former employee who is laid off and is able to perform the normal requirements of the job providing they have notified the Company they are readily available to perform such work.
(i)	Temporary Employees
Should the vacancy still remain unfilled the Company will utilize an individual capable of performing the work.
Individuals hired from outside the Company shall receive no benefits coverage while individuals placed from 72
within the Company (staff or production and maintenance unit)
shall continue to receive the benefits applicable to their former position.
Individuals hired or placed hereunder will receive the applicable OCT rate of pay for the j ob and will pay union dues but will acquire no job posting rights.
Upon completion of the temporary vacancy the individual hired as a temporary employee will have his employment terminated.
The Company shall inform the Local Union Unit Chair of the individual hired or placed temporarily, the vacancy for which hired and its anticipated duration.
G) The Union will be supplied with copies of posted j ob vacancies, and within 2 working days of the filling of the vacancy, the names of successful transferees, applicants, trainees, and newly hired employees.
(k)	An employee accepting a permanent vacancy or transfer, or a temporary job that exceeds sixty (60) calendar days under section 12.07 may return or be returned to his formerj ob within 30 days 73
of starting the job. Notwithstanding the immediately foregoing sentence the Company and Union may agree to extend the 30 calendar days by an additional 30 calendar days where there are performance concerns raised by either the employee or the Company. Any employee who may otherwise have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer or permanent promotion shall thereupon revert to his formerj ob and shall be paid the rate which such employee would have been entitled to had such employee not vacated such formerjob. An employee may elect to return to his formerjob, after having accepted a permanent promotion, no more than once a year; should an employee elect to return to his former job, the Company shall, without having to re-post the resultant vacancy, attempt to fill such new vacancy from amongst those applicants who applied for the vacancy when it was first posted in accordance with sections 12.08 and 12.09 of this Agreement.
12.08 In all cases of promotions to fill vacancies (other than promotions outside the bargaining unit or promotions considered by the Company to be temporary only that is, 74
of between 3 work days and 60 calendar days) the Company shall consider the following two factors in determining which applicants are to be promoted:
(a)	seniority, and
(b)	the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the applicant to do the normal requirements of the job.
12.09 If factor (b) is to all intents and purposes relatively equal as between two or more applicants, their relative seniority shall govern. When considering the application of factor (b) to any applicant the Company shall not act unfairly or unreasonably.
In filling vacancies the Company shall give due preference to Article 12.07 (b), (c), and (d), however the Company shall not be confined to promoting or training any applicant if in the Company's view none of the applicants are qualified to perform the normal requirements of the job.
The Company shall inform, in writing, any unsuccessful candidate for a posted vacancy, who is senior to the candidate selected, the reasons why he was not selected to fill the vacancy.
75
12.10	If an Arbitrator or the Grievance Commissioner decides that the Company acted unfairly or unreasonably in considering the application of factor (b) pursuant to section 12.09, the Arbitrator or Grievance Commissioner shall fill the vacancy with the applicant having the most seniority if he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to do the job.
12.11	In considering promotions or transfers to fill vacancies of J.C. 3 or less, the Company shall disregard the experience gained by an employee on temporary promotions or transfers of 60 calendar days or less.
12.12	Any employee who fills a temporary vacancy shall, on its termination, revert to the job (if such job is still in existence) in which he last worked other than on a temporary basis.
12.13	(a) The Company may, notwithstanding
	section 12.07 of this Agreement, return at any time an individual to the bargaining unit as an employee provided he does not displace anyone. For the purposes of this sub-section 12.13 (a), the seniority of such individual at the time of re-entering the bargaining unit shall be the length of time he has
	76
previously been an employee in such bargaining unit. Thereafter, his seniority shall be determined in accordance with sub-section 12.02 (B) (ii).
(b)	An individual re-entering the bargaining unit shall return to the same j ob classification and rate that he held when he left and then section 12.16 shall apply. If his formerjob classification no longer exists then the individual shall reenter the bargaining unit at the samejob class and same rate as his former j ob classification and section 12.16 shall apply.
(c)	The Company may notwithstanding 12.07 of this Agreement place a newly hired employee with special skills not otherwise readily available in the bargaining unit provided he does not displace anyone. After being placed in the bargaining unit, seniority shall be determined in accordance with subsection 12.02 (B) (i). Prior to placing such new hire in the bargaining unit, the Company will meet first with the Union who must agree to such placement.
For the purposes of sections 12.02 and 12.13, the words ‘return’ and ‘re-enter’ are synonymous and refer to an employee who 77
was in the bargaining unit, left the bargaining unit and subsequently came back to a job in the bargaining unit.
12.14	An employee accepting a transfer or promotion to a job outside the bargaining unit or an individual transferred into the bargaining unit may return or be returned by the Company to his former job during the two months following such transfer or promotion. Such employee and any employee filling any vacancy created by such transfer or promotion shall revert to his formerjob classification.
12.15	(a) The Company may from time to time
designate to the Union, by notice in writing given prior to the designation, individuals who are to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capability for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company. The number of such designated individuals shall not exceed at any one time 2.5% or 7, whichever is the greater, of the employees in the bargaining unit except in the case of a reduction in the workforce of at least 2.5% of the employees in the bargaining unit at which time designated individuals would be removed from the bargaining 78
unit. The Company may promote and demote such individuals, engage, retain or dispense with the services of any such individual, and direct the efforts of such individuals from time to time free from any limitations set out in this Article.
The Company shall not designate an individual for the purpose of enabling him to qualify immediately for a job which is required to be posted within the bargaining unit.
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(a)	no such designated individual shall be assigned to take over the j ob occupied at the time by an employee and
(b)	no individual who is so designated shall be employed in any onejob for more than one year and may not be employed again in suchjob while designated during the twenty-four month period following the first period of designation.
Lay-off and Recall
12.16	In all cases of lay-offs and demotions due to a reduction in work force (other than layoffs and demotions of a temporary nature, i.e. having a duration of 2 weeks or less, or of an emergency nature), employees shall be 79
laid off or demoted in reverse order of their
seniority ranking provided
(a)	that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each job to meet the requirements of operations, and
(b)	an employee shall be considered for the firstjob he is able and willing to perform within his job class, and
(c)	an employee to be demoted shall be demoted to the first lower j ob that he is able and willing to perform, where possible in his department in his area, and
(d)	an employee demoted from his job shall, if he has less than 8 years of continuous service, be provided with an opportunity to be trained for a period not to exceed 30 working days on-the-job, in ajob reasonably related to the job from which he was demoted or in aj ob in his line of progression or in an entry level job, to which he is demoted.
(e)	an employee demoted from his j ob shall, if he has 8 or more years of continuous service, but less than 18 years of continuous service be provided with an opportunity to be trained for a period not
80
to exceed six months, in a j ob reasonably related to the job from which he was demoted or, to aj ob in his line of progression or in an entry level job, to which he is demoted.
(f)	an employee demoted from his j ob shall, if he has 18 or more years of continuous service, be provided with an opportunity to be trained for a period not to exceed 1 year, in a job reasonably related to the job from which he was demoted or, to a job in his line of progression or in an entry level job, to which he is demoted.
(g)	Where there are no technical assistant positions in the mine, instrumentation, geology, or met research lines of progression, the Company shall provide 1 training opportunity in each of the above lines of progression for employees who are entitled to 1 year training provided there is an employee junior to them in a technician's position in such line of progression at Job Class 5.
An employee utilizing this provision must continue to participate in and successfully complete the necessary academic and in-house training courses for the Technician I position.
81
(h)	In the case of layoffs, demotions or workforce reductions, employees temporarily assigned outside Sudbury will, for the purposes of this Article, be considered as being in their permanent occupation.
12.17	An employee who is temporarily transferred or demoted to another j ob due to a reduction in the work force during a vacation or production shutdown shall, on the termination of the temporary transfer or demotion, revert to the job in which he last worked prior to the commencement of the vacation or production shutdown provided it still exists and he does not displace anyone with greater seniority. If such job no longer exists such employee shall be returned to his former permanent job classification for the purpose of applying Article 12.16.
12.18	The Union and those employees concerned shall be given a list of the employees to be laid off 20 working days, wherever possible, prior to the date of such lay-off.
12.19	If an employee is laid off by the Company pursuant to section 12.16 and has the following years of seniority, he shall, during the period of time set opposite such years of seniority from the date of lay-off, have preferential rights (hereinafter called "recall
82
rights") for re-hiring in the event workers are required forjobs in the bargaining unit other than jobs of a temporary or emergency
nature:
Under one year's seniority......... 18 months
Over one year and up to three
years' seniority.............................36	months
Over three years' seniority and up
to four years' seniority.....................48	months
Over four years' seniority............60 months
However, when the Company requires any individuals for work of an emergency or temporary nature, it shall give any laid-off former employee an opportunity to do such work, consistent with the following provisions:
(a) Laid-off former employees required by the Company for work of an emergency or temporary nature who have informed the Company they are readily available, are readily available and can perform such work will, if the temporary or emergency work is to be for a period between three (3)work days and sixty (60) calendar days, be offered the work. When allocating 83
such work the Company will give preference to such aforementioned laid-off former employees who have the greatest seniority. Such laid-off former employees will not acquire any rights provided by the Collective Agreement except those rights to permanent rehire as set out in the relevant portions of sections 12.19, 12.20,12.21,12.22 and 12.23 and shall be subject to the dues check-off provisions of section 18.02,
The Company may attempt to contact laid off former employees by such method as may be reasonably available in the circumstances and shall confirm such contact by registered mail to the last address recorded with the Company to the senior of such laid off former employees who can perform such work.
1.	laid-off former employees who accept such offer of temporary or emergency work between three (3) work days and sixty (60) calendar days shall receive the current O.C.T. rate of pay for such work including COLA and vacation pay on a prorated basis.
84
(b) Laid-off former employees required by the Company for work of an emergency or temporary nature who have informed the Company they are readily available, are readily available and can perform such work, and who have the greatest seniority will, if the temporary or emergency work is to be for a period in excess of sixty (60) calendar days or longer:
1.	be employed by the Company for a duration of such temporary or emergency work only; on the expiry of the temporary or emergency work for which the laid-off former employee was required, he will revert to the status of a laid off former employee;
2.	receive the current O.C.T. rate of pay for such work including COLA, Holiday Pay, provided he meets the criteria established by section 9.02 of the Collective Agreement, and Vacation Pay on a prorated basis;
3.	receive O.C.T. benefits, including Casual Leave benefits;
85
4.	acquire no job posting rights nor transfer rights nor any rights as per section 12.16, but shall be subject to the dues check-off provisions of section 18.02;
5.	accumulate seniority and service while continuously performing the temporary or emergency work which is in excess of sixty (60) calendar days or longer.
Prior to being laid off, the Company will provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availability for such emergency or temporary work.
12.20	Those former employees laid-off whose
recall rights have not expired, who have the greatest seniority and who are able to perform the jobs available shall, as required by the Company, be sent a notice stating the nature of the job, the proposed time and place of hiring. Such notice shall be mailed by registered mail to each person addressed to the last address which he shall have recorded with the Company or by such other method as may be mutually agreed to between the Local Union and the Company.
86
The recalled employee must notify the Company of his intention to return to work within 10 calendar days of the date of the recall notice and must return to work within 30 calendar days of such date or make alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Company. No such recalled former employee shall be refused re-employment solely because of a medical, mental or physical condition which existed at the time he was laid off.
A former employee who refuses recall to a lower rate j ob will not, by reason thereof, lose his right to recall but will lose future claim in the current lay-off to the j ob which he has refused to accept.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of former employees who have refused permanent recall.
12.21	The former employees to whom such
notices are sent and who report ready for work at the time and place stated in the notice, shall be rehired in accordance with their respective seniority. The Company may fill any available jobs on a temporary basis pending the rehiring of those having recall rights. The Company shall not be required, however, to rehire at any time any former employee who shall have failed to 87
report for rehiring in accordance with and at the time stated in any such notice so sent to him.
12.22	If a recalled former employee prevented by sickness from reporting to work on the day specified in his notice notifies the Company in writing on or before such day he shall not, by reason of such inability to report to work, lose his recall rights.
12.23	Where a former employee, who has been laid off by the Company and still retains recall rights under the provisions of this Article, contends that his lay-off was in contravention of the provisions of this Agreement or that the Company's failure to recall or rehire him constitutes a contravention of this Agreement he shall be considered an aggrieved employee for the purpose of presenting and processing such contention under the provisions of Article 5 above.
In the event that it should be decided that a former employee's lay-off or the Company's failure to recall or rehire him was in contravention of the provisions of this Agreement and such former employee is not otherwise disqualified, the Company shall reinstate such former employee and pay full compensation at his regular salary for the 88
time lost. Upon such reinstatement there shall be deemed to have been no break in the employee's continuous service.
Article 13 - Wages
13.01	Effective 8 a m., February 28, 2001, the
Cost-of-Living Allowance of $0.53 per hour worked being paid on February 27, 2001, as an Allowance shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect. Such Allowance is included in the wage rates effective February 28, 2001, set out in Schedule "D" attached.
13.02	The wage rate scales shall be applied in accordance with the following:
(a)	If the Company demotes an employee into a lower Job Class or transfers an employee to the same Job Class he shall continue to be paid at the same rate he was receiving prior to such demotion or transfer or the rate of the class into which he was demoted or transferred, whichever is the lower.
(b)	If the employee, at his own request, is demoted into a lower or transferred within the same Job Class, he shall be paid at the rate of the Job Class into
89
which he is demoted or transferred.
(c)	In the event that the Company
determines to hire or pay any employee at a wage rate in excess of the standard rate for his job for reasons other than training, or due to technological change, or for reasons of accommodation due to Human Rights legislation or because their rate was red-circled through Joint Job Evaluation, then the Company shall increase the wage rate paid to every other employee then employed in such job by the amount of such excess over standard.
13.03	(a) An employee who is temporarily
assigned to do the work of another employee in a higher Job Class shall receive an increase equal to the rate of such higher Job Class, for work performed.
13.04	Cost of Living Allowance -3rd Year Only
A Cost-of-Living Allowance ("COLA") based on the Consumer Price Index (1986=100) (the "CPI") issued by Statistics Canada will, if applicable, be paid to each employee and calculated as hereinafter set out.
90
The COLA shall be computed using the CPI for December 2002 as the base CPI, The first COLA will use the difference between the base CPI and the first Comparison Month, which will be the month of March 2003. A one (1) cent adjustment (the adjustment) shall become payable for each .084 change in the CPI.
The first COLA adjustment is payable the pay period immediately following the publication of the CPI for the month of March 2003. Subsequent COLA payments will be according to the following schedule using the following Comparison Periods:
ADJUSTMENT DATES ©NJEBEMMT BAYES PBRKDQD: eiRSJRM^ER PUMOOAMOWOETHK EBEMXRATION OF THE	COMPARISON PERIODS USfMPMR EFirf ©RR K) I) S USE THE CPI FOR:
March 2003	December 2002 -March2003
June 2003	March 2003 - June 2003
September 2003	June 2003 - September 2003
December 2003	SeDtember 2003-December2003
The COLA will not form part of the base wage but will be calculated as a float and paid in addition to the base wage. A
91
decline in the CPI will reduce the float but will not affect the base wage for each hour worked at regular rates.
Effective the date of February 28,2004, or the start of the pay period immediately preceding February 28th, 2004 the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the December, 2003 Index and being paid on February 27th, 2004 shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made as a result of any revision which subsequently may be made in any Consumer Price Index.
The continuance of the adjustment shall depend upon the availability of the CPI calculated on its present basis and in its present form. In the event the CPI is not so available the parties shall mutually agree to an alternative equitable arrangement.
92
Article 14 - Job Evaluation
14.01	The Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program for Office, Clerical and Technical jobs dated March 1, 1995 (hereafter referred to as 'The Program') is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix A and i(s provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein.
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this Agreement with respect to administration of the Program, the provisions of the Program shall prevail.
Each employee'sjob shall be described and classified and a rate of pay applied to such employee in accordance with the provisions of the Program.
14.02	Except as otherwise provided, no basis shall exist for an employee to allege that a wage rate inequity exists and no grievance on behalf of an employee alleging a wage rate inequity shall be filed or processed during the term of this Agreement.
14.03	A list of job titles and job classes of all jobs performed by employees in the bargaining
93
unit is incorporated into this Agreement as Schedule "E".
14.04	The Company will furnish to the Union a list of all incumbents who are red-circled. Such a list will contain the following:
(a)	Name of employee
(b)	Job title
(c)	Job class
(d)	Weekly wage rate
(e)	Amount of red-circle differential as of March 1,2001
(f)	Applicable progressive rate at which red-circle differential applies.
14.05	Except as such red-circle differential may be changed as contemplated by section 14.11, any employee included in the list referred to in section 14.04 above shall continue to be paid during the currency of this Agreement such red-circle differential for such time as the employee is assigned to the applicable level of the job for which the red-circle differential was established.
94
14.06	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is promoted to a job of higher
j ob class, a new red-circle differential shall be established if the employee is assigned to an applicable rate level which is less than his current rate.
14.07	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is demoted to aj ob of lowerj ob class, payment of his differential shall be terminated.
14.08	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is transferred, at the request of the Company, to anotherj ob in the samej ob class, there shall be no change in his differential except as provided in section 14.11.
14.09	If such employee referred to in section 14.06, 14.07 or 14.08 is returned to the job for which the red-circle differential was established, the red-circle differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by the provisions of section 14.11.
14.10	The progression from one rate to a higher rate classification on a given j ob shall operate to reduce the red-circle differential by the amount of the progressional increase or to eliminate such differential if it is less
95
than the amount of the progressional increase.
14.11	In addition to other means provided in this Agreement, increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate red-circle differential.
Where the parties agree to across-the-board or percentage increases, employees receiving a red-circle differential will be entitled to the across-the-board or percentage increase in the first year of an agreement; however, any subsequent across-the-board increases will be withheld and will be used to reduce or eliminate the amount of the red-circle differential.
14.12	If during the currency of this Agreement a job is reclassified downward, the incumbent employee's wage rate at the time of such reclassification while he remains in such job shall be held constant ("red-circled") and shall remain so until the new standard rate becomes greater than such wage rate, at which time he shall receive the new standard rate. Subject to the foregoing sentence, the provisions of sections 14.05 to 14.11, inclusive, shall apply to such red-circled jobs and to any red-circled differential being paid in connection therewith.
96
14.13	Direction of Others
	When an employee is temporarily assigned to exercise direction over another employee or employees in his own job class or higher, or is temporarily assigned to exercise direction over individuals or contractors, he will be paid a directional difference of two job classes above his own job class.
	An employee training another employee for replacement on his own job shall not be considered as exercising direction; ordinary communication and requests for cooperation shall not be construed to be direction.
Article 15 - Pension Plan and Welfare Benefits 15.01 The employees shall continue to receive the benefits provided under the Company's Office, Clerical and Technical Workers' Pension Plan (District of Sudbury), Appendix "A" hereto and the Plan shall form part of this collective agreement.	
15.02	Should any difference arise between the Company or any of the employees or between the Company and the Local Union
	97
as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of the aforesaid Pension Plan, such difference shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure set out in Article 5 including arbitration.
15.03	(a) All employees who have completed
their probationary period shall be entitled to the benefits of the following, all subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Article, in any insurance policy issued in respect thereof and in the Plan or program itself or any successor thereof:
(i)	Supplementary (semi-private)
(ii)	Prescription Drugs (35 cent deductible)
Only drugs approved by the Ontario Drug Plan will be added to the coverage list. Lifestyle drugs e.g., the "patch" and similar items are limited to once every five years.
Generic drugs are required to be substituted wherever possible.
Falconbridge will reimburse the cost, upon furnishing receipt, of drugs that were not on 98
the Ontario Drug Benefit (ODB) plan at the time of purchase but have since been added since the time of purchase.
Reimbursements will be payable for drugs purchased during the period 3 years immediately prior to the addition of the drug to the ODB plan. If a prescribed drug has not been added to the ODB but is considered to be medically necessary in life threatening or life sustaining situations or in cases of terminal illness and cannot be adequately substituted by a drug on the ODB, these situations will be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine eligibility for reimbursement.
(iii)	Group Life Insurance Plan with coverage in an amount equal to one and one-half times annual wage rounded up to next $ 1,000, with Accidental Death and Dismemberment in like amount;
(iv)	If the Company requests an employee to take a medical that is not covered by OHIP, the company will reimburse the employee for the cost.
(v)	Wage Continuance Program;
99
(vi)	Effective the first of the month following ratification by the Union members Basic Dental Plan with first dollar coverage, the benefits of which shall be based on the 2000 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule and maintain a one year lag thereafter.
The purchase of dentures and bridges subject to a 50% coinsurance.
(vii)	Major Medical Plan including Vision Care Plan
Effective the first of the month following the date of ratification the Major Medical Plan includes doctor prescribed hearing aids to a lifetime maximum of $400.00. The Plan will also provide hospital and medical expenses outside of Ontario not paid by OHIP, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Plan, in any insurance policy issued in respect thereof and in the Plan or program itself or any successor thereof.
The service of chiropractors and 100
physiotherapists to be covered to a maximum of $400,00 per family member for active employees.
(viii)	The Vision Care Plan will provide payment to a maximum of $250.00, not more than once every two years per family member, toward the cost of prescription glasses, including frames and lenses, or contact lenses.
(ix)	The Company will proceed with Positive Enrolment and Coordination of Benefits process for all applicable benefits for all active and retired employees.
If an employee successfully completes his probationary period he shall be reimbursed for all such premiums as he may have paid.
In any case where Government sponsored Plans become available in whole or in part as substitutes for any of the above plans, the Company’s obligation regarding premium costs shall be accordingly changed.
101
15.03 (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, student employees who have completed their probationary period are entitled only to:
(j)	OHIP if not covered by their parent's or spouse's plan or to the extent not eligible for premium assistance;
(ii)	Group Life Insurance Plan with coverage in an amount equal to annual wage rounded up to next
$ 1,000, with Accidental Death and Dismemberment in like amount;
(iii)	Wage Continuance Program benefits for a period not in excess of52 weeks.
If a student employee successfully completes his probationary period he shall be reimbursed for all such premiums as he may have paid.
(iv)	The Company will extend coverage to the sons and daughters of employees in full time attendance at college and university under the age of 25 years for Semi-Private Hospitalization, Major Medical Plan, Vision Care Plan, Drug Plan
102
and Dental Plan.
(c)	Employees who retire as well as current retirees and survivors will be provided with Life Insurance in the amount of $6,000.
(d)	The Company will pay the premiums of the Global Medical Assistance Program (MEDEX) for employees and retirees.
(e)	The Company shall pay 100% of the premiums and costs of the plans and program set out in clauses (a), (b) and (c) during the currency of this Agreement.
In all cases where Government sponsored Plans become available as substitutes in whole or in part for any of such plans or programs, the Company's obligation regarding premium or other costs shall be accordingly changed.
Article 16 - Technological Change
16.01 The Company and Union recognize the importance of lessening the effect of technological change upon the job security
103
and the earnings of any employee who may be demoted from his regular job as a result of such change.
Technological change means the automation of equipment or the mechanization or automation of operations or changes in computer applications or introduction of new equipment which directly results in the manner in which the Company carries out its work. Technological change may occur incrementally; however, such incremental changes may, over time, result in a change in the manner in which the Company carries out its work.
If technological changes are introduced which result directly in the demotion of an employee, the wage rate of such employee, if he has at least 5 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent 12 months and if he has at least 10 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent 24 months and if he has at least 20 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent 36 months and thereafter such wage rate shall not be reduced by more than one job class or, the Company shall not reduce the employee's rate of pay until the number of months 104
lapsed from the date of such technological changes are equivalent to the employee's continuous service, whichever is greater. This provision shall not apply in the case of demotions resulting from reasons other than technological change.
If the introduction of the foregoing technological change results in the subsequent demotion of any other employee, the rate of pay of such employee, if he has at least 5 years of continuous service at the date of the demotion, shall not be reduced during the subsequent year and thereafter shall not be reduced by more than one job class in any succeeding year up to a maximum of three years from the date of demotion. It is a condition of this section that any such employee:
(a)	shall accept any training in anyj ob classification which is offered to him by the Company unless there are reasonable grounds for his declining and such training shall be offered with due preference to seniority;
(b)	will be deemed to be an applicant for any j ob vacancy which is posted in his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the rate of his actual job classification at the time of posting and
105
if he is named as the successful applicant for any such job and refuses to accept the promotion, he shall cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section;
(c)	if he applies pursuant to section 12.07 of this agreement for transfer to ajob in a lower job classification and he is transferred as a result of his request, he shall cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section.
If such technological changes are to be introduced, the Company will notify the Local Union, as far in advance as possible but at least 90 days prior to the proposed date of introduction, of the nature of the change, the proposed date of introduction of the change and the number and classification of employees likely so to be affected.
The Company will provide such reasonable amount of on-the-job training which shall be not less than 6 months provided training is required, at its expense, where necessary, as will enable an employee affected by such change to acquire the necessary knowledge or skill to retain his job or as will enable any such employee to fill a 106
job, reasonably related to the job from which he has been demoted, in the j ob class level to which he has been demoted or in an entry level job, in accordance with his seniority rights. Any such demotion shall be made using the procedures set out in section 12.16 of this Agreement.
16.02 The Company and Union shall form a Joint Technological Change Committee consisting of not more than two employees from the Union with whom the Company will discuss technological changes which result in the demotion of an employee. Time off work to attend meetings with the Company to discuss technological changes will be without loss in pay.
The Joint Committee will discuss the effects the change may be expected to have on employees.
Article 17 - Safety and Health
The Company and Union share a mutual concern for the safety and health of employees and recognize that this concern can best be expressed by a joint and mutual effort.
107
The parties agree that if at any time during the currency of this Agreement either of the parties wishes to discuss improvement of Safety and Health programs including the structure or function of Safety and Health Committees, the parties will meet to consider any changes that may be appropriate.
17.01 To direct ourjoint and mutual efforts the Company and Union shall form the following committees:
(a)	The Sudbury District Safety and Health Committee may meet annually, or at the request of either party. The Committee will be responsible for:
(i)	communicating policy and reviewing District-wide programs of accident prevention and occupational health as it relates to employees;
(ii)	reviewing and evaluating effectiveness of Business Unit programs;
(iii)	to discuss other issues of mutual concern
Union Membership
Local Union Unit Chair 108
Union Safety and Health Chairman Union Safety and Health Business Unit Co- Chairman (3)
An International Representative of the Union
Company Membership
Business Unit Co Chairs (3)
Business Unit Senior Safety Representatives
As necessary, designees may be appointed to attend Committee meetings.
(b)	Safety and Health Business Unit Committees
There shall be three Safety and Health Business Unit Committees comprising employees of their respective Business Units
|(i) Sudbury Smelter Business Unit Safety and Health Committee will consist of two Local Union representatives and two Company representatives
GO Mine/Mill Business Unit Safety and Health Committee will consist of one Local Union representative and one Company 109
representative from each of the six (6) operating sites
(iii) Falconbridge Technology Centre Business Unit Safety and Health Committee will consist of two Local Union representatives and two Company representatives
Each Business Unit must have one Union and one Company certified member.
Where mutually agreed upon, membership at a Business Unit Company-Union Safety and Health Committee may be changed in order to meet scheduling problems.
Each Business Unit Committee will meet monthly, or at other times if mutually agreed to by the parties.
These committees will be responsible for:
(i)	implementing District Committee programs;
(ii)	determining Business Unit programs;
(iii)	reviewing and evaluating Business Unit programs;
(iv)	resolving Business Unit problems;
(v)	inspecting and reporting on its respective site
110
The Committee for such inspections shall consist of:
One site Local Union representative and one site Company representative. In
addition, at the request of the District Union Safety and Health Chairman, he and/or an employee with special knowledge on a specific problem may also join the inspection.
Each Business Unit Inspection Committee will inspect each site on a monthly basis. It may not be practical for a Site Inspection Committee to inspect monthly and in such cases the Site Inspection Committee will determine its meeting schedule.
It is understood that the focus of the Site Inspection Committee shall be those areas of the Company where the primary responsibility for the safety condition of the workplace rests with O.C.T. employees. Nothing herein shall be inferred to prohibit the Site Inspection Committee from investigating any work location raised as a concern by an affected O.C.T. employee.
The inspecting committee will, following the physical inspection, discuss its findings and mutually concur on the report.
(c)	Each of the Local Union and the
Company will select a Co-chairman for each Business Unit Committee. Each 111
Co-chairman will provide an agenda for each meeting and act as chairman of alternate meetings.
(d)	No member of any of the safety committees set out in (a) and (b) above shall suffer any loss of pay as a result of their absence from work while attending meetings of such committees.
(e)	The Company will pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current rates to a member of the Sudbury District Safety & Health Committee or Business Unit Committee who is required to use his personal transportation to travel to any meeting of such Sudbury District Safety & Health Committee or Business Unit Committee. The travel allowance payable will be one-way trip only from his permanent work location to the location of the meeting should the employee not return to work after the meeting. If the employee does return to his permanent work location after the meeting, he will be paid a return trip travel allowance from his permanent work location to the location of the meeting.
112
17.02	The existing safety devices and practices of the Company for the purposes of protecting employees from injury, accidents and unhealthful conditions of work during their working hours shall be continued subject to change as the Company may from time to time determine to be advisable. Each employee has the right and obligation to report unsafe conditions and practices to his immediate supervisor.
17.03	The Company shall provide the Union Cochairmen of the Business Unit Safety and Health Committees each with a copy of the monthly list of accidents including noninjury accidents involving employees and lists of employees applying for Workers Safety Insurance (WSIB).
17.04	The Local Union Unit Chair or his designee shall be notified as soon as possible of any fatal accident involving an employee in order that the Unit Chair or his designee may be accompanied to the site of such accident.
17.05	If new Ontario Government legislation is promulgated that effects this Article 17, Safety and Health, the parties will meet to implement any changes as required by such legislation, provided however that such changes do not result in the duplication of
	113
existing procedures agreed to by the parties.
17.06	The Company will grant three days’ leave with pay per month to the Union Safety and Health Chairman, or his designee, to serve Local Union purposes for the direct interest of the employees at the Company’s Business Units (i.e. attending monthly JHSC Business Unit meetings, if requested by either party).
17.07	Right to Refuse to Perform Unsafe Work
The Company confirms that it will continue its existing policy with respect to the right of an employee to refuse to perform unsafe work.
If the employee has reason to believe that any work, workplace, equipment or machinery is likely to cause a danger to himself or another worker, the employee has a right to refuse to perform the work or operate the equipment or machinery.
An employee shall not be disciplined or suspended without pay for exercising such right.
114
Article 18 Union Security
18.01	The Company shall during the life of this Agreement deduct as a condition of each employee's continued employment, from the pay cheque due in each pay period to each such employee, a sum equal to Union dues in the amount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union Constitution and remit the same prior to the 10th day of the month following the month in which such deductions are made, to the International Treasurer of the Union. The Company shall, at the time of making each such payment to the International Treasurer of the Union, name the employees from whose pay such payments have been deducted.
18.02	The following shall govern the deduction of dues in any pay period from the pay of anyone transferred to or out of the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement: the amount of Union dues paid by an employee shall be pro rated based on the time spent in the bargaining unit during the pay period.
115
Article 19 - General	
19.01	There shall be no solicitations of membership in any union organization or collection of union dues or any union activity in any of the Company's buildings or anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and the Plants. This clause shall not be construed to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
19.02	The Company shall provide the Union with adequate bulletin boards in prominent places for the posting of Union notices and bulletins approved in advance by the Company.
19.03	Subject to 19.02, and with prior approval of the Company, bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills or other documents may be posted or distributed within any Company building or anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Offices, Mines and Plants of the Company by the Union or by any employee.
	116
19.04	The Company agrees that meetings every six months between members of the Union executive and a Union Staff Representative and top members of local management, including the General Manager, would be beneficial to the betterment of the relationship between the parties. The Company will grant time off without loss in pay for those members of the Union Executive to attend the meeting and such time off will be considered as time worked.
19.05	Humanity Fund
The Company will deduct monthly, from each employee an amount of 1 cent for every hour worked and will remit the amounts deducted to the Union. No deductions will be made from employees who opt out of contributing to the fund when the Union informs the Company of such opting out. The Company will provide the Union with information on hours worked and total deductions.
117
Education Fund
19.06
Each quarter, the Company will pay $0.02 per hour for all regular hours worked by employees in the Bargaining Unit and will provide a record of hours worked.
19.07	Nickel Price Bonus
The Company will pay quarterly, a nickel price bonus based on hours worked provided the Company is profitable. The nickel bonus is based on average price realized for sales of refined nickel in all forms for the quarter using the formula wherein the price received of $2.25 US per pound provides 10 cents Canadian per hour and every one cent US per pound increase provides one cent Canadian per hour.
Profitability of the Company is the consolidated earnings in the period before extraordinary items.
118
The following table illustrates the nickel bonus in cents per hour Canadian that will be generated by the selling price expressed in US dollars per pound:
SELLING PRICE (US $)
2.25
2.50
2.75
3.00
3.25
3.50
3.75
4.00
4.25
4.50
4.75
5.00
CENTS/HOUR
(CANADIAN)
0.10
0.35
0.60
0.85
1.10
1.35
1.60
1.85
2.10
2.35
2.60
2.85
SELLING PRICE (US $)
5.25
5.50
5.75
6.00
6.25
6.50
6.75
7.00
7.25
7.50
7.75
8.00
CENTS/HOUf
(CANADIAN:
3.10
3.35
3.60
3.85
4.10
4.35
4.60
4.85
5.10
5.35
5.60
5.85
119
The Company agrees to pay the nickel bonus to employees who are absent from work but are nevertheless paid and such time is considered as time worked, e.g. leave for stewards time off, Pay Equity, Joint Job Evaluation, Safety and Health, Local Union Unit Chair's leave under section 11.11, etc.
Article 20 - Further Conferences
20.01 Either party to this Agreement may require the other party to enter into negotiations €Or the renewal of this Agreement on 10 clear days notice given to the other party within the period of 3 months immediately prior to its expiry date. Such negotiations shall be held at Sudbury, Ontario.
120
Article 21 - Termination
21.01 This Agreement shall become effective at 8 a.m. on February 28,2001, following the ratification by the Union members of the terms of the Company's offer dated February 22,2001, unless expressly stated herein to the contrary, and shall terminate at 8 a.m. on the 28th day of February 2004.
Any provisions of this Agreement altering the provisions of the Agreement dated February 28,1998, shall not become effective until the day after the date of ratification, unless so stated herein.
121
DATEDAT SUDBURY, ONTARIO this 22nd DAY of FEBRUARY, 2001
Falconbridge Limited
/ Myles Sullivan
Schedule "A'
Classification of Employees Excluded from the Bargaining Unit
1.	Senior Surveyors
2.	Employees in the Personnel Department
3.	Employees in the Industrial Relations Department
4.	All Secretaries in the Division Office of the Edison Building
5.	Control Assistant to Management
6.	Property Agent Sudbury
7.	Historian
8.	Professional Engineers
9.	Secretaries to the Manager, Assistant Managers, Chief Accountant and General Superintendents
10 One Secretary or Clerk selected by the Company in each of the Falconbridge Mines Department, the Falconbridge Services Department, the Onaping General Office, the Strathcona Mines Department, the Falconbridge Plants Office, the Fecunis Building
11.	Storekeeper at Falconbridge
12.	Plants Office Supervisor
13.	Accountant, Sudbury Operations
14.	Stores Accountant
15.	Work Study Leaders
122
Schedule "B”- Rules Governing
Proceedings of Grievance Commissioner
1.	The parties when referring a grievance or direct difference to the Grievance Commissioner shall also provide him with a summary of the facts agreed to or in dispute, the respective positions of the parties and, in the case of a grievance, the written grievance at Stage Two and the decision of the management representative at Stage Two or, in the case of a direct difference, the written notice specifying the complaint and the written reply.
2.	The parties shall supply the Grievance Commissioner and each other with additional concise and brief written representations on which they intend to reply provided that such are mailed not less than ten working days before the commencement of the hearings of the Grievance Commissioner.
3.	The purpose of the hearing is to cLarify the issues or facts in dispute. At the hearing the parties may make such further representations or adduce such evidence as the Grievance Commissioner may permit or require, but the Grievance Commissioner shall not be obligated to conform to the rules of evidence.
123
4.	The Grievance Commissioner must render his decision in writing without reasons to both parties within ten working days of the conclusion of the hearings. Upon request by either party after his decision has been rendered the Grievance Commissioner shall deliver brief reasons, but such reasons shall not form part of his decision.
124
Schedule "C"- Rules of Arbitration
1.	Arbitration shall be heard at a place mutually agreed upon, and in default of agreement at Falconbridge, Ontario.
2.	In any arbitration the written representation of the employee made at Stage Two and the decision, if any, of the Company at Stage Two of the grievance procedure (or in the case of a difference directly between the Company and the Union the written submission by the party initiating the discussion of the difference and the written reply, if any, thereto of the other party) shall be presented to the arbitrator and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
3.	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled through counsel or otherwise to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party and to present oral arguments. Briefs of argument may be presented by each party and each party shall be entitled to reply to the brief of argument presented by the other. If briefs are to be filed, such briefs and replies, if any, shall be filed within such times as may be specified by the arbitrators. A copy of any brief or reply shall be delivered to the other party forthwith after
125
filing.
4.	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
5.	Each party shall pay one-half the fees and disbursements of the Arbitrator thereof.
6.	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
7.	The award of the arbitrator shall be given within a period of 15 working days after the close of the hearings.
126
Schedule “D” - Wage Table
SCHEDULE"D"
WAGE TABLE
EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY28, 2001 WITH $0.53 COLA ROLL-IN AND 3% NEWWAGES
JOB
CLASS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
EFFECTIVE MARCH 1,2001
$889.84
$914.61
$938.93
$963.25
$988.02
$1,012.34
$1,037.11
$1,061.42
$1,086.19
$1,110.50
$1,135.28
$1,159.58
$1,184.37
$1,208.67
127
SCHEDULE"D"
WAGE TABLE
EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY28, 2002 WITH 2% NEW WAGES
EFFECTIVE
JOB
CLASS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
MARCH 1,2002
$907.63
$932.90
$957.71
$982.51
$1,007.78
$1,032.58
$1,057.85
$1,082.64
$1,107.91
$1,132.71
$1,157.98
$1,182.78
$1,208.05
$1,232.85
128
Schedule “E”- Job Titles and Classifications
Job Class
2
3
4
Occupation Title
Word Processing Operator I Receptionist/Telephone Operator Warehouseman I
Word Processing Operator II Technical Asst-Analytical Lab Warehouseman II
Department Clerk Planning Clerk Operations Data Clerk Industrial Engineering Clerk Claims Management Assistant Engineering Clerk Purchasing/Traffic Clerk Geology Clerk
129
Job Class
5
6
Occupation Title
Loss Control Analyst Librarian Plants Clerk Expeditor
First Aid Attendant/Security Accounts Payable/Payroll Clerk
Technician IMTC Technician I Instrumentation Technician I Geology Job Class Occupation Title
Plants Clerk Planning Clerk Leader Maintenance Clerk Stores Ledgerkeeper Chemist I
Tech I Mine Engineering
Warehouseman III
Payroll Clerk II
Support Technician Geology
Mill Clerk
Exploration Support
Technician
130
Job Class 8
Occupation Title
Jr Financial Accountant Senior First Aid Attendant Technician II Smelter Technician II MTC Technician II Instrumentation Technician 11-Custom Feed Geologist I Technician II Mill Environment Maintenance Planner
Technician III(Met Projects) Buyer
Draftsman II
Smelter Hygiene Technician Ventilation Technician III Cost Analyst
Technician III Environment Chemist II
Techlii Ventilation(Mines) Production Analyst Mill Material Coordinator Chemist II
131
Job Class
Occupation Title
10	Tech II Mine Engineering Technician IV MTC Technician IV Instrumentation Technician IV Custom Feed Tech Iv Industrial Engineering Loss Control Technician Field Surveyor
Smelter Environmental Tech
11	Mine Systems Technologist Work Environment Technologist
Geologist II
Contract Admin Custom Feed Project Planner Sr Financial Accountant Plants Chief Clerk Assistant Paymaster Occ Hygiene - Technologist TechIV-MTC Tech IV - Equipment Chemist III
132
Job Class	Occupation Title
12	Technologist MTC Technologist-Mine Engineering Technologist-Instrumentation Technologist-Custom Feed Design Draftsman Technologist-Mine Eng Services Geologist III Technologist-Electrical Systems Analyst II Technologist-Construction Network Analyst
14	Chief Draftsman Local Union Unit Chair
• These classifications do not reflect Pay Equity Adjustments, which will remain in effect.
133
Schedule ”Q" - Letters
February 22,2001
Pat Dopson Unit Chair
United Steelworkers of America Uocal 2020, Unit 6855 92 Frood Road Sudbury, ON P3C 4Z4
Dear Pat:
Listed below are the letters to be printed in the Collective Agreement. The Company agrees that the matters set out below will be adhered to during the currency of this Collective Agreement.
I	Hot Meals
II	Transportation
III	Pre Christmas Time Off
IV	Employees Off Work After 104	Weeks	of
Wage Continuance Program Benefits and Workers' Compensation Benefits
V	Contracting Out
VI	Voluntary Termination of Employment	Plan
(VTEP)
134
VII	Estoppel
VIII	Pension Plan
IX	Equipment
X	Rest Periods
XI	Shift Limit Times
XII	Welfare Benefits For Pensioners
XIII	Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program
XIV	Service
XV	Leave of Absence for Political Office
XVI	Payment for Union Representatives' Time to Attend Company/Union Meetings
XVII	Travel Allowance
XVIII	Working Days
XIX	Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive
XX	Video Display Terminal Operators
XXI	Christmas Gift
XXII	Tests
XXIII	Overtime List (12.06(b)
XXIV	Job Evaluation Committee
XXV	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit
XXVI	Normal Requirements of the Job
XXVII	Temporary Assignments Outside of Sudbury District.
XXVIII	Temporary Employees Yours truly
L. Horner
Manager Human Resources
135
I
Hot Meals
If an employee is requested to work overtime in excess of one hour immediately after his shift he shall be allowed one-half hour at normal meal time for a hot meal which the Company will provide, if practicable. If it is not practicable to provide a hot meal the Company will provide a cold meal. Every 4 hours thereafter the Company will supply a lunch and hot beverage. Time allowed to eat a meal or lunch shall be considered as time worked.
II	Transportation
If the Company requires an employee to come in prior to his regular starting time, to remain on the job after his regular quitting time or calls him out to work at a time other than his scheduled working time and such employee is unable to provide his own transportation, the Company shall provide him with the requisite transportation.
III	Pre-Christmas Time Off
The Company will grant all employees (except those whom the Company requires to remain at their jobs such as First Aid Attendants and Safety Inspectors) time off from 2 p.m. on the day before Christmas 136
without any loss in pay. Where Christmas falls on a Sunday or Monday the time off will be on the immediately preceding Friday.
IV	Employees Off Work After 104 Weeks of
Wage Continuance Program Benefits and Workers' Compensation Benefits
With respect to the concerns the Company and Union have about employees off work in excess of 104 weeks and in an endeavour to return such employees to work or otherwise provide meaningful work, the following sets out our understanding of the agreement which we have reached today with you concerning the foregoing:
1.	Following at least 104 weeks during which an employee is in receipt of benefits under the Company's Wage Continuance Program or Workers' Compensation Benefits, the Company will place such employee on the inactive employee list.
2,	(a) An employee on the inactive
employee list who, in the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner, becomes fit to return to his regular full duty job, provided it then exists, shall 137
present himself to the Company's medical director or his designee who, if he concurs with the other medical opinion, shall arrange with Personnel to have the employee return to such job or to another job for which he is qualified by using the provisions of section 12.17.
Should the Company's medical director or his designee not concur with the other medical opinion the Medical Director may request an independent medical opinion from another physician.
(b) In the event such an employee is unable to return to his regular employment but is able to return to employment, the Company will endeavour to provide such employee with work he is able to perform.
3.	(a) Subject to the provisions in article
1.22(c)(iv) of the O.C.T. Pension Plan Document, individuals in receipt of Long Term Disability or Workers' Safety Insurance (WSIB) in excess of 104 weeks will receive continuous service (as defined in section 12.02(b) of the collective agreement except as part (iv)
138
thereof is modified by the provisions herein contained) for pension purposes up until either their return to work or their date of retirement.
(b) Article 1.22(c)(iv) of the O.C.T. Pension Document will be amended in accordance with the above point #3(a).
4.	The Company will pay the cost of the premiums for the Dental Plan, the Drug Plan, Semi-Private Hospitalization and Group Life Insurance for all employees then in receipt of Long Term Disability benefits or Workers' Safety Insurance (WSIB).
5.	An employee on the inactive list may grieve only on matters relating to his return to work; his entitlement to benefits under section (4) above; seniority, other than forjob posting; demotions and layoffs which occurred during his time on the inactive list which affected him; the termination of his employment; pension calculations.
6.	Employees placed on the inactive list after 104 weeks of Wage Continuance Program benefits will no longer have
139
vacation pay off-set from Long Term Disability earnings.
V	Contracting Out
In order to minimize the contracting out of work which could be done by employees of the bargaining unit the Company agrees to recall former employees with recall rights and to promote employees who have been demoted before contracting out work of a duration of 14 days or longer.
The Company commits to the Union that apart from the design and construction phase of major capital projects when the Company is expanding its operations, it will ensure to have work normally performed by bargaining unit employees performed by them and will post vacancies as required. If there are no successful candidates for the postings, the Company will hire new employees into the bargaining unit to do the work.
It is understood that if there is no satisfactory qualified person available for hire, the Company may contract out work until it can hire a new employee. Where the Company hires a contractor to perform such work it will deduct dues from the contractor and submit them to the Union.
140
VI	Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP)
Employees with 10 or more years seniority who have been permanently laid off and retain recall rights will have the option to terminate employment and receive a VTEP payment.
The VTEP payment will be based on years of seniority as of the last day worked.
The VTEP payment will be reduced by any legislated separation or severance payments.
VII	Estoppel
The Company will not use Article 12.03 (e) of the Collective Agreement to register a preliminary objection of estoppel in an arbitration case regarding the termination of an employee on the inactive list covered by Letter #4, Schedule Q.
141
Note: (The provisions of item I to VII both inclusive, shall be subject to the grievance procedure, including arbitration, of the Collective Agreement.)
VIII	Pension Plan
The Parties agree that the pension Plan will be revised to reflect the changes agreed upon during negotiations as outlined in Appendix "A". The Parties agree that in the event the Plan is not registrable with either the Ministry of National Revenue or the Pension Commission of Ontario, they will meet to negotiate a revision to the Plan, the terms of which will enable the Plan to be accepted again by the Minister or the Commission or both, for registration for the purposes of the Income Tax Act of Canada or the Pension Benefits Act.
Appendix "A"
Pension Improvements
Articles:
1.22 Amend to reflect changes to Schedule Q Letter IV.
6.3 If a member retires on or after
January 1, 1992 and has an eligible 142
	spouse on his retirement date, the pension shall be paid for a minimum of 5 years and as long thereafter as the member survives, with 66-2/3 percent payable to the surviving spouse.
9.	If a member dies on or after June 1, 1992 his surviving spouse shall be entitled to receive a death benefit equal to the commuted value of the pension accumulated by the member or a monthly pension payable for life in an amount equal to the 66-2/3 percent of the pension accumulated by the member, whichever is greater.
10.	Indexing Reserve
	During the life of this Agreement, should the indexing Reserve be insufficient to provide for the full 75% indexing of benefits under the plan, the Company will pay the difference to the retirees and survivors out of its general revenues.
12.	The Company will amend Section 12.1 to read February 28, 1995.
	143
IX	Equipment
Drafting and surveying equipment shall be issued by the Company where required. Similar equipment and tools supplied by the Company to members of its Electrical Department will also be supplied to employees in the Instrumentation Department. The employee shall be responsible for maintaining and returning such equipment to the Company in reasonable condition.
X	Rest Periods
It is the Company's policy that employees should, where practicable, have morning and afternoon rest periods not to exceed 15 minutes away from their place of work.
XI	Shift Limit Times
For the purpose of section 8.04, the day shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 5:00 a.m. and before 1:00 p.m.; the afternoon shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 1:00 p.m. and before 6:00 p.m.; the evening shift shall be considered any shift that commences at or after 6:00 p.m. and before 11:00 p.m.; and the night shift shall be considered any shift that commences at 144
or after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m.
XII	Welfare Benefits For Pensioners
The Company will provide coverage for all retirees and for those surviving spouses (as defined in the Pension Plan) of pensioners as follows:
(j) the 35 cent deductible Drug Plan and effective date of ratification and thereafter, Falconbridge will reimburse the cost, upon furnishing receipt, of drugs that were not on the Ontario Drug Benefit (ODB) plan at the time of purchase but have been added since the time of purchase. Reimbursements will be payable for drugs purchased during the period 3 years immediately prior to the addition of the drug to the ODB plan. If a prescribed drug has not been added to the ODB but is considered to be medically necessary in life threatening or life sustaining situations or in cases of terminal illness and cannot be adequately substituted by a drug on the ODB, theses situations will be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine eligibility for reimbursement.
(ii)	The Vision Care Plan which provides $250 every two years.
145
(iii)	The 2000 Ontario Dental Association Bundled Fee Guide will be in effect, with a 1 year lag maintained thereafter.
(iv)	Life Insurance in the amount of $6,000 for both the retired member and their spouse
(v)	Hearing Care Program which provides a lifetime payment of $400.00 to cover hearing aids as prescribed,
(vi)	Semi-private Hospitalization Plan
(v)	Global Medical Assistance Program (Medex)
(vi)	Out-of-Province/Country
(vii)	Christmas Gift of $100.00
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such drug Plan is incorporated into OHIP or Pre-Paid Drugs, or Semi-private ffospitalization are added to OHIP, or if the premiums for OHIP and for the SemiPrivate Hospitalization Plan and/or the Drug Plan are reduced or abolished then the Company's obligation to any pensioner or surviving spouse with respect thereto shall be thereupon terminated and, notwithstanding any legislation to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to pay an amount equal to the whole or any part of the premiums for OHIP and/or such Drug Plan and for such	Semi-private
Hospitalization Plan to or for the benefit of any
146
pensioner or any surviving spouse thereof.
XIII	Alcohol and Drug Abuse Program
This will confirm the Company and Union's intention to continue the Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Program at Sudbury Operations.
The Company and Union believe that by recognizing alcoholism and drug abuse as an illness, employees will be encouraged to come forward for assistance and treatment. Supervisors, representatives of the Union and employees are urged to encourage those who have or are suspected of having alcohol or drug problems to obtain medical assistance, advice and treatment.
The Company and Union believe that every reasonable means should be used to rehabilitate an employee and restore him to normal health and productivity. To this end, the Company and Union Committee which has been established to jointly administer this policy will be continued.
XIV	Service
The Company agrees that for the purposes of Article 10 of the Collective Agreement, the Wage Continuance Program and the 147
O.C.T. Pension Plan, but not for the purpose of the application of the progressive steps provided in the Wage Rate Scales set out in Schedule D to the Collective Agreement, it will regard the period during which an O.C.T, Bargaining Unit employee was laid off as a direct consequence of the strike of our Production and Maintenance employees commencing August 21, 1975 and ending November 3, 1975 as "service" or "continuous service" notwithstanding section 12.02 (b) (ii) of such Agreement.
XV	Leave of Absence for Political Office
The Company will grant an employee who is elected to a political office at the municipal, provincial or federal level, a leave of absence without pay if required for the term of his election. While in office, the employee will not accumulate seniority, service or pension credit.
XVI	Payment for Union Representatives’ Time to Attend Company/Union Meetings
When it would be mutually beneficial to the Company and the Union to hold a meeting to discuss matters of common concern, the Company will grant time off without loss in pay for up to five representatives of the Union for time absent from work to attend 148
such meeting and such time off will be considered as time worked.
0
Any employee who is required to use his car on a regular basis for Company business shall be reimbursed for the cost of adding an additional $1,000,000.00 of liability insurance to his existing coverage. Reimbursement will be made upon submission of receipts for the difference between his regular coverage and the increased coverage.
XVII	Travel Allowance
The Company will, in accordance with its policy, pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current rates to employees who are temporarily assigned to work in ajob location other than their regular job location and who are required to provide their own means of transportation from their permanent residences to their new j ob location.
Employees assigned to a new job location for a period in excess of four weeks are considered to be permanently assigned and will not receive the travel allowance.
Notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, employees required to provide 149
their own means of transportation for the purpose of attending in-house Company training programs in the Sudbury District will be eligible to receive the travel allowance for the duration of the training program.
The Company will inform the Union of any changes made to the schedule.
An employee required to travel outside Sudbury Operations beyond his regularly scheduled hours of work will receive travel time based on the time he spent travelling from his home to his destination, to a maximum of 12 hours pay at his basic hourly rate for each travel day. For example, an employee travelling for 5 hours will receive 5 hours of pay at his basic hourly rate. An employee travelling for 13 hours will receive 12 hours of pay at his basic hourly rate.
Where travel outside Sudbury Operations is required by the Company, an employee will have the option of being paid at straight time or of taking the travel time as time off in lieu of pay on an hour for hour basis to a maximum of 12 hours.
Where the purpose of the travel is for training purposes, such travel is considered 150
as voluntary and the travel time must be taken as time off in lieu only.
For the purposes of travel time, lieu time must be taken on an hour for hour basis.
XVIII	Working Days
For the purposes of the 2001 Collective Agreement "working days" shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or Paid Holidays.
XIX	Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive
In the event of downsizing orj ob loss in restructuring, to minimize the number of layoffs, the Company will offer the VERI payment of $1000 per year of service with a minimum payment of $20,000 to long service employees who are eligible for early retirement and who retire under the terms of the OCTW Pension Plan.
It is understood that where an employee retires and his job is not posted, this does not result in a job loss and therefore does not qualify the employee for a payment under this letter.
151
XX	Video Display Terminal Operators
The Company agrees to provide a 10 minute rest period for each continuous hour worked by video display terminal operators. It is to be understood that the 10 minute rest period is non-cumulative and is to be taken after each hour worked at a location away from the video display terminal. Coffee breaks and lunch periods will be used to cover the 10 minute rest period.
Prior to beginning work in a job where video display terminals are used, Occupational Health will arrange for vision testing by an Optometrist and thereafter vision testing by an Optometrist will be done annually. Where an employee has special concerns, Occupational Health will arrange for testing. The Company will pay for the cost of an eye examination and any special glasses as a result of using the video display terminal.
Upon confirmation of pregnancy, those employees who operate video display terminals shall be given the option of transferring to other suitable work should other work be available for which they are qualified. The Company and Union shall discuss the relocation of such employee and such discussions shall include seniority 152
considerations and the wishes of other employees.
XXI	Christmas Gift
The Company will make a gift of $100.00 each Christmas to each employee hired before the first day of September of the year in which the Christmas falls.
XXII	Tests
Where the Company requires applicants for a job vacancy to undergo a test, such test will be administered in such a manner and circumstance to provide an objective evaluation of all applicants.
Tests are to be objective, uniform for all employees and relevant to the job posting which has been placed on the bulletin boards. Applicants shall be informed of their test results and where results indicate counselling is required for self improvement purposes, such counselling will be provided by the Company.
Where test results or methods are challenged the employee shall be entitled to the actual test results and methodology used by the Company.
153
XXIII	Overtime Lists 12.06 (b)
The Company will undertake to make the necessary changes to the computerized time collection system to be able to provide
overtime listings which show declined overtime opportunities as well as overtime worked.
It is the intent of the Company to have these changes in place by January 1, 1996.
XXIV	Job Evaluation Committee
This is to confirm our commitment to ensure that a Joint Job Evaluation Committee is established, maintained and operative throughout the term of the Agreement. This Committee will be comprised of no more than two (2) Company officials and two (2) Union officials.
During negotiations, the Company and the Union agreed to review the current Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program within three (3) months of ratification of the collective agreement.
Two senior officials from the Company will meet with the local Union Unit Chairperson, a Union Staff Representative and the two Union 154
Representatives of the JJE committee to review and discuss the current Program and explore how the Joint Job Evaluation manual can be amended to ensure proper evaluation for newly created occupations.
XXV	Supplemental Unemployment Benefit
The Company agrees to apply to Revenue Canada for approval to establish a Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan that will provide the following:
Upon ratification and for the life of this Agreement, the Company shall be liable for an amount equal to $250,000.00 which shall be utilized to provide a benefit of $175 per week on a basis of 6 weeks per year of service (with a minimum of 26 weeks and a maximum of 51 weeks) for each employee laid off due to lack of work in excess of 1 week in duration who has no remaining annual vacation.
XXVI	Normal Requirements of the Job
During negotiations for the renewal of the 1995 Collective Agreement there were significant discussions concerning the phrase ‘ normal requirements of the job' particularly with respect to j ob postings not 155
reflecting the job description agreed to between the parties.
In order to ensure that the j ob postings reflect the normal requirements of the job, the Company agrees to have the Joint Job Evaluation Committees review job postings for each job described, evaluated, and agreed upon by the parties in order to come up with standardizedjob postings. The work of the committee will commence as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the negotiations and be completed no later than December 31, 2001.
XXVII	Temporary Assignments Outside of Sudbury District
Work for temporary periods of time, up to one year, outside of the Sudbury District will be on a voluntary basis for members of the OCT bargaining unit.
XXVIII	Temporary Employees
During negotiations, the Union raised concerns with respect to ‘casuals’ (temporary employees) in the workplace.
As a result of these discussions, the Company, within 6 months of ratification, will review the number and roles of 156
casual employees at each of the Business Units. This review will assess the status and situation of each of these temporary employees who have been continuously employed on a full time basis, for a period of longer than 12 months. After this review, the Company will make a determination as to whether such individuals will be offered a permanent employment opportunity within the OCT bargaining unit or not.
157
INDEX
Subject	Section	Pg
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse
Program.,..................... LetterXIII	147
Arbitration
Single Arbitrator................... 5.10	20
Stewards............................ 5.17	23
Employee Rights..................... 5.14	22
Failure to Process.................. 5.12	21
Payment of Committee and
Stewards............................ 5.18	24
Pension Plan....................... 15.02	97
Recall............................. 12.23	88
Rules......................... Scheduled”	125
Vacancy and Promotion.......	12.10	76
Witnesses........................... 5.15	22
Written Warning..................... 6.04	26
Benefits Plans............... 15.01-15.03	97
Bereavement Leave........... 11.01 (b)	50
Bill 70............................ 17.05	113
Bulletin Boards.............. 19.02-19.03	116
158
Subject
Section
Pg
Christmas Gifts
Letter XXI 153
COLA.................
Adjustments..........
Advance Payment......
Base.................
Computation..........
Revisions Made in Index.
13.04	90
13.04	90
13.04	90
13.04	90
13.04	90
13.04	92
Company/Union Meetings
Payment for Union
Representatives.......... Letter XVI 148
CompressedWorkWeek.......	7.04(a)	29
Contracting Out................. 1.06	6
Letter V	140
Christmas Gift.
Letter XXI 153
Demotion
By Company Requested....
13.02(a)	89
13.02(b)	89
Direct Difference
5.07	17
14.13	97
159
Direction of Others.
Subject
Discharge..............
Continuation of Benefits.
Discrimination.........
No Discrimination.,....
Union Membership.......
Education Fund.........
Education Leave.,......
Equipment..............
Estoppel...............
Fatal Accidents........
Flextime...............
Floating Day...........
Further Conferences....
Section Pg
6.01-6.03	24
6.02	25
2.00	8
2.02	8
2.01	8
19.06	118
1 1.03	51
Letter IX	144
Letter VII	141
17.04	113
7.04(b)	29
9.05	39
20.01	120
General................................ 19.00	116
Bulletin Boards.................. 19.02-19.03	1 16
No Posting Bulletins........... 19.03	116
No Solicitation of Membership..	19.01	116
160
Subject
Section
Grievances
Adjustment. Arbitration.
Direct Difference...........
Grievance Commissioner......
Expenses and Fees...........
Rules Governing.............
Vacancy & Promotion.........
Laid Off Employees..........
Management Representatives.
Pension Plan................
Complaint/Resolution Step....
Stage One...................
Stage Two...................
For Discharge...............
Time Limits.,...............
Travel Allowance............
5.00
5.01 5.08-5.09
Scheduled”
5.07
5.08(b)
5.08(e)
Schedule“B”
12.11
12.23
5.06
15.02
5.01
5.02
5.03 6.01
5.08(a)
5.18
Pg
11
11
17
125
17
19
20 123
76
88
16
97
11
12
14
24
17
24
Holidays
9.01	37
Holiday Pay...................
During Vacation or on Day Off..
Floating Day..................
Overtime Pay..................
Qualification For Pay......
Work on a Holiday.............
9.02	37
9.02(b)	38
9.05	39
9.04	39
9.02(a)	37
9.03	39
161
Subject
Section Pg
Hot Meals
Letter I 136
Hours of Work...............
Compressed Work Week........
Flextime....................
No Guarantee of Work........
Notification of Change in Work
Schedule....................
Other Work Schedules........
Overtime....................
Calculation Of............
Distribution Of...........
Recall For Emergency Work...
Regular Work Day............
Regular Work Week...........
Reporting Pay...............
Shift Premiums..............
Standby pay.................
Sunday Premiums.............
Weekend Premiums............
‘7.00	28
7.04(a)	29
7.04(b)	29
7.05	30
7.06	30
7.03	28
8.01	31
8.01(a)(b)	32
8.02	33
8.06	35
7.01	28
7.02	28
7.07	31
8.04	34
8.05	35
8.03	34
8.03	34
Humanity Fund.................... 19.05
Job Titles & Classes........Schedule”E”
Joint Job Evaluation............. 14.01
Committee................ Letter XXIV 154
162
Subject	Section	Pg
Jury Duty			 11.07	56
Layoffs,
12,16-12.23	79
Leave of Absence............
Bereavement.................
Campaign For Public Office...
Continuation of Benefits....
Educational Leave...........
Jury Duty...................
Maternity...................
Mining Act X-Ray............
Personal Emergency.,........
Personal Leave..............
Political Office.,..........
Serious Illness.............
Subpoenaed Witness..........
Supplemental Unemployment
Benefits.................
Union.......................
Unit Chair..................
11.00
11.01(b)
11.10
11.08
11.03
11.07
11.04 11.09 11.01 11.02
Letter XV 11.01(a)
11.07
Letter XXV 11.05-11.06 11.11
50
50 57 56
51
56
52
57
50
51 48 50 56
55
54
58
Management Rights		. 3.01	9
Maternity Leave		.. 11.04	52
Merit Increases		.. 13.02(c)	90
163
Subject	Section
Mining Act X-Ray		11.09
Nickel Price Bonus		19.07
No Cessation of Work		4.01
Normal Requirements of the Job		Letter XXVI
Pg
57
118
10
156
On the Job Training
Opportunity............... 12.15	78
Overtime
Calculation Of., Distribution Of. Overtime List..
8.00	31
8.01	(a)(b)	32
8.02	33
12.06(b)	63
Letter XXIII 154
Pension Plan & Welfare Benefits..................
Basic Dental Plan.........
Prescription Drugs........
Entitlement...............
Global Medical Assistance.
Grievance.................
Group Life Insurance Plan..
Life Insurance.,..........
Supplementary Plan........
15.00	97
15,03(a)(vi)	100
15.03(a)(ii)	98
15.03(a)	98
15.03(d)	103
15.02	97
15.03(a)(iii)	99
15.03(b)(ii)	102
15.03(a)(i)	98
164
Subject	Section	Pg
Pension Plan................ Letter VIII 142
Pensioners.................. Letter XII 145
Premiums......................... 15.03(e)	103
Students......................... 15.03(b)	102
Wage Continuance Program....	15.03(b)(iii)	102
Posting Vacancies................... 12.07	64
Pre-Christmas Time.......... Letter III 136
Probationary Period................. 12.04	62
Promotions.......................... 12.07	64
Qualifying Day for Holiday
Pay............................... 9.02(a)	37
Recall........................ 12.16-12.23	79
Recall for Emergency Work.....	8.06	35
Recognition.......................... 1.00	5
Red Circles................... 14.04-14.12	94
Definition.......................... 14.12	96
Demotion............................ 14.07	95
Elimination of................ 14.10-14.11	95
165
Subject
Section Pg
Promotion......
Reinstatement of. Transfer.......
14.06	95
14.09	95
14.08	95
Rest Periods
Letter X 144
Safety and Health..........
Business Unit Safety and Health
Committee..................
Membership.................
Bill 70
Fatal Accidents..........
Mutual Concern...........
Reporting Unsafe Conditions Sudbury District Safety and
Health Committee.........
Membership...............
17.00	107
17.01(b)	109
17.01(a)	108
17.05	113
17.04	113
17.00	107
17.01(a)	108
17.01(a)	108
Seniority..............
Application of Seniority.
Definition.............
Layoff and Recall......
Lists of Seniority.....
Loss of Seniority......
12.00	58
12.09	75
12.02(A)	58
12.16-12.23	79
12.06	63
12.03	62
166
Subject
Section
Subject	Section Pg
Principle	 Probationary Period	 Temporary Hiring		12.01 58 . 12.04 62 . 12.07 64
Service		. 12.02(B) 59 Letter XIV 147
Shift Limit Times		. Letter XI 144
Shift Premiums		. 8.03-8.04 34
Standby		. 8.05-8.07 35
Students (Benefits)		.. 15.03(b) 102
Technological Change		. 16.00 103
Temporary Employees		Letter XXVIII 156
Temporary Assignments outside Sudbury District		Letter .. XXVII 156
Termination of Agreement....	. 21.01 121
Tests		. Letter XXII 153
Training	 167	.. 12.07 64
Subject	Section	Pg
Transfers. Promotion &
Training.......................... 12.07	64
Transfer Into
Bargaining Unit................... 12.13	76
Transfer Out Of
Bargaining Unit............ 12.14	78
Transportation............. Letter II 136
Travel Allowance........... Letter XVII 149
12.07(f)	70
Union Security..................... 18.00	115
Union Dues................... 18.01-18.02	115
Union Membership.................... 2.01	8
Vacancies
12.07(a)	64
Vacations..................
Bonus......................
Commencement of. Forfeiture
Entitlement................
Interruption of Service....
10.00	41
10.08	45
10.03	43
10.04	43
168
Subject
Section Pg
Length.....................
Payment in Lieu............
Scheduling.................
Termination of Employment....
10.01	41
10.03	43
10.02	43
10.09(d)	48
10.05	44
Vacation (Special).......... 10,09	46
Video Display Terminal
Operators................... Letter XX 152
Voluntary Early Retirement
Incentive.,.................. Letter XIX 151
Voluntary Termination of Employment Plan (VTEP)
Wage Continuance.......
Wages......
Application. Demotion...
Letter VI	141
Letter IV	137
12.02(c)	60
15.03(b)	102
13.00	89
13.02	89
13.02(a)	89
169
Subject
Section
Pg
Requested Demotion............. 13.02(b)	89
Wage Table.................. Schedule”D”	127
Temporary Promotion.,.....	13.03	90
Welfare Benefits for
Pensioners.................. Letter XII 145
Working Days................ Letter XVIII 151
Written Warning.................... 6.04	26
170
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
Updated March 1, 2001
The brochures in this folder outline the features of your benefit plans, and are provided so you can have a quick overview of the benefits available to you and your eligible dependents. They will answer many of the questions you have about the plans.
Your benefit plans add to your financial security and provide you and your eligible dependents with a broad range of health and medical services. They contain important information and should be kept in a safe place known by you and your family.
Falconbridge pays the entire premium cost of all the plans described in these brochures except the Optional Life Insurance Program which is paid for by yourself.
The benefit package includes:
For your health care:	Supplemental (Semi-Private) Plan
Major Medical Plan
Global Medical Assistance/MEDEX
Vision Care Plan
Drug Plan
Basic Dental Plan
If you become disabled:	Wage Continuance Program
Basic Sick Leave Long-Term Disability
In the event of your death: Group Life insurance Plan
Accidental Death & Dismemberment Travel (Company Business) Accident
These plans have been designed to add to or work with the benefits you receive through other sources such as the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP), which covers a wide range of basic medical and hospital health care expenses, and Workplace Safety Insurance, which provides a broad range of health care for workers who have been injured on the job.
WHO IS COVERED
All active, full-time employees of the Office, Clerical and Technical Workers’ Union, employees in receipt of long-term disability benefits and their eligible dependents are covered under the plans outlined in these brochures.
Your eligible dependents include your spouse and children. Children qualify if they are unmarried, under age 21, not employed full-time and eligible for benefits under OHIP. Children age 21 and older are covered if they are totally dependent on you because of a mental or physical handicap. Children are also covered up to age 25 if they are unmarried and totally dependent on you for support while attending school fulltime. In addition, stepchildren, foster children and adopted children are covered. Your spouse is your wife or husband, or a person living with you in a common-law relationship whom you publicly represent as your spouse.
COVERAGE PERIOD
The coverage period for each of your benefit plans is specified in the individual brochures. Coverage for your eligible dependents starts and ends at the same time as yours. If you acquire new dependents, or wish to make changes to your current dependents, contact the Employee Benefits Office.
OPTIONAL LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM
In addition to the benefit plans described in these brochures Falconbridge provides you with an optional plan, the Optional Life Insurance Program, which is described in a separate booklet. The choice is entirely yours whether you take part in this program, and if you do, the premiums are paid for by yourself through payroll deduction. The program is open Januaryl - 31 each year.
MAKING A CLAIM
The appropriate claim forms may be obtained from your Human Resources Site Office or the Employee Benefits Office. Claims must be submitted within 90 days and all benefits will be paid to you immediately after receipt of the appropriate documentation.
CO-ORDINATION CF BENEFITS
If your spouse has plans similar to those described in these brochures the portion of expense not covered under your plan may be covered by your spouse's plan. In co-ordinating benefits, you must first submit your claim through your insurance company. Then to recover any unpaid balance, submit the claim to your spouse's plan. Similarly, your spouse must first submit his or her claims through his or her own plan. Expenses for dependent children are submitted first to the plan of the parent whose birthday is earlier in the year.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
If you require additional information about any of these benefit plans, please contact:
Great West Life Insurance at 1 -800-461 -6090 or
ClaimSecure at (705) 673-2541 or
Falconbridge Benefits Office at (705) 699-3544 or (705)966-6512
GOVERNING DOCUMENTS
All the provisions of these plans are contained in the master policies and plan documents administered by the respective insurance companies. Since these master policies and plan documents are complete in detail, the final interpretation of any specific provision is governed by them. The provisions of the plans may sometimes be modified in accordance with the laws of various jurisdictions.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
SUPPLEMENTAL (SEMI-PRIVATE) PLAN
Effective March 1, 2001
The Supplemental (Semi-Private) Plan provides you and your dependents with two types of hospital care. It pays the difference between semiprivate accommodation and the standard ward rates paid by OHIP in an active treatment hospital.
In addition, this plan pays for semi-private accommodation in a chronic or convalescent care unit for up to 180 days if you or your dependents have been confined in a hospital for at least five consecutive days and then have been transferred to a chronic or convalescent care unit within seven days.
Your coverage begins: The first day of the month following your date of hire.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, or transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans.
If you become disabled: If you go on Workplace Safety Insurance or Long-Term Disability benefits, your coverage under this plan will continue.
Your retirement: When you retire under the Company's Pension Plan, your coverage will be provided under the Pensioner Benefit Plan for your and your spouse's lifetime.
In the event of your death: Coverage as provided by the Pensioner Benefit Plan, will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
MAJORMEDICAL PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
The Major Medical Plan provides you and your eligible dependents with coverage for numerous medical services and supplies not paid by other Company or Government plans. The plan pays 100% of eligible expenses up to $50,000 per person per calendar year. There is an annual deductible of $25 per family member, with a family maximum of $50.
Within Ontario, the plan covers expenses for the following services and supplies when medically necessary:
Health Care Professionals
•	Registered Nurse (not a member of your or your spouse's family or one ordinarily living in your home)
•	Chiropractor ($400 per calendar year after the allowable maximum expenses have been paid out under OHIP)
•	Licensed Physiotherapist, Osteopath, Podiatrist (100% of charges payable only after the allowable maximum expenses have been paid out under OHIP)
•	Clinical Psychologist and Speech Therapist (up to a maximum of $150 per calendaryear)
•	Licensed Acupuncturist (up to a maximum of $100 per calendar year)
•	Dentist, for treatment of natural teeth injured in an accident cff the job
Medical Services and Supplies
•	Professional emergency ambulance to hospital
•	Rental of equipment such as a wheelchair and hospital bed
•	Benefits shall be payable for the purchase, replacement, repair, fitting and adjustment of artificial limbs, braces, ostomy sets and accessories, breast prostheses, and orthopedic foot supports when recommended and prescribed by a physician. Such benefits shall be limited to a lifetime maximum cf $5,000.
•	Crutches, splints, casts
•	Orthopedic shoes, arch supports, molds and other orthopedic devices, up to a $300 per person per calendar year.
•	Purchase, installation, and repair of hearing aids to a lifetime maximum of $400 per person. Batteries and cords are excluded.
Your coverage begins: The first day of the month following your date of hire.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans, or when you are placed on inactive status.
Your retirement: When you retire under the Company’s Pension Plan, your coverage will be provided under the Pensioner Benefit Plan for your and your spouse’s lifetime.
In the event of your death: Coverage, as provided by the Pensioner Benefit Plan, will continue for your spouse’s lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company’s Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS GLOBAL MEDICAL ASSISTANCE/MEDEX OUT-OF-PROVINCE/COUNTRY COVERAGE
____________Effective March 1, 2001______
Emergency Out-Of-Province/Country Medical Care
Out-of-country emergency care benefits are designed to protect against unforeseen and essential expenses which can arise if the patient suffers an injury or acute illness while vacationing, working or going to school outside of Canada. To emphasize the above, coverage is limited to expenses that could not be anticipated. Persons travelling which chronic medical conditions have protection against any unexpected acute episodes of their disease, but have no coverage for routine care. Benefits are for the initial treatment only, so any chronic care that follows a period of acute care would not be covered.
Expenses incurred for hospital confinement, services and supplies outside your home province are covered only if:
(1)	the patient is temporarily out of province on business or vacation or furthering education and the service necessary is the result of an emergency or unexpected sudden illness and
(2)	the person is covered by the government health plan in his/her home province.
The policy provides for out of country emergency hospital in a semi-private room payable by the insurance company at 100%. All out-ofcountry benefits are subjectto a lifetime maximum of $1,000,000. Your maximum per incident liability for claims below the maximum lifetime limit is $12,500. This coverage is secondary to the provincial plan coverage.
Actual reimbursement of your claim would be dependent upon exchange rates and provincial health plan fee schedules in effect at the time cf your trip.
Global Medical Assistance/Medex
For employees residing in Canada, eligible emergency medical expenses incurred within Canada are normally paid up-front by their Provincial Health Care Program. To reduce the possibility of having to pay up-front for eligible emergency medical expenses incurred while travelling outside Canada, Falconbridge has obtained the services of a third party administrator, Global Medical Assistance (MEDEX). MEDEX is only able to provide this service to Canadian residents.
If you are a resident of Canada and become sick or hospitalized, a call should be placed to MEDEX. The MEDEX Identification card lists specific telephone numbers around the world. MEDEX will contact the insurance company to confirm coverage. Most hospitals and attending physicians will then accept an assignment of benefits to the insurance company or agree to invoice you at a later date. An assignment of benefits should also be completed for your provincial health care program in order that they can pay the hospital for the portion of expenses for which they are responsible. Once the provincial health care program has reimbursed their portion of the claim, the insurance company will pay for the balance of eligible medical expenses.
If the hospital or attending physician does not accept an assignment of benefits, you may be responsible for paying the charges and will have to claim reimbursement from your provincial health care program and the insurance company.
Your coverage begins: The first day of the month following your date of hire.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans, or when you are placed on inactive status.
Your retirement: When you retire under the Company’s Pension Plan, your coverage will be provided under the Pensioner Benefit Plan for your and your spouse’s lifetime.
In the event of your death: Coverage, as provided by the Pensioner Benefit Plan, will continue for your spouse’s lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company’s Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
VISION CARE PLAN
_____________Effective March 1,2001__________
Your Vision Care Plan helps with expenses for lenses, frames and contact lenses. The plan pays up to $250 for you and each of your dependents every two years for services approved by a physician or optometrist.
Safety glasses are provided by Falconbridge under the Safety Glasses Program and as a result are not included in this plan. Information on this program is available from your Safety Department.
Your coverage begins: The first day of the month following your date of hire.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans, or when you are placed on inactive status.
Your retirement: When you retire under the Company’s Pension Plan, your coverage will be provided under the Pensioner Benefit Plan for your and your spouse’s lifetime.
In the event of your death: Coverage, as provided by the Pensioner Benefit Plan, will continue for your spouse’s lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company’s Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
DRUG PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
Your Drug Plan covers drugs and medications prescribed by a physician or a dentist and dispersed through a pharmacist.
This plan pays 100% of reasonable charges, minus 35 cents for each prescription and refill. The plan will pay for a 34-day supply for each prescription and refill, and for a supply for a longer period if your physician or dentist authorizes this.
The Drug Plan covers a wide range of drugs and medications and in a few cases extends beyond what normally is considered a drug or medication. For example, it covers:
•	needles, syringes and diagnostic aids for diabetics but not such things as atomizers. appliances and prosthetic devices or first aid and/or diagnostic supplies in general
•	injectible vitamins but not other kinds of vitamins or dietary supplements unless a federal or provincial law requires a prescription for their sale
•	orally administered contraceptives but not other drugs or appliances used for contraceptive purposes
The comprehensive list of drugs and medications covered by the plan includes allergant serums and vaccines (when medically necessary), flu shots, and hepatitis B vaccine.
Your plan covers any new drugs introduced to the Ontario Drug Benefit Program subsequent to the effective date of this plan. The plan will also reimburse the cost, upon furnishing receipt, cf drugs (purchased on or after March 1,1 998) that were not on the Ontario Drug Benefit (ODB) plan at the time of purchase but have since been added.
Reimbursements will be payable for drugs purchased during the 3 year period immediately prior to the addition of the drugs to the ODB plan. Payments will not be made automatically and therefore you are responsible for checking with your pharmacist to determine if a drug has been added to the ODB.
If a prescribed drug is noton the ODB but is considered to be medically necessary in life threatening or life sustaining situations or in cases of terminal illness which cannot be adequately substituted by a drug on the ODB, these situations will be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine eligibility for reimbursement. Contact the Employee Benefits Office for an Exception Request Package.
This drug program incorporates generic substitution which means that when available your pharmacist will fill your prescription with an approved generic drug. Generic drugs contain the same dosage of active ingredient as brand name drugs. Generic drugs are subject to the same government standards of quality, effectiveness, potency, purity and safety as brand name drugs.
Your coverage begins: The first day of the month following your date of hire.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company or transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans.
If you become disabled: If you receive Long-Term Disability benefits or benefitsfrom Workplace Safety Insurance, your coverage under this plan will continue.
Your retirement: When you retire under the Company’s Pension Plan your coverage will be provided under the Pensioner Benefit Plan for your and your spouse’s lifetime.
In the event of your death: Coverage, as provided by the Pensioner Benefit Plan, will continue for your spouse’s lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company’s Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
BASIC DENTAL PLAN
Effective March 1, 2001
Your Basic Dental Plan provides you and your dependents with ten categories of dental services, all providing a broad range cf procedures.
For all the categories except major prosthodontic and orthodontic treatment the plan pays 100% of the covered dental care services, up to the amount listed for each service in the 2000 Ontario Dental Fee Guide for General Practitioners. Effective March 1, 2002, coverage will be based on the 2001 ODA Fee Guide. Effective March 1, 2003, coverage will be based on the 2002 ODA Fee Guide. Ifthe dental service you are having done is not specified within this fee guide, the insurance company will determine the appropriate amount to be paid.
For eight categories, there is no deductible andthe maximum amount for you and your dependents is unlimited. In the case cf major prosthodontic, services are reimbursed at 50% with the maximum eligible amount being unlimited. For orthodontic treatment, the plan pays 50% of the cost, up to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per person.
The dental services provided by the Dental Care Plan are as follows:
Diagnostic
Preventive
Restorative
Dental check-ups, x-rays, tests and laboratory examinations, consultations and treatment planning. Check-ups include a complete dental examination once every three years, a follow-up examination once every six months, as well as emergency appointments.
Cleaning and scaling, fluoride treatment, oral hygiene instruction and space maintainers.
A variety of treatment to restore teeth such as fillings and stainless steel crowns.
Endodontic Root canal therapy and chemical bleaching.
Periodontal Treatment of diseases of the gums and bones supporting the teeth.
Surgical	Removal of erupted teeth, surgical repositioning of a
tooth and tooth transplantation.
General	Local and general anesthesia, professional visits,
therapeutic injections, and in-office laboratory charges.
Minor Prosthodontic
Minor denture adjustments, repairs, denture relining and rebasing.
Major Prosthodontic
Complete or partial removable dentures, bridges and bridge replacements.
Orthodontic Correction of abnormal arrangements of teeth.
Although your Dental Care Plan is comprehensive, there are some exclusions such as crowns, and treatment for cosmetic purposes. As well, when a condition may be treated by different dental procedures, the plan pays for the least expensive procedure consistent with good dental care.
Pre-Determination of Benefits
When you are having dental work done, it is important to plan for the expense. Ifthe work is likely to cost more than $250, your claim should be submitted for predetermination of benefits to find out exactly what is covered and how much you may have to pay. Have your dentist complete a treatment schedule describing the proposed course of treatment and indicating the usual charges. Submit this information directly to the insurance company. After review, the insurance company will notify you in writing of the estimated benefit payable based on the proposed course of treatment.
Since orthodontic treatment tends to be long-term and costly, it is particularly important to plan for this expense.
Your coverage begins: The date you complete your probationary period.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, or transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans. However, there is a grace period for a limited number of cases in which the plan will provide benefits for up to 90 days following termination of coverage. If, when your coverage ends, you are having major dental work which has not been completed, check with the insurance company and find out if and how much the plan will pay.
If you become disabled: If you receive Long-Term Disability or Workplace Safety insurance benefits, your coverage under this plan will continue.
Your retirement: When you retire under the Company’s Pension Plan, your coverage will be provided under the Pensioner Benefit Plan for your and your spouse’s lifetime.
In the event of your death: Coverage as provided by the Pensioner Benefit Plan, will continue for your spouse’s lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company’s Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE. CLERICAL & TECHNICAL WORKERS WAGE CONTINUANCE PROGRAM BASIC SICK LEAVE
Effective May 1, 2001
If you become disabled while on vacation, you have the option of staying on vacation and receiving no benefit payments; or receiving benefit payments, and postponing your vacation. You cannot receive both benefit pay and vacation pay for the same period.
If you return to work before the end cf the benefit period and become disabled again within 14 days from the same or related illness, payments continue where they left off previously in the benefit period. But, if your second absence is due to an entirely different cause, a new benefit period begins.
If you have been absent for 8 or more calendar days, when you return to your regular full-time work, you must provide your department with a certificate from the Company’s Occupational Health Department.
Your coverage begins: Coverage begins the date you complete your probationary period.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, attain age 65 or retire from the Company, or transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL & TECHNICAL WORKERS WAGE CONTINUANCE PROGRAM LONG-TERM DISABILITY PLAN
Effective May 1,2001
Your Long-Term Disability Plan protects you should you become totally disabled for an extended period of time and takes effect after you have used up the benefits under the Basic Sick Leave Plan.
For employees with five or more years of service, Long-Term Disability benefits start from the 27th week of illness. For employees with less than five years of service, Long-Term Disability benefits start from the 14th week of illness.
If you became totally disabled as a result of an accidental injury or sickness and are under a physician’s care, you will receive 70% of your regular earnings, regardless of your length cf service. The insurance company requires that both you and the Company report any sources of income that may be available to you as your benefit is subject to being reduced if you have other income.
The plan encourages rehabilitation through an approved rehabilitation program which includes work to the degree possible. You may be entitled to a combination of income from the actual work that you do and from the plan. The combination will always be greater than if you do not return to work.
If you have been off work for 24 months, you will be considered totally disabled only if your disability prevents you from working at any gainful employment for which you are or may become reasonably qualified by education, training, or experience. Continuing benefits are contingent upon your agreement to take part in approved retraining, if necessary.
Should you return to work and within six months become disabled again from the same or related illness, you continue on Long-Term Disability benefits. However, if you return for more than six months or if the illness is unrelated to the first, you go back to the Basic Sick Leave Plan.
A few types of disabilities are not covered by this program such as those resulting from an injury or sickness to which the contributing cause was an assault or a criminal offense which you committed or tried to commit, or an intentionally self-inflicted injury.
Your coverage begins: Coverage begins the date you complete your probationary period. To be eligible for the Long-Term Disability benefit, however, you must be under 64 years cf age when you become totally disabled and you must have already received the full amount of benefits due to you under the Basic Sick Leave Plan.
Your coverage ends: When you leave the Company, attain age 65 or retire from the Company, or transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
GROUPLIFE INSURANCE PLAN
Effective March 1, 2001
An important part of your financial security is the Group Life Insurance Plan which will provide for your survivors in the event of your death. This benefit is payable to your beneficiary no matter what the cause, time or place of your death. The amount payable would be:
1.5 x your annual base rate (rounded to the next highest thousand)
Your beneficiary will have a choice of how this benefit is to be paid. The options are a lump sum, equal monthly instalments, or a combination of both, as long as the selection is in accordance with the provisions of the plan.
You may change your beneficiary at any time by completing the appropriate form at your Human Resources Site Office or the Employee Benefits Office. If you do not name a beneficiary, the benefit is payable to your estate.
A feature of this plan is when you leave the Company, you may convert your Group Life Insurance to an individual policy at your own cost without having a medical examination or providing other evidence of insurability. To take advantage of this privilege, apply directly to the insurance company within 31 days after your coverage ends and paythe premiumfor the type and amount of policy you have selected. You may choose from a number of different individual policies.
Your coverage begins: The day you begin work.
Your coverage ends: When you leave or retire from the Company, or transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans. There is a grace period, however. If you die within 31 days after your coverage under this plan ends, the benefit is payable whether or not you have applied for an individual policy.
If you become disabled: If you go on Wage Continuance Program benefits or benefits from Workplace Safety Insurance, your coverage under this plan will continue for 24 months from the time you are placed on the inactive list.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
Another important program for your financial security is your Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan. In the event of your death due to accidental causes not job related, this plan will pay your beneficiary the amount of:
1.5 x your annual base rate (rounded to the next highest thousand)
This plan also provides benefits for bodily dismemberment, depending on the loss. If you suffer a loss as a direct result of an accident which is not job related, you will receive a percentage of the amount calculated above. The percentage paid for a loss is as follows:
For loss of:
The entire sight of one eye	100%
Speech	100%
Hearing in one ear	100%
For loss or loss of use of:
One arm or one leg	75%
One hand or one foot	50%
Thumb and index finger or at least
four fingers of one hand	25%
For total paralysis of:
Both upper and lower limbs (Quadriplegia)	100%
Both lower limbs (Paraplegia)	100%
Upper and lower limbs of one side of
the body (Hemiplegia)	100%
For the accidental death portion of this plan, your beneficiary is the same as for your Group Life Insurance Plan. Benefits provided for all losses sustained as the result of any one accident will not exceed the amount equal to 1.5 times your annual base rate.
Benefits are not paid if the loss results from a self-inflicted injury or any unlawful act on your part, or while flying as a pilot or crew member in any aircraft.
A feature of this plan is when you leave the Company, you may convert your Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance to an individual policy at your own cost without having a medical examination or providing other evidence of insurability.
To take advantage of this privilege, apply directly to the insurance company within 31 days after your coverage ends and pay the premium for the type and amount of policy you have selected. You may choose from a number of different individual policies.
Your coverage begins: The day you begin work.
Your coverage ends: When you leave or retire from the Company, transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans, or go on Wage Continuance Program benefits.
BENEFIT PLANS
OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
TRAVEL (COMPANY BUSINESS) ACCIDENT PLAN
Effective March 1, 2001
Your Travel Accident Plan pays a benefit to your beneficiary should you die due to an accident while travelling on Company business. The amount would be:
2 x your annual base rate
(rounded to the next highest thousand; minimum benefit $50,000)
This plan also provides benefits for bodily dismemberment, depending on the loss. If you suffer a loss within 365 days as a direct result of an accident while travelling on Company business, you will receive a percentage of the amount calculated above. The percentage paid is as follows:
For loss of:
One arm or one leg The entire sight cf one eye Speech
Hearing in one ear
For loss of use of:
Both hands or both arms One arm or one leg One hand or one foot
For total paralysis of:
Both upper and lower limbs (Quadriplegia)	100%
Both lower limbs (Paraplegia)	100%
Upper and lower limbs of one side of the body (Hemiplegia)	100%
For the accidental death portion of this plan, your beneficiary is the same as for your Group Life Insurance Plan.
75%
50%
50%
16.67%
100%
75%
50%
Your coverage begins: The day you begin work.
Your coverage ends: When you leave or retire from the Company, transfer within the Company to a group with different benefit plans, or go on Wage Continuance Program benefits.
BENEFT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
Effective March 1, 2001
The brochures in this folder outline the features of your benefit plans and are provided so you can have a quick overview of the benefits available to you and your dependents. They will answer many of the questions you have about the plans.
Your benefit plans add to your financial security and provide you and your dependents with a broad range of health and medical services. Falconbridge pays the entire premium cost of all the plans described in these brochures.
The benefit package includes:
For your health care:	Supplemental (Semi-Private) Plan
Major Medical Plan	\
Global Medical Assistance/MEDEX Vision Care Plan Drug Plan
Dental Care Plan	i
Hearing Care Plan
In the event of your death: Group Life Insurance Plan
These plans have been designed to add to or work with the benefits you receive through other sources such as the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP), which covers a wide range of basic medical and hospital health care expenses.
WHO E COVERED
All retired employees of the Office, Clerical and Technical Workers' Union and their eligible dependents are covered under the plans outlined in these brochures.
Your dependents include your spouse and children. Children qualify if they are unmarried, under age 21, not employed full-time and eligible for benefits under OHIP. Children age 21 and older are covered if they are totally dependent on you because of a mental or physical handicap.
VQ&
Children are also covered up to age 25 if they are unmarried and totally dependent on you for support while attending school full-time. In addition, stepchildren, foster children and adopted children are covered. Your spouse is your wife or husband, or a person living with you in a common-law relationship whom you publicly represent as your spouse.
COVERAGE PERIOD
The coverage period for each of your benefit plans is specified in the individual brochures.
Coverage for your eligible dependents starts and ends at the same time as yours. Ifyou acquire new dependents or wish to make changes with respect to your eligible dependents, please contact the Employee Benefits Office.
MAKING A CLAIM
The appropriate claim forms may be obtained or mailed to you from Falconbridge's Employee Benefits Office. Claims must be submitted within 90 days and all benefits will be paidto you immediately after receiptof the appropriate documentation. If you and your spouse are both employees of Falconbridgeyou must first submit your claim as an employee and then resubmit it as an eligible dependent under your spouse's coverage.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
If you require additional information about any of these benefit plans, please contact:
Great West Life Insurance at 1-800-461-6090 or
ClaimService at (705)673-2541 or
Falconbridge Benefits Office at (705)699-3544 or (705)966-6512
GOVERNING DOCUMENTS
All of the provisions of these plans are contained in the master policies and plan documents administered by the respective insurance companies. Since the master policies and plan documents are complete in detail, the final interpretation of any specific provision is governed by them. The provisions of the plans may sometimes be modified in accordance with the laws of various jurisdictions.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
SUPPLEMENTAL (SEMI-PRIVATE) PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
The Supplemental (Semi-Private) Plan provides you and your dependents with two types of hospital care. It pays the difference between semi-private accommodation and the standandward rates paid byOHIP in an active treatment hospital.
In addition, this plan pays for semi-private accommodation in a chronic or convalescent care unit for up to 180 days if you or your dependents have been confined in a hospital for at least five days and then have been transferred to a chronic or convalescent care unit within an additional seven days.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company's Pension Plan.
In the event of your death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
MAJORMEDICAL PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
The Major Medical Plan provides you and your eligible dependents with coverage for numerous medical services and supplies not paid by other Company or Government plans. The plan pays 100% of eligible expenses upto $50,000 per person per calendar year. There is an annual deductibleof $25 perfamily member, with a family maximum of $50.
Within Ontario, the plan covers expenses for the following services and supplies when medically necessary:
Health Care Professionals
•	Registered Nurse (not a member of your or your spouse's family or one ordinarily living in your home)
•	Chiropractor ($400 per calendar year after the allowable maximum expenses have been paid out under OHIP)
•	Licensed Physiotherapist, Osteopath, Podiatrist (100% of charges payable only after the allowable maximum expenses have been paid out under OHIP)
•	Clinical Psychologist and Speech Therapist (upto a maximum of $150 per calendar year)
•	Licensed Acupuncturist (upto a maximum of $100 per calendar year)
•	Dentist, for treatment of natural teeth injured in an accident off the job
Medical Services and Supplies
•	Private hospital accommodation for active treatment care
•	Professional emergency ambulance to hospital
•	Rental of equipment such as a wheelchair and hospital bed
•	Artificial limbs and eyes, crutches, splints, casts, prostheses, trusses and braces for back, neck, arms or legs, including replacement when prescribed by your physician. For a prosthesis, there is a maximum of $300 once every five years.
•	Orthopedic shoes, arch supports, molds and other orthopedic devices, upto a $300 per person per calendar year.
•	Purchase, installation, and repair of hearing aids to a lifetime maximum of $400 per person. Batteries and cords are excluded.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company's Pension
Plan.
In the event of your death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's
lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse
benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS OUT-OF-PROVINCE/COUNTRY COVERAGE
Effective March 1,2001
This plan provides Out-Of-Province/Country emergency medical and hospital coverage. Benefits under the terms of the plan will be the difference between the OHIP benefit and the maximum provided under the terms of the plan.
The benefit covers expenses incurred for hospital confinement, services and supplies outside of the retiree's (or dependent's) home province if:
•	they are out of the province temporarily on business, vacation or for furthering education and the service is necessary as a result of an emergency or unexpected sudden illness and,
•	if the individual is covered by the government health plan in his or her home province
Out-of-country emergency coverage is designed to protect against unforeseen and essential expenses which can arise if the patient sutlers an injury or acute illness and is limited to expenses that could not be anticipated. Persons travelling with chronic medical conditions have protection against any unexpected episodes of their disease but have no coverage for routine care. Benefits are for the initial treatment only, so any chronic care that follows a period of acute care would not be covered.
The policy will cover reasonable and customary charges for the following services and supplies, as required in an emergency situation, or for a sudden and unexpected illness or injury:
•	treatment by a physician
•	diagnostic services
•	hospital accommodation in a semi-private ward or intensive care unit
•	medical supplies provided during a covered hospital confinement
•	hospital out-patient services and supplies
•	ambulance services
Reimbursement Of Expenses
The coverage under this benefit is subjected to integration with the insured's provincial government health care plan and benefits are also subject to co-ordination with any other carrier that you may have coverage with. The policy pays 100% of the outstanding balance for doctor and miscellaneous charges after the provincial health plan payment. The policy has a $1,000,000.00 lifetime maximum per person and benefits are paid in Canadian dollars.
Global Medical Assistance/Medex
For employees residing in Canada, eligible emergency medical expenses incurred within Canada are normally paid up-front by their Provincial Health Care Program. To reduce the possibility of having to pay up-front for eligible emergency medical expenses incurred while travelling outside Canada, Falconbridge has obtained the services of a third party administrator, Global Medical Assistance (MEDEX). MEDEX is only able to provide this service to Canadian residents.
If you are a resident of Canada and become sick or hospitalized, a call should be placed to MEDEX. The MEDEX Identification card lists specific telephone numbers around the world. MEDEX will contact the insurance company to confirm coverage. Most hospitals and attending physicians will then accept an assignment of benefits to the insurance company or agree to invoice you at a later date. An assignment of benefits should also be completed for your provincial health care program in order that they can pay the hospital for the portion of expenses for which they are responsible. Once the provincial health care program has reimbursed their portion of the claim, the insurance company will pay for the balance of eligible medical expenses.
If the hospital or attending physician does not accept an assignment of benefits, you may be responsible for payingthe charges and will have to claim reimbursement from your provincial health care program and the insurance company.
Persons who are travelling should carry their Global Medical Assistance/MEDEX card as well as their Group Insurance Card (the same one that is used for semi-private hospital coverage).
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company^ Pension Plan.
In the event of your death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
VISION CARE PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
Your Vision Care Pian helps with expenses for lenses, frames and contact lenses. The plan pays up to $250 for you and each of your eligible dependents every two years for services approved by a physician or optometrist.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company's Pension Pian.
In the event of your death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
DRUG PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
Your Drug Plan covers drugs and medications prescribed by a physician or a dentist and dispersed through a pharmacist.
This plan pays 100% of reasonable charges, minus 35 cents for each prescription and refill. The plan will pay for a 34-day supply for each prescription and refill, and for a supply for a longer period if your physician or dentist authorizes this.
The Drug Plan covers a wide range of drugs and medications and in a few cases extends beyond what normally is considered a drug or medication. For example, it covers:
•	needles, syringes and diagnostic aids for diabetics but not such things as atomizers. appliances and prosthetic devices or first aid and/or diagnostic supplies in general
•	injectible vitamins but not other kinds of vitamins or dietary supplements unless a federal or provincial law requires a prescription for their sale
The comprehensive list of drugs and medications covered by the plan includes allergant serums and vaccines (when medically necessary) and flu shots.
Your plan covers any new drugs introduced to the Ontario Drug Benefit Program subsequent to the effective date of this plan. The plan will also reimburse the cost, upon furnishing receipt, of drugs (purchased on or after March 1, 1998) that were not on the Ontario Drug Benefit (ODB) plan at the time of purchase but have since been added.
Reimbursements will be payable for drugs purchased during the 3 year period immediately prior to the addition of the drugs to the ODB plan. Payments will not be made automatically and therefore you are responsible for checking with your pharmacistto determine if a drug has been added to the ODB.
If a prescribed drug is not on the ODB but is considered to be medically necessary in life threatening or life sustaining situations or in cases of terminal illness which cannot be adequately substituted by a drug on the ODB, these situations will be reviewed on a case by case basis to determine eligibility for reimbursement. Contact the Employee Benefits Office for an Exception Request Package.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company's Pension Plan.
In the event of your death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
DENTAL CARE PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
Your Basic Dental Plan provides you and your dependents with ten categories of dental services, all providing a broad range of procedures.
For all the categories except major prosthodonticand orthodontic treatment the plan pays 100% of the covered dental care services, up to the amount listed for each service in the 1997 Ontario Dental Fee Guidefor General Practitioners.The plan will continue to be updated in the future to maintain a one year lag with the Ontario Dental Fee Guide. If the dental service you are havingdone is not specified within this fee guide, the insurance company will determine the appropriate amount to be paid.
For eight categories, there is no deductible and the maximum amount foryou and your dependents is unlimited. Inthecaseof major prostho-dontic, services are reimbursed at 50% with the maximum eligible amount being unlimited. For orthodontic treatment, the plan pays 50% of the cost, up to a lifetime maximum of $2,000 per person.
The dental services provided by the Dental Care Plan are as follows:
Diagnostic
Preventive
Restorative
Dental check-ups, x-rays, tests and laboratory examinations, consultations and treatment planning. Check-ups include a complete dental examination once every three years, a follow-up examination once every six months, as well as emergency appointments.
Cleaning and scaling, fluoride treatment, oral instruction and space maintainers.
A variety of treatment to restore teeth such as fillings and stainless steel crowns.
Endodontic Root canal therapy and chemical bleaching.
Periodontal Treatment of disease of the gums and bones
supporting the teeth.
Surgical	Removal of erupted teeth, surgical repositioning of a
tooth and tooth transplantation.
General	Local and general anesthesia, professional visits,
therapeutic injections, and in-office laboratory charges.
Minor Prosthodontic
Minor denture adjustments, repairs, denture relining and rebasing.
Major Prosthodontic
Complete or partial removable dentures, bridges and bridge replacements.
Orthodontic Correction of abnormal arrangements of teeth.
Although your Dental Care Plan is comprehensive, there are some exclusions such as crowns, and treatment for cosmetic purposes. As well, when a condition may be treated by different dental procedures, the plan pays for the least expensive procedure consistent with good dental care.
When you are having dental work done, it is important to plan for the expense. If the work is likely to cost more than $250, your claim should be submitted for predetermination of benefits to find out exactly what is covered and how much you may have to pay. Have your dentist complete a treatment schedule describing the proposed course of treatment and indicatingthe usual charges. Submit this informationdirectly to the insurance company. After review, the insurance company will notify you in writing cf the estimated benefit payable based on the proposed course of treatment. Since orthodontic treatment tends to be long-term and costly, it is particularly important to plan for this expense.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company‘s Pension Plan.
In the event of your death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
BENEFIT PLANS
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS
HEARING CARE PLAN
Effective March 1, 2001
Your Hearing Care Plan helps with the expenses for the installation and repair of hearing aids. The plan pays up to $400 lifetime, for you and each of your dependents, for hearing aids when prescribed by a physician or audiologist upon referral by a physician. Batteries and cords are excluded.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company‘s Pension Plan.
In the event ofyour death: Coverage will continue for your spouse's lifetime provided your spouse is eligible to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Company's Pension Plan.
Benefit Plans
RETIRED OFFICE, CLERICAL AND TECHNICAL WORKERS GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PLAN
Effective March 1,2001
To assist with your financial security, the Group Life insurance Plan provides for your survivors in the event of your death. The amount payable to your spouse or beneficiary would be:
$6,000
You may change your beneficiary at any time by completingthe appropriate form available from the Employee Benefits Office. If you do not name a beneficiary, the benefit is payable to your estate.
Your coverage begins: The date you retire under the Company's Pension Plan.
In the event of your spouse’s death: Group Life insurance coverage of $6,000 will be payable to the retiree.