1994
COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT
between
FALCONBR DGE LIM TED
and
caw^Iftca
CANADA
SUDBURY MINE MILL & SMELTER WORKERS’ UNION LOCAL 598, CAW/TCA, CANADA
AUGUST 31,1994
00178 (04)
Article 21	—	Designated Employee	55
Article 22	—	Hours of Work	56
Article 23	—	Technological Change	66
Article 24	—	Job Evaluation	72
Article 25	—	Skilled Trades and Apprentices	76
Article 26	—	Disabled Employees	83
Article 27	-—	Vacations	84
Article 28	—	Safety and Health	91
Article 29	—	Pension and Health Benefits	96
Article 30	” —	Wages	99
Article 31	—	Bulletin Boards	103
Article 32	—	Authority	104
Article 33	—	General	D4
Article 34	—	Further Conferences	105
Article 35	—	Termination	105
Schedule "A'	—	Classification of Employees Excluded from the Bargaining Unit	107
Schedule "B"	—	Hourly Wage Rates	III
Supplement to Schedule "BM	—	Occupation and Job Class Schedule	112
Schedule "Q"	, —.	Letters	117
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Article 1	—	Scope	1
Article 2	—	Recognition	1
Article 3	—	No Discrimination	7
Article 4	—	Management	8
Article 5	—	Union Security	8
Article 6	—	No Cessation of Work	9
Article 7	—	Grievance Procedure	10
Article 8	—.	Discharge and Discipline	22
Article 9	—	Mines Bonus	25
Article 10	—	Seniority	27
Article 11	—	Divisions/Departments	30
Article 12	—	Layoffs	31
Article 13	—	Retransfers	33
Article 14	—	Recalls	34
Article 15	—	Job Postings	38
Article 16	—.	Job Selection	46
Article 17	—■	Temporary Transfers	48
Article 18	—	T ransfers	49
Article 19	—	Leaves of Absence	51
Article 20	—	Probationary Employee	54
ARTICLE I-SCOPE
1.01	The employees covered by this Agreement shall be all the employees of the Company in the Sudbury District, except:
(a)	office, clerical and technical employees,
(b)	supervisors and persons above the rank of supervisor including those supervisory personnel in the classifications set forth in Schedule "A' attached hereto, and
(c)	all other employees of the Company set forth in Schedule "A".
The words "employee" and "employees" wherever used in this Agreement refer to such employees as are covered by this Agreement.
1.02	Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all the employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other working conditions.
2.02	The Company agrees with the principle of retaining for employees the work normally
1
done by them. Accordingly, supervisory personnel shall not perform work which is normally done by employees (except work of an emergency or casual nature) where qualified employees are reasonably available to do such work, provided that it shall not be a violation of this section for supervisory personnel to perform such work where it is done:
(a)	in the course of instructing or training employees;
(b)	to overcome production and maintenance difficulties;
(c)	in the course of research and development programs; or
(d)	to protect the safety of employees or equipment.
2.03	Non-supervisory individuals employed by the Company who are not employees (as defined herein) shall not perform work not normally done by them which work is normally done by employees.
2.04	(a) The Company will give its qualified
regular employees the opportunity to transfer to new areas after the preproduction period; should additional employees be required, the Company will recall qualified laid off employees.
2
Should there	be no qualified
employees on lay-offwith recall rights, the Company will provide up to 6 weeks training to such laid off employees with recall rights who have the basic knowledge and ability to be trained in the work required to be done in the new area before any new employees are hired by the Company . The number of laid off employees who are selected and are to be provided with training shall not exceed more than 10% of the employees in any occupation in the new production area and/or 3% of the workforce of the new production area.
(b)	The Company will, having regard to the availability of manpower, equipment, skills, engineering, supervision and services, to operating efficiency and to the time required to do the work, use its best efforts to employ its own employees reasonably available to do construction work.
(c)	No regular employee of the Company shall be demoted, laid off or discharged as a direct result of any work being contracted out by the Company.
The Company shall, having regard to the availability of equipment and the time required to do the work, promote
3
employees who have been demoted and recall employees who have been laid off provided those employees or laid off employees can fill the normal requirements of the job and are readily available before work which could be performed by the bargaining unit of a duration of 14 calendar days or longer is contracted out.
Forthe purposesof this article demotion shall mean a move to a lower job classification and paid the lower job classification wage rate or being removed from a job which pays mine bonus to ajob which does not pay mine bonus.
(d)	The Company will discuss with the Union as rapidly as possible any problems with regard to sections 2.02, 2.03, and this section 2.04 and in any case, will review with the Union at three-month intervals the contracting out situation. This provision is not intended to deny to employees or the Union its rights under Article 7.
(e)	The parties agree to establish a Joint Company-Union Committee to resolve issues related to the contracting out of work.
4
The purpose of the Joint Committee is
as follows:
1.	To meet monthly to review work the Company intends to contract out in the forthcoming quarter and to recommend how the work could otherwise be done by Company employees.
2.	To identify those contractors working on Company property on an ongoing basis to such an extent that the Committee recommends the replacement of such Contractor with an employee.
3.	To otherwise recommend changes in staffing, organization and structure whereby it would be more effective to use Company employees to perform the work of contractors.
The recommendations of the Committee will be submitted to the Union Executive. However, the Union will not be bound to accept the recommendations and should the Union not endorse them this will not limit the Company's right to implement those recommendations or the Union's right to grieve any alleged violation of the Collective Agreement.
5
Apart from the monthly meetings referredto in item#1 above the Joint Committee will meet as required to discuss any issue with respect to contracting out.
The Committee will consist of two representatives from both the Company and the Union. The Company agrees to pay the wages, cost-of-living allowance and nickel bonus to those members of the Union's committee that would otherwise have been payable for time absent from work while performing committee work and such time shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
(f)	When there are employees on layoff, the Company will, on a quarterly basis, supply to the Union and to each of its Managers an updated list of the names of the laid off employees and their skills inventory.
To promote the recall of laid off employees, the Company and Union shall establish a two person standing committee whenever employees are on layoff.
6
The two person committee consisting of the Director Human Resources and the Services Representative, shall be formed with the intent of improving the Company's processes to recall laid off employees for work they may be qualified to perform.
ARTICLE 3 - NO DISCRIMINATION
3.01	No person shall be required, as a condition of employment, to become or remain a member cf any union or other organization, and no statements or representations to the contrary shall be made.
3.02	There shall be no discrimination by the Company or the Union or its members against any employee because of Union activity or membershipor non-membership in any trade union, or because of the employee's sex, race, creed, color, nationality, ancestry, place of origin, ethnic origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, age, marital status, family status, handicap or political opinions.
Stewards, Union safety representatives or employees filling any other Union position shall not be denied any rights cr benefits provided for in this collective agreement because of their Union activity.
7
3.03
There shall be no solicitations of membership in any union organization or collectionof union dues or any union activity anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and the Plants or anywhere on the Company's property inside the gates.
This clause shall not be construed to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4.01	The union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the plants and mines, direct the working forces and to hire, promote, transfer, demote or lay off, and to suspend, demote, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause. Provided, however, that the Company agrees that any exercise of these rights and powers in conflict with any of the provisionsin this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY
5.01	The Company shall, during the life of this Agreement, and as a condition of each employee's continued employment, deduct an amount from each pay of each employee which in total over two pays shall equal the Union's monthly dues. Deductions will be remitted to the Union together with a list of names of employees from whom such
8
deductions were made on the Monday following each payday.
If no deduction is made from any pay by reason solely of the employee being away on vacation, that deduction will be made from the next pay due to such employee.
The amount of Union monthly dues currently in effect in accordance with the Union's constitution shall be certified by the Union to the Company by letter signed by the President or the Financial Secretary of tl e Union.
5.02	(a) The Company will pay to the Union
the amount of Union Dues payable for any employee the Company moves to ajob outside the bargaining unit on a temporary basis.
(b) The Company will deduct monthly from those penloners certified by the Union to the Company the amount of pensioners' dues in effect.
ARTICLE 6 - NO CESSATION OF WORK
6.01	Neither the Union nor any employee shall take part in or call or encourage any strike, sit down, slow down, or any Suspension of work against the Company which shall in any way affect the operations of the Company, nor shall the Company engage in any lockout at its Plants or Mines.
9
ARTICLE 7 -GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
7.01	Should any difference (hereinafter called a "grievance") anse between the Company and any employees as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such grievance without undue delay in the following manner:
Stage One
An aggrieved employee shall, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, state his representations in writing to the designated managementrepresentative(s) at Stage One who shall be his immediate first line Supervisor and the second line Supervisor of the area in which the grievance arose. The management representative shall establish a mutually agreed upon date for a Stage One hearing which shall not be more than 10 days from the date the management representativewas advised of the request for a Stage One meeting. Such representations in writing shall state the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and provisions of this Agreement upon which it is alleged the grievance is based, provided that:
(a) any omission of such a provision shall not prejudice the determination of the grievance on its merits at any stage of the procedure including arbitration, and
(b) reference to any provision shall not prevent the employee from relying on any other provisions of the Agreement.
In making such representations he shall be accompanied and represented by a Grievance Steward in his Departmentwho is reasonably familiar with the work in which the employee is engaged, if this requirement is relevant along with the Division Grievance Committeemen of the respective area. The Management representative(s) shall give his or their decision in writing within 7 days from the date upon which such representations were presented. The Services Representative of the Union shall be sent a copy of the answer at Stage One by Labour Relations. If the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, then:
Stage Two
(i)	Notice in writing requesting further consideration of the grievance shall, within 15 calendar days after the decision of the management representative(s) for Stage One has or should have been given, be given by the Services Representative of the Union to the designated management representative(s) for Stage Two. Such management representative(s) shall notify the Services Representative of
II
the Union of a meeting place and shall arrange to meetwithin 14 calendar days to discuss the grievance. If required there shall be two meetings monthly for the Mines Division and in each of the Mill, Smelter and Services Division except for any shutdown week or Christmas week. At such meeting the written Stage One representations of the Union shall be presented to the designated management representative(s) by the Services Representative and the Division Committeeman for the area concerned together with one Grievance Steward who wherever practicable shall have been the Grievance Steward at the Stage One hearing. At the inception of or during this Stage, the Services Representative of the Union or the management representative(s) may require that an officer of the Union be present at such meeting. The managementrepresentative(s) shall give his or their decision on behalf of the Company within 21 calendar days from such meeting.
(ii)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, notice in writing requesting consideration of layoff grievances shall, within 30 calendar days from the date of layoff, be given by the Services Representative of the Union to the designated management representative(s) for Stage Two. An
12
earnest effort shall be made to hear such grievances as soon as practicable. The management representative(s) shall give their decision on behalf of the Company within 21 calendar days from such meeting.
7.02	The Company will post a notice in each Department setting out the management representatives designated to handle matters in each Department at Stages One and Two of the grievance procedure.
7.03	A management representative shall be designated by the Company for any of the stages through which a matter must proceed.
Direct Difference
7.04	Any difference arising directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, may be submitted in writing by either of such parties to the other requesting a meeting to discuss the difference. Such meeting between the officers of the Union and representatives of the Company shall be held at a mutually acceptable time within 21 days after receipt of such submission. If the parties are unable to settle such a difference within 14 days from such meeting then the party to whom the said notice was delivered shall
13
reply in writing to such difference within 21 days from such meeting.
Arbitration
7.05	In the event that
(a)	any grievance, including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, has not been satisfactorily settled under section 7.01, such grievance may then by notice in writing given to the other party within two months from the date when the written decision of the management representative(s) of Stage Two was or should have been delivered or
(b)	any difference directly between the Union and the Company has not been satisfactorily settled in accordance with section 7.04, such difference may then by notice in writing to the management representative within two months from the date when the written decision of the management representative(s) was or should have been delivered
be referred either by the Company or the Union to arbitration for final and binding settlement, without stoppage of work, as hereinafter provided.
7.06	In any case in which a Board of Arbitrators shall be required under this Agreement, the
14
Company and the Union shall each appoint one arbitrator and the two arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third. No person may be named as an arbitrator who has participated directly in an attempt to settle the grievance, The arbitrators to be appointed by the Company and the Union shall be appointed within 10 days from the date of receipt of notice of arbitration. In the event that either party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within the time provided, the other party may request the Minister of Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint an arbitrator on behalf of the defaulting party. The findings of the majority of the Board of Arbitrators as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including the question as to whether the matter is arbitrable, shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no event shall the arbitrators be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
Where an arbitration board determines that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the Company for just cause, the board may substitute such other penalty for the discharge or discipline as to the board seemsjust and reasonable in all the circumstances.
7.07	The Company and the Union shall respectively pay the expenses and fees
15
payable to the arbitrator selected by each, and the Company and the Union shall each be responsiblefor one-half of the reasonable expenses and fees payable to the third arbitrator.
7.08	If the arbitrator appointed by the Company and the arbitrator appointed by the Union fail to agree within 3 weeks upon the appointment of a third arbitrator, the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration Commission shall be requested to choose a third arbitrator.
Single Arbitrator
7.09	(a) Notwithstanding section 7.06, the Union
or the Company may, in the notice in writing given to the other party pursuant to section 7.05 referring any grievance, including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or any difference directly between the Union and the Company to arbitration, propose that such arbitration be dealt with by a single arbitrator. The other party shall within 14 days of the receipt of such notice reply in writing stating whether arbitration by a single arbitrator is acceptable.
(b)	The single arbitrator shall be selected in rotation from the following: M. Teplitsky, K. Burkett, D. Stanley and G. Charney.
(c)	A single arbitrator shall have all the
16
powers of a board of arbitrators as provided in this agreement or under the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, as amended from time to time, and the provisions herein with respect to such a board shall apply to a single arbitrator, with the necessary changes being made.
(d)	If in the reply referred to in (a) the other party states that arbitration by a single arbitrator is not acceptable, then in such reply such other party shall name its arbitrator to be appointed to a board of arbitratorswhich is to arbitrate the matter. Thereafter the parties shall proceed with the matter in accordance with this Agreement as if it had been submitted originally for arbitration.
7.10	In any arbitrationthe written representation of the Union made at Stage Two and the decision of the Company at Stage Two of the grievance procedure (or in the case of a difference directly between the Company and the Union the written submission by the party initiating the discussion of the difference and the written reply thereto of the other party) shall be presented to the arbitrators and the award of the arbitrators shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
This provision shall not modify the provisions of the third sentence of Stage One of section 7.01.
17
General Provisions
7.11	Where any step in the procedure provided for in Article 7 or 8 is to be taken within a period of 7 days or less, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in counting such number of days.
7.12	Failure to process a grievance from one Stage to the next Stage or arbitration within the specified time limits will be deemed an abandonment of such grievance; failure to reply to a grievance within the specified time limit will permitthe grieving party to proceed to the next higher Stage, including arbitration.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, any time limit fixed by this Article orArticle8 may be extended by agreement of the Company and the Union.
7.13	A grievance alleging that any employee has failed to receive the rate of pay to which he is entitled under this Agreement, having regard to the application of seniority or rates of pay, must be presented in writing within 10 days after the pay day for the pay period in which the grievance arose. The Company shall extend the period of 10 days where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such period.
7.14	An aggrieved employee, if he so desires,
18
may be present at all stages of the grievance procedure.
7.15	Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal matters to the Company.
Grievance Committeemen and Stewards
7.16	The General Grievance Committeemen and Grievance Stewards herein referred to and who shall be designated by the Union, shall be employees and shall consist of an aggregate total of not more than one for each thirty employees.
7.17	The General Grievance Committee shall be divided into three Division Grievance Committees, one from each of the Mines, Reduction and Skilled Trades/Services Divisions and each Division Committee shall consist of one employee from each of the areas of Falconbridge and Onaping to be referred to as the Division Committee.
7.18	A Grievance Steward and the respective Division Grievance Committeeman of the area concerned shall act at Stage One and Stage Two. The foregoing is not intended to preclude a Division Grievance Committeeman from representing an employee from a Division other than that of the Committeeman. The Union shall notify the Company of any change in members of each Grievance Committee,
19
7.19
In the discretion of the Union any member of the General Grievance Committee may also be a Grievance Steward but the total number of employees designated by the Union as Grievance Stewards shall in no event exceed the aggregate total set out in section 7.16.
7.20	Any Grievance Steward or member of the General Grievance Committee shall be allowed such time off a shall be reasonably required to attend such necessary meetings with supervisory personnel as are hereinbefore provided in this Article, subject, however, to obtaining permission (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) from his supervisor designated by the Company to act for it at Stage One.
The Company shall pay members of the General Grievance Committee and Grievance Stewards at their basic rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus any applicable off-shift premium, for any time lost during their regular shifts or from overtime in connection with any of the above-mentioned duties. However, payment shall not be made for any time which is held to be an abuse of the provisions of the above paragraph, The Company shall notify the Union of any such withholding of payment and the details of the alleged abuse.
Where the Company requires a Grievance Steward or member of the
20
General Grievance Committee to travel from his regular place of work to attend any meetings with supervisory personnel, the Company will pay a Travel Allowance based on Company Policy.
7.21	(a) To enable the General Grievance
Committeeto meet and review decisions of the Company at Stages One and Two of the grievance procedurethe Company shall grant monthly at the request of the Union to each of the six members of the Committee one day's leave without pay and one day's leave with pay at his basic rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus nickel bonus, plus any applicable shift premium.
The Company will grant an additional day's leave per month for each of the six members of the Committee for the above mentioned purposes. The Company and Union will pay on alternate months the employee's basic rate plus cost-of-living allowance and any applicable shift premium for the day; however the Company shall pay the nickel bonus on the additional day's leave regardless of whether it is paying his basic rate of pay.
(b)	In addition to the above the Company will grant grievance stewards one day per month to attend to Union business. Such time will be paid at the employee's base rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus nickel bonus.
21
7.22	Where the Company grants a Steward a leave of absence with pay from his regularly scheduled shift for the purposes of Union business, such time will be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
ARTICLE 8 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
8.01	Any notice of discharge or notice of suspension other than investigatory suspension shall be given to the employee in the presence of a Grievance Steward in his Department, but if such a Steward is not available then in the presence of any other Steward who is reasonably available provided that should there be no Steward available such lack of availability of a Steward will not nullify such notice of discharge or suspension. In the case of an investigatory suspension, the Company shall notify a Steward or the Union as soon as practicable. The Company will confirm the reasons for such discharge or suspension to the employee and the Union in writing. Apartfrom the immediate preceding sentence, in the event the Company discharges an employee, it shall notify the Union within 24 hours of such discharge provided that failure to notify shall not be construed as nullifying such discharge.
22
A grievance alleging that an employee has been discharged without just cause shall be dealt with under the provisions of Article 7 except that such grievance shall be initiated at Stage Two of the grievance procedure and must be presented within 10 calendar days after the date of discharge. The Company shall extend such I 0 day period where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such period.
8.02	If a discharged, demoted or suspended employee is reinstated pursuant to arbitration the Company shall pay him the following compensation with respect to the period for which he is reinstated:
(a)	earnings lost based on his regular rate for the time lost during the period of discharge, demotion or suspension limited to a maximum of 40 hours per week, less the amount of money earned by the employee during the time lost;
(b)	shift premium applicable to his normal hours of work lost;
(c)	weekend premium applicable to his normal hours of work lost;
(d)	holiday pay he would otherwise have been entitled to; and
(e)	premiums for any or all of Ontario
23
Hospital Insurance Plan, Supplementary Plan, Drug Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Dental Plan provided that the employee;
(i)	has notified the Company within 14 days following his discharge that he intends to pay such premiums during the period pending the disposition of his discharge in the grievance procedure or by arbitration and;
(ii)	has actually paid such premium.
8.03	The Company will give an employee a copy of any written warning in the presence of a steward, if requested, without requiring the employee to sign for it and will notify an employee of any oral reprimand entered on his record. Written warnings (but not suspensions) for absence without leave or for failing to notify the Company of intended absence shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline for subsequent infractions of a like nature if after three calendar months there is no repetition of such offence.
Any other written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee’s record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline if in the 6 months following such warning there is no further misconduct. In any event a written warning
24
(but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline 12 months after the issuance of such warning.
A suspension notice other than a suspension notice for breach of Article 6 shall be disregarded in determining discipline two (2) years afterthe issuance of such suspension. A suspension notice for breach of Article 6, shall be disregarded in determining discipline three (3) years after the issuance of such suspension.
ARTICLE 9 - MINES BONUS
9.01	The Union may establish for each of the Company's mines, a Bonus Grievance Committee to consist of not more than two employees per mine, each of whom must be reasonably familiar with contract work in the mine The Union shall advise the Company forthwith of the names of the members of such committees and shall notify the Company whenever any changes are made
The Company will give the members of the Bonus Grievance Committee special training each year in the Company's bonus system with no loss in pay, including any bonus, to the persons involved
Up to two members of the Bonus Grievance Committee who are not Grievance Stewards from the Mines
25
Division shall be granted time off in accordance with 7.21 (b).
9.02	Each Bonus Grievance Committee shall be entitled at reasonable times, but not more than twice a month, to present to the Superintendent of its department and such other representatives of the Company as may be present, any complaints or objections with regard to any mines contract bonus applied in its department during the preceding or current month including any matters pertaining to a particular contract on which an employee or crew may have been working during the preceding month or may be working currently. The Bonus Grievance Committee shall notify the Superintendent of the department concerned in writing at least three working days prior to any such meeting of the particular contracts to be considered thereat, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection. The Superintendent shall make every effort to give his answer in writing not later than 10 days from any such meeting.
9.03	If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the Bonus Grievance Committee, it shall be entitled to apply in writing to the relevant Mine Manager, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection to a meeting of the Company Committee composed of the relevant Mine Manager
26
and 3 other representatives appointed by the Company. Such application shall be made in writing at least three working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Superintendent referred to in section 9.02. The Company Committee will meet each Bonus Grievance Committee as may be required for the dispatch of business but not more than once in each month to consider such complaints or objections of which notice has been given as aforesaid. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the relevant Mine Manager and notice thereof shall be given to the particular Bonus Grievance Committee. At such meeting the Bonus Grievance Committee may be accompanied by an officer of the Union. The Company Committee shall make every effort to give its answer in writing not later than 7 days from any such meeting.
ARTICLE 10 -SENIORITY
10.01	The Company agrees with the principle of granting preference to employees in promotions, demotions resulting from any change or manpower reduction, lay-offs, and rehiring after lay-offs in accordance with their relative seniority ranking as hereinafter set out
27
10.02 For the purpose of this Agreement:
(a)	"seniority date" shall mean an employee's most recent hiring date with the Company (exceptwhere such date is the date of rehiring after a lay-off in accordance with section 14.02).
(b)	an employee's"seniority" shall mean the length of time from his seniority date and such seniority shall be maintained and accumulated during:
(i)	a lay-off within any period during which he has recall rights,
(ii)	any leave occasioned by illness or injury.
(iii)	any leave of absence granted by the Company, or
(iv)	any leave of absence granted under section 19.03(b); and
(c)	"credited service" shall mean an employee's seniority less any period of:
(i)	leave in excess of four weeks for some reason other than disabling injury, illness or compassionate grounds, leave granted for Union purposes or jury duty.
(ii)	absence from work due to any illegal strike.
(iii)	lay-off for a period continuing through five full payroll periods (based on bi-weekly payroll periods).
28
10.03
10.04
An employee shall lose whatever seniority and credited service he may have accumulated if he:
(a)	quits and does not rehire within a period of 6 months,
(b)	is discharged,
(c)	is laid off far lack of work for a period which exceeds the duration of his recall rights as set out in section 14.01,
(d)	fails without reasonable cause to return to work immediately upon the completion of any leave of absence which may have been granted, or
(e)	retires or his employment is terminated by mutual agreement.
Lists showing the relative seniority dates for each employee in each department will be prepared and maintained by the Company. A master list for all departments shall be available at the Company's General Office at Falconbridge, and a departmental list shall also be available in the office of each department with respect to the employees in such department for reference by employees at reasonable times to determine questions of seniority ranking. The lists shall be revised
29
by the Company and brought up to date at least once during each 6-month period, and a copy of the master list shall be forwarded to the Union.
The Company will provide the Union with a list of employees who have been laid off. The list will show the seniority date, occupation andjob class the employee held prior to his lay-off.
Each month, the Company will provide the Union with a list of laid off employees recalled to work. The list will show the employee's seniority date, the occupation andjob class to which he was recalled.
Each month the Company will provide the Union with a list of employees it attempted to recall and the address to which the recall notice was sent.
ARTICIE 11 - DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS
11.01	For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Agreement, the divisions and departments shall be as follows:
(a)	Mines Division
(1)	Onaping/Craig Mine Department
(2)	Fraser Mine Department
(3)	Strathcona Mine Department
(4)	Development Projects Department
(5)	Lockerby Mine Department
30
(b)	Mineral Processing Division
(I ^melter Department (includes General
Surface
Falconbridge)
(2) Strathcona Concentrator Department
(c)	Skilled Trades/Services Division
(1)	Mechanical Department (includes General Surface Onaping)
(2)	Electrical Department
The Company will, in consultation with the Union, allocate new or renewed operations into the existing Divisions and Departments; or in consultation with the Union, create additional Divisions and Departments or delete or combine Departments as may be required.
ARTICLE 12-LAYOFFS
12.01	In all cases of lay-offs and/or demotions (other than lay-offs and demotions of a temporary nature, i.e. having a duration cf 2 weeks or less, or of an emergency nature) employees shall be relocated within the same occupational classification where possible in their department or in their division, relocated in the same job class where possible in their department or in their division, demoted
31
within their department or division or laid off from the Company in reverse order of their seniority ranking provided that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirements of operations.
An employee may, within 4 calendar days of being notified of being transferred to the lowestjob class in another department due to a reduction in work force, if he has sufficientseniority ranking to retain ajob with the Company, elect to be laid off and when laid off, the recall provisions set out in section
14.01	shall apply, provided that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirements of operations.
12.02	In the event of the closing down, either permanently or for a period of indefinite duration, of all or any part of a department, each employee in that department shall have the rightto apply for a permanent vacancy in any other department within his division that has been posted by the Company on the same basis as if he were an employee in such other department; provided that an employee may make such application only after notification by the Company of such closing down and only during a period of 16 weeks from the date of the announcement of the date of such closing down. Within 14 calendar days of the posting of the notice of closure of all or part
32
of a Department, the Company will commence posting perinanent vacancies hereinbefore mentioned.
ARTICLE 13-RETRANSFERS
13.01	An employee who is transferred to another department as a result of a reduction in production requirements or the closing down, either permanently or for a period of indefinite duration, of all or any part of a department (whether or not such reduction or closing down includes any layoffs) shall, if an additional employee is required in the department from which he was transferred, have the right to be retransferred in order of his seniority ranking, if he can meet the normal requirements of the job.
Should a vacancy remain unfilled as a result of the foregoing and the Company requires an employee in the Division from which the employee was transferred, the Company will offer a retransfer opportunity to the employee's former Division in order of seniority ranking if he can meet the normal requirements of the job.
Should an employee accept a retransfer to his former Division prior to a vacancy occurring in his former Department he shall not lose his opportunity to retransfer to such former department if a vacancy occurs therein within thirty-six months of his transfer
33
from his former department. However, if the employee has on one occasion declined to exercise such right of retransfer, he shall be deemed to have abandoned such right. An employee who on one occasion declines a retransfer to his Division shall be deemed to have abandoned such right except as hereinbefore mentioned.
ARTICLE 14-RECALLS
14.01	If an employee is laid off he shall have recall rights for rehiring as set out in section 14.02, in the event the Company intends to rehire laid off employees for work other than that of an emergency nature. He shall have recall rights in accordance with his seniority for the following lengths of time commencing from the date of such lay-off:
Seniority
Length of Recall Rights
Under one year's seniority
18 months
Over one year's seniority and upto four year's seniority
48 months
Over four year's seniority
60 months
Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the Company requires any individual for work of
an emergency nature, it shall give any laid off employee an opportunity, consistent with the emergency requirements, to do such work if he:
(a)	has informed the Company he is readily available;
(b)	is readily available, and
(c)	can perform such work.
Prior to being laid off, the Company will provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availability for such emergency work.
14.02	The Company shall maintain a recall list of employees who are laid off. When hiring employees, the Company shall give preference in rehiring to laid off employees on such listwho are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the available jobs in reverse order to that in which they were laid off subject to the following provisions:
(a)	notice of recall shall be sent to the laid off employee by registered mail to the last address which he has recorded with the Company or by such other method as may be reasonably available in the circumstances;
(b)	the noticeshall stipulate thejob to which the laid off employee is being recalled,
35
its probable duration, and the proposed time (which shall be not less than 14 calendar days from date of mailing) and place to report. The laid off employee shall indicate his acceptance as promptly as possible prior to such time;
(c)	laid off employees who accept the recall and report for duty at the time and place specified in paragraph (b) hereof will be rehired in accordance with their seniority ranking;
(d)	no laid off employee shall be denied rehiring solely because of a medical or physical condition which existed at the time he was laid off;
(e)	the Company shall be entitled to fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending the rehiring of laid off employees with recall rights provided it shall give any senior laid off employee an opportunity, consistent with the requirements of such temporaryjob, to do such work if he:
(i)	has informedthe Company that he is readily available,
(ii)	is readily available, and
(iii)	can perform the normal requirements of such work.
36
Prior to being laid off, the Company will provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availabilityfor such temporary work
(f)	a laid off employee who is unable to report for work as specified in his notice of recall because of injury, illness or other reasonable excuse and who:
(i)	informs the Company of the injury, illness or other reasonable excuse prior to the time specified in paragraph (b);
(ii)	confirms in writing as soon as possible that he has so informed the Company of the injury, illness or other reasonable excuse, and
(iii)	provides satisfactory medical or other evidence of such injury, illness or other reasonable excuse.
shall not lose recall rights solely because of his failure to so report; and
(g)	aside from paragraph (f), if a laid off employee is recalled in accordance with paragraph (b) to an occupational classification other than that from which laid off he may refuse such recall once. If he has so refused, the Company shall not be required to offer a second recall to an occupational classification other
37
than the one from which laid off, unless that occupational classification has been eliminated. If he refuses recall to the occupational classification from which laid off, he shall lose his recall rights.
ARTICLE 15 -JOB POSTINGS
15.01	Notice of a vacancy occurring in a bargaining unitjob classification belonging to Job Class 3 or more, or in the case of underground work, Job Class 4 or more except a Mine Labourer, shall, if the work is going to be continued, be posted within one calendar week for 5 working days on the related departmental bulletin boards. There shall be excluded from the foregoing, jobs considered by the Company to be temporary only, i.e. of 23 calendar days duration or less. All notices shall designate:
Part I
(a)	With respect to underground classifications, where applicable, the type of shift, the initial duties (including the type of stope), the name of the First Line Supervisor in charge and the wage rate.
(b)	With respect to classifications in the Mineral Processing and Services Divisions, the shift, the name of the first line Supervisor in charge in the
38
Skilled Trades/Services, Strathcona Concentrator and Acid Plant, and the second line Supervisor in charge in the Smelter Operations and the wage rate.
(c)	If the Company knows the vacancy is temporary with a duration of more than 23 calendar days, an estimate of its probable duration.
(d)	The Union will be supplied with copies cf posted job vacancies and effective from January 1, 1995, the Union will be supplied with copies of the names of successful applicants.
Every six months the Company will review and re-post temporary job postings as necessary.
Part 2
Any employee in such department (including an employee absent from work by reason of illness, injury or vacation):
(a) who is in a different occupational classification; or
(b) who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to one type of shift while the posted work is for anothertype of shift;
may apply in writing for such posted work within 5 working days.
39
Part 3
Notwithstandingthe foregoing, an employee in such department in a redesigned occupation may applyfor a vacancy within his occupational classificationwhich is a contract work occupation or an employee in a contract work occupation may apply for a vacancy within his occupational classification which is a non contract work occupation within 5 working days.
In addition to the immediate foregoing an employee in such department in a redesigned occupation may applyfor a vacancy within his occupational classification which is for a different shift no more than once a year.
Where the Company has reorganized the duties of a number of occupations and combined those duties under one job title, the Company will for the three month period immediatelyfollowing such job redesign add as supplementary information on the notice of vacancy of such redesignedjob, the former job title of the occupation in which the successful candidate is required initially.
If such vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the Collective Agreement respectively, 13.01 (retransfer), 14.02 (recall), and 18.01 (transfer). Ifthejob still remains vacant, the
40
Company will post an opportunity to transfer (18.01) notice for a period of 5 days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, apprentices being excluded from making application for such transfer. Any subsequent vacancywhich may resultfrom the posting of the opportunity to transfer shall be filled by the application of the following sections of the Agreement in the following sequence: 13.01 (retransfer), 14.02 (recall), and 18.01 (transfer); if the job still remains vacant, the Company will hire an individual.
Any employee who fills a temporary vacancy shall, on its termination, revert to his former occupational classification. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, an employeewho fills a temporary vacancy shall at his option, on its termination exercise his seniority and displace the employee within his respective first-line supervisor's group (second line supervisor's group for repair crew personnel and mechanical personnel) who has the least seniority and who occupies the same occupational classification on a temporary basis. Such employee who is displaced shall revert to his former occupational classification.
Ifthrough the grievance procedure (including arbitration) the action of the Company in promoting an employee to fill a vacancy or in demoting an employee is reversed, such employee and any employees filling any vacancies created by such promotion or demotion shall revert tu their former occupational classification.
41
Part 4
An employee on a Union leave of absence in accordance with Article 19.01 may apply for jobs in accordance with Part2 which are posted in the department in which he worked immediately prior to commencing such leave.
When an employee on a Union leave of absence under Article 19.01 is the successful candidate for a job posting and elects to remain on leave, the Company shall fill the posting by selecting another successful candidate from amongst those applicants who appliedforthe originaljob posting. Ifthe vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the Collective Agreement respectively, retransfer, opportunity to transfer, recall.
Upon completion of the leave of absence granted under Article 19.01, the employee shall be placed in the actual job for which he was the successful candidate and if such job no longer exists or there are surplus employees in the occupation, the provisions of Article 12.01 shall be applied.
42
Parts
Opportunity To Train
Where the Company anticipates a future requirement for trained employees in an occupation in a Department or where a posting has gone unfilled the Company may post an "Opportunity to Train" posting in the Department or in the case of the Mines Division, such posting shall be posted across the Division. All employees in the Department or Division as the case may be, shall have the opportunity to apply for such opportunities and selection shall be based upon seniority provided they have the basic knowledge and ability to be trained in the work required.
An employee who applies for such opportunity but who does not possess the requisite education shall be provided the opportunity to attain such education in the manner set out in the new Article proposed entitled "Education Criteria". During the period of training, employees retain the rate of pay of their permanent Job Posting.
Upon completion of the training period, the employee shall return to his former occupation. When an employee in an Opportunity to Train posting is the
43
successful candidate for a job posting, the Company shall fill the posting by selecting another successful candidate from amongst those applicants who appliedfor the original job posting. Ifthe vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the Collective Agreement respectively, retransfers, opportunity to transfer, recall.
Upon completion of the training, or should the employee be removed from the training, the employee shall be placed in the actual job for which he was the successful candidate and if such job no longer exists or there are surplus employees in the occupation, the provisions of Article 12.01 shall be applied.
An employee who is unable to complete the training or education satisfactorily shall be returned to his former occupation and shall not reapply for an opportunity to train for a permanent posting in this position for a period of two years. Where the employee was removed from this function due to the education component they may reapply upon supplying the Company satisfactory proof that they have attained the requisite education.
44
Where an employee has successfully completed the training he shall, for a period of 3 years after the completion of the training, be automatically considered as having applied for any permanent position posted for the job unless the employee has obtained a permanent posting at an equal or higher job class. Should he be the senior applicant he will be awarded the job.
15.02	Within 14 calendar days after the expiration of the posting period required by section 15.01, the Company shall choose the successful applicant, if any, and place him in the vacancy if it then exists. If the successful applicant agrees to fill the job vacancy and the Company fails to place him in the vacancy by the end of the 14th day, it shall, commencing on the 15th day, pay him the rate applicable for that job. If the successful applicant declines to accept the job the Company shall forthwith by written notice post the name of the applicant declining the job along with the date thereof and the name of the successful applicant who has agreed to take the job. The Company shall pay the successful applicant who has agreed to accept the job the rate applicable thereto from the date such successful applicant was selected for the job.
The Company will, after the 15th day, if the successful applicant has not been placed in the vacancy, pay a travel allowance to the employee based on the allowance currently in
45
effect for the difference in distance the employee is required to travel between his home and the location of his former job and his home and the location of the job he successfully applied for, The travel allowance is not applicable to any employee other than the applicant initially selected to fill the vacancy which was posted in the first instance. The name and employment number of the successful applicant for every such vacancy shall be posted for at least 2 working days during the aforesaid period of 14 calendar days on the bulletin board on which notice of such vacancy was posted. With respect to vacancies so filled the seniority date of the successful applicant shall be noted, Where there is no successful applicant, the name of the employee assigned to the job shall be posted on the bulletin board and he shall be paid the applicable hourly rate from the date of his assignment.
ARTICLE 16 -JOB SELECTION
16.01	In all cases of promotions to fill vacancies the Company shall consider the following two factors in determiningwhich employees are to be promoted:
(a)	seniority ranking of the employees in that department, and
(b)	the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee to do the job.
46
16.02	When in the judgment of the Company, which shall not be exercised in an unfair and unreasonable manner, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their seniority ranking shall govern except as hereinafter provided.
16.03	If an arbitration board decides that the Company failed to exercise its judgment pursuant to section 16.02 in a fair and reasonable manner the Company shall fill the vacancy with the applicant having the higher seniority ranking if he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to do the job.
16.04	When, in the interest of efficiency of operations, the Company assigns an employee in any job classification from one type of shift to another in the same job classification it will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available.
16.05	An employee who fills a vacancy under section 16.01, is demoted under section
12.01	or who has been transferred under section 18.01 shall be given a reasonable period (not to exceed 10 shifts) to familiarize himself with the particular work place or area ofthejob.
16.06	In making temporary promotions, demotions and transfers of a temporary nature (i.e.
47
having a duration of between 3 working days and 23 calendar days) the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operation, have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available.
16.07	Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the
Company from transferring any individual to the category of an employee; provided, however, that the seniority date of an individual who has never been in the bargaining unit shall be the date on which he first entered the bargaining unit. An employee who leaves or has left the bargaining unit and re-entersit at anytime or times shall be entitled to bring his full Company service with him for the purpose of determining his seniority ranking.
An individual re-entering the bargaining unit shall return to the same occupational classification he held when he left, and then section 12.01 shall apply. If his former occupational classification no longer exists then the individual shall re-enter the bargaining unit provided he does not displace anyone in the bargaining unit with greater seniority.
ARTICLE 17-TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
17.01	(a) An employee who is transferred
temporarily to another department at the Company's request shall retain all his rights under Article 10 in the department
48
from	which	he	was	temporarily
transferred and shall acquire no posting rights in the department to which he is temporarily transferred as a result of such temporary transfer.
(b) An	employee who is	transferred
temporarily to another department at his own request shall acquire posting rights in the department to which he is temporarily transferred and shall not retain posting	rights	in the	department
from	which	he	was	temporarily
transferred. However, if within 30 calendar days from the date of such transfer the employee so requests, he shall be retransferred to his former department and occupational classification and he shall thereupon reacquire his posting rights. Any employee who may have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancy created by such temporary requested transfer shall thereupon revert to his former occupational classification.
ARTICLE 18 - TRANSFERS
18.01	An employee who has at least one year of seniority shall have the right to transfer from an occupational classification in one department to an occupational classification in another department, including an occupational classification in a department which is newly established or a department in another Division.
49
An employeewishing such transfer shall file a written application with the Company and a copy shall be given to him. On any such application an employee may state he wishes to be transferred to a particular occupational classification in one or more of the departments within a division that are located in Sudbury Operations, listing such departments in order of preference.
An employee's application shall lapse one year after the date of filing but may be renewed from year to year at his request. However, in no event may an employee have morethan one such application on file at any one time. The filing of an application in addition to the one on file shall be deemed to be a withdrawal of his earliest application on file.
If a vacancy exists or occurs in the occupational classification in a department into which the employee wishes to transfer the senior applicant shall be so transferred provided he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job before a new employee is hired to fill the vacancy.
The Company shall at the request made by the employee so transferred within 14 calendar days from the date of such transfer retransfer him to his former department and to the actual occupation he held immediately
50
before having been transferred. Any employee who may otherwise have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer shall thereupon revert to the actual former occupations they held.
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this section, in the event of an actual or layoff anticipated within one month, the Company shall not be required to consider any applications for transfer on file.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
19.01	The Company shall, on application by the Union, grant leaves of absence without pay aggregating not more than five man years No leave granted to any employee hereunder shall be for a period in excess of one year nor less than six months Leave granted to any employee hereunder will on the request of the Union be extended for a period of not more than one year at a time Not more than five employees shall at any one time be absent on leaves of absence
19.02	Upon written request to the Company by the Union given not less than one week in advance, wherever possible, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to employees named in such request to absent themselves to attend Union conferences, oi educationals For each such conference or educational not more than two employees
51
19.03
from each of the Plants and Services Division and three employees from the Mines Division will be granted leaves of absence of not more than 21 working days off for each of two such events annually for each employee. The granting of such leaves of absence may be withheld when the granting of same would be unreasonable having regard to the requirements of operations.
(a)	The Company will grant: an employee a
leave of absence without pay up to six
months for personal reasons if
(i)	he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 15 days, if possible, in advance and
(ii)	the Company is satisfied the leave is for good reason and will not unduly interfere with operations.
Such leave may be extended if:
(i)	the Company is satisfied there is good reason for such extension and it will not unduly interfere with operations and
(ii)	the employee requests such extension in writing before completing his current leave.
(b)	Maternity Leave
A pregnant employee who has
52
completed her probationary period and who advisesthe Company in writing that she is unable to perform the normal duties of herjob shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for not more than six months
A pregnant employee may be required by the Company to commence a pregnancy leave of absence at such time as she cannot, in the opinion of Occupational Health Services, perform the normal duties of her job. The Company may require at any time an employee entitled to a leave of absence pursuant to this section to provide certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and actual date of her delivery. If at the conclusion of her leave, the employee presents the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her normal duties, she shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to such former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with alternate work of a comparable nature. In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of her pregnancy leave because of complications arising out of her pregnancy and delivery, she may be granted an extension of up to 3 months
53
upon written request made to the Personnel Department.
(c)	Paternity Leave
An employee whose spouse is to give birth shall, if he wishes a leave of absence, make his request to the Company in writing for such leave at least 5 weeks in advance of the expected date of birth
A leave granted under this section shall be limited to six months and the employee may commence such leave at any time surrounding the birth of the child
Leave granted will be without pay and the Company may request the employee to submit a certificate of birth for the child.
ARTICLE 20 - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE
20.01	A probationary employee shall not
acquire any rights under Article 10 hereof nor have the right to grieve and take to arbitration any dispute involving discipline, including discharge (except discharges or discipline alleged to be in contravention of section 3.02 of this Agreement), until he has been in the employ of the Company for 75 calendar days following the date of his most
54
recent hiring. At the expiration of such 75 calendar days, however, such employee's seniority date shall be the date of his most recent hiring. If a probationary employee is discharged, the Company will discuss the case with the General Grievance Committee at its request. Notwithstanding section 4.01, the Company may discharge or otherwise discipline a probationary employee if the Company believes that he is not suitable for or able to perform adequately the job for which he was hired or is required to do.
ARTICLE 21 - DESIGNATED EMPLOYEE
21.01	Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union individuals who, subject to their consent, are to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company (including also students in parttime employment) not exceeding at any one time 3% of the employees and to promote and demote such individuals, engage, retain or dispense with their services and direct their efforts from time to time free from any limitations provided for in this Article; provided, however, that no such individual shall be assigned to take over the job occupied at the time by an employee if such
55
assignment should result in the demotion of such employee.
The Company shall collect, from any member of the bargaining unit who is designated under this section, dues in the manner set out in section 5.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 22 - HOURS OF WORK
22.01	Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half hour.
22.02	Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-halftimes the applicable hourly rate for time worked:
(a)	in any 24-hour period in excess of 8 hours except where such excess time is worked due to regular change of shift.
(b)	in any scheduled work week in excess of 40 hours less amounts paid pursuant to
(a)	above.
22.03	Overtime work shall be distributed as equally as practicable among those employees who would normally perform such work within their respective first-line supervisor's group or in their particular work place or area. An employee excused from working overtime shall be regarded as having been given an opportunity to work overtime for the purpose of this provision. Recordsof such amounts of overtime worked and of declined
opportunities shall be made available for inspection by an employee concerned on request.
It is understood that an employee temporarily promoted to a job excluded from the bargaining unit is not entitled to share in the distribution of overtime work and is excluded from working overtime in any bargaining unit job on any day that he is temporarily promoted.
22.04	Should the Company call out any employee tc work he shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half times the applicable hourly rate for time worked by him with a minimum of 4 hours at his applicable hourly rate
The hours worked or the hours the employee is paid for call-out shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime pay under section 22.02.
A travel allowance will be paid in accordance with the Company policy.
22.05	In this Article:
(a) "Holiday" means New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day or Boxing Day or such day as may be established as a holiday in lieu thereof by
57
statute, proclamation or otherwise. The Company will consult with the Union before establishing such a day as a holiday in lieu thereof; and
(b)	"qualifying day" means an employee's last scheduled work day or shift before or first scheduled work day or shift after a holiday.
22.06	In addition to the holidays set out in section 22.05(a) an individual or any employee who has completed his probationary period and has accumulated any credited service in the calendaryear shall be entitledto one floating holiday with pay during each calendar year. Such holiday shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. Time taken as a floating holiday shall be counted as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay.
Each employee shall take his floating holiday for each calendar year by the end of that calendar year or shall forfeit such holiday, provided that any employee so forfeiting (which shall include termination) his floating holiday shall be paid for such holiday on the basis of 8 hours at straight time at his applicable hourly rate.
58
22.07	An employee who is required to work on a holiday shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of two and one-half times his hourly rate but if he fails to report for such required work he shall not be entitled to any pay in respect of that holiday. However, an employee who works a holiday may, instead of being paid for all hours worked, opt to take 12 hours pay plus bank 8 hours which shall betaken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months of such holiday worked, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
22.08	An employee who
(a)	is employed by the Company beyond his probationary period;
(b)	has worked or was on his vacation in the 30-day period immediately preceding the holiday; and
(c)	works on both qualifying days
shall, if he is on his vacation or if the Company does not require him to work on such holiday, be paid at his hourly rate for 8 hours. If a holiday falls within an employee’s scheduled vacation he shall be given, if entitled as per a, b, and c, above
59
(i)	8 hours pay at his hourly rate, or
(ii)	if mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee, an extra day off in lieu thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months from the date of such holiday, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
An employee who is not entitled to such holiday pay by reason of his absence from work on the holiday or on either qualifying day shall nevertheless be entitled to such holiday pay if his absence was due to:
(i)	leave of absence for jury duty or by reason of being subpoenaed as a witness: or
(ii)	leave of absence by reason of a death in his immediate family, "immediate family" shall mean spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in., law, daughter-in-law; or
(iii)	illness or accidentwhich required him to be absent for 5 or more consecutive days which absence is supported by a doctor's certificate to that effect.
60
22.09	(a) When an employee works on a holiday
or when an employee is paid for a holiday not worked, except where the employee's regular day off occurs on a holiday, the hours so worked or the hours for which the employee is paid shall be considered hours worked at his applicable hourly rate for the purpose only of determining entitlement to the overtime rate under section 22 02 for any other time actually worked by him
(b) Where the employee's regular day off occurs on a holiday he shall be offered an extra day off in lieu thereof If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months from the date of such holiday he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate
Shift Premiums
22.10	Employeesshall be paid an off-shift premium of 50 cents per hour for work performed by them during afternoon shift hours and not within their scheduled day or night shift hours, and an off-shift premium of 70 cents per hour for work performed by them during night shift hours and not within their scheduled day or afternoon shift hours Employees regularly working on shift whose hours of work are changed either temporarily oi permanently to the day shift shall be paid only their applicable hourly rate For the purpose of calculating overtime pay such off-shift premiums shall not
61
be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate
Weekend Premiums
22.11	Employees who work between 8:00 a.m. Saturday and 8:00 a.m. on the immediately following Monday shall be paid a Weekend premium ofone dollar and sixty ($1.60) cents per hour for work performed during such hours. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay, such premiums shall not be considered as pari of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
22.12	An employee must be notified of any change in his day off or days off to another day off or days off at least 24 hours prior to the commencement of the work week. If he is not so notified he shall be entitled to be paid at the rate of one and one-half times his hourly rate for the time worked by him on such days which were initially scheduled as a day or days off. Any such time worked by him shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime pay under section 22.02.
The provisions of the above may be waived by mutual agreement between the employee and the Company.
22.13	In no case shall an employee be entitled apart from any shift or Weekend premiums to more than one and one-half times (two and one-
62
half times for work performed on a holiday) his applicable hourly rate for any time worked.
22.14	Hoisting and lowering schedules at the Company's mines shall be arranged to provide approximately 8 hours from collar to collar for each shift, but variations from such schedules not exceeding 10 minutes which do not occur consistently shall be disregarded Delays in schedules in excess of 10 minutes shall be paid for on the following basis
in excess of 10 minutes to 30 minutes 1/2 hour at straight time
in excess of 30 minutesto 60 minutes an additional 1/2 hour at straight time,
and so on, on the saine basis for delays in excess of 60 minutes. In addition, any applicable off-shift premium shall be paid.
22.15	The Company will continue to recognize the principle of paying an employee who is temporarily assigned to work in a job classification carrying a higher rate of pay than the job classification from which he was assigned the higher rate immediately.
In addition, where an employee spends at least 4 hours working in a job classification carrying a higher rate of pay than his normal job classification, he shall be paid for his whole shift at a rate not less than that higher rate.
63
Where an employee is assigned to temporary work in a job classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his normal classification, he will be paid the rate he would otherwise have received in his normal classification up to a maximum often working days.
22.16	When an employee, because of failure of the Companyto inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive 4 hours pay at his applicable hourly rate without being required to work the said 4 hours but such 4 hours shall not be considered as hoursworked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of his intention to return.
Bereavement Leave
22.17	Where an employee by reason of a death of his spouse (including same sex spouse) or child requires leave from work, the Company shall grant leave up to five consecutive regularly scheduled working days within the period of 7 calendar days from the date of
64
death with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate. Where an employee by reason of a death in his immediatefamily, other than in the foregoing, requires leave from work, the Company shall grant leave up to three consecutive regularly scheduled working days within the period of 7 calendar days from the date of death with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate. "Immediatefamily" shall mean mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law or daughter-in law. Where an employee by reason of a death of a brother-in-law or a sister-in-law requires leave from work to attend the funeral, the Company shall grant leave of one day with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate.
The Company shall not unreasonably withhold additional bereavement leave without pay, in unusual circumstances.
Jury Duty
22.18	An employee who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness and who as a result thereof loses time from work shall receive for the time so lost the difference between what he would have been paid for the number of hours lost at his regular rate, including cost-of-living allowance, nickel bonus, and the jury or witness fee to which he is entitled. The
Company may require the employee to
65
furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court before making any such payment. Such time off will be considered as time worked for the purposes of calculating entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
22.19	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee or to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force.
22.20	The work week shall commence at 8:00 a.m. Sundays. This section shall not be construed to mean that all men on the day shift will start exactly at 8:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 23 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
23.01	The parties agree that with the introduction of new technologies, it is importantthat advance planning be made to anticipate skills, needs and training required.
It is agreed that the workers affected by the introduction of new technologies should have every opportunity to apply themselves to the new skills and the new technology.
Technological Change means the automation of equipment or the mechanization or automation of operations which directly results in a change in the manner in which the Company carries out its work.
66
If such technological changes are to be introduced, the Company shall notify the Union and the Technological Change Committee, in writing at least 90 days in advance of the proposed date of introduction of such change the following information, to the extent such information is then available and any other relevant information as it becomes available:
(a)	the nature of the technological change;
(b)	the date on which the Company proposes to effect the technological change;
(c)	the approximate number and classifications of employees likely to be affected by the technological change;
<d) the effectthe technological change is likely to have on the terms and conditions and security of employment of the employees affected;
(e) the number of jobs and job classifications to be abolished and the number of new jobs and job classifications to be created if any, by the proposed technological change.
67
23.02	Where the Company introduces significant new skills sets andlor educational requirements to ajob ccjobs inthe bargaining unit it shall do so in the following manner:
(a)	The Company shall notify the Union in writing at least 90 days in advance of the proposed date of introduction in accordance with 23.01.
(b)	The Company shall communicate this change to all employees directly affected by the change at least 60 days in advance of the proposed date of introduction.
(c)	All incumbents shall, giving due preference to seniority, be offered the necessary skill andlor education training. The Company will pay to the employee a travel allowance based on Company policy. Time spent in receiving instruction shall be without loss in pay and shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
(d)	Where an incumbent elects not to pursue or is unable to perform the skill and/or obtain the necessary education level the employee shall be relocated from the job in
68
accordance with the provision of Article 23.04,
(e)	Incumbentswill be given reasonable opportunity to meet the standards set for training or educational upgrades.
23.03	If the Company establishes or has established new education criteria for selection for a job effective from January 1, 1994, employees in the Departmentapplying for vacancies in the job either through a job posting or an "opportunity to train" will be managed in the following manner:
An employee who applies for a permanent job within his Department which has new education criteria, will not be disqualified from the selection process solely because they do not possess the required education, provided their education is within 4 grade levels of the required education criteria.
Such an employee, if selected to fill the vacancy shall be required to complete educational upgrading equivalent to that specified for thejob and such training will be provided by the Company. Employees shall have reasonable opportunity to meet the standard set for education and those who are unable to attain the
69
required education will be removed from the job and shall be placed in the occupation they last held on a permanent basis and paid the rate for that job.
23.04	If technological changes are introduced at any time in the Company's operation that result directiy in the demotion of an employee, the rate of pay of such employee shall not be reduced by more than one job class at the time the demotion takes place for a period of one year subsequent to the demotion and shall not be reduced subsequently by more than one job class in each succeeding year up to a maximum of three years from the date of such demotion. It is a condition of this section that any such employee:
(a)	shall accept any training in any job classification which is offered to him by the Company unless there are reasonable grounds for his declining; where a number of openings exist, the employee shall be given the opportunity to select his preference and shall be trained in it providing he has the basic knowledge and ability to be trained in the work required.
(b)	will be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his departmentforajob the rate for which is higher than the rate of his actual job classification at the time of posting;
70
(c)	if he applies pursuant to section 18.01 of the Collective Agreement for transfer from the department in which he is located subsequent to hi5 demotion and he is transferred as a result of his application;
he will cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section.
(d)	Should an employee who has been offered training by the Company under (a) above be unable to successfully complete such training within a reasonable time, the Company shall demote such employeeto an occupation he is able to perform and his wage rate shall be protected by the provisions of this section.
23.05	When technological changes are introduced that result directly in the demotion of an employee, the procedures set forth in section 12 01 shall be used in making the demotion of such employee and any other employee who is subsequently affected provided that any employee whose job was not directly affected shall not be entitled to the benefits of this section, technological change
23.06	There shall be established a Committee of six, three from the Company and three from the Union (with no loss of pay and travel expenses as per Company policy), to deal with New Technology, Training, Education.
71
It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to investigate and examine all cf the aspects concerned by the introduction of such New Technology and its impact on the affected employees.
The Committee shall make recommendations to the Company for implementation, concerning the use of affected employees in the area of training and education of those employees.
It is understood that the Committee will meet at least once every quarter unless otherwise agreed to.
ARTICLE 24 - JOB EVALUATION
24.01	The Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program for Production and Maintenance jobs dated April 1,1984 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Program') is incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix I and its provisions shall apply as f set forth in full herein provided that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this Agreementwith respect to the Administration of the Program, the provisions of the Program shall prevail.
24.02	Exceptas otherwise provided in sections 2.04 and 2.05 (Refereeand Umpire procedure) of Part II of the Program, no basis shall exist for
72
an employee to allege that a wage rate inequity exists and no grievance on behalf of an employee alleging a wage rate inequity shall be filed or processed during the term of this Agreement.
24.03	A list of job titles and job classes of all jobs performed by employees in the bargaining unit is incorporated into this Agreement as Schedule MB".
24.04	If as a result of the evaluation of hisjob on the implementation of the Program the job of an incumbent employee falls into a lower job class such job for such employee shall be known as a"red-circled"job The amount by which such employee's new rate exceeds the standard rate for such job as determined by such evaluation shall be known as his "red-circled differential" An employee's wage rate while he remains in such Job shall be increased by the amount by which the rate for Job Class 1 is increased from time to time
24.05	If an employee'sjob is not made a red-circled job on the date the Program is implemented, the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the applicable hourly wage rate for that employee'sjob as provided for in section 24.01.
24.06	The Company shall furnish to the Union a list of all incumbents who by reason cf the implementation of the Program will be in a
73
red-circled job. Such list will contain the following:
(a)	Name of Employee
(b)	Job Title
(c)	Job Classification
(d)	New Hourly Wage Rate
(e)	Amount of red-circled differential
(f)	Date such red-circled differential became effective
24.07	The term "incumbent" as used herein, shall mean an employee regularly assigned to a job at the date the Program is made effective.
24.08	Except as such red-circle differential may be changed as contemplated by sections24.05 or 24.14, any employee included in the list referred to in section 24.06 above shall continue to be paid for the duration of this Agreement such red-circled differential during such time as the employee is assigned to the job for which the red-circle differential was established.
24.09	If	an	employee	receiving	a	red-circle
differential is promoted to ajob of higherjob class, a new red-circle differential shall be established if the employee is assigned to an applicable rate level which is less than his current rate.
24.10	If	an	employee	receiving	a	red-circle
differential is demoted to ajob of lowerjob class, payment of his differential shall be terminated.
74
24.11	If an employee receiving a red-circle differential is transferred, at the request of the Company, to another job in the same job class, there shall be no change in his differential except as provided in section
24.05	and 24.14.
24.12	If such employee referred to in sections 24.09, 24.10, or 24.11 is returned to the job for which the red-circle differential was established, the red-circle differential shall be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by the provisions of sections 24.05 and/or 24.14.
24.13	Increases in the increment between job classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate red-circled differentials in addition to the means provided in section 24.05.
24.14	The provisions of sections 24.05 to 24,14 inclusive shall be applicable only with respect to jobs of employees which as a result of the implementation of the Program fall into a lower job class. If subsequent lo such implementation a job is reclassified downward, the incumbent employee's current wage rate while he remains in such job shall be held constant ("red-circled") and shall remain so until the new standard rate becomes greater than his current wage rate, at which time he shall receive the new standard rate. Subject to the foregoing sentence, the provisions of sections 24.09 to 24.14, inclusive, shall apply to such red-
75
circledjobs and to any red-circled differential being paid in connection therewith.	^
ARTICLE 25 -SKILLED TRADES & APPRENTICES
25.01	(a) The purpose of this Article is to
define the terms "tradesperson" and "apprentice"and to set out rules and procedures applicable to them.
(b) Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, Skilled Trades refers to an employee in one of the following occupations:
Electrician
Machinist
Industrial Mechanic - Mine Hoist
Industrial Mechanic - Maintenance
Industrial Mechanic - Millwright
Stationery Engineer
Plateworker/Welder
Carpenter
Pipefitter
Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic Refractory Mason Plateworker Garage Mechanic
25.02	The Skilled Trades covered by this Agreement are those for which someone has completed a bonafide apprenticeship and meets the Company's standards together with those occupations which
76
form part of an apprenticeable trade.
The Company will not hire or create any third or fourth classes of tradesmen.
Upon successful completion by an apprentice of an approved job related course taken during the term of his apprenticeship, the Company will indemnify such apprentice for an amount not exceeding 100% of the cost to the apprentice of such course, provided that he is in the employment of the Company on the completion of such course.
During a period of authorized leave while the apprentice is in required attendance at a college or trade school the Company will pay him the difference between his current wage rate and allowances from government sources for which he is eligible.
The hourly rate of such apprentice who stays with the Company and works within his trade shall be no less than the hourly rate tie was receiving from the Company during his last period of apprenticeship training,
An employee who enters the apprenticeship program from a job in Job Class 7 or less will start such program at the entry level wage rate for such apprenticeship and progress from one Job Class to another thereafter after successful completion of each 1,000 hours of training. An employee who enters the apprenticeship program from a job in Job
77
Class 8 or higher shall start such program at Job Class 8 and Ik rate of pay shall be maintained at Job Class 8 until such time as he has successfully completedthe required number of hours to move to the next progressive Job Class.
The rate of pay for an Apprentice who successfully completes	the
apprenticeship program shall be three job classes less than the rate of pay for a tradesperson in the trade in which the apprentice served his apprenticeship.
25.03	A tradesperson is someone who :
(i) has completed a bona	fide apprenticeship and meets Company standards; or,
(ii)	holds a recognized CAW trades-personscard in the trade in which he claims recognition and meets Company standards; or,
(iii)	has eight years practical and general experience covering all phases set out in the apprenticeship program applicable to the trade in which he claimsjourneyman status and meets Company standards.
25.04	"Apprentice" shall mean a person who is engaged in learning and assisting in the
78
trade to which they are indentured and who is covered by the Agreement of Apprenticeship.
25.05	There shall be a committee established called the Joint Skilled Trades Committee consisting of three employee representatives, one being a tradespersonfrom the Falconbridge Area and twotradespersons from the Onaping Area who shall meet on a monthly basis with three Company representatives. There shall also be a chairperson of the committeewho shall be the Supervisor of Apprentices.
The mandate of the Committee will be to provide employees and the Union with an avenue to give constructive input on trades training, apprenticeships, standards and such other issues which may arise from time to time.
Time off for the three Union members to attend such meetings shall be without loss in pay and shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
The Company will pay to those members of the Union's committee a travel allowance based on Company policy when the members are required to travel from their place of work to attend
79
meetings of the Committee.
25.06	An Apprentice shall receive annual wage and cost of living allowance increases other employees receive when applicable.
25.07	The "Agreement of Apprenticeship" means a written agreement between the Company and the employee indentured as an apprentice. The contract of apprenticeship shall be registered with the Ministry of Labour, IndustrialTraining Branch.
The following shall receive copies of the Agreement of Apprenticeship:
1.	The Apprentice
2.	The Company
3.	The Ministry of Labour
4.	The Local Union
5.	CAWCanada/Skilled Trades Department
25.08	Apprentices i n each of the trades covered by these standards shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as per amended Schedule "D".
25.09	Hours spent in classroom instruction on site shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
80
Hours spent at Trade School courses are not considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
25.10	Apprentices who are given credit for previous experience shall be paid, upon receipt of such credit the wage rate for the period to which such credit advances them. This adjustment shall not be made retroactive.
25.11	When an apprentice has demonstrated tho following conduct or other examples o' non performance:
(i)	an inability to learn the instruction given in his trade; or,
(ii)	unreliability; or,
(iii)	unsatisfactory work; or,
(iv)	lack of interest in his/her work or has failed to complete his required Trade School courses satisfactorily; or,
(v)	improper conduct relating to his/her apprenticeship; or,
(vi)	failure to attend classroom instruction regularly,
the Company shall review with the Skilled Trades Committee such failures prior to
81
any action being taken to terminate such apprenticeship.
25.12	Notice of requirements for apprentices shall be placed on all Company bulletin boards. Applications in writing will be received by the Personnel Department from interested employees and such applications shall be given consideration prior to hiring new employees for the apprenticeships.
The Company will review with the Union members of the Skilled Trades Committee the selection of successful candidates for an apprenticeship.
25.13	Upon completion of the apprenticeship the Supervisor of Apprentices will recommend to the Industrial Training Branch, Department of Labour that a certificate, signifying completion of the apprenticeship, be issued to the apprentice. No certificates will be issued by the Apprenticeship Branch, Department of Labour unless recommended by the Committee.
25.14	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 15 thereof, no apprentice during his apprenticeship may apply under the job posting provisions of this Agreement to fill any job vacancy.
25.15	Where training is required for tradesmen it shall be offered to the senior tradesman who
82
normally performs such work within his respective second line supervisor's group.
25.16	The Company agrees to deduct Canadian Skilled Trades Council dues as may be adopted by the Canadian Skilled Trades Council from employees in those occupations set out in Article 25.01(b). The amount of such dues shall be certified by the Union to the Company by letter signed by the President or the Financial Secretary of the Union.
Newly hired employees in the Skilled Tradesjobs will commence paying Skilled Trades Council dues only after completion of their probationary period. Thereafter, in the January of succeeding years or upon completion of one months' work in a calendar year the Company shall deduct the amount of dues certified to it by the Union and remit such dues to the Union.
ARTICLE 26 -DISABLED EMPLOYEES
26.01	Any employeewho becomes disabled as
a result of illness or a work related injury
will be accommodated where possible in
his Departmentor, failing his Department, another Department in the Company in a
job he is able to perform without regard to the seniority provisions of this Collective Agreement except that such employee
83
may not displace an employee with greater seniority. In the case of a workforce reduction an employee who has been accommodated shall not be excluded from being bumped by an employee with greater seniority cr from being laid off.
An employee who is returned to work to a job he is able to perform in a Department other than the one in which he worked prior to his injury shall be returned to his former occupation in his former Departmentwhen cleared for such return by the Occupational Health Nurse.
ARTICLE 27 -VACATIONS
27.01	On January 1st of any year each employee who has been in the employ of the company for less than one year of credited service shall be entitled to a vacation of one week with pay in the amount of 2% of his total earnings in the preceding calendar year, and when he has completed one year of credited service with the Company, to one additional week with the same amount of pay.
27.02	On January 1st of any year each employee who has been in the employ of the Company for one or more years of credited service shall be deemed to have commenced his employment on the January 1st immediately preceding the actual date of his employment, and if not entitled to vacation under 27.01
84
hereof, shall be entitled to an annual vacation with pay as follows:
(a)	two weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company less than eight years of credited service;
(b)	three weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company less than sixteen years but for eight or more years of credited service;
(c)	four weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for less than twenty-four years but for sixteen or more years of credited service;
(d)	five weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for less than thirty but for twenty-four or more years of credited service,
(e)	six weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for thirty or more years of credited service,
(f)	seven weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for thirty-five or more years of credited service
27.03	Vacations shall be commenced in the calendar year for which such vacations are due or shall be forfeited. However, the employee so forfeiting his vacation period shall nevertheless be paid the vacation pay to which he is entitled.
85
27.04	In cases where an employee has been absent from work and in receipt of Sickness & Accident or Workers Compensation Board benefits for at least four consecutiveweeks in the previousyear, the Company may grant to such employee, in whole or in part, the vacation with pay to which such employee would have been entitled had no such absence occurred.
27.05	In determining the length of a vacation, a week shall mean seven consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period. Where an employee is entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive, except when the Company and employee otherwise agree. Where an employee is entitled to three weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations.
During the term of this Agreement only, employees may commence annual vacations on any calendar day unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations. For the purposes of this trial, a week shall mean the equivalent of 40 hours worked.
When an employee takes vacation in periods of less than 40 hours in a week, such days of vacation shall be counted as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay under Article 22.02.
86
27.06	Vacations Will be granted at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering seniority, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations.
27.07	"Vacation Pay" in this Article shall mean 4% of the earnings received from the Company for all work done by the employee in the preceding calendar year if he is entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay, to 6% of such earnings if he is entitled to three weeks' vacation with pay, to 8% of such earnings if he is entitledto four weeks' vacation with pay, to 10% of such earnings if he is entitled to five weeks'vacation with pay, and to 12% of such earnings if he is entitled to six weeks' vacation with pay, and to 14% of such earnings if he is entitled to seven weeks' vacation with pay.
27.08	An employee shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any vacation pay to which he is entitled under section 27.07, the sum of $235.00 for each week of vacation granted and taken under this Article other than any Special Vacation. An employee shall first be entitled to receive such additional vacation pay after he has accumulated two years of credited service with the Company when taking his vacation.
87
Should the Company refuse to grant Annual Vacation in the calendar year to an employee, the Company will pay the additional vacation pay to such employee, for each week of Annual Vacation refused by the Company, provided he has sufficient credited service to be so entitled.
27.09	Every employeewho ceases, during the life of this Agreement, to be an employee after having completed one or more years of credited service shall receive in lieu of vacation with pay, vacation pay for any accrued vacation period which he has not taken at the rate of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 12% or 14% as the case may be, of his earnings for all work performed by him for the Company during the said period.
27.10	The Company will provide five weeks of Special Vacation with pay for employees who have completed five or more years of credited service on January 1,1967 and an additional five weeks of Special Vacation with pay upon completing each additional five-year period of credited service after January 1,1967 on the basis of the following provisions which shall apply during the life of this Agreement:
(a)	Each employeewho on January 1,1967 has completed five or more years of credited service shall become entitled lo
five weeks of Special Vacation with pay in addition to all vacation with pay to which he is entitled under the provision of Article 27 of this Agreement.
88
(b)	All other employees upon completing their first five years of credited service during the currency of this Agreement shall thereupon similarly become entitled to five weeks of Special Vacation with pay.
(c)	The pay for each week of Special Vacation which is taken shall be equal to 2% of the employee's earnings received from the Company for all work done by the employee in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which such week of Special Vacation is taken.
(d)	If an employee who is entitled to any Special Vacation with pay, fails for any reason to commence the same within five years after becoming entitled thereto or if he retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies before taking the same, the Company will, in lieu of granting such Special Vacation, pay to such employee, or to his estate if he has died, the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if tie had taken such Special Vacation immediately prior to the fifth anniversary of his becoming entitled thereto or immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death, as the case may be.
89
(e)	If an employee terminates his employment with the Company or is terminated by the Company for any reason including retirement, or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to any payment in accordance with clause (d) of this section, to an amount calculated on the basis of two percent (2%)of his earnings in the calendar year preceding his retirement or death for each full year and one-sixth of one per centfor each whole month comprising a broken year from the date of his last entitlement to a Special Vacation.
(f)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven consecutive days including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period.
(g)	The allocation of vacations with pay underthe provisionsof sections 27.01 to 27.09 inclusive shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations hereunder.
(h)	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its sole discretion may determine but, subject thereto, due consideration will be given to the wishes of the employee concerned. It is anticipated that in most cases an
90
employee will take his Special Vacation within the five-year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it. The Company can require that at least 20% of those entitled take such vacation in each year and that not more than 25% may take such vacation.
ARTICLE 28 - SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Company and Union share a mutual concern for the safety and health cf employees and recognize that this concern can best be expressed by a joint and mutual effort.
The Company and Union recognize "The Manual for Safety and Health Committee Members" as a working document for matters relating to safety and health. This Manual will be jointly developed and reviewed through our JHSC organization and is not subject to arbitration. All changes are subject to mutual agreement.
28.01	(a) To direct ourjoint and mutual efforts the
Company and Union agree there shall be the following committees as outlined in the "Manual":
(i)	The District Safety & Health Committee.
(ii)	Operations Safety Committees
91
(iii) Department Safety and Health
Committees
(b) The Company will pay the wages, cost-of-living allowance, incentive bonus and Nickel Price bonus that might otherwise have been earned by the Safety Committeemen during their absence to attend meetings and any other mutually agreed upon duties, training or functions such as training, hospital or home visits under "Accident Investigations" and Safety activities, i.e. outside the workplace activities for Safety and Health Week, determined by the department JHSC and approved by the Department Head.
fc) All time paid while in attendance at Joint Health and Safety Committee meetings will be considered as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay.
28.02	For requirements regarding medicals refer to the Occupational Health and Safety Act.
28.03	If new Ontario Government legislation is promulgated that affects Safety and Health, the parties will meetto consider any changes that may be appropriate in such circumstances.
28.04	The Union shall appoint an employee as a full time Executive Safety and Health Chairman. The Company shall pay such employee Job Class 21 plus cost-of-living allowance and
92
nickel price bonus and will pay the cost of benefits premiums for those items set out in section 29.01 (a) of the Collective Agreement. During his appointment the employee shall accumulate seniority and credited service. Upon termination of his appointment the employee shall return to his former department and occupation if it still exists; if his occupation no longer exists the provision of section 12.01 shall be applied to determine a new occupation.
28.05	The Union shall appoint three full time Safety and Health Representatives, which number may be changed by mutual agreement of the parties. The Company shall pay such representatives Job Class 21 plus cost-of-living allowance and nickel price bonus and will pay the cost of benefits premiums for those itemsset out in section 29.03(a) of the Collective Agreement. During his appointment the employee shall accumulate seniority and credited service. Upon termination of his appointmentthe employee shall return to his former department and occupation if it still exists; if his occupation no longer exists the provisions of section 12.01 shall be applied to determine a new occupation.
Temporary Replacement
28.06	(a) Union Executive Safety & Health
Chairman
Where the Union Executive Safety and Health Chairman is absent for one week or more due to vacation cr
93
sickness and accident, he shall be replaced immediately and his replacement shall be paid the Union Executive Safety and Health Chairman's rate of pay or his regular rate, whichever is higher.
(b)	Full Time Union Safety & Health Chairman
Where a full-time Union Safety and Health Chairman is absent one week or more, he shall be replaced immediately and his replacementwill be paid the Safety and Health Chairman's rate or his posted rate, whichever is higher. This requirementto replace is a minimum requirement which the Department may exceed.
28.07	Health and Safety Training for Committee Memberswill be:
(j)	agreed upon by the majority of the Department Health and Safety Committee Members; or
(ii) mutually agreed upon by the Union Executive Health and Safety Chairman and Falconbridge Safety Superintendent,
and approved by the Department Head.
28.08	Committeeswhich represent less that 150 hourly employees shall be granted 8 hours per month to perform inspection
94
and Committee related work.
Committees which represent over 150 hourly employees shall be granted 16 hours per month to perform inspections and Committee related work.
The Union Joint Health and Safety CoChair or their designee shall have one day per quarter to hold a Safety Meeting at the Union Hall.
All Department Union Health and Safety Committee Chairmen shall attend all fatality inquests within their Division with pay as per 28.01(b).
28.09	The Union Executive Health and Safety Chairman and a Falconbridge Representative shall meet and develop an Indoctrination Training Package for new members.
The Committee Functions Course established by Mine Mill Local 598/CAW shall be included in this Indoctrination.
All new Department Health and Safety Committee Members and any existing members who have not already had the Committee Functions Course shall be given the Indoctrination Training.
The Training Package shall consist of 3 days and training will be targeted to start January 1, 1995.
95
28.10	Eight hours per month with pay, will be allowed for each Union Department Safety and Health Co-chairman, other than full time Chairman, to do office work.
ARTICLE 29 -PENSIONS AND HEALTH BENEFITS
29.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will continue to receive the benefits provided under the Company's Revised General Pension Plan (the"Pension Plan") which was effective the 1st day of January 1971, as amended January 1,1973 and as amended January 1, 1976, and as amended January 1,1980, and as amended January 1, 1983, and as amended January 1, 1985, and as amended January 1, 1986, and as amended January 1,1992.
Effective January 1, 1995 employees will receive the benefits of "The Revised General Pension Plan For Employees of Falconbridge Limited."
29.02	If any differences anse between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of the Pension Plan, such differences shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure or arbitration set out in this Agreement.
29.03	(a) The Company shall ensure the payment
96
of the premiums of the following Plans in order for employees covered by this Agreement to receive the benefits of such Plans all subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Article, in any insurance policy issued in respect thereof and in the Plan or Program itself or any successor thereof.
(j) Ontario Health Insurance Plan with Supplementary (semi-jaiivaie) Plan, the benefits of which shall not be less than those of the Blue Cross Supplementary (semi-private) Plan
(ii)	Plan for Prescription Drugs (35 cents deductible), the benefits of which shall not be less than those of the Blue Cross Plan for Prescription Drugs
(iii)	Group Life Insurance Plan
(iv)	Accidental Death
and Dismemberment Plan
(v)	Long Term Disability Insurance Plan'
(vi)	Dental Plan, the benefits of which shall not be less than those of the blue Cross Dental Plan No 9, rider 3, based on the 1992 Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule On January 1,1995, the benefits of the above Plan will be based
97
o n the 1994 ODA Fee Schedule and on January I, 1996, will increase to the 1995 ODA Fee Schedule.
(vii)	Vision Care Plan to provide a maximum payment of $250.00, not more than once every two years per family member, toward the cost of prescription glasses, including frames and lenses, or contact lenses.
(viii)	Hearing Care Plan to provide a Hearing Care Programme, providing a lifetime payment of $300.00 to cover hearing aids as prescribed.
(ix)	Sickness and Accident Benefits
The current weekly Sickness and Accident Benefit is $470 per week for eligible employees.
(b) The Company shall during the term of this Collective Agreement pay 100% of the premium costs for the plans itemized in (a; above.
In any case where Government sponsored Plans become available in whole or in part as substitutes for any of the above plans, the Company's obligation regarding premium costs shall
98
be accordingly changed. The Company will pay any increases in Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums during the currency of the Agreement provided that if there are any decreases in such premiums during the currency of the Agreement the Company may, notwithstanding any legislation or regulation to the contrary, pay on the basis of such decreased premiums without paying the amount of such decrease to or for the benefit of the employees.
In consideration of improved employee benefits paid for by the Company, the Union for the employees releases the Company from any obligation it might hereafter have to pay to employees any Unemployment Insurance reduction available because of the existence of a wage loss replacement plan. (Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan).
ARTICLE 30 -WAGES
30.01	The 1994 wage rates are set out in
Schedule "B" attached hereto.
The Company shall maintain such wages as increased for the life of this Agreement; provided that the foregoing shall not prevent the Company from making such upward adjustments as it sees fit during the currency of this Agreement.
99
30.02
A Cost-of-Living Allowance (the "Allowance") based on the Consumer Price Index (1986 = 100) (the‘'Index1') issued by Statistics Canada will, if applicable, be paid to each employee calculated as hereinafter set out.
(a)	The First Index shall be the Index issued for the month of July 1994. The Second Index shall be that issued for October1994. The Third Index shall be that issued for January 1995. The Fourth Index shall be that: issued for April 1995. The Fifth index shall be that issued for July 1995. The Sixth Index shall be that issued for October 1995!,r The Seventh Index shall be that issued for January 1996. The Eighth Index shall be that issued for April 1996. The Ninth Index shall be that issued for July
1996.	The Tenth Index shall be that issuedfor October 1996. The Eleventh Index shall be that issued for January
1997.	The Twelfth Index shall be that issued for April 1997. The Thirteenth Index shall be that issued for July 1997.
(b)	Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Second Index, the Allowance shall be one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point zero eight four (0.084) increase by which the Second Index exceeds the First Index.
(c)	The Allowance referred to in paragraph
100
(b) hereof, if any, shall continue untilthe issuance of the Index for the month of January 1995 (the "Third Index") at which time the Third Index shall be compared with the Second Index. Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Third Index the Allowance shall be adjusted by one (l§Bnt per hour worked for each zero point zero eight four (0.084) increase by which the Third Index exceeds the Second Index.
(d)	A similar comparison and adjustment shall be made on the basis of the Index issued every three months thereafter until the issuance of the Thirteenth Index. No further comparisons and adjustments, and consequently no further Allowances shall be paid on the basis of any Index issued after the Thirteenth Index.
(e)	Effective the later of August 1,1995 and the start of the pay period immediately preceding August I, 1995, the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the Fifth Index and being paid on July 31, 1995 shall be added into the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
(f)	Effective the later of August 1, 1996 and the start of the pay period
101
immediately preceding August 1, 1996 the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the Ninth Index and being paid on July 31, 1996 shall be added in to the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
(g)	Effective 8 a.m. on August 1,1997, the Allowance, if any, in effect after the issuance of the Thirteenth Index and being paid on July 31, 1997 shall be added into the wage rates then in effect and the Allowance shall revert back to zero.
(h)	Ifthere is a decrease in the Index on the basis of the quarterly comparisons, the Allowance shall be adjusted downwards by using the above-mentioned formula, but an employee's applicable wage rate shall not be affected by any downward adjustment.
(i)	The amount of the Allowance in effect at any time shall not form part of an employee's applicable wage rate, except where it has been added in to the applicablewage rate as hereinbeforeset out, and shall not be included for the calculation of vacation pay in excess of the requirements of The Employment Standards Act, 1980 or any amendment thereof.
102
(j)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made as a result of any revision which subsequently may be made in any Index.
(k)	The continuance of the Allowance shall depend upon the availability of the Index calculated on its present basis and in its present form.
In the event the Index is not so available the parties shall mutually agree to an alternative equitable arrangement.
ARTICLE 31 - BULLETIN BOARDS
31.01	No bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills, or other documents shall be posted or distributed anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and Plants of the Company by the Union or by any employee of the Company. The Company at the request of the Union will, however, from time to time post on the bulletin boards, designated by the Company at the Plants and Mines, notices of the time, place and purpose of meetings and of Union Conventions, the names of speakers, notices of results of Union Elections, the names of delegates to Union Conventions and notices of recreational and social affairs, provided such notices have received the approval of the Company.
31.02	The Company upon receipt of the necessary information from the Union will from time to
103
time post on the bulletin board for each department herein mentioned the names of the General Grievance Committeemen and Grievance Stewards designated by the Union to handle matters under the grievance procedure in such department, and will also post on the same bulletin boards lists designating the supervisory personnel to handle matters under the grievance procedure in such department on behalf of the Company at each cf the first two stages of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 32 - AUTHORITY
32.01	The Union and its bargaining committee agree that they have authority from the members of the Union to enter into this Agreement and that this Agreement shall be binding upon and enforceable against the Union and/or its members. The Company agrees that this Agreement shall be binding upon and enforceable against it.
ARTICLE 33-GENERAL
33.01	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to bind the Company, the employees or the Union to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement when such provisions may be impractical, having regard to any law which shall be binding upon the Company, the employees or the Union.
104
ARTICLE 34 -FURTHER CONFERENCES
34.01	Either party to this Agreement may require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of this Agreement on 10 clear days' notice given to the other party within the period of 3 months immediately prior to its expiry date.
34.02	Negotiations pursuant to section 34.01 shall be held at Sudbury, Ontario.
ARTICLE 35 -TERMINATION
35.01	Tiiis Agreement as amended following the notice delivered to the Company, shall become effective at 8 a.m. on August 21, 1994^ unless expressly stated herein to^tfretontrary, and shall terminate at 8 a.m. on the 1st day of August, 1997.
105
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the company and the Union have caused their corporle seals to be affixed under the hands of the proper officers in that behalf and the authorized representatives of the Union have hcrunto set their hands and seals.
EXECUTED at ralconbridgo Ontario the
FALCONBRIDGE LIMITE
D.W. Mills Labour Relations Superintendent

A.J. Giroux Manager Stralhcona Mill
S. Brown
Supervisor Retirement Programs
Gyv. Fan	(
Dir^pt^Human Resources & Public Affairs
J.A. Robinson Manager Technical Services
SUDBURY MINE, MILL AND SMELTER WORKERS' UNION LOCAL 598, CAW/1CA CANADA
(f/ R. Gauthier
Executive Staff Representative
^ ___
Committee Member
LauzottJ Committee Member
c____________.jxfyJ id
H. Brabant iommiltee Membc
N T^rholcnlin
Committee Member
106
SCHEDULE "A"
Classifications of Employees Excluded From the Bargaining Unit
MINES
Mine Superintendent Assistant Mine Superintendent Mine Foreman Mine Captain Mine Shift Bosses Mine Relieving Shift Bosses All employees in Mine Geological Department, excepting Underground Samplers All employees of Mine Engineering Department, including Surveyors, Draughtsmen, Bonus Engineers, Ventilation Engineers and Ventilation Construction Foremen Mine Yard Foreman Mine Clerk Timber Scaler
SMELTER
Plant Superintendent General Foremen Shift Bosses
Relief Foremen and Shift Bosses Day Labour Foremen Sub Foremen (Smelter)
Shovel Foremen Repair Foremen Smelter Office Clerks Experimental Engineer
107
MILL AND ORE DRESSING PLANTS
Mill Superintendent General Foreman Shift Bosses Experimental Engineer Repair Foreman Mill Clerk Messenger
GENERAL SURFACE
Superintendent Truck Fleet Foreman Foreman
All Police Forces and Guards Gatemen and Watchmen First Aid Nurses
Field Engineer and Assistant: Field Engineers
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND LABORATORY
Chief Metallurgist Chief Chemists Chemists
Assistant Chemists
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Mechanical Superintendent Master Mechanic Surface Master Mechanic Designing Engineers
108
Draughtsmen
Office and Shop Clerks
Power House Supervisors
Machine Shop Foremen
Steel Shop Foremen
Plate Shop Foremen
Underground Maintenance Foremen
Pump House Foremen
OFFICE STAFF
Chief Accountant
Accountants, Assistant Accountants, and Accounting Clerks Secretaries Stenographers Office Messengers Payroll Accountants Payroll Clerks Stores Accountant Stores Clerks Warehouse Supervisor Warehouse Men Telephone Operators Purchasing Agent Timber Agent Employment Agent Assistant Plant Transit Officer
ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
Superintendent
Foremen
Clerk
D9
TOWNSITE
Superintendent
Foreman
Caretakers and Janitors (School and Community Hall)
SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Safety Engineer Safety Inspector Safety Office Clerks
CARPENTERS AND PAINTERS
General Carpenter Foremen Carpenter Foremen Painter Foremen
SURFACE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
Superintendent
Foremen
Clerk
All part time employees who are regularly employed for 24 hours per week or less.
Employees employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations.
Charwomen
110
SCHEDULE MB" HOURLY WAGE RATES AS AT DATE OF RATIFICATION
JOB CLASS 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
18.28
18.50
18.72
18.94
19.16
19.38
19.60 19.82 20.04 20.26 20.48 20.70
20.92 21.14 21.36 21.68 22.00 22.32 22.64 22.96 23.28
23.60
23.92
111
SUPPLEMENTTO SCHEDULE HBH OCCUPATION AND JOB CLASS SCHEDULE PRODUCTIONAND MAINTENANCE BARGAINING UNIT
MINES DIVISION	
Occupation	Job Class
Mine Production Leader Mine Development Leader	17
Shaft Inspector	16
Miner- A Shaft Repairman Hoistman	14
Miner- B	13
Miner - C Mine Serviceman - A	12
Mine Serviceman - B	10
Tailing Fillman - Lockerby	9
Mine Helper Fork Lift Operator	8
Hoistman-in-T raining Mine Serviceman - C	7
Mine Labourer	4
Labourer - Surface	2
112
MINERAL PROCESSING
Occupation	Job Class
Control Room Operator/Leader - Strath	20
Concentrator Operator - A	18
Converter Skimmer	17
Converter Craneman
Locomotive Engineer-Matte & Acid Loader
Acid Plant Operator	16
Kress Hauler Oper/Mechanic Operator Mechanic
Matte Tapper	14
Acid Plant Operator "B"
Melting Furnace Operator Roaster Feed-Prep Operator Acid Plant Operator “B"
Locomotive Brakeman-lst Slag and Yard	12
Grinding Mill Operator - Strathcona Slag Tapper
Cottrell Operator	11
Crusherman - Mill Matte Room Leader
Baiiman	9
Converter Puncher
Craneman-in-Training
113
Occupation
Job Class
Mill Blaster
8
Fork Lift Operator
Heavy Mobile Equipment Operator
Sample Processor
Truck Driver
Mill Loader Operator
Mill Process Helper - Strathcona
Mill Utility Man
Matte Braker Operator	7
Conveyorman - Smelter	6
Smelter Shift Process Helper	5
Conveyorman - Strathcona Craneman-in-Training (Start)
Mill Process Labourer-Strathcona	2
Dryman
Smelter Shift Labourer
SKILLED TRADES/SERVlCES DIVISION
Electrician III
21
Electrician II Machinist
Industrial Mechanic - Mine Hoist Industrial Mechanic - Millwright
19
Industrial Mechanic- Maintenance Industrial Mechanic - Mobile Equipment Stationary Engineer II Pipefitter
18
114
Occupation
Job Class
Welder	17
Plateworker
Garage Mechanic	16
Rigger
Industrial Mechanic-Maintenance-Intermediate
Carpenter	15
Bricklayer
Maintenance Man - Smelter
Stationary Engineer III	14-
Power House Operator	13
Painter
Carpenter - Intermediate
Operator - Motor Truck Crane	12
Stationary Engineer IV	11
Rock Drill Repairman - Surface
Mine Locomotive Repairman - Onaping	10
Rock Drill Repairman - Underground
Boom Truck Operator	9
Fire Equipment Serviceman - Surface
Operator-Fork Lift	8
Mine Battery Repairman - Onaping
Operator - Heavy Mobile Equipment
Truck Driver
Handyman
115
Occupation
Job Class
Services Helper	7
Lampman	
Hoistman-in-T raining	
Trackman	6
Labourer	2
Dryman	
116
SCHEDULE"Q
August 30, 1994
Sudbury Mine, Mill & Smelter Workers' Union Local 598, CAW/TCA Canada 19 Regent St. S.
Sudbury, ON P3C 4B7
Dear Sirs:
The Comp ny proposes that the following modified list of letters which were to be found in Schedules "Q" and "R" of the 1991 Collective Agreement be included in the 1994 Agreement as Schedule "Q":
I.	Students
2.	Protective Clothing
3.	Hot Meals
4.	Christmas Gift
5.	Stage One and Stage Two Meetings
6.	Tools
7.	Employee Assistance Program
8.	Construction Pool
9.	Transfer Window
10.	Demoted or Recalled Employees
II.	Application of Section 19.03
12.	Sickness and Accident Benefits vs Vacation Pay at Year End
13.	Section 11.01
14.	Time Off For Union Representatives For Joint Job Evaluation Duties
117
15.	Application of 12.01
16.	Essential Services
17.	Leader's Rate
18.	Section 22.02
19.	Sickness & Accident Plan Eligibility
20.	Sickness & Accident Commencement
21.	Travel Allowance
22.	Paid Holidays-Strathcona Mine-Transportation Beat and Steady Night Shift Employees and Onaping Electrical Department Employees Affected by Steady Night Shift Schedule
23.	Application of 10.25 1983 CA; 20.01 1994 CA
24.	Procedure For Handling Questions or Disputes About Disability Benefits
25.	Vacation Relief
26.	Townsite Gardener
27	Article 29.03 (a) (i) Supplementary Semi Private Plan
28	Sewage Disposal Plant Operator at Lockerby
29	Training of Employees in the Mines and Mineral Processing Division
30	Laid Off Employees and Individuals vs Employees
31	Educational Assistance
32	Section 10.21, 1991 Collective Agreement and Section 19.01, 1994 Collective Agreement, Leave of Absence
33	Single Arbitrator vs Board of Arbitrators
34	Joint Job Evaluation
Yours truly,
D.W. Mills, Superintendent
Labour Relations
118
1.	Students
Students (employed during their vacation periods or co-operative students on their work semester) hired by the Company for temporary work as employees shall not, during the period of such work (not to exceed 5 months at any one time), be covered under the Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan, Long Term Disability Insurance Plan, Drug Plan, Dental Plan, Insured Death Benefit Plan or Revised General Pension Plan, or be entitled to the Floating Holiday cinder section 11.06 of the Collective Agreement; nor shall the Company be obliged to pay any portion of the premium payable with respect to any such students covered under the Ontario Health Insurance Plan and Supplementary (SemiPrivate) Plan or the Group Life Insurance Plan and the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
2.	Protective Clothing
The Company will continue the practice of subsidizing or replacing protective clothing in specific work areas.
In addition, the Company will provide, as required by the employees in the Smelter, spark resistant pants at one-half cost (f.o.b. factory). Special gloves will be supplied, as required, at no cost to
119
those employees working as tappers, tapper helpers, slagman, slagman helper as well as hand punching tuyeres.
The Company will supply to employees who work in areas where special clothing is required up to 2 pairs of acid resistant pants and 2 acid resistant shirts per year at one-half cost (f.o.b. factory), and in extraordinary circumstances consideration will be given to further replacement of such clothing.
3.	Hot Meals
If an employee works for more than one hour of overtime, he will be given one-half hour off with pay at normal meal time to give him an opportunity to obtain a hot meal which the Company will provide if practicable. If it is not practicableto provide a hot meal, the Company will provide a cold meal. Every four hours thereafter, the Company will supply a lunch and hot beverage.
4.	Christmas Gift
The Company will make a gift of $100.00 each Christmas to each employee hired before the first day of September of the year in which the Christmasfalls.
5.	Stage One & Stage Two Meetings
For the purpose of the meetings referred to in section 7.01 Stage One of the Collective Agreement, the Grievance Steward and the Division Grievance Committeemanwill be allowed
120
one-half hour off for discussion plus reasonable travel and clean-uptime prior to such meetings; for Stage Two meetings the Grievance Steward and Division Grievance Committeeman will be allowed one hour off for discussion plus reasonable travel and clean-uptime prior to such meetings.
6.	Tools
The Company will discuss with the Union any discrepancies in ils practice regarding replacement of tools caused by loss, including theft, where the employee has exercised due care, and worn out tools with a view to arriving at a consistent policy of replacement.
7.	Employee Assistance Program
This will confirm the Company and Union's intention to continue the Employee Assistance Program at Sudbury Operations
The Company and Union believe that by recognizing alcoholism and drug abuse as an illness, employees will be encouraged to come forward for assistance and treatment Supervisors, representatives of the Union and employees are urged to encourage those who have or are suspected of having alcohol or drug problems to obtain medical assistance, advice and treatment
The Company and Union believe that every reasonable means should be used to rehabilitate an employee and restore him io normal health and productivity. To this end, the Company and Union
121
Committee which has been established to jointly administer this policy will be continued.
Employees who are resource persons shall be allowed such time off without loss in pay as shall be reasonably required to attend to matters related to the Employee Assistance Program.
8.	Construction Pool
The Company will continue to have a construction pool of a minimum of 12 tradesmen comprised of 4 Electricians, 4 Welders, 2 Carpenters and 2 Pipefitters, who will be deployed to crews doing construction work. Employees in the construction pool will be pari of the Skilled Trades/Services Division in either the Electrical or Mechanical Department.
Should there be a temporary lull in construction work it is understood employees in the construction pool would perform maintenance work.
9.	Transfer Window
During the term of this agreement:the Company agrees to open a 14 day Transfer window each year. The first such window will open in October of 1994 and thereafter in each of the subsequent years of this agreementthe Company will discuss with the Union when the window for that year will be open.
Prior to the transfer window being opened the
122
Company will post on the bulletin boards a notice of vacancies available to be filled. Employees will have the 14 day period in which to file transfer applications with the Company.
In filling a vacancy from amongst the transfer applications the senior applicant shall be transferred provided he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job.
At all times other than the agreed upon 14 day transfer window the Company shall abide by the sequence set out in section 15,01 Part 3 for filling vacancies which have not been filled through the job posting procedure.
10.	Demoted or Recalled Employees
If it is determined at arbitration that the Company in its application of section 2.04(c) failed to promote an employeewho was demoted or recall a laid off employee the Company shall pay him the following compensation with respect to the period which is in question:
(a)	earnings lost based on his regular rate for the time lost during the period when not promoted or recalled, limited to a maximum of 40 hours perweek, less the amount of money earned by the employee during the time lost;
(b)	shift premium applicable to his normal hours of work lost;
123
(c)	weekend premium applicable to his normal hours of work lost;
(d)	holiday pay he would otherwise have been entitled to:
(e)	cost of living allowance lost based on his normal hours of work lost;
(f)	premiums for any or all of Ontario Hospital Insurance Plan, Supplementary Plan, Drug Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Dental Plan provided any laid off employee has actually paid such premium.
11.	Application of Section 19.03
Subject to the provisions of section 19.03 of the proposed 1994 Collective Agreement, the Company agrees that itwill not automatically refuse a request for a leave of absence from an employee making such request solely by reason of his incarceration.
12.	Sickness & Accident Benefits vs Vacation Pay - At Year End
In order to resolve the issue of offsetting Sickness and Accident payments by outstanding Annual Vacation at year end, it is hereby agreed that the following conditions will apply:
i)	Ai year end, all monies owing to an employee with an outstanding Annual Vacation
124
entitlement, including vacation bonus, will be paid in a lump sum. He will not be considered as being on or taking his vacation.
ii)	His Sickness and Accident payments will not be interrupted as a result of this process,
iii)	Employees affected by this procedure will not be entitled to the paid holidays of Christmas and/or Boxing Day and/or New Years.
iv)	The above procedure will prevent both the Company from granting and the employee from electing to take his vacation on returning to work in the above circumstances prior to year end.
13.	Section 11.01
This is to confirm the parties agreed that where the Company intends to allocate new or renewed operations into existing Divisions or Departments or create additional Divisions or Departments or delete or combine Departments as may be required, itwill, where possible, provide the Union with 30 days notice of such action.
14.	Time Off for Union Representatives for Joint Job Evaluation Duties
During the course of negotiations for the renewal of the 1985 Collective Agreement the Union requestedthe Company to grant leave with pay to Union members of the Joint Job Evaluation Committee when requested by the Union.
125
The Company's response to the Union's demand was an undertaking to allow such time off without loss of pay to the Union Committee as is required to administer the Program including time to interview employees in new or changed jobs and where necessary to observe such new or changedjobs.
In any event, section 3.11 of Part II of the Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program clearly sets out the agreement of the parties.
In addition to the foregoing during the course of negotiationsforthe renewal of the 1988 Collective Agreement the Company agreed the Joint Job Evaluation Committee would meet quarterly as a minimum or, as mutually agreed upon in the event there is no necessityfor a quarterly meeting.
15.	Application cf Section 12.01
You have asked the Company to confirm to you how it applies Section 12.01 of the Collective Agreement when lay-offs and/or demotions of employees are required. Where lay offs and/or demotions in one or more departments occur, the fallowing steps will be followed:
Section I
Step I The surplus employee (A) in the highest
job class with the most seniority is placed into a vacancy, if one exists, in his occupation or in his Job Class where possible in his Department or in his division, provided he can perform the
126
normal requirements of the job. If there is no vacancy, then the surplus employee (A) in the highest Job Class with the most seniority bumps the most junior employee (E) where possible in his Department or, in his division in the same occupational classification, if he can do the jobs.
Ij (A) cannot bump (B) because he cannot do the job, then (A)bumpsthe nextjunior employee where possible in his department or, in his division in the same occupational classification.
Step II If (A) cannot bump anyone in his occupational classification in his Division, then (A) bumps the mostjunior employee (C) where possible in his department or in his division in the same job class
Step III If (A) cannot bump (C) because he cannot do the job, then (A)bumps the nextjunior employee where possible in his Department or in his Division in the same Job Class.
Step IV If (A)cannot bump any employee in his Job Class in his Division, he then drops to the next lower Job Class and is placed in a vacancy, if one exists, in an occupation in which he can perform the
normal requirements of the job. If (A) cannot be placed in a vacancy he then utilizes his seniority to bump a junior
127
employee where possible in his Department or in his Division.
Step V This process continues until (A) bumps an employee in his Division with less seniority than himself.
Where layoffs and demotions of employees are required due to a reduction in the work force and where the surplus employee in the highest Job Class with the most seniority is to bump the junior employee, where possible, in his Department or in his Division in the next lower Job Class in an occupation which has been redesigned by the company, such senior employee will be allowed to exercise his seniority provided he can perform the duties of one of the former occupations which now comprise the redesigned job. If the Company requires such senior employeeto perform the duties of more than one of the former occupations in the redesignedjob, the Company shall provide the senior employee with such reasonable training as will enable the employee to meet the requirements of operations.
When an employee has to move from a higher to a lower Job Class to bump and there are other surplus employees in that lower Job Class, then all the surplus employees are arranged by seniority order and the surplus
128
employee with the most seniority starts bumping at Step II.
The above process continues until there is no one left to bump in the lowest Job Class in the employee's Division.
The foregoing is, of course, subject to the Company's right under Section
12.01	to "retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirementsof operations".
Section II
After the method provided for in Section I above is completed if it is determined there are employees in an occupational classification whose seniority date is above the seniority date cut-offline for lay-offs, the Company will post the required number of such jobs in the occupation in the Department in which they occur. Employees in the Departmentwho would not be laid off (that is those in the Department above the seniority date cut-off line for lay-offs) may apply for such posted jobs. Selection will be made on the basis of the criteria set out in Sections 16.01 and 16.02 of the Collective Agreement.
Should there be no successful applicant for any such posted job, the Company will select the senior employee from the Division in which the vacancy occurred who had worked in the classification on a permanent basis previously and who would otherwise be laid off (that is, those employees whose seniority date is above
129
the seniority date cut-off line for lay-offs) who can meetthe normal requirementsof the job.
Shouldthejob still remain unfilled, the Company will select the senior employee who would otherwise be laid off (that is, those employees whose seniority date is above the seniority date cut-off line for lay-offs)who can meetthe normal requirementsof the job and place him in it.
Section III
After the method provided for in Section II above is completed the surplus employee(s) in the Division would:
(1)	if they have worked in a job in another Division <£ the Company previously, be allowed to bumpthe junior employee in the lowest occupational classification in that Division, provided he is senior to that employee and can perform the normal requirements of the job. Should there be no one in the lowest Job Class in the other Division the employee can bump, he may bump a junior employee in the next progressive higher Job Class provided he can performthe normal requirements of the job and the process continues until such time as the employee reaches the highest Job Class he held while previously in the Division and is able to bump an employee junior to himself, or, if he is unable to attain a job in this process, then he shall;
(2)	be transferred to the lowest Job Class in
130
another Division if tie has sufficient seniority ranking to retain a job with the Company, or
(3)	be laid off.
16.	Essential Services
The Union has agreed that it will use its best efforts to see that the employees who normally performwork which is required to be performed to prevent the destruction or serious deterioration of machinery, equipment or premises; or, serious environmental damage will perform such work during any strike by employees in the bargaining unit.
17.	Leader's Rate
This will confirm our agreement reached during negotiations leading to the settlement of the 1991 Collective Agreement with regard to payment of Leader's Rate.
1.	Where two (2) or more tradesmen in the same occupational classification at the same rate work together un the same job, a leader shall be appointed prior to the commencement of the job. The leader's rate will be offered to the senior such employee where such senior employee is capable of doing such work.
2.	Leaders shall be paid at a rate of two (2)
131
job classes higherthan the tradesmen he leads.
3.	At the supervisor's discretion, when several
employees of two or more different trades work together it is advisable to have a supervisor, e.g. sub-foremen, and not a leader. In such instance paragraph 1 above will not apply. If a leader is however appointed to lead such a multitrade group, he shall not lose this status of leader solely by reason of another more senior tradesmen later becoming part of the group.
18.	Section 11,02 of the 1975 Collective Agreement
Section 22.02 of the 1994 Collective Agreement
This is confirm that the intent of the change in section 11.02 of the 1975 Collective Agreement, which is now changed to Section 22.02 of the 1994 Collective Agreement, from "in any day in excess of 8 hours (except where such excess time is worked by him due to regular change of shift)" to "in any 24 hour period in excess of 8 hours except where such excess time is worked due to regular change of shift" is to ensure that all other situations shall be treated as before with the exception that the employee who works graveyard on one day and carries on into day shift the next day, will receive time and a half for the hours worked on the day shift of the "next" day.
132
19.	Sickness and .Accident Insurance Plan Eligibility
As agreed, vacation will not be considered as time worked for the purposes of the S&A contract and in all future cases an employee must return to work for a period of 30 days as stated in the S&A contract prior to commencing a new claim. Successive periods of disability separated by less than one month of work full time shall be considered one period of disability unless the subsequent disability is due to a sickness or injury entirely unrelated to the cause of the previous disability and commences after return to work on a full time basis.
20.	Sickness and Accident Insurance Commencement
In relation to the commencement of a period of total disability re Sickness and Accident, the following will go into effect immediately: "Not withstanding previous practices it is agreed that effect from February 27, 1976, a period of total disability, as defined in the Group Insurance Contract, which results from a Sickness or NonOccupational Accidental Injury will not include any day during which the employee reported for and commencedwork on behalf of Falconbridge Limited'.
21.	Travel Allowance
The Company will in accordance with its policy pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current
133
rates to employees who are temporarily assigned to work in a job location other than their regular job location and who are required to provide their own means of transportation from their permanent residences to their new job location.
Employees assigned to a newjob location for a period in excess of four weeks are considered to be permanently assigned and will not receivethe travel allowance.
The Company will inform the Union of any changes made to this schedule.
22.	Paid Holidays - Strathcona Mine -Transportation Beat and Steady Night Shift Employees and Onaping Electrical Department Employees Affected by Steady Night Shift Schedule
The Company and Union agree that when a paid holiday falls on a Monday and no Strathcona Mine or Onaping Electrical Department employee is required to work the holiday, the holiday for the above group of employees will be observed on the immediately preceding Sunday from 8 a.m. to 8 a.m. Monday.
Considering the employees generally work from Sunday to Thursday, the above arrangementwill provide for more consecutive time off surrounding the paid holiday.
134
23.	Section 10.25 of the 1983 Collective Agreement
Section 20.01 of the 1994 Collective Agreement
The Company agrees to the following: at the beginning of his employment with the Company, each probationary employee will be informed of the standards of performance ofthejob he was hired to perform; the work performance of each probationary employee will be reviewed periodically during said probationary period; if a probationary employee's performance is found to be unacceptable, he will be informed of how it is unacceptable.
24.	Procedures for Handling Questions or Disputes about Disability Benefits
If employees in the P&M Union have questions about the benefit plans they should see their Supervisor or Union Representative at their work location or contact the Employee Benefits Group.
Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan (Sickness and Accident Insurance) payments have, by reason of the many involved decisions made by the doctor(s) and the benefits carrier, and Insurance Company, been the subject of discussion and/or dispute in the past.
To assist in resolving these problems and to afford employees a means by which they can seek review and possible reconsideration of a
135
denied claim, an informal procedure has been established between the Union and the Company: a Union representative, who may be accompanied by the employee, may go directly to the representative of the benefits carrier, an Insurance Company; this may be followed by discussion with representatives of Personnel Services, and finally by a written submission, presented by Senior Union Officials to Senior Company Officials.
25.	Vacation Relief1995,1996,1997
The parties agree to renew their letter of August 14, 1985 with respectto the temporary recall of laid off former employees for vacation relief for the duration of the renewed Agreement as
follows.
Laid off former employees required by the Company for temporary vacation relief work who have informed the Company they are readily available, are readily available and can perform such work, and who have the greatest seniority will:
I _ be employed by the Company for the duration of such temporary relief work only; upon the expiry of such temporary work, he will revert to the status of a former laid-off employee, provided that he may exercise his seniority and "bump" a junior employee who has been temporarily recalled, provided he is able to perform the normal requirements of such job;
136
2.	receive the current P&M rate of pay for such work including C.O.L.A., holiday pay, provided he meets the criteria of 11.08 of the Collective Agreement, floating holiday, and vacation pay based on earnings;
3.	have P&M benefits plans premiums as set out in Section 17.03 of the Collective Agreement paid for by the Company;
4.	acquire job posting rights for temporary vacancies only, acquire no rights as per Section 12.01, except those spelled out in (1) above, but shall be subject to the dues check-off provisionsof Section 5.01;
5.	accumulate seniority and credited service while continuously performing the temporary relief work, including credited service as provided in Section 10.02(c)(iii) of the Agreement;
6.	acquire recall rights as set forth in Section
14.01	of the Agreement.
Former laid-off employees rejecting the temporary vacation relief recall will not lose their recall rights.
It is understood that a temporarily recalled employee will not be placed in a permanent vacancy that was not filled through the job posting procedure unless he is senior amongst the former laid off employees, including those who are temporarily recalled, who can fill the normal requirements of the job and there is no
137
employee with retransfer rights to the division in which the vacancy was posted.
26.	Townsite - Gardeners
The Company will continue to use, where possible, employees from the Modified Work Centres to perform temporary gardening work on the townsites, excluding landscaping, providingsuch employees are physically fit to do this work and possess the skills required to perform such work.
27.	Article 29.03(a) (i) Supplementary Semi Private Plan
During negotiationsfor renewal of the collective agreement the Company agreed to provide semi-private plan coverage for employees on Workers' Compensation Benefits. We will arrange to providethis coverage.
We trust this will resolve this matter between the Company and the Union.
28.	Sewage Disposal Plant Operator at Lockerby
Although neither the Sewage Disposal Plant at Onaping nor at Falconbridge belong to the Company; at Lockerby the duties concerning sewage disposai are being performed by a member of the bargaining unit. The purpose of this letter therefore is to confirm the Company intends lo continue to have sewage disposal
138
duties at Lockerby performed by an employee in the Production and Maintenance bargaining unit.
29. Training of Employees In The Mines and Mineral Processing Divisions
The Company expressed to the Union its concern about the Union's proposal to train employees on the job in accordance with their seniority. More specifically the Company did not wish to rush into something that could cause both the Union and itself unforeseen problems merely to expedite matters at negotiations
In order to address this predicament the Company is prepared to establish a Committee of two Union and two Company employees. The purpose of the Committee will be to determine how it would defeasible in the Mines and Mineral Processing Divisions of the Company to providetraining to employees on a seniority basis in a manner similar to that in Section 25.15 . The Committee will meet quarterly until such time as it makes it determinations.
The Company agrees to pay the wages, cost-of-living allowance and nickel bonus to the members of the Union's coinmittee that would have been otherwise payable for time absent from work while performing committee work and such time shall e considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
139
30.	"Laid Off Employees" and "Individuals" vs "Employees"
The Company and Union agree that wherever the word "individual" appeared in the 1991 Collective Agreement and was changed to "laid off employee" in the 1994 Collective Agreement such change was not intended to confer employee status on any person laid off from the Company who retains recall rights as set out in Section 10.08 of the 1991 Collective Agreement.
31.	Educational Assistance
During the term of this agreement where an employee undertakes to upgrade their educational level in English, Math and Science (Chemistry or Physics focused) to either Grade 10 or Grade 12 on their own time the company shall assist in the following manner:
The Company shall arrange for the employee to be tested to determine their presenteducational level. The results of the test shall set the employee's "base" level.
The employee who then embarks on educational upgrading on their own time in a program acceptable to the Company will be paid one-half hour of wages at his basic hourly rate for each hour spent in attendance receiving instruction in English, Math and Scienceto a maximum of 30 hours of instruction for successfully obtaining
140
each grade level for each of English, Math and Science. Employees shall be entitled to a lifetime maximum of instruction time reimbursement to be determined by multiplying their full years of seniority by five hours. Time paid is not considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
The employee shall provide evidence of attendance in a manner acceptable to the Company.
32.	Section 10.21,1991 Collective Agreement & Section 19.01,1994 Collective Agreement, Leave of Absence
The Company agreed to change the word "will" as it appeared in the first sentence of the above section in the 1991 Collective Agreement, to "shall" for the purposes of the 1994 Collective Agreement provided the Union made an undertaking to accommodate the Company's requirements in the circumstance where a leave is requested and the Company requires a replacement be in place before the leave can commence and this letter will serve as such undertaking.
Upon notification of a request for a leave of absence under section 19.01 of the 1994 Collective Agreement the Company shall make its best efforts to fill the job vacancy without undue delay.
141
33.	Single Arbitrator vs Beard of Arbitrators
This is to confirm that the parties agree to use the Single Arbitrator procedure as set out in Section 7.09 of the Collective Agreement as the preferred procedure in the majority of cases which advance to arbitration.
34.	Joint Job Evaluation
The Joint Job Evaluation Committees will select an independent consultant mutually agreeable to the parties who shall undertake a review of the factors, degree definitions and benchmarks in the Program and present his findings to the Committee.
The purpose of the review is to recommend changes to such factors, degree definitions and benchmarks a5 may be required to update the "Program" and make it more reflective of the workplace today. Such recommendations, if any, are to be presented to the Director, Human Resources of the Company and the President of the Union, Local 598.
The aforementioned review will commence no later than August 1, 1995, and the Company shall pay the full cost of the consultant.
142
INDEX
Subject	Section	Page
Ability 		16.01-16.03	46
	16.05-16.06	47
	18.01	49
Apprentices 		. . . 25.01 25.16	76
Arbitration		. . 7.05	14
Arbitrator - Single		. . . 7.09	16
	Letter 33	142
Assignments	16.04	47
	22.15	63
Authority ....	32.01	104
Benefits Plans	29.03	96
Bereavement Leave	22.17	64
Bulletin Boards		31.01-31.02	103
Call-Out 		. . . 22.04	57
Change of Days Off		. . 22.12	62
Christmas Gift			... Letter 4	120
Close Down of (Part)	13.01	33
Departinent 		12.02	32
Collar to Collar	22.14	63
Construction Pool 		. . Letter 8	122
Contracting Out		.. 2.04	2
Subject	Section	Page
Cost-of-LivingAllowance ....	30.02	i 0 0
Credited Service		10.02	28
Curtailment of Operations . ..	12.01	31
Demoted or Recalled		
Employees		Letter 10	123
Designated Employee		21.01	55
Direct Difference		7.04	13
Disabled Employees 		26.01	83
Procedures-Disability Benefits	Letter 24	135
Discharge and Discipline ....	8.01	22
Discrimination:		
No Discrimination 		3.02	7
Solicitation cf Membership	3.03	8
Union Membership 		3.01	7
Divisions/Departments	11.01	30
Section 11.01		Letter 13	125
Educational Assistance .	Letter 31	140
Electing Layoff		12.01	31
EmployeeAssistance Program	Letter 7	121
Essential Services		Letter 16	131
Excluded Employees:		
Scope 		101	1
Schedule "A"			107
2.02-2.03	1
Exclusion of Personnel Working...............
Subject	Section	Page
Familiarization 		16.05	47
Floating Holiday		22.06	58
Further Conferences 		34.01	105
General	..	33.01	104
Grievances:		
Adjustment of 		7.01	10
Arbitration 		7.05-7.08	14
Arbitration Board		7.06	14
Arbitrator - Single 	 Committoemen and	7.09	16
Stewards			7.16	19
Direct Differences		7.04	13
Employee Rights			7.14	18
Failure to Process		7.12	18
General		7.11	18
Management Representative	7.01-7.03	10
Mines Bonus		9.01	25
Notice of Discharge	 Payment of Committeemen	8.01	22
and Stewards		7.20-7.22	20
Stage One		7.01	10
Stage Two		7.01	II
for Discharge		8.01	22
Time Limits 		7.11-7.13	18
Holidays		22.05-22.09	57
Hot Meals		Letter 3	120
Subject	Section	Page
Hours of Work:		
Call-Out		22.04	57
Collar to Collar		22.14	63
Distribution of Overtime....	22.03	56
Floating Holiday 		22.06	58
Hoisting Schedule		22.14	63
Holiday Pay		22.08	59
Holidays		22.05	57
Jury Duty		22.18	65
Overtime 		22.01-22.03	56
Overtime Calculation		22.01-22.02	56
Section 22.02 		Letter 18	132
Shift- Change of		22.12	62
Shift Premiums 		22.10	61
Temporary Assignment....	22.15	63
Weekend Premiums		22.11	62
Work- Non-Available		22.16	64
Work on a Holiday		22.07	59
Impractical Provision re Laws	33.01	104
Investigatory Suspension ....	8.01	22
Job Classes		
Supp. to Schedule "B“			112
Job Evaluation		24.01	72
Time off for Union Reps ...	Letter 14	120
Job Posting 		15.01-15.02	38
	17.01	48
Job Selection		16.01-16.07	46
Factors in Promotion		16.01.16.02	46
Familiarization Period		16.05	47
General		16.07	48
Temporary Promotion and		
Demotion		16.05-16.0 6	47
Subject	Section	Page
Joint Job Evaluation	Letter 34	142
Jury Duty 		22.18	65
"Laid Off Employees" and "Individuals" vs "Employees"	Letter 30	140
Lay-offs		12.01	31
Application of Section 12.01	Letter 15	126
Close Down		12.02	32
Demotions		12.01	31
Leader's Rate	Letter 17	131
Leaves of Absence:	19.01-19.03	51
Application of Section 19.01	Letter 32	141
Application of Section 19.03	Letter 11	124
Maternity Leave		19.03	52
Paternity Leave		19.03	52
Personal Business		19.03	52
Union Business		19.01	51
Letters 		Schedule "Q"	117
Management Rights		4.01	8
Maternity Leave 		19.03	52
Medicals		28.02	92
Mineral Processing Division ..	11.01	30
Mines Bonus 		9.01-9.03	25
Mines Division 		11.01	30
No Cessation of Work		6.01	9
No Discrimination	3.01	7
Subject	Section	Page
No Guarantee of Work 		22.19	66
No Lockout or Strike ....	6.01	9
Occupation and Job Class Schedule:		
Mines Division			112
Mineral Processing			113
Skilled Trades/Services		
Division			114
Overtime		22.01-22.03	56
Calculation of		22.01-22.02	56
	22.09	61
Distribution of		22.03	56
Paid Holidays		22.05-22.08	57
Paid Holidays-Steady Night		
Schedule		Letter 22	134
Paternity Leave		19.03	52
Pay Grievances		7.13	18
Personal Matters		7.15	19
Pension and Health Benefits:
Differences 		29.02	96
Extent of Coverage		29.03	96
Pension Plan		29.01	96
Posting Vacancies		15.01	38
Premiums:		
Shift		22.10	61
Weekend 		22.1 1	62
Probationary Employees ....	20.01	54
Section 20.01 		Letter 23	135
Subject	Section	Page
Promotion Factors	16.01-16.02	46
Protective Clothing		.. Letter 2	119
Qualifying Day 		.. 22.05	57
	22.08	59
Recall		, . 14.01-14.02	34
Recognition	2.01	1
Re-opener Provisions 		. . 34.01	105
Retransfer		13.01	33
Safety and Health: Committees		. . 28.01	91
Medicals		. . 28.02	92
Schedule "A1 			107
Schedule “B"		111
Schedule "Q"		117
Scope 		.. 1.01	1
Seniority		,. 10.01-10.04	27
Application of		, . 12.01-18.01	31
	Letter 15	126
Definitions 		,. 10.01-10.02	27
Lists of Seniority	.	.. 10.04	29
Loss of Seniority and Credited Service		.. 10.03	29
Service	10.02	28
Sewage Disposal Plant Operator at Lockerby		. . Letter 28	138
Subject	Section	Page
Shift Change	22.12	62
Shift Premiums	22.10	61
Sickness & Accident Benefits		
vs Vacation Pay at Year End	Letter 12	124
Sickness and Accident		
Insurance 	 Procedures-Disability	29.03	96
Benefits 		Letter 24	135
Sickness and Accident		
Insurance Plan Commencement		Letter 20	133
Sickness and Accident		
Insurance Plan Eligibility..	Letter 19	133
Single Arbitrator vs Board of		
Arbitrators 		Letter 33	142
Skilled Trades and Apprentices	25.01-25.16	76
Skilled T rades/Services		
Division		1101	31
Stage One & Stage Two		
Meetings		Letter 5	120
Stewards and Committeemen	7.16-7.21	19
	31.02	103
Students 		Letter 1	119
SubpoenaedWitness	22.18	65
Supplement to Schedule "B"		112
Subject	Section	Page
Supplementary Semiprivate Plan,Article29.03(a)(i) ....	Letter 27	138
Suspension	8.01	22
Technological Change 		23.01	66
Temporary Demotions and	16.06	47
Promotions		22.15	63
T emporary T ransfers		17.01	48
Termination	35.01	105
Time Off for Union Repsfor JJE	Letter 14	125
Tools		Letter 6	121
T ownsite-Gardeners	Letter 26	138
Tradespetsons and Apprentices	25 01	76
Training			21.01	55
Training of Employees in the Mines and Mineral Processing		
Divisions		Lettei 29	139
Transfer Window . . .	Letter 9	122
Transfers		18.01	49
Travel Allowance	22.04	57
	Letter 21	133
Union Dues		5.01	8
Union Membership . . .	3.01-3.03	7
Union Recognition	2.01	1
Subject	Section	Page
Union Security 		5.01	8
Vacations (Annual):	27.01-27.09	84
Bonus		27.08	87
Commencement		27.03	85
Entitlement		27.01-27.02	84
Interruption of Service ....	27.04	86
Pay 		27.01	84
	27.07	87
Scheduling		27.05-27.06	86
Termination of Employment	27.09	88
Time of Granting		27.06	87
Vacations (Special)	27.10	88
Vacation Relief 1995,1996,1997	Letter 25	136
Wage Rates - Schedule"B"..		111
Wages		30.01	99
Warnings . 			8.03	24
Weekend Premium		22.11	62
WorkWeek		22.20	66