between
Falconbridge Limited and
Sudbury Mine, Mill & Smelter Workers Union local 598
CAwA’TCA
CANADA
oomico)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Article 1	—	Scope
Article 2	—	Recognition
Article 3	—	No Discrimination
Article 4	—	Management
Article 5	—	Union Security
Article 6	—	No Cessation of Work
Article 7	—	Grievance Procedure
Article 8	—	Discharge and Discipline
Article 9	—	Mines Bonus
Article 10	—	Seniority
Article 11	—	Divisions/Departments
Article 12	—	Layoffs
Article 13	—	Retransfers
Article 14	—	Recalls
Article 15	—	Job Postings
Article 16	—	Job Selection
1
1
7
9
IO
11
I I
25
29
32
35
36
38
39
43
53
Article 17 Article 18 Article 19 Article 20 Article 21 Article 22 Article 23 Article 24 Article 25
Article 26 Article 27 Article 28 Article 29
Article 30 Article 31 Article 32 Article 33
Temporary Transfers Transfers Leaves of Absence Probationary Employee Designated Employee Hours of Work Technological Change Job Evaluation
Skilled Trades and
Apprentices
Disabled Employees Vacations Safety and Health
Pension and Health
Benefits
Wages
Bulletin Boards
Authority
General
60
61
63
68
69
70 82 88 93
101
102
110
115
119
124
125 125
Article 34 Article 35 Schedule “A”
Schedule "B" Schedule "D" Schedule "Q"
Further Conferences
Termination
Classification of Employees Excluded from the Bargaining Unit
Hourly Wage Rates
Apprentice Training
Letters
125
131
137
138
ARTICLE 1 ■ SCOPE
1.01	The employees covered by this Agreement shall be all the employees of the Company in the Sudbury District, except:
(a) office, clerical and	technical employees,
(b)	supervisors and persons above the
rank of supervisor including those supervisory personnel	in the
classifications set forth in Schedule “A” attached hereto, and
(c)	all other employees of the Company set forth in Schedule “A”.
The words “employee” and “employees” wherever used in this Agreement refer to such employees as are covered by this Agreement.
1.02	Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
2.01 The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all the employees with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other working
conditions.
1
work being contracted out by the
Company.
The Company shall, having regard to the availability of equipment and the time required to do the work, promote employees who have been demoted and recall employees who have been laid off provided those employees or laid off employees can fill the normal requirements of the job and are readily available before work which could be performed by the bargaining unit of a duration of 14 calendar days or longer is contracted out.
For the purposes of this article demotion shall mean a move to a lower job classification and paid the lower job classification wage rate or being removed from a job which pays mine bonus to a job which does not pay mine bonus.
(d)	The Company will discuss with the Union as rapidly as possible any problems with regard to sections 2.02, 2.03, and this section 2.04 and in any case, will review with the Union at three-month intervals the contracting out situation. This provision is not intended to deny to employees or the Union its rights under Article 7.
4
(e)	The parties agree to establish a Joint Company-Union Committee to resolve issues related to the contracting out of work.
The purpose of the Joint Committee is as follows:
1.	To meet monthly to review work the Company intends to contract out in the forthcoming quarter and to recommend how the work could otherwise be done by Company employees.
2.	To identify those contractors
working on Company property on an on-going basis to such an extent that the Committee recommends the replacement of such Contractor with an employee.
3.	To otherwise recommend changes in staffing, organization and structure whereby it would be more effective to use Company employees to perform the work of contractors.
The recommendations of the Committee will be submitted to the Union Executive. However, the Union will not be bound to accept the
5
orientation, age, marital status, family status, handicap or political opinions.
For the purpose of this article, ‘harassment' is defined as engaging in a course of vexatious comment or conduct that is known or ought reasonably to be known to be unwelcome where such comment or conduct consists of words or actions by persons acting on behalf of the company or union, the company, a supervisor, a co-worker or any other individual employed by the company, which denies individual dignity or respect or causes humiliation to another employee. Proper discussions between an employee and a supervisor related to performance issues or disciplinary matters or work assignments or other work related items do not constitute harassment.
Harassment will not be subject to the grievance procedure but shall be investigated promptly by the Superintendent of Human Resources for the Company and the Union Services Representative who will attempt to resolve complaints.
8
All employees are expected to treat others with courtesy and consideration and to discourage discrimination and harassment.
Stewards, Union safety representatives or employees filling any other Union position shall not be denied any rights or benefits provided for in this collective agreement because of their Union activity.
3.03	There shall be no solicitations of membership in any union organization or collection of union dues or any union activity anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and the Plants or anywhere on the Company's property inside the gates.
This clause shall not be construed to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
ARTICLE 4 - MANAGEMENT
4.01 The union agrees that the Company has the exclusive right and power to manage the plants and mines, direct the working forces and to hire, promote, transfer, demote or lay off, and to suspend, demote, discharge or otherwise discipline employees for just cause. Provided,
9
Stage One
An aggrieved employee shall, provided it is done with reasonable promptness, state his representations in writing to the designated management representative(s) at Stage One who shall be his immediate first line Supervisor and the second line Supervisor of the area in which the grievance arose. The management representative shall establish a mutually agreed upon date for a Stage One hearing which shall not be more than 10 days from the date the management representative was advised of the request for a Stage One meeting. Where the employee does not work on day shift within the period of 10 days due to shift schedules the grievance shall be heard during the next period that the employee works on a cycle of day shifts. Such representations in writing shall state the nature of the grievance, the remedy sought and provisions of this Agreement upon which it is alleged the grievance is based, provided that:
(a)	any omission of such a provision shall not prejudice the determination of the grievance on its merits at any stage of the procedure including arbitration, and
12
(b)	reference to any provision shall not
prevent the employee from relying on any other provisions of the Agreement.
In making such representations he shall be accompanied and represented by a Grievance Steward in his Department who is reasonably familiar with the work in which the employee is engaged, if this requirement is relevant along with the Division Grievance Committeemen of the respective area. The Management representative(s) shall give his or their decision in writing within 7 days from the date upon which such representations were presented. The Services Representative of the Union shall be sent a copy of the answer at Stage One by Labour Relations. If the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, then:
Stage Two
(i) Notice in writing requesting further
consideration of the grievance shall, within 15 calendar days after the decision of the management representative(s) for Stage One has or should have been given, be given by the Services Representative of the Union to the designated management representative(s) for Stage Two. Such management representative(s)
13
Direct Difference
7.04	Any difference arising directly between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, may be submitted in writing by either of such parties to the other requesting a meeting to discuss the difference. Such meeting between the officers of the Union and representatives of the Company shall be held at a mutually acceptable time within 21 days after receipt of such submission. If the parties are unable to settle such a difference within 14 days from such meeting then the party to whom the said notice was delivered shall reply in writing to such difference within 21 days from such meeting.
Arbitration
7.05	In the event that
(a) any grievance, including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, has not been satisfactorily settled under section 7.01, such grievance may then by notice in writing given to the other party within two months from the date when the written decision of the management representative(s) of
16
Stage Two was or should have been delivered or
(b) any difference directly between the Union and the Company has not been satisfactorily settled in accordance with section 7.04, such difference may then by notice in writing to the management representative within
two months from the date when the
written decision of the management representative(s) was or should have been delivered
be referred either by the Company or the Union to arbitration for final and binding settlement, without stoppage of work, as hereinafter provided.
7.06	In any case in which a Board of Arbitrators shall be required under this Agreement, the Company and the Union shall each appoint one arbitrator and the two arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third. No person may be named as an arbitrator who has participated directly in an attempt to settle the grievance. The arbitrators to be appointed by the Company and the Union shall be appointed within 10 days from the date of receipt of notice of arbitration. In the event that either party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator within the time provided, the other party may request the Minister of
17
Labour of the Province of Ontario to appoint an arbitrator on behalf of the defaulting party. The findings of the majority of the Board of Arbitrators as to the facts and as to the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of this Agreement, including the question as to whether the matter is arbitrable, shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no event shall the arbitrators be authorized to alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
Where an arbitration board determines
that an employee has been discharged or otherwise disciplined by the Company for just cause, the board may substitute such other penalty for the discharge or discipline as to the board seems just and reasonable in all the circumstances.
7.07	The Company and the Union shall respectively pay the expenses and fees payable to the arbitrator selected by each, and the Company and the Union shall each be responsible for one-half of the reasonable expenses and fees payable to the third arbitrator.
7.08	If the arbitrator appointed by the Company and the arbitrator appointed by the Union fail to agree within 3 weeks upon the appointment of a third arbitrator, the Ontario Labour-Management Arbitration
18
Commission shall be requested to choose a third arbitrator.
Single Arbitrator
7.09	(a) Notwithstanding section 7.06, the
Union or the Company may, in the notice in writing given to the other party pursuant to section 7.05 referring any grievance, including a question as to whether a matter is arbitrable, or any difference directly between the Union and the Company to arbitration, propose that such arbitration be dealt with by a single arbitrator. The other party shall within 14 days of the receipt of such notice reply in writing stating whether arbitration by a single arbitrator is acceptable.
(b)	The single arbitrator shall be selected
in rotation from the following: M. Teplitsky, K. Burkett, D. Stanley, G. Charney and E. Palmer.
(c)	A single arbitrator shall have all the
powers of a board of arbitrators as provided in this agreement or under the Labour Relations Act of Ontario, as amended from time to time, and the provisions herein with respect to such a board shall apply to a single
19
arbitrator, with the necessary changes being made.
7.10
(d)	If in the reply referred to in (a) the other party states that arbitration by a single arbitrator is not acceptable, then in such reply such other party shall name its arbitrator to be appointed to a board of arbitrators which is to arbitrate the matter. Thereafter the parties shall proceed with the matter in accordance with this Agreement as if it had been submitted originally for arbitration.
In any arbitration the written representation of the Union made at Stage Two and the decision of the Company at Stage Two of the grievance procedure (or in the case of a difference directly between the Company and the Union the written submission by the party initiating the discussion of the difference and the written reply thereto of the other party) shall be presented to the arbitrators and the award of the arbitrators shall be confined to determining the issue therein set out.
This provision shall not modify the
provisions of the third sentence of Stage One of section 7.01.
20
General Provisions
7.11	Where any step in the procedure provided for in Article 7 or 8 is to be taken within a period of 7 days or less, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in counting such number of days.
7.12	Failure to process a grievance from one Stage to the next Stage or arbitration within the specified time limits will be deemed an abandonment of such grievance; failure to reply to a grievance within the specified time limit will permit the grieving party to proceed to the next higher Stage, including arbitration.
Notwithstanding the above paragraph, any time limit fixed by this Article or Article 8 may be extended by agreement of the Company and the Union.
7.13	A grievance alleging that any employee has failed to receive the rate of pay to which he is entitled under this Agreement, having regard to the application of seniority or rates of pay, must be presented in writing within 10 days after the pay day for the pay period in which the grievance arose. The Company shall extend the period of 10 days where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance
21
not having been presented within such period.
7.14	An aggrieved employee, if he so desires, may be present at all stages of the grievance procedure.
7.15	Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent an individual employee from presenting any of his personal matters to the Company.
Grievance Committeemen and Stewards
7.16	The General Grievance Committeemen
and Grievance Stewards herein referred to and who shall be designated by the Union, shall be employees and shall consist of an aggregate total of not more than one for each thirty employees.
7.17	The General Grievance Committee shall be divided into three Division Grievance Committees, one from each of the Mines, Reduction and Skilled Trades/Services Divisions and each Division Committee shall consist of one employee from each of the areas of Falconbridge and Onaping to be referred to as the Division Committee.
7.18	A Grievance Steward and the respective Division Grievance Committeeman of the area concerned shall act at Stage One
22
and Stage Two. The foregoing is not intended to preclude a Division Grievance Committeeman from representing an employee from a Division other than that of the Committeeman. The Union shall notify the Company of any change in members of each Grievance Committee.
7.19	In the discretion of the Union any member of the General Grievance Committee may also be a Grievance Steward but the total number of employees designated by the Union as Grievance Stewards shall in no event exceed the aggregate total set out in section 7.16.
7.20	Any Grievance Steward or member of the General Grievance Committee shall be allowed such time off a shall be reasonably required to attend such necessary meetings with supervisory personnel as are hereinbefore provided in this Article, subject, however, to obtaining permission (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) from his supervisor designated by the Company to act for it at Stage One.
The Company shall pay members of the General Grievance Committee and Grievance Stewards at their basic rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus any applicable off-shift premium, for any time lost during their regular shifts or from
23
overtime in connection with any of the above-mentioned duties. However, payment shall not be made for any time which is held to be an abuse of the provisions of the above paragraph. The Company shall notify the Union of any such withholding of payment and the details of the alleged abuse.
Where the Company requires a Grievance Steward or member of the
General Grievance Committee to travel from his regular place of work to attend any meetings with supervisory personnel, the Company will pay a Travel Allowance based on Company Policy.
7.21	(a) To enable the General Grievance
Committee to meet and review decisions of the Company at Stages One and Two of the grievance procedure the Company shall grant monthly at the request of the Union to each of the six members of the Committee one day's leave without pay and one day's leave with pay at his basic rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus nickel bonus, plus any applicable shift premium.
The Company will grant an additional day's leave per month for each of the six members of the Committee for the above mentioned purposes. The
24
Company and Union will pay on alternate months the employee's basic rate plus cost-of-living allowance and any applicable shift premium for the day; however the Company shall pay the nickel bonus on the additional day's leave regardless of whether it is paying his basic rate of pay.
(b)	In addition to the above the Company will grant grievance stewards one day per month to attend to Union business. Such time will be paid at the employee's base rate, plus cost-of-living allowance, plus nickel bonus.
7.22	Where the Company grants a Steward a leave of absence with pay from his regularly scheduled shift for the purposes of Union business, such time will be considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
ARTICLE 8 -DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
8.01	Any notice of discharge or notice of suspension other than investigatory suspension shall be given to the employee in the presence of a Grievance Steward in his Department, but if such a Steward is
25
not available then in the presence of any other Steward who is reasonably available provided that should there be no Steward available such lack of availability of a Steward will not nullify such notice of discharge or suspension. In the case of an investigatory suspension, the Company shall notify a Steward or the Union as soon as practicable. The Company will confirm the reasons for such discharge or suspension to the employee and the Union in writing. Apart from the immediate preceding sentence, in the event the Company discharges an employee, it shall notify the Union within 24 hours of such discharge provided that failure to notify shall not be construed as nullifying such discharge.
A grievance alleging that an employee has been discharged without just cause shall be dealt with under the provisions of Article 7 except that such grievance shall be initiated at Stage Two of the grievance procedure and must be presented within 10 calendar days after the date of discharge. The Company shall extend such 10 day period where there is a reasonable excuse for the grievance not having been presented within such period.
8.02	If a discharged, demoted or suspended employee is reinstated pursuant to
26
arbitration the Company shall pay him the following compensation with respect to the period for which he is reinstated:
(a)	earnings lost based on his regular rate for the time lost during the period of discharge, demotion or suspension limited to a maximum of 40 hours per week, less the amount of money earned by the employee during the time lost;
(b)	shift premium applicable to his normal hours of work lost;
(c)	weekend premium applicable to his
normal hours of work lost;
(d)	holiday pay he would otherwise have
been entitled to; and
(e)	premiums for any or all of Ontario
Hospital Insurance Plan, Supplementary Plan, Drug Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Dental Plan provided that the employee;
(i) has notified the Company within 14 days following his discharge that he intends to pay such premiums during the period pending the disposition of his
27
discharge in the grievance procedure or by arbitration and;
(ii) has actually paid such premium.
8.03	The Company will give an employee a copy of any written warning in the presence of a steward, if requested, without requiring the employee to sign for it and will notify an employee of any oral reprimand entered on his record. Written warnings (but not suspensions) for absence without leave or for failing to notify the Company of intended absence shall be removed from an employee's record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline for subsequent infractions of a like nature if after three calendar months there is no repetition of such offence.
Any other written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee’s record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline if in the 6 months following such warning there is no further misconduct. In any event a written warning (but not a suspension) shall be removed from an employee’s record and shall be disregarded in determining discipline 12 months after the issuance of such warning.
28
A suspension notice other than a suspension notice for breach of Article 6 shall be disregarded in determining discipline two (2) years after the issuance of such suspension. A suspension notice for breach of Article 6, shall be disregarded in determining discipline three (3) years after the issuance of such suspension.
ARTICLE 9 - MINES BONUS
9.01	The Union may establish for each of the Company's mines, a Bonus Grievance Committee to consist of not more than two employees per mine, each of whom must be reasonably familiar with contract work in the mine. The Union shall advise the Company forthwith of the names of the members of such committees and shall notify the Company whenever any changes are made.
The Company will give members of the Bonus Grievance Committee special training each year in the Company’s bonus system. The Company will promptly advise the Bonus Committee of changes to the system. Where the Company intends to make substantive changes to the bonus system, it will make its best efforts to provide training, in advance of implementing
29
the changes, to the Bonus Grievance Committee. Time spent while receiving training will be with no loss in pay, including any bonus, to the persons involved.
up to two members of the Bonus Grievance Committee who are not Grievance Stewards from the Mines Division shall be granted time off in accordance with 7.21 (b).
9.02	Each Bonus Grievance Committee shall be entitled at reasonable times, but not more than twice a month, to present to the Superintendent of its department and such other representatives of the Company as may be present, any complaints or objections with regard to any mines contract bonus ‘applied in its department during the preceding or current month including any matters pertaining to a particular contract on which an employee or crew may have been working during the preceding month or may be working currently. The Bonus Grievance Committee shall notify the Superintendent of the department concerned in writing at least three working days prior to any such meeting of the particular contracts to be considered thereat, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection.	The
30
Superintendent shall make every effort to give his answer in writing not later than 10 days from any such meeting.
9.03	If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the Bonus Grievance Committee, it shall be entitled to apply in writing to the relevant Mine Manager, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection to a meeting of the Company Committee composed of the relevant Mine Manager and 3 other representatives appointed by the Company. Such application shall be made in writing at least three working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Superintendent referred to in section 9.02. The Company Committee will meet each Bonus Grievance Committee as may be required for the dispatch of business but not more than once in each month to consider such complaints or objections of which notice has been given as aforesaid. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the relevant Mine Manager and notice thereof shall be given to the particular Bonus Grievance Committee. At such meeting the Bonus Grievance Committee may be accompanied by an officer of the Union.
31
The Company Committee shall make every effort to give its answer in writing not later than 7 days from any such meeting.
ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY
10.01	The Company agrees with the principle of granting preference to employees in promotions, demotions resulting from any change or manpower reduction, lay-offs, and rehiring after lay-offs in accordance with their relative seniority ranking as hereinafter set out.
10.02	For the purpose of this Agreement:
(a)	“seniority date” shall mean an employee's most recent hiring date
with the Company (except where such date is the date of rehiring after a layoff in accordance with section 14.02).
(b)	an employee's “seniority” shall mean the length of time from his seniority date and such seniority shall be maintained and accumulated during:
(i)	a lay-off within any period during
which he has recall rights,
(ii)	any leave occasioned by illness
or injury.
32
(iii)	any leave of absence granted by the Company, or
(iv)	any leave of absence granted under section 19.03(b); and
(c)	“credited service” shall mean an
employee's seniority less any period of:
(i)	leave in excess of four weeks for some reason other than disabling injury, illness or compassionate grounds, leave granted for Union purposes, jury duty, maternity or parental/adoption leave:
(ii)	absence from work due to any
illegal strike.
(iii)	lay-off for a period continuing through five full payroll periods (based on bi-weekly payroll periods).
10.03	An employee shall lose whatever seniority and credited service he may have accumulated if he:
(a)	quits and does not rehire within a period of 6 months,
(b)	is discharged,
33
(b)	Mineral Processing Division
(1)	Smelter Department (includes General Surface Falconbridge)
(2)	Strathcona Concentrator Department
(c)	Skilled Trades/Services Division
(1)	Mechanical Department (includes General Surface Onaping)
(2)	Electrical Department
The Company will, in consultation with the Union, allocate new or renewed operations into the existing Divisions and Departments; or in consultation with the Union, create additional Divisions and Departments or delete or combine Departments as may be required.
ARTICLE 12 - LAYOFFS
12.01 In all cases of lay-offs and/or demotions (other than lay-offs and demotions of a temporary nature, i.e. having a duration of 2 weeks or less, or of an emergency nature) employees shall be relocated within the same occupational classification
36
where possible in their department or in their division, relocated in the same job class where possible in their department or in their division, demoted within their department or division or laid off from the Company in reverse order of their seniority ranking provided that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirements of operations.
An employee may, within 4 calendar days of being notified of being transferred to the lowest job class in another department due to a reduction in work force, if he has sufficient seniority ranking to retain a job with the Company, elect to be laid off and when laid off, the recall provisions set out in section 14.01 shall apply, provided that the Company may retain sufficient employees in each occupational classification to meet the requirements of operations.
12.02	In the event of the closing down, either permanently or for a period of indefinite duration, of all or any part of a department, each employee in that department shall have the right to apply for a permanent vacancy in any other department within his division that has been posted by the Company on the same basis as if he were an employee in such other department; provided that an
37
Seniority	Length of Recall
Rights
Under one year's seniority	18	months
Over one year's seniority and up to four year's
seniority	48	months
Over four year's seniority	60	months
Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the Company requires any individual for work of an emergency nature, it shall give any laid off employee an opportunity, consistent with the emergency requirements, to do such work if he:
(a)	has informed the Company he is
readily available;
(b)	is readily available, and
(c)	can perform such work.
Prior to being laid off, the Company will
provide a form to an employee to enable the employee to indicate to the Company his availability for such emergency work.
14.02	The Company shall maintain a recall list of employees who are laid off. When hiring employees, the Company shall give preference in rehiring to laid off
40
employees on such list who are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the available jobs in reverse order to that in which they were laid off subject to the
following provisions:
(a)	notice of recall shall be sent to the laid off employee by registered mail to the last address which he has recorded with the Company or by such other method as may be reasonably available in the circumstances;
(b)	the notice shall stipulate the job to which the laid off employee is being recalled, its probable duration, and the proposed time (which shall be not less than 14 calendar days from date of mailing) and place to report. The laid off employee shall indicate his acceptance as promptly as possible prior to such time;
(c)	laid off employees who accept the recall and report for duty at the time and place specified in paragraph (b) hereof will be rehired in accordance with their seniority ranking;
(d)	no laid off employee shall be denied
rehiring solely because of a medical or physical condition which existed at the time he was laid off;
41
to Job Class 3 or more, or in the case of underground work, Job Class 4 or more except a Mine Labourer, shall, if the work is going to be continued, be posted within one calendar week for 5 working days on the related departmental bulletin boards. There shall be excluded from the foregoing, jobs considered by the Company to be temporary only, i.e. of 23 calendar days duration or less or for absences due to vacation. All notices shall designate:
Part 1
(a)	With respect to underground classifications, where applicable, the type of shift, the initial duties (including the type of stope), the
name of the First Line Supervisor in charge and the wage rate.
(b)	With respect to classifications in the
Mineral Processing and Services Divisions, the shift, the name of the first line Supervisor in charge in the Skilled Trades/Services, Strathcona Concentrator and Acid Plant, and the second line Supervisor in charge in the Smelter Operations and the wage rate.
(c)	If the Company knows the vacancy is temporary with a duration of more
44
than 23 calendar days, except for vacancies due to vacations, an
estimate of its probable duration.
(d)	The Union will be supplied with copies of posted job vacancies and with copies of the names of successful applicants.
Every six months the Company will review and re-post temporary job postings as necessary.
Part 2
Any employee in such department (including an employee absent from work by reason of illness, injury, vacation, maternity or parental/adoption leave):
(a)	who is in a different occupational classification; or
(b)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to one type of shift while the posted work is for another type of shift;
may apply in writing for such posted work within 5 working days.
45
Part 3
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee in such department in a redesigned occupation may apply for a vacancy	within	his	occupational
classification which is a contract work occupation or an employee in a contract work occupation may apply for a vacancy within his occupational classification which is a non contract work occupation within 5 working days.
In addition to the immediate foregoing an employee in such department in a redesigned occupation may apply for a
vacancy	within	his	occupational
classification which is for a different shift no more than once a year.
Where the Company has reorganized the duties of a number of occupations and combined those duties under one job title, the Company will for the three month period immediately	following such job
redesign	add	as	supplementary
information on the notice of vacancy of such redesigned job, the former job title of the occupation in which the successful candidate is required initially.
If such vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the
46
Collective Agreement respectively, 13.01 (retransfer), 14.02 (recall), and 18.01 (transfer). If the job still remains vacant, the Company will post an opportunity to transfer (18.01) notice for a period of 5 days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, apprentices being excluded from making application for such transfer. Any subsequent vacancy which may result from the posting of the opportunity to transfer shall be filled by the application of the following sections of the Agreement in the following sequence: 13.01 (retransfer),
14.02	(recall), and 18.01 (transfer); if the job still remains vacant, the Company will hire an individual.
Any employee who fills a temporary
vacancy shall, on its termination, revert to his former occupational classification. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, an employee who fills a temporary vacancy shall at his option, on its termination exercise his seniority and displace the employee within his respective first-line supervisor's group (second line supervisor's group for repair crew personnel and mechanical personnel) who has the least seniority and who occupies the same occupational classification on a temporary basis. Such employee who is displaced shall revert to his former occupational classification.
47
If through the grievance procedure (including arbitration) the action of the
Company in promoting an employee to fill a vacancy or in demoting an employee is reversed, such employee and any employees filling any vacancies created by such promotion or demotion shall revert to their former occupational classification.
Part 4
An employee on a Union leave of absence in accordance with Article 19.01 may apply for jobs in accordance with Part 2 which are posted in the department in which he worked immediately prior to commencing such leave.
When an employee on a Union leave of absence under Article 19.01 is the
successful candidate for a job posting and elects to remain on leave, the Company shall fill the posting by selecting another successful candidate from amongst those applicants who applied for the original job posting. If the vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the Collective Agreement respectively, retransfer, opportunity to transfer, recall.
Upon completion of the leave of absence granted under Article 19.01, the employee
48
shall be placed in the actual job for which he was the successful candidate and if such job no longer exists or there are surplus employees in the occupation, the provisions of Article 12.01 shall be applied.
Part 5
Opportunity To Train
Where the Company anticipates a future requirement for trained employees in an occupation in a Department or where a posting has gone unfilled the Company may post an “Opportunity to Train” posting in the Department or in the case of the Mines Division, such posting shall be posted across the Division. All employees in the Department or Division as the case may be, shall have the opportunity to apply for such opportunities and selection shall be based upon seniority provided they have the basic knowledge and ability to be trained in the work required.
An employee who applies for such
opportunity but who does not possess the requisite education shall be provided the opportunity to attain such education in the manner set out in the new Article proposed entitled “Education Criteria”. During the period of training, employees
49
retain the rate of pay of their permanent Job Posting.
Upon completion of the training period, the employee shall return to his former occupation. When an employee in an Opportunity to Train posting is the
successful candidate for a job posting, the Company shall fill the posting by selecting another successful candidate from amongst those applicants who applied for the original job posting. If the vacancy has not been filled by the foregoing, the Company shall apply the provisions of the following sections of the Collective Agreement respectively, retransfers, opportunity to transfer, recall.
Upon completion of the training, or should the employee be removed from the training, the employee shall be placed in the actual job for which he was the successful candidate and if such job no longer exists or there are surplus employees in the occupation, the provisions of Article 12.01 shall be applied.
An employee who is unable to complete the training or education satisfactorily shall be returned to his former occupation and shall not reapply for an opportunity to train for a permanent posting in this position for a period of two years. Where
50
the employee was removed from this function due to the education component they may reapply upon supplying the Company satisfactory proof that they have attained the requisite education.
Where an employee has successfully completed the training he shall, for a period of 3 years after the completion of the training, be automatically considered as having applied for any permanent position posted for the job unless the employee has obtained a permanent posting at an equal or higher job class. Should he be the senior applicant he will be awarded the job.
15.02	Within 14 calendar days after the expiration of the posting period required by section 15.01, the Company shall choose the successful applicant, if any, and place him in the vacancy if it then exists. If the successful applicant agrees to fill the job vacancy and the Company fails to place him in the vacancy by the end of the 14th day, it shall, commencing on the 15th day, pay him the rate applicable for that job. If the successful applicant declines to accept the job the Company shall forthwith by written notice post the name of the applicant declining the job along with the date thereof and the name of the successful applicant who has agreed to take the job. The Company
51
shall pay the successful applicant who has agreed to accept the job the rate applicable thereto from the date such successful applicant was selected for the job.
The Company will, after the 15th day, if the successful applicant has not been placed in the vacancy, pay a travel allowance to the employee based on the allowance currently in effect for the difference in distance the employee is required to travel between his home and the location of his former job and his home and the location of the job he successfully applied for. The travel allowance is not applicable to any employee other than the applicant initially selected to fill' the vacancy which was posted in the first instance. The name and employment number of the successful applicant for every such vacancy shall be posted for at least 2 working days during the aforesaid period of 14 calendar days on the bulletin board on which notice of such vacancy was posted. With respect to vacancies so filled the seniority date of the successful applicant shall be noted. Where there is no successful applicant, the name of the employee assigned to the job shall be posted on the bulletin board and he shall be paid the applicable hourly rate from the date of his assignment.
52
ARTICLE 16 -JOB SELECTION
16.01	In all cases of promotions to fill vacancies the Company shall consider the following two factors in determining which employees are to be promoted:
(a)	seniority ranking of the employees in that department, and
(b)	the ability, knowledge, training and
skill of the employee to do the job.
16.02	When in the judgement of the Company, which shall not be exercised in an unfair and unreasonable manner, factor (b) is to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their seniority ranking shall govern except as hereinafter provided.
Skilled Trades
16.03	( a ) Notwithstanding 16.01 above, in
cases of vacancies in the Skilled Trades Division, except for the occupation of	Leader,	the
Company shall give	full
consideration and due preference to transfer applications from employees who wish to transfer from one occupation to the same occupation before promoting an
53
employee to fill the initial vacancy that was posted and shall, for each subsequent vacancy that results from the initial posting, give full consideration and due preference to transfer applications.
The Company, in filling vacancies by transfer, will select the senior employee who has completed his probationary period who can fulfil the normal requirements of the job. The employee so selected to fill the initial or subsequent vacancy shall have up to one day to visit the new site before accepting a transfer; however, once the employee indicates his acceptance he relinquishes his right to return to his former site unless he is successful in a subsequent transfer application.
Should there be no successful candidates from amongst the transfer applications, the Company may then consider job posting applications received during the period of the 5 days of the posting and the Company will fill such vacancy by applying 16.01 above.
54
Employees may have no more than one transfer application on file at one time but each application shall allow for two site preferences, if so desired. Transfer applications become null and void when the posted vacancy and each subsequent vacancy that resulted from the first posting is filled. A copy of all transfers will be forwarded to the Union Hail.
In all cases of promotion to fill vacancies under 16.01 above for the occupation of Leader, the Company shall give first consideration to job posting applications and only in the case when there is no successful candidate will the Company consider transfer applications.
The Company shall post a notice of how each vacancy is filled.
Mines
(b)	Notwithstanding 16.01 above, in cases of filling vacancies in the Mines Division, the Company shall give full consideration and due preference to applications from employees who wish to transfer from one occupation to another
55
occupation in the same or a different department or from one occupation in one department to the same occupation in a different department. When a vacancy in this transfer process is filled by an employee from a different occupation to that of the vacancy that was posted initially, the Company shall, if the work is going to be continued, then post a vacancy in the occupation of the employee who was in the different occupation. The Company shall give full consideration and due preference to transfer applications in filling the initial or any subsequent vacancy that was posted.
The Company, in filling vacancies by transfer, will select the senior employee who has completed his probationary period who has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job. The employee so selected to fill the initial or subsequent vacancy shall have up to one day to visit the new site before accepting a transfer; however, once the employee
56
indicates his acceptance he relinquishes his right to return to his former site unless he is successful in a	subsequent
transfer application.
Employees may	apply for
vacancies in any occupation that is posted and each application shall allow for two site preferences, if so desired. Transfer	applications
become null and void when the posted vacancy	and each
subsequent vacancy that resulted from the first posting is filled. A copy of all transfers will be forwarded to the Union Hall.
Should there be no successful candidates from amongst the transfer applications, the Company will then post a vacancy and the Company will fill such vacancy by applying 16.01 above.
The Company shall post a notice of how each vacancy is filled.
16.04	If an arbitration board decides that the Company failed to exercise its judgement pursuant to section 16.02 in a fair and
reasonable manner the Company shall fill the vacancy with the applicant having the
57
higher seniority ranking if he has the
ability, knowledge, training and skill to do the job.
16.05	(a) When, in the interest of efficiency of
operations, the Company assigns an employee in any job classification from one type of shift to another in the same job classification it will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available.
(b)	Where the Company reduces the size of a crew in an underground workplace it shall have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees in the crew.
16.06	An employee who fills a vacancy under section 16.01, is demoted under section
12.01	or who has been transferred under section 18.01 shall be given a reasonable period (not to exceed 10 shifts) to familiarize himself with the particular work place or area of the job.
16.07	In	making	temporary	promotions,
demotions and transfers of a temporary nature (i.e. for periods of an employee's vacation or having a duration of between
58
3 working days and 23 calendar days) the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operation, have regard to the seniority ranking of the employees reasonably available.
16.08	Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Company from transferring any individual to the category of an employee; provided, however, that the seniority date of an individual who has never been in the bargaining unit shall be the date on which he first entered the bargaining unit. An employee who leaves or has left the bargaining unit and re-enters it at any time or times shall be entitled to bring his full Company service with him for the purpose of determining his seniority ranking.
The seniority of an employee who left the bargaining unit for more than one year and returns or is returned to the bargaining unit shall be the length of time he has been a member of the bargaining unit from the date of such most recent entry except for the purposes of sections 16.01,16.03 and
18.01	and 12.01 only wherein seniority shall not begin to accumulate for 24 months for 16.03 and 18.01 and 16.01 purposes and for 36 months for 12.01 purposes.
59
An individual m-entering the bargaining
unit shall return to the same occupational classification he held when he left, or if his former occupational classification no longer exists then the individual shall reenter the bargaining unit provided he does not displace anyone in the bargaining unit with greater seniority.
ARTICLE 17 -TEMPORARY TRANSFERS
17.01	(a) An employee who is transferred temporarily to another department at the Company's request shall retain all his rights under Article 10 in the department from which he was temporarily transferred and shall acquire no posting rights in the department to which he is temporarily transferred as a result of such temporary transfer.
(b) An employee who is transferred temporarily to another department at his own request shall acquire posting rights in the department to which he is temporarily transferred and shall not retain posting rights in the department from which he was temporarily transferred. However, if within 30 calendar days from the date of such transfer the employee so requests, he shall be retransferred to
60
his former department and occupational classification and he shall thereupon reacquire his posting rights. Any employee who may have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancy created by such temporary requested transfer shall thereupon revert to his former occupational classification.
ARTICLE 18 -TRANSFERS
18.01	An employee who has at least one year of seniority shall have the right to transfer from an occupational classification in one department to an occupational classification in another department, including an occupational classification in a department which is newly established or a department in another Division.
An employee wishing such transfer shall file a written application with the Company and a copy shall be given to him. On any such application an employee may state he wishes to be transferred to a particular occupational classification in one or more of the departments within a division that are located in Sudbury Operations, listing such departments in order of preference.
An employee's application shall lapse one year after the date of filing but may be
61
renewed from year to year at his request. However, in no event may an employee have more than one such application on file at any one time. The filing of an application in addition to the one on file shall be deemed to be a withdrawal of his earliest application on file. A copy of all transfers will be forwarded to the Union Hall.
If a vacancy exists or occurs in the occupational classification in a department into which the employee wishes to transfer the senior applicant shall be so transferred provided he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job before a new employee is hired to fill the vacancy.
The Company shall at the request made by the employee so transferred within 14 calendar days from the date of such transfer retransfer him to his former department and to the actual occupation he held immediately before having been transferred. Any employee who may otherwise have been appointed by posting or otherwise to fill any vacancies created by such transfer shall thereupon revert to the actual former occupations they held.
62
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this section, in the event of
an actual or layoff anticipated within one month, the Company shall not be required to consider any applications for transfer on file.
ARTICLE 19 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
19.01	The Company shall, on application by the Union, grant leaves of absence without pay aggregating not more than five man years. No leave granted to any employee hereunder shall be for a period in excess of one year nor less than six months. Leave granted to any employee hereunder will on the request of the Union be extended for a period of not more than one year at a time. Not more than five employees shall at any one time be absent on leaves of absence.
19.02	Upon written request to the Company by the Union given not less than one week in advance, wherever possible, the Company will grant leaves of absence without pay to employees named in such request to absent themselves to attend Union conferences, or educationals. For each such conference or educational not more than two employees from each of the Plants and Services Division and three employees from the Mines Division will be
63
granted leaves of absence of not more than 21 working days off for each of two such events annually for each employee. The granting of such leaves of absence may be withheld when the granting of same would be unreasonable having regard to the requirements of operations.
19.03	(a) The Company will grant an employee
a leave of absence without pay up to
six months for personal reasons if:
(i)	he requests such leave from the Company in writing at least 15
days, if possible, in advance arid
(ii)	the Company is satisfied the leave is for good reason and will not unduly interfere with operations.
Such leave may be extended if:
(i)	the Company is satisfied there is good reason for such extension and it will not unduly interfere with operations and
(ii)	the employee requests such extension in writing before completing his current leave.
64
(b) Maternity leave
A pregnant employee who has completed her probationary period and makes a formal application for a leave of absence at least 2 weeks prior to leaving, or, who advises the Company in writing that she is unable to perform the normal duties of her job shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for not more than seventeen weeks. When the pregnancy leave ends, the employee may commence a Parental Leave of not more than eighteen weeks duration.
A pregnant employee may be required by the Company to commence a pregnancy leave of absence at such time as she cannot, in the opinion of Occupational Health Services, perform the normal duties of her job. The Company may require at any time an employee entitled to a leave of absence pursuant to this section to provide certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and actual date of her delivery. If at the conclusion of her leave, or in the event an employee wishes to terminate her leave early and, the
65
employee presents the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner stating that she is able to perform her normal duties, she shall, if she has not been laid off or demoted while on such leave, be reinstated to such former position, but if such position no longer exists or if the employee consents, she shall be provided with alternate work of a comparable nature. In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of her pregnancy leave because of complications arising out of her pregnancy and delivery, she may be granted an extension of up to 3 months upon written request made to the Personnel Department.
Leave granted will be without pay but during the period of the leave the employee will continue to accrue credited service and seniority.
An employee may apply through the Sickness and Accident Plan for up to 6 weeks of sick benefits, upon receipt of medical documentation that she was unable to work immediately following the birth.
66
(c)	Parental/Adoption Leave
An employee who has completed his or her probationary period and
(i)	who has completed her maternity leave; or,
(Ii) whose spouse is to give birth; or,
(iii)	who is in a relationship of some permanence with the parent of a child who has come into the employee's care, custody and control for the first time and who the employee intends to treat as a child of his or her own; or,
(iv)	who is the natural father of a newborn child or a child who has come into his or her care, custody and control for the first time;
may apply in writing for Parental/Adoption Leave at least two weeks prior to the date the leave is to begin, which must be no more than 35 weeks after the child
67
comes into custody, care and control of the employee for the first time.
Leave granted will be for a duration of 18 weeks and will be without pay but during the period of the leave the employee continues to accrue credited service and seniority. The Company may request the employee to submit a certificate of birth or certificate of adoption for the child.
ARTICLE 20 - PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE
20.01	A probationary employee shall not acquire any rights under Article 15 hereof nor have the right to grieve and take to arbitration any dispute involving discipline, including discharge (except discharges or discipline alleged to be in contravention of section 3.02 of this Agreement), until he has been in the employ of the Company for 75 calendar days following the date of his most recent hiring. At the expiration of such 75 calendar days, however, such employee's seniority date shall be the date of his most recent hiring. If a probationary employee is discharged, the Company will discuss the case with the General Grievance Committee at its request. Notwithstanding section 4.01, the
68
Company may discharge or otherwise discipline a probationary employee if the Company believes that he is not suitable for or able to perform adequately the job for which he was hired or is required to do.
ARTICLE 21 - DESIGNATED EMPLOYEE
21.01	Notwithstanding anything in this Article contained, the Company shall have the right from time to time to designate to the Union individuals who, subject to their consent, are to be given special experience or training in preparing them or trying out their capabilities for other or broader assignments with the Company or for future service other than to the Company (including also students in parttime employment) not exceeding at any one time 3% of the employees and to promote and demote such individuals, engage, retain or dispense with their services and direct their efforts from time to time free from any limitations provided for in this Article; provided, however, that no such individual shall be assigned to take over the job occupied at the time by an employee if such assignment should result in the demotion of such employee.
The Company shall collect, from any member of the bargaining unit who is
designated under this section, dues in the
69
manner set out in section 5.01 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 22 - HOURS OF WORK
22.01	Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half hour.
22.02	Employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the applicable hourly rate for time worked:
(a)	in any 24-hour period in excess of 8 hours except where such excess time is worked due to regular change of shift.
(b)	in any scheduled work week in excess
of 40 hours less amounts paid pursuant to (a) above.
22.03	Overtime work shall be distributed as
equally as practicable among those employees who would normally perform such work within their respective first-line supervisor's group or in their particular work place or area. An employee excused from working overtime shall be regarded as having been given an opportunity to work overtime for the purpose of this provision. Records of such amounts of overtime worked and of declined opportunities shall be made available for
70
inspection by an employee concerned on request.
It is understood that an employee temporarily promoted to a job excluded
from the bargaining unit is not entitled to share in the distribution of overtime work and is excluded from working overtime in any bargaining unit job on any day that he is temporarily promoted.
22.04	Should the Company call out any
employee to work he shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half times the applicable hourly rate for time worked by him with a minimum of 4 hours at his applicable hourly rate.
The hours worked or the hours the
employee is paid for call-out shall not be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime pay under section 22.02.
A travel allowance will be paid in
accordance with the Company policy.
Stand-by Pay
22.05	An employee required to Stand-by will be paid 15% of his daily rate of pay for the time he has stood by for the 24 hour period provided that failure to be
71
available for a call in to work shall absolve the Company from any obligation to pay Stand-by Pay for the period the employee was required to stand by. Stand-by Pay is not payable for time actually worked when called in. Stand-by will be offered on a seniority order basis.
22.06	In this Article:
(a)	“Holiday” means New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day or Boxing Day or such day as may be established as a holiday in lieu thereof by statute, proclamation or otherwise. The Company will consult with the Union before establishing such a day as a holiday in lieu thereof; and
(b)	“qualifying day” means an employee's
last scheduled work day or shift before or first scheduled work day or shift after a holiday.
22.07	(a) In addition to the holidays set out in
section 22.06(a) an individual or any employee who has completed his
probationary period and has accumulated any credited service in
72
the calendar year shall be entitled to one floating holiday with pay during each calendar year. Such holiday shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. Time taken as a floating holiday shall be counted as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay.
Each employee shall take his floating holiday for each calendar year by the end of that calendar year or shall forfeit such holiday, provided that any employee so forfeiting (which shall include termination) his floating holiday shall be paid for such holiday on the basis of 8 hours at straight time at his applicable hourly rate.
(b)	The Company will provide three paid personal days, the first to be available January 1, 1998; the second to be available January 1, 1999; and the third to be available January 1, 2000, to employees who have completed their probationary period and have accumulated any credited service in the respective calendar years.
73
22.08	An employee who is required to work on a holiday shall be paid for work so performed at the rate of two and one-half times his hourly rate but if he fails to report for such required work he shall not be entitled to any pay in respect of that holiday. However, an employee who works a holiday may, instead of being paid for all hours worked, opt to take 12 hours pay plus bank 8 hours which shall be taken at a time to be mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Company having regard to the wishes of the employee and the requirements and efficiency of operations. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months of such holiday worked, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
22.09	An employee who
(a)	is employed by the Company beyond
his probationary period;
(b)	has worked or was on his vacation in
the 30-day period immediately
preceding the holiday; and
(c)	works on either of the qualifying
days
74
shall, if he is on his vacation or if the Company does not require him to work on such holiday, be paid at his hourly rate for 8 hours. If a holiday
falls within an employee's scheduled vacation he shall be given, if entitled as per a, b, and c, above
(i)	8 hours pay at his hourly rate, or
(ii)	if mutually satisfactory to the Company and the employee, an extra day off in lieu thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months from the date of such holiday, he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
An employee who is not entitled to such holiday pay by reason of his absence from work on the holiday or on either qualifying day shall nevertheless be entitled to such holiday pay if his absence was due to:
(i)	leave of absence for jury duty or by reason of being subpoenaed as a witness; or
(ii)	leave of absence by reason of a death in his immediate family. “Immediate family” shall mean spouse, child, mother, father, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
75
father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law, daughter-in-law; or
(iii)	illness or accident which required him to be absent for 5 or more consecutive days which absence is supported by a doctor's certificate to that effect.
22.10	(a) When an employee works on a holiday or when an employee is paid for a holiday not worked, except where the employee's regular day off occurs on a holiday, the hours so worked or the hours for which the employee is paid shall be considered hours worked at his applicable hourly rate for the purpose only of determining entitlement to the overtime rate under section 22.02 for any other time actually worked by him.
(b) Where the employee's regular day off occurs on a holiday he shall be offered an extra day off in lieu thereof. If the employee does not use such extra day off within a period of three months from the date of such holiday he shall receive 8 hours pay at his hourly rate.
76
Shift Premiums
22.11	Employees shall be paid an off-shift
premium of 50 cents per hour for work performed by them during afternoon shift hours and not within their scheduled day or night shift hours, and an off-shift premium of 70 cents per hour for work performed by them during night shift hours and not within their scheduled day or afternoon shift hours. Employees regularly working on shift whose hours of work are changed either temporarily or permanently to the day shift shall be paid only their applicable hourly rate. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay such off-shift premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
Weekend Premiums
22.12	Employees who work between 8:00 a.m. Saturday and 8:00 a.m. on the immediately following Monday shall be paid a Weekend premium of one dollar and sixty ($1.60) cents per hour for work performed during such hours. For the purpose of calculating overtime pay, such premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's applicable hourly rate.
77
22.17	When an employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive 4 hours pay at his applicable hourly rate without being required to work the said 4 hours but such 4 hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provision of this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of his intention to return.
Bereavement Leave
22.18	Where an employee by reason of a death of his spouse (including same sex spouse) or child, mother, father, brother or sister requires leave from work, the Company shall grant leave up to five consecutive regularly scheduled working days within the period of 7 calendar days from the date of death with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate. Where an employee by reason of a death in his immediate family, other than in the foregoing, requires leave
80
from work, the Company shall grant leave up to three consecutive regularly scheduled working days within the period of 7 calendar days from the date of death with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate. “Immediate family” shall mean mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, son-in-law or daughter-in law. Where an employee by reason of a death of a brother-in-law or a sister-in-law requires leave from work to attend the funeral, the Company shall grant leave of one day with pay at his regular rate exclusive of shift or other premium rate.
The Company shall not unreasonably withhold additional bereavement leave
without pay, in unusual circumstances.
Jury Duty
22.19	An employee who is called for jury duty or is subpoenaed as a witness and who as a result thereof loses time from work shall receive for the time so lost the difference between what he would have been paid for the number of hours lost at his regular rate, including cost-of-living allowance, nickel bonus, and the jury or witness fee to which he is entitled. The Company may require the employee to furnish a certificate of service signed by the Clerk of the Court before making any such
81
payment. Such time off will be considered as time worked for the purposes of calculating entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
22.20	The Company does not guarantee to provide work for any employee or to maintain the work week or working hours presently in force.
22.21	The work week shall commence at 8:00 a.m. Sundays. This section shall not be
construed to mean that all men on the day shift will start exactly at 8:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 23 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
23.01	The parties agree that with the introduction of new technologies, it is important that advance planning be made to anticipate skills, needs and training required.
It is agreed that the workers affected by the introduction of new technologies should have every opportunity to apply themselves to the new skills and the new technology.
Technological Change means the automation of equipment or the mechanization o r automation of operations which directly results in a
82
change in the manner in which the Company carries out its work.
If such technological changes are to be introduced, the Company shall notify the Union and the Technological Change Committee, in writing at least 90 days in advance of the proposed date of introduction of such change the following information, to the extent such information is then available and any other relevant information as it becomes available:
(a)	the nature of the technological
change;
(b)	the date on which the Company
proposes to effect the technological change;
(c) the approximate	number	and
classifications of employees likely to be affected by the technological change;
(d)	the effect the technological change is
likely to have on the terms and conditions and	security of
employment of the employees affected;
(e)	the number of jobs and job classifications to be abolished and the number of new jobs and job
83
classifications to be created if any, by the proposed technological change.
23.02	Where the Company introduces significant new skills sets and/or educational requirements to a job or jobs in the bargaining unit it shall do so in the
following manner:
(a)	The Company shall notify the Union in
writing at least 90 days in advance of the proposed date of introduction in accordance with 23.01.
(b)	The Company shall communicate this
change to all employees directly affected by the change at least 60
days in advance of the proposed date of introduction.
(c)	All incumbents shall, giving due preference to seniority, be offered the necessary skill and/or education training. The Company will pay to the employee a travel allowance based on Company policy. Time spent in receiving instruction shall be without loss in pay and shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
(d)	Where an incumbent elects not to
pursue or is unable to perform the skill and/or obtain the necessary
84
education level the employee shall be relocated from the job in accordance with the provision of Article 23.04.
(e)	Incumbents will be given reasonable opportunity to meet the standards set for training or educational upgrades.
23.03	If the Company establishes or has established new education criteria for selection for a job effective from January 1, 1994, employees in the Department applying for vacancies in the job either through a job posting or an “opportunity to train” will be managed in the following manner:
An employee who applies for a permanent job within his Department
which has new education criteria, will not be disqualified from the selection process solely because they do not possess the required education, provided their education is within 4 grade levels of the required education criteria.
Such an employee, if selected to fill the vacancy shall be required to complete
educational upgrading equivalent to that specified for the job and such training will be provided by the Company. Employees shall have reasonable opportunity to meet the standard set for education and those
85
who are unable to attain the required education will be removed from the job
and shall be placed in the occupation they last held on a permanent basis and paid the rate for that job.
23.04	If technological changes are introduced at any time in the Company's operation that result directly in the demotion of an employee, the rate of pay of such employee shall not be reduced by more than one job class at the time the demotion takes place for a period of one year subsequent to the demotion and shall not be reduced subsequently by more than one job class in each succeeding year up to a maximum of three years from the date of such demotion. It is a condition of this section that any such employee:
(a)	shall accept any training in any job
classification which is offered to him by the Company unless there are reasonable grounds for his declining; where a number of openings exist, the employee shall be given the opportunity to select his preference and shall be trained in it providing he has the basic knowledge and ability to be trained in the work required.
(b)	will be deemed to be an applicant for
any job vacancy which is posted in
86
his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the rate of his
actual job classification at the time of posting;
(c)	if he applies pursuant to section 18.01
of the Collective Agreement for transfer from the department in which he is located subsequent to his demotion and he is transferred as a result of his application;
he will cease to be entitled to the benefits of this section.
(d)	Should an employee who has been offered training by the Company under (a) above be unable to successfully complete such training within a reasonable time, the Company shall demote such employee to an occupation he is able to perform and his wage rate shall be protected by the provisions of this section.
23.05	When technological changes are introduced that result directly in the demotion of an employee, the procedures set forth in section 12.01 shall be used in making the demotion of such employee and any other employee who is subsequently affected provided that any employee whose job was not directly
87
affected shall not be entitled to the benefits of this section, technological
change.
23.06	There shall be established a Committee of six, three from the Company and three from the Union (with no loss of pay and travel expenses as per Company policy), to deal with New Technology, Training, Education.
It shall be the responsibility of the
Committee to investigate and examine ail of the aspects concerned by the introduction of such New Technology and its impact on the affected employees.
The Committee shall make recommendations to the Company for implementation, concerning the use of
affected employees in the area of training and education of those employees.
It is understood that the Committee will meet at least once every quarter unless otherwise agreed to.
ARTICLE 24 -JOB EVALUATION
24.01	The Joint Job Evaluation and Classification Program for Production and Maintenance jobs dated April 1, 1984 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Program') is
88
incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix I and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein provided that in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Program and this Agreement with respect to the Administration of the Program, the provisions of the Program shall prevail.
24.02	Except as otherwise provided in sections 2.04 and 2.05 (Referee and Umpire procedure) of Part II of the Program, no basis shall exist for an employee to allege that a wage rate inequity exists and no grievance on behalf of an employee alleging a wage rate inequity shall be filed or processed during the term of this Agreement.
24.03	A list of job titles and job classes of all jobs performed by employees in the bargaining unit is incorporated into this Agreement as Schedule "B".
24.04	if as a result of the evaluation of his job on the implementation of the Program the job of an incumbent employee falls into a lower job class such job for such employee shall be known as a "red-circled” job. The amount by which such employee's new rate exceeds the standard rate for such job as determined by such evaluation shall be known as his "red-
89
circled differential”. An employee's wage rate while he remains in such job shall be increased by the amount by which the rate for Job Class 1 is increased from time to time.
24.05	If an employee’s job is not made a red-circled job on the date the Program is implemented, the rate of pay of such employee shall be adjusted to conform to the applicable hourly wage rate for that employee's job as provided for in section 24.01.
24.06	The Company shall furnish to the Union a list of all incumbents who by reason of the implementation of the Program will be in a red-circled job. Such list will contain the following:
(a)	Name of Employee
(b)	Job Title
(c)	Job Classification
(d)	New Hourly Wage Rate
(e)	Amount of red-circled differential
(f)	Date such red-circled differential
became effective
24.07	The term “incumbent” as used herein,
shall mean an employee regularly assigned to a job at the date the Program is made effective.
90
24.08	Except as such red-circle differential may be changed as contemplated by sections
24.05	or 24.14, any employee included in the list referred to in section 24.06 above shall continue to be paid for the duration of this Agreement such red-circled differential during such time as the employee is assigned to the job for which the red-circle differential was established.
24.09	If an employee receiving a red-circle
differential is promoted to a job of higher job class, a new red-circle differential shall be established if the employee is assigned to an applicable rate level which is less than his current rate.
24.10	If an employee receiving a red-circle
differential is demoted to a job of lower job class, payment of his differential shall be terminated.
24.11	If an employee receiving a red-circle
differential is transferred, at the request of the Company, to another job in the same job class, there shall be no change in his differential except as provided in section
24.05	and 24.14.
24.12	If such employee referred to in sections 24.09, 24.10, or 24.11 is returned to the
job for which the red-circle differential was established, the red-circle differential shall
91
be reinstated except as it may have been reduced or eliminated by the provisions of sections 24.05 and/or 24.14.
24.13	Increases in the increment between job
classes shall be used to reduce or eliminate red-circled differentials in
addition to the means provided in section 24.05.
24.14	The provisions of sections 24.05 to 24.14 inclusive shall be applicable only with respect to jobs of employees which as a result of the implementation of the Program fall into a lower job class. If subsequent to such implementation a job is reclassified downward, the incumbent employee's current wage rate while he remains in such job shall be held constant (“red-circled”) and shall remain so until the new standard rate becomes greater than his current wage rate, at which time he shall receive the new standard rate. Subject to the foregoing sentence, the provisions of sections 24.09 to 24.14, inclusive, shall apply to such red-circled jobs and to any red-circled differential being paid in connection therewith.
92
ARTICLE 25 -SKILLED TRADES 8 APPRENTICES
25.01	(a) The purpose of this Article is to define
the terms ‘tradesperson” and “apprentice” and to set out rules and procedures applicable to them.
(b) Effective the date of ratification of this Agreement, Skilled Trades refers to an employee in one of the following occupations:
Electrician
Machinist
Industrial Mechanic - Mine Hoist
Industrial Mechanic - Maintenance
Industrial Mechanic - Millwright
Stationery Engineer
Plateworker/Welder
Carpenter
Pipefitter
Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic Brick and Stone Mason Plateworker Welder
25.02	The Skilled Trades covered by this
Agreement are those for which someone has completed a bona fide apprenticeship and meets the Company's standards together with those occupations which form part of an apprenticeable trade.
93
The Company will not hire or create any third or fourth classes of tradesmen.
Upon successful completion by an apprentice of an approved job related course taken during the term of his
apprenticeship, the Company will indemnify such apprentice for an amount not exceeding 100% of the cost to the apprentice of such course, provided that he is in the employment of the Company on the completion of such course.
During a period of authorized leave while the apprentice is in required attendance at a college or trade school the Company will pay him the difference between his current wage rate and allowances from government sources for which he is eligible.
The hourly rate of such apprentice who stays with the Company and works within his trade shall be no less than the hourly rate he was receiving from the Company during his last period of apprenticeship training.
An employee who enters the apprenticeship program from a job in Job Class 7 or less will start such program at the entry level wage rate for such apprenticeship and progress from one Job Class to another thereafter after
94
successful completion of each 1,000 hours of training. An employee who enters the apprenticeship program from a job in Job Class 8 or higher shall start such program at Job Class 8 and his rate of pay shall be maintained at Job Class 8 until such time as he has successfully completed the required number of hours to move to the next progressive Job Class.
The rate of pay for an Apprentice who
successfully completes the apprenticeship program shall be three job classes less than the rate of pay for a tradesperson in the trade in which the apprentice served his apprenticeship.
25.03	A tradesperson is someone who:
(i)	has completed a bona fide
apprenticeship and meets Company standards; or,
(ii)	holds a recognized CAW trades-
persons card in the trade in which he claims recognition and meets Company standards; or,
(iii)	has eight years practical and general experience covering all phases set out in the apprenticeship program applicable to the trade in which he claims journeyman status and meets Company standards.
95
25.04	“Apprentice” shall mean a person who is engaged in learning and assisting in the trade to which they are indentured and who is covered by the Agreement of
Apprenticeship.
25.05	There shall be a committee established called the Joint Skilled Trades Committee consisting of three employee representatives, one being a tradesperson from the Falconbridge Area and two tradespersons from the Onaping Area who shall meet on a monthly basis with three Company representatives. There shall also be a chairperson of the committee who shall be the Supervisor of Apprentices.
The mandate of the Committee will be to provide employees and the Union with an avenue to give constructive input on trades training, apprenticeships, standards and such other issues which may arise from time to time.
Time off for the three Union members to attend such meetings shall be without loss in pay and shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
The Company will pay to those members of the Union's committee a travel allowance based on Company policy when
96
the members are required to travel from their place of work to attend meetings of the Committee.
25.06	An Apprentice shall receive annual wage and cost of living allowance increases other employees receive when applicable.
25.07	The “Agreement of Apprenticeship” means a written agreement between the Company and the employee indentured as an apprentice. The contract of apprenticeship shall be registered with the Ministry of Education and Training.
The following shall receive copies of the Agreement of Apprenticeship:
1.	The Apprentice
2.	The Company
3.	The Ministry of Education and
Training
4.	The Local Union
5.	CAW Canada/Skilled Trades
Department
25.08	Apprentices in each of the trades covered by these standards shall be paid a progressively increasing schedule of wages as per amended Schedule "D".
97
25.09	Hours spent in classroom instruction on
site shall be considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
Hours spent at Trade School courses are not considered as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime.
25.10	Apprentices who are given credit for
previous experience shall be paid, upon receipt of such credit the wage rate for the period to which such credit advances them. This adjustment shall not be made retroactive.
25.11	When an apprentice has demonstrated the following conduct or other examples of non performance:
(i)	an inability to learn the instruction
given in his trade; or,
(ii)	unreliability; or,
(iii)	unsatisfactory work; or,
(iv)	lack of interest in his/her work or has failed to complete his required Trade School courses satisfactorily; or,
(v)	improper conduct relating to his/her
apprenticeship; or,
98
(vi)	failure to attend classroom instruction regularly,
the Company shall review with the Skilled Trades Committee such failures prior to any action being taken to terminate such apprenticeship.
25.12	Notice of requirements for apprentices shall be placed on all Company bulletin boards. Applications in writing will be received by the Personnel Department from interested employees and such applications shall be given consideration prior to hiring new employees for the apprenticeships.
The Company will review with the Union members of the Skilled Trades Committee the selection of successful candidates for an apprenticeship.
In the event that a trade becomes obsolete, the Company will afford to tradespersons in that trade, on a seniority order basis, the opportunity to attain another trade through the apprenticeship	program	if
apprenticeships are available.
A tradesperson with more than 5 year's seniority who has not served an
99
apprenticeship with the Company may apply for an apprenticeship in a different trade.
25.13	Upon completion of the apprenticeship the Supervisor of Apprentices will recommend to the Ministry of Education and Training that a certificate, signifying completion of the apprenticeship, be issued to the apprentice. No certificates will be issued by the Training Division, Ministry of Education and Training, unless recommended by the Committee.
25.14	Notwithstanding the provisions of Article
15 thereof, no apprentice during his apprenticeship may apply under the job
posting provisions of this Agreement to fill any job vacancy,
25.15	Where training is required for tradesmen it shall be offered to the senior tradesman who normally performs such work within his respective second line supervisor's group.
25.16	The Company agrees to deduct Canadian Skilled Trades Council dues as may be adopted by the Canadian Skilled Trades Council from employees in those occupations set out in Article 25.01(b). The amount of such dues shall be certified by the Union to the Company by letter
100
signed by the President or the Financial
Secretary of the Union.
Newly hired employees in the Skilled
Trades jobs will commence paying Skilled Trades Council dues only after completion of their probationary period. Thereafter, in the January of succeeding years or upon completion of one months' work in a calendar year the Company shall deduct the amount of dues certified to it by the Union and remit such dues to the Union.
ARTICLE 26 - DISABLED EMPLOYEES
26.01	Any employee who becomes disabled as a result of illness or a work related injury will be accommodated where possible in his Department or, failing his Department, another Department in the Company in a job he is able to perform without regard to the seniority provisions of this Collective Agreement except that such employee may not displace an employee with greater seniority. In the case of a workforce reduction an employee who has been accommodated shall not be excluded from being bumped by an employee with greater seniority or from being laid off.
An employee who is returned to work to a job he is able to perform in a Department other than the one in which he worked prior to his injury shall be returned to his
101
former occupation in his former Department when cleared for such return by the Occupational Health Nurse.
ARTICLE 27 -VACATIONS
27.01	On	January	1st	of any year	each
employee who has been in the employ of the company for less than one year of credited service shall be entitled to a vacation of one week with pay in the amount of 2% of his total earnings in the preceding calendar year, and when he has completed one year of credited service with the Company, to one additional week with the same amount of pay.
27.02	On	January	1st	of any year	each
employee who has been in the employ of the Company for one or more years of credited service shall be deemed to have commenced his employment on the January 1st immediately preceding the actual date of his employment, and if not entitled to vacation under 27.01 hereof, shall be entitled to an annual vacation with pay as follows:
(a)	two weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company less than five years of credited service;
102
(b)	three weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company less than sixteen years but for five or more
years of credited service;
(c)	four weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for less than twenty-four years but for sixteen or
more years of credited service;
(d)	five weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for less than thirty but for twenty-four or more
years of credited service;
(e)	six weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for thirty or more years of credited service;
(f)	seven weeks if he has been in the employ of the Company for thirty-five or more years of credited service.
27.03	Vacations shall be commenced in the calendar year for which such vacations
are due or shall be forfeited. However, the employee so forfeiting his vacation period shall nevertheless be paid the vacation pay to which he is entitled.
27.04	In cases where an employee has been absent from work and in receipt of Sickness & Accident or Workers
103
Compensation Board benefits for at least four consecutive weeks in the previous year, the Company will grant to such employee, the vacation with pay to which such employee would have been entitled had no such absence occurred based on the employee’s projected earnings at his regular rate of pay.
27.05 In determining the length of a vacation, a week shall mean seven consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period. Where an employee is entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive, except when the Company and employee otherwise agree. Where an employee is entitled to three weeks' vacation with pay such weeks shall be consecutive unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations.
During the term of this Agreement only, employees may commence annual vacations on any calendar day unless the Company considers otherwise in order to maintain efficient operations. For the purposes of this trial, a week shall mean the equivalent of 40 hours worked.
When an employee takes vacation in periods of less than 40 hours in a week,
104
such days of vacation shall be counted as time worked for the purposes of calculating overtime pay under Article 22.02.
27.06	Vacations will be granted at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering seniority, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations.
27.07	“Vacation Pay” in this Article shall mean 4% of the earnings received from the Company for all work done by the employee in the preceding calendar year if he is entitled to two weeks' vacation with pay, to 6% of such earnings if he is entitled to three weeks' vacation with pay, to 8% of such earnings if he is entitled to four weeks’ vacation with pay, to 10% of such earnings if he is entitled to five weeks’ vacation with pay, and to 12% of such earnings if he is entitled to six weeks' vacation with pay, and to 14% of such earnings if he is entitled to seven weeks' vacation with pay.
27.08	An employee shall be entitled to receive, in addition to any vacation pay to which he is entitled under section 27.07, the sum of
105
$275.00 for each week of vacation granted and taken under this Article other than any Special Vacation. An employee shall first be entitled to receive such additional vacation pay after he has accumulated two years of credited service with the Company when taking his vacation.
Should the Company refuse to grant Annual Vacation in the calendar year to an employee, the Company will pay the additional vacation pay to such employee, for each week of Annual Vacation refused by the Company, provided he has sufficient credited service to be so entitled.
27.09	Every employee who ceases, during the life of this Agreement, to be an employee after having completed one or more years of credited service shall receive in lieu of vacation with pay, vacation pay for any accrued vacation period which he has not taken at the rate of 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 12% or 14% as the case may be, of his earnings for all work performed by him for the Company during the said period.
27.10	The Company will provide five weeks of Special Vacation with pay for employees who have completed five or more years of credited service and an additional five weeks of Special Vacation with pay upon completing each additional five-year
106
period of credited service. An employee’s anniversary date shall be deemed to be the January 1st of the year of his entitlement. The following provisions shall apply during the term of the Agreement:
(a)	Each employee who on January 1, 1967 has completed five or more years of credited service shall become entitled to five weeks of Special Vacation with pay in addition to all vacation with pay to which he is entitled under the provision of Article 27 of this Agreement.
(b)	All other employees upon completing their first five years of credited service during the currency of this Agreement shall thereupon similarly become entitled to five weeks of Special Vacation with pay.
(c)	The pay for each week of Special Vacation which is taken shall be equal to 2% of the employee’s earnings received from the Company for all work done by the employee in the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which such week of Special Vacation is taken.
107
(d)	If an employee who is entitled to any Special Vacation with pay, fails for any reason to commence the same within five years after becoming entitled thereto or if he retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies before taking the same, the Company will, in lieu of granting such Special Vacation, pay to such employee, or to his estate if he has died, the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such Special Vacation immediately prior to the fifth anniversary of his becoming entitled thereto or immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death, as the case may be.
(e)	If an employee terminates his employment with the Company or is terminated by the Company for any reason including retirement, or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to any payment in accordance with clause (d) of this section, to an amount calculated on the basis of two percent (2%) of his earnings in the calendar year preceding his retirement or death for each full year and one-sixth of one per cent for each whole month comprising a broken year from the
108
date of his last entitlement to a
Special Vacation.
(f)	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven consecutive days including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays falling within the period.
(g)	The allocation of vacations with pay
under the provisions of sections
27.01	to 27.09 inclusive shall have
priority over the allocation of Special Vacations hereunder.
(h)	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its sole discretion may determine but, subject thereto, due consideration will be given to the wishes of the employee concerned. It is anticipated that in most cases an employee will take his Special Vacation within the five-year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it. The Company can require that at least 20% of those entitled take such vacation in each year and that not more than 25% may take such vacation.
109
and will pay the cost of benefits premiums for those items set out in section 29.01(a) of the Collective Agreement. During his appointment the employee shall accumulate seniority and credited service. Upon termination of his appointment the employee shall return to his former department and occupation if it still exists; if his occupation no’ longer exists the provision of section 12.01 shall be applied to determine a new occupation.
28.05	The Union shall appoint three full time
Health and Safety Representatives, which number may be changed by mutual agreement of the parties. The Company shall pay such representatives Job Class 21 plus cost-of-living allowance and nickel price bonus and will pay the cost of benefits premiums for those items set out in section 29.03(a) of the Collective Agreement. During his appointment the employee shall accumulate seniority and credited service. Upon termination of his appointment the employee shall return to his former department and occupation if it still exists; if his occupation no longer exists the provisions of section 12.01 shall be applied to determine a new occupation.
112
Temporary Replacement
28.06	(a) Local Union Health and Safety Co-
ordinator
Where the Local Union Health and Safety Co-Ordinator is absent for
one week or more due to vacation or sickness and accident, he shall be replaced immediately and his replacement shall be paid the Local Union Health and Safety Coordinator's rate of pay or his regular rate, whichever is higher.
(b) Full Time Union Safety & Health
Chairman
Where a full-time Union Safety and
Health Chairman is absent one week or more, he shall be replaced immediately and his replacement will be paid the Safety and Health Chairman's rate or his posted rate, whichever is higher. This requirement to replace is a minimum requirement which the Department may exceed.
28.07	Health and Safety Training for Committee Members will be:
113
(i)	agreed upon by the majority of the Department Health and Safety Committee Members; or
(ii)	mutually agreed upon by the Local Union Health and Safety Coordinator and Falconbridge Safety
Superintendent,
and approved by the Department Head which will not be unreasonably withheld.
28.08	Committees shall be granted 16 hours per month to perform inspections and all Committee work.	In addition
committees shall, if necessary, have up to one day per year for the development of joint health and safety strategies.
The Union Joint Health and Safety Chairs or their designee plus one other Committee member shall have one day per quarter to hold a Safety Meeting at the Union Hall.
All Department Union Health and Safety Committee Chairmen shall attend all fatality inquests within their Division with pay as per 28.01(b).
114
28.09	The Local Union Health and Safety Coordinator and a Falconbridge representative shall review the Indoctrination Training Package for new members annually.
All new Department Health and Safety Committee Members and any existing
members who have not already had the Committee Functions Course shall be given the Indoctrination Training Package.
28.10	Eight hours per month with pay, will be allowed for each Union Department Safety and Health Co-Chairman, other than full time Chairman, to do office work.
ARTICLE 29 -PENSIONS AND HEALTH BENEFITS
29.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will continue to receive the benefits provided under the Company's Revised General Pension Plan (the “Pension Plan”) which was effective the 1st day of January 1971, as amended January 1,1973, and as amended January 1, 1976, and as amended January 1, 1980, and as amended January 1, 1983, and as amended January 1, 1985, and as amended January 1, 1986, and as amended January 1, 1992, and as amended January 1,1995.
115
Effective the date of ratification,
employees will receive the benefits of ‘The Revised General Pension Plan For Employees of Falconbridge Limited.'
29.02	If any differences arise between the Company and any of the employees or
between the Company and the Union as to the interpretation,	application,
administration or alleged violation of the provisions of the Pension Plan, such differences shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure or arbitration set out in this Agreement.
29.03	(a) The Company shall ensure the
payment of the premiums of the following Plans in order for employees covered by this Agreement to receive the benefits of such Plans all subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in this Article, in any insurance policy issued in respect thereof and in the Plan or Program itself or any successor thereof.
(i) Ontario Health Insurance Plan
with Supplementary (semiprivate) Plan, the benefits of which shall not be less than those of the Blue Cross Supplementary (semi-private) Plan
116
(ii)	Plan for Prescription Drugs (35
cents deductible), the benefits of which shall not be less than those of the Blue Cross Plan for Prescription Drugs.
(iii)	Group Life Insurance Plan
(iv)	Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan
(v)	Long Term Disability Insurance
Plan
(vi)	Dental Plan, the benefits of which
shall not be less than those of the blue Cross Dental Plan No. 9, rider 3, based	on the	1992
Ontario Dental Association Fee Schedule. On the first of the month following	date	of
ratification, the benefits of the above Plan will be based on the
1996	ODA Fee Schedule and on
September 1,	1998,	the
benefits will be based on the
1997	ODA Fee Schedule and on
September 1,	1999,	the
benefits will be based on the
1998	ODA Fee Schedule.
(vii)	Vision Care Plan to provide a maximum payment of $250.00,
117
not more than once every two years per family member, toward the cost of prescription glasses, including frames and lenses, or contact lenses.
(viii)	Hearing Care Plan to provide a Hearing Care Programme, providing a lifetime payment of $400.00 to cover hearing aids as prescribed effective the first of the month following date of ratification.
(ix)	Sickness and Accident Benefits
The current weekly Sickness and Accident Benefit is $500 per week for eligible employees effective the first of the month following date of ratification.
(b)	The Company shall during the term of this Collective Agreement pay 100% of the premium costs for the plans itemized in (a) above.
In any case where Government sponsored Plans become available in whole or in part as substitutes for any of the above plans, the Company's obligation regarding premium costs shall be accordingly changed. The
118
Company will pay any increases in Ontario Health Insurance Plan premiums during the currency of the Agreement provided that if there are any decreases in such premiums during the currency of the Agreement the Company may, notwithstanding any legislation or regulation to the contrary, pay on the basis of such decreased premiums without paying the amount of such decrease to or for the benefit of the employees.
In consideration of improved employee benefits paid for by the Company, the Union for the employees releases the Company from any obligation it might hereafter have to pay to employees any Unemployment Insurance reduction available because of the existence of a wage loss replacement plan. (Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan).
ARTICLE 30 -WAGES
30.01	The 1997 wage rates are set out in
Schedule "B" attached hereto.
The Company shall maintain such wages as increased for the life of this Agreement; provided that the foregoing shall not prevent the Company from making such
119
upward adjustments as it sees fit during
the currency of this Agreement.
30.02	A Cost-of-Living Allowance (the “Allowance”) based on the Consumer Price Index (1986=100) (the “Index”) issued by Statistics Canada will, if applicable, be paid to each employee calculated as hereinafter set out.
(a) The First Index shall be the Index issued for the month of June 1997. The Second Index shall be that issued for September 1997. The Third Index shall be that issued for December
1997.	The Fourth Index shall be that issued for March 1998. The Fifth Index shall be that issued for June
1998.	The Sixth Index shall be that issued for September 1998. The Seventh Index shall be that issued for December 1998. The Eighth Index shall be that issued for March 1999. The Ninth Index shall be that issued for June 1999. The Tenth Index shall be that issued for September 1999. The Eleventh Index shall be that issued for December 1999. The Twelfth Index shall be that issued for March 2000. The Thirteenth Index shall be that issued for June 2000.
120
(b)	Effective the pay period immediately
following the issuance of the Second Index, the Allowance shall be one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point zero eight four (0.084) increase by which the Second Index exceeds the First Index.
(c)	The Allowance referred to in paragraph (b) hereof, if any, shall continue until the issuance of the Index for the month of December
1997 (the “Third Index”) at which time the Third Index shall be compared with the Second Index. Effective the pay period immediately following the issuance of the Third Index the Allowance shall be adjusted by one (1) cent per hour worked for each zero point zero eight four (0.084) increase by which the Third Index exceeds the Second Index.
(d)	A similar comparison and adjustment shall be made on the basis of the Index issued every three months thereafter until the issuance of the Thirteenth Index. No further comparisons and adjustments, and consequently no further Allowances shall be paid on the basis of any Index issued after the Thirteenth Index.
121
ARTICLE 31 - BULLETIN BOARDS
31.01	No bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills, or other documents shall be posted or distributed anywhere within the fenced area enclosing the Mines and Plants of the Company by the Union or by any employee of the Company. The Company at the request of the Union will, however, from time to time post on the bulletin boards, designated by the Company at the Plants and Mines, notices of the time, place and purpose of meetings and of Union Conventions, the names of speakers, notices of results of Union Elections, the names of delegates to Union Conventions and notices of recreational and social affairs, provided such notices have received the approval of the Company.
31.02	The Company upon receipt of the necessary information from the Union will from time to time post on the bulletin board for each department herein mentioned the names of the General Grievance Committeemen and Grievance Stewards designated by the Union to handle matters under the grievance procedure in such department, and will also post on the same bulletin boards lists designating the supervisory personnel to handle matters under the grievance
124
procedure in such department on behalf of the Company at each of the first two stages of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 32 -AUTHORITY
32.01	The Union and its bargaining committee
agree that they have authority from the members of the Union to enter into this
Agreement and that this Agreement shall be binding upon and enforceable against the Union and/or its members. The Company agrees that this Agreement shall be binding upon and enforceable against it.
ARTICLE 33 -GENERAL
33.01	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to bind the Company, the employees or the Union to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement when such provisions may be impractical, having regard to any law which shall be binding upon the Company, the employees or the Union.
ARTICLE 34 - FURTHER CONFERENCES
34.01	Either party to this Agreement may require the other party to enter into negotiations for the renewal of this Agreement on 10 clear days' notice given to the other party within the period of 3 months immediately prior to its expiry date.
125
34.02	Negotiations pursuant to section 34.01 shall be held at Sudbury, Ontario.
ARTICLE 35 -TERMINATION
35.01	This Agreement as amended
totlowing~t h 5 notice"deliverecno the company, shall become effective at
expressly stated nerein io the contrary, ana snail terminate at 8 a.m. on the 1st dav of August. 2000..
126
SCHEDULE “A”
Classifications of Employees Excluded From the Bargaining Unit
MINES
Mine Superintendent Assistant Mine Superintendent Mine Foreman Mine Captain Mine Shift Bosses Mine Relieving Shift Bosses All employees in Mine Geological Department, excepting Underground Samplers All employees of Mine Engineering Department, including Surveyors, Draughtsmen, Bonus Engineers, Ventilation Engineers and Ventilation Construction Foremen Mine Yard Foreman Mine Clerk Timber Scaler
SMELTER
Plant Superintendent General Foremen Shift Bosses
Relief Foremen and Shift Bosses Day Labour Foremen Sub Foremen (Smelter)
Shovel Foremen Repair Foremen Smelter Office Clerks Experimental Engineer
127
MILL AND ORE DRESSING PLANTS
Mill Superintendent General Foreman Shift Bosses Experimental Engineer Repair Foreman Mill Clerk Messenger
GENERAL SURFACE
Superintendent Truck Fleet Foreman Foreman
All Police Forces and Guards Gatemen and Watchmen First Aid Nurses
Field Engineer and Assistant Field Engineers
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND LABORATORY
Chief Metallurgist Chief Chemists Chemists
Assistant Chemists
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Mechanical Superintendent Master Mechanic Surface Master Mechanic
128
Designing Engineers
Draughtsmen
Office and Shop Clerks
Power House Supervisors
Machine Shop Foremen
Steel Shop Foremen
Plate Shop Foremen
Underground Maintenance Foremen
Pump House Foremen
OFFICE STAFF
Chief Accountant
Accountants, Assistant Accountants, and Accounting Clerks Secretaries Stenographers Office Messengers Payroll Accountants Payroll Clerks Stores Accountant Stores Clerks Warehouse Supervisor Warehouse Men Telephone Operators Purchasing Agent Timber Agent Employment Agent Assistant Plant Transit Officer
ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT
Superintendent
Foremen
Clerk
129
TOWNSITE
Superintendent
Foreman
Caretakers and Janitors (School and Community Hall)
SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Safety Engineer Safety Inspector Safety Office Clerks
CARPENTERS AND PAINTERS
General Carpenter Foremen Carpenter Foremen Painter Foremen
SURFACE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
Superintendent
Foremen
Clerk
All part time employees who are regularly employed for 24 hours per week or less.
Employees employed in a confidential capacity in matters relating to labour relations.
130
Charwomen
SCHEDULE "B" HOURLY WAGE RATES AS AT DATE OF RATIFICATION
JOB CLASS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
19.42 19.64 19.86 20.08 20.30 20.52
20.74 20.96 21.18 21.40 21.62 21.84 22.06 22.28 22.50 22.82 23.14 23.46 23.78 24.10
24.42
24.74 25.06
Includes roll-in of current C.O.L.A. and $0.30 of
new wages
131
SUPPLEMENT TO SCHEDULE "B" OCCUPATION AND JOB CLASS SCHEDULE PRODUCTION AND MAINTENANCE BARGAINING UNIT
MINES DIVISION	
Occupation	Job Class
Shaft Inspector	19
Mine Development Leader Mine Production Leader	17
Shaft Repairman	16
Diamond Drill Operator Hoistman Miner-A	14
Miner - B	13
Miner - C Mine Serviceman - A	12
Mine Serviceman - B	10
Mine Helper Fork Lift Operator	8
Hoistman-in-Training Mine Serviceman - C	7
Mine Labourer	4
Labourer - Surface	2
132
MINERAL PROCESSING
Occupation	Job
Control Room Operator/Leader - Strath
Concentrator Operator - A
Converter Skimmer Converter Craneman
Locomotive Engineer-Matte & Acid Loader
Acid Plant Operator Kress Hauler Oper/Mechanic
Operator Mechanic
Matte Tapper
Acid Plant Operator "B"
Roaster Feed-Prep Operator
Locomotive Brakeman-1st Slag and Yard Grinding Mill Operator - Strathcona Slag Tapper
Cottrell Operator Crusherman - Mill Matte Room Leader
Converter Puncher
Craneman-in-Training
Bailman
133
Class
20
18
17
16
14
12
11
9
Occupation
Job Class
Fork Lift Operator	8
Heavy Mobile Equipment Operator
Sample Processor
Truck Driver
Mill Loader Operator
Mill Process Helper-Strathcona
Mill Utility Man
Mill Blaster
Matte Braker Operator	7
Conveyorman - Smelter	6
Smelter Shift Process Helper	5
Conveyorman - Strathcona Craneman-in-Training (Start)
Dustman
Mill Process Labourer-Strathcona	2
Dryman
Smelter Shift Labourer
134
SKILLED TRADES/SERVICES DIVISION Occupation	Job
Electrician III
Electrician II Machinist
Industrial Mechanic - Mine Hoist Industrial Mechanic - Millwright
Industrial Mechanic - Maintenance Industrial Mechanic - Mobile Equipment Stationary Engineer II Pipefitter
Welder
Plateworker
Brick and Stone Mason Rigger
Ind Mechanic-Maintenance-Intermediate
Carpenter
Bricklayer
Maintenance Man - Smelter
Stationary Engineer III
Power House Operator Painter
Carpenter - Intermediate
Battery/Loco Repairman Operator - Motor Truck Crane
Stationary Engineer IV Rock Drill Repairman - Surface
135
Class
21
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
Occupation
Job Class
Mine Locomotive Repairman - Onaping	10
Rock Drill Repairman - Underground
Boom Truck Operator	9
Fire Equipment Serviceman - Surface
Fork Lift Operator	8
Heavy Mobile Equipment Operator Truck Driver Handyman
Services Helper	7
Lampman
Hoistman-in-Training
Trackman	6
Labourer	2
Dryman
136
SCHEDULE "D" Apprentice Training
Start
Start
1000
start
•mnn
2000
Start
9
"10"
1000
"2000"
2000
"3000"
3000
1000
; 4000
2000
11
“12"
3000
5000
3000
4000
5000
6000
8
137
SCHEDULE "Q'
August 1,1997
Sudbury Mine, Mill & Smelter Workers' Union Local 598, CAW/TCA Canada 19 Regent St. S.
Sudbury, ON P3C 4B7
Dear Sirs:
The Company proposes that the following list of letters be included in the 1997 Agreement as Schedule "Q":
1.	Students
2.	Protective Clothing
3.	Hot Meals
4.	Christmas Gift
5.	Stage One and Stage Two Meetings
6.	Tools
7.	Employee Assistance Program
8.	Construction Pool
9.	Transfer Window
10.	Demoted or Recalled Employees
11.	Application of Section 19.03
12.	Sickness and Accident Benefits vs Vacation Pay at Year End
13.	Section 11.01
14.	Time Off For Union Representatives For Joint Job Evaluation Duties
15.	Application of 12.01
16.	Essential Services
17.	Leader's Rate
18.	Section 22.02
19.	Sickness & Accident Plan Eligibility
138
O't-CN	CO	lO (D N	COO	O	t- CM	CO'tUMOSGOOO^MO^tf)
CN CM CN	CM	CM CM CM CM	CM CM	CO	CO CO	COCOOCOtOrtO^^^^^^
Sickness & Accident Commencement Travel Allowance Paid Holidays - Strathcona Mine -Transportation Beat and Steady Night Shift Employees and Onaping Electrical Department Employees Affected by Steady Night Shift Schedule
Application of 10.25 1983 CA; 20.011994 CA Procedure For Handling Questions or Disputes About Disability Benefits Vacation Relief Townsite Gardener
Article 29.03 (a) (i) Supplementary Semi Private Plan
Sewage Disposal Plant Operator at Lockerby
Training of Employees in the Mines and
Mineral Processing Division
Laid Off Employees and Individuals vs
Employees
Educational Assistance
Section 10.21,1991 Collective Agreement and Section 19.01,1994 Collective Agreement, Leave of Absence
Single Arbitrator vs Board of Arbitrators Joint Job Evaluation Welders/Additional Tickets Welders and Skills Loss Agreement of Apprenticeship Disability Benefit
Operations Health & Safety Committees Right to Refuse to Perform Unsafe Work Working Together Apprenticeship Qualifications Contracting Out Student Rate of Pay Filling Vacancies - Mines
139
46.	Smelter -12 - Hour Shift Schedule
47.	Shift Scheduling Committee
48.	Nickel Bonus
Yours truly,
D.W. Mills, Superintendent Labour Relations
1.	Students
Students (employed during their vacation
periods or co-operative students on their work semester) hired by the Company for temporary work as employees shall not, during the period of such work (not to exceed 5 months at any one time), be covered under the Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan, Long Term Disability Insurance Plan, Drug Plan, Dental Plan, Insured Death Benefit Plan or Revised General Pension Plan, or be entitled to the Floating Holiday under section 11.06 of the Collective Agreement; nor shall the Company be obliged to pay any portion of the premium payable with respect to any such students covered under the Ontario Health Insurance Plan and Supplementary (Semi-Private) Plan or the Group Life Insurance Plan and the Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
2.	Protective Clothing
The Company will continue the practice of subsidizing or replacing protective clothing in
specific work areas.
140
In addition, the Company will provide, as required by the employees in the Smelter, spark resistant pants at one-half cost (f.o.b. factory). Special gloves will be supplied, as required, at no cost to those employees working as tappers, tapper helpers, slagman, slagman helper as well as hand punching tuyeres.
The Company will supply to employees who work in areas where special clothing is required up to 2 pairs of acid resistant pants and 2 acid resistant shirts per year or 2 pair of acid resistant coveralls, and in extraordinary circumstances consideration will be given to further replacement of such clothing.
3.	Hot Meals
If an employee works for more than one hour of overtime, he will be given one-half hour off with pay at normal meal time to give him an opportunity to obtain a hot meal which the Company will provide if practicable. If it is not practicable to provide a hot meal, the Company will provide a cold meal. Every four hours thereafter, the Company will supply a lunch and hot beverage.
4.	Christmas Gift
The Company will make a gift of $100.00 each Christmas to each employee hired before the first day of September of the year in which the Christmas falls.
141
following are to be considered as home base: Smelter, Lockerby Mine, TL Project, Onaping/Craig and Strathcona which includes Fraser Mine, Fecunis, Strathcona Mill and Mine.
9. Transfer Window
During the term of this agreement the Company agrees to open a 14 day Transfer
window each year. The first such window will open in October of 1997 and thereafter in each of the subsequent years of this agreement the Company will discuss with the Union when the window for that year will be open.
Prior to the transfer window being opened the Company will post on the bulletin boards a notice of vacancies available to be filled.
Employees will have the 14 day period in which to file transfer applications with the Company.
In filling a vacancy from amongst the transfer applications the senior applicant shall be transferred provided he has the ability, knowledge, training and skill to fulfil the normal requirements of the job.
At all times other than the agreed upon 14 day transfer window the Company shall abide by the sequence set out in section 15.01 Part 3 for filling vacancies which have not been filled through the job posting procedure.
144
10. Demoted or Recalled Employees
If it is determined at arbitration that the Company in its application of section 2.04(c) failed to promote an employee who was demoted or recall a laid off employee the Company shall pay him the following compensation with respect to the period which is in question:
(a)	earnings lost based on his regular rate for the time lost during the period when not promoted or recalled, limited to a maximum of 40 hours per week, less the amount of money earned by the employee during the time lost;
(b)	shift premium applicable to his normal
hours of work lost;
(c)	weekend premium applicable to his
normal hours of work lost;
(d)	holiday pay he would otherwise have been
entitled to;
(e)	cost of living allowance lost based on his normal hours of work lost;
(f)	premiums for any or all of Ontario
Hospital Insurance Plan, Supplementary Plan, Drug Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan, Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan and Dental Plan provided any laid off employee has actually paid such premium.
145
In addition to the foregoing during the course of negotiations for the renewal of the 1988 Collective Agreement the Company agreed the Joint Job Evaluation Committee would meet quarterly as a minimum or, as mutually agreed upon in the event there is no necessity for a quarterly meeting.
15.	Application of Section 12.01
You have asked the Company to confirm to you how it applies Section 12.01 of the Collective Agreement when lay-offs and/or demotions of employees are required. Where lay offs and/or demotions in one or more departments occur, the following steps will be followed:
Section I
Step I The surplus employee (A) in the highest job class with the most seniority is placed into a vacancy, if one exists, in his occupation or in his Job Class where possible in his Department or in his division, provided he can perform the normal requirements of the job. If there is no vacancy, then the surplus employee (A) in the highest Job Class with the most seniority bumps the most junior employee (B) where possible in his Department or, in his division in the same occupational classification, if he can do the jobs.
148
If (A) cannot bump (B) because he cannot do the job, then (A) bumps the next junior employee where possible in his department or, in his division in the same occupational classification.
Step II If (A) cannot bump anyone in his occupational classification in his Division, then (A) bumps the most junior employee (C) where possible in his department or in his division in the same job class.
Step III If (A) cannot bump (C) because he cannot do the job, then (A) bumps the next junior employee where possible in his Department or in his Division in the same Job Class.
Step IV If (A) cannot bump any employee in his Job Class in his Division, he then drops to the next lower Job Class and is placed in a vacancy, if one exists, in an occupation in which he can perform the normal requirements of the job. If (A) cannot be placed in a vacancy he then utilizes his seniority to bump a junior employee where possible in his Department or in his Division.
Step V This process continues until (A) bumps an employee in his Division
with less seniority than himself.
Where layoffs and demotions of employees are required due to a
149
seniority date cut-off line for lay-offs) who can meet the normal requirements of the job and place him in it.
Section III
After the method provided for in Section II
above is completed the surplus employee(s) in the Division would:
(1)	if they have worked in a job in another
Division of the Company previously, be allowed to bump the junior employee in the lowest occupational classification in that Division, provided he is senior to that employee and can perform the normal requirements of the job. Should there be no one in the lowest Job Class in the other Division the employee can bump, he may bump a junior employee in the next progressive higher Job Class provided he can perform the normal requirements of the job and the process continues until such time as the employee reaches the highest Job Class he held while previously in the Division and is able to bump an employee junior to himself, or, if he is unable to attain a job in this process, then he shall;
(2)	be transferred to the lowest Job Class in
another Division if he has sufficient seniority ranking to retain a job with the
Company, or
(3)	be laid off.
152
16.	Essential Services
The Union has agreed that it will use its best efforts to see that the employees who normally perform work which is required to be performed to prevent the destruction or serious deterioration of machinery, equipment or premises; or, serious environmental damage will perform such work during any strike by employees in the bargaining unit.
17.	Leader's Rate
This will confirm our agreement reached during negotiations leading to the settlement of the 1991 Collective Agreement with regard to payment of Leader's Rate.
1.	Where two (2) or more tradesmen in the
same occupational classification at the same rate work together on the same job, a leader shall be appointed prior to the commencement of the job. The leader’s rate will be offered to the senior such employee where such senior employee is capable of doing such work.
2.	Leaders shall be paid at a rate of two (2)
job classes higher than the tradesmen he leads.
3.	At the supervisor’s discretion, when several
employees of two or more different trades work together it is advisable to have a supervisor, e.g. sub-foremen, and not a leader. In such instance paragraph 1 above will not apply. If a leader is however
153
appointed to lead such a multitrade group, he shall not lose this status of leader solely by reason of another more senior tradesmen later becoming part of the group.
18.	Section 11.02 of the 1975 Collective Agreement
Section 22.02 of the 1994 Collective Agreement
This is confirm that the intent of the change in section 11.02 of the 1975 Collective Agreement, which is now changed to Section 22.02 of the 1994 Collective Agreement, from “in any day in excess of 8 hours (except where such excess time is worked by him due to regular change of shift)” to “in any 24 hour period in excess of 8 hours except where such excess time is worked due to regular change of shift” is to ensure that all other situations shall be treated as before with the exception that the employee who works graveyard on one day and carries on into day shift the next day, will receive time and a half for the hours worked on the day shift of the “next” day.
19.	Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan Eligibility
As agreed, vacation will not be considered as time worked for the purposes of the S&A contract and in all future cases an employee must return to work for a period of 30 days as stated in the S&A contract prior to commencing a new claim. Successive periods of disability separated by less than one month
154
of work full time shall be considered one period of disability unless the subsequent disability is due to a sickness or injury entirely unrelated to the cause of the previous disability and commences after return to work on a full time basis.
20.	Sickness and Accident Insurance Commencement
In relation to the commencement of a period of total disability re Sickness and Accident, the following will go into effect immediately: “Not withstanding previous practices it is agreed that effect from February 27,1976, a period of total disability, as defined in the Group Insurance Contract, which results from a Sickness or Non-Occupational Accidental Injury will not include any day during which the employee reported for and commenced work on behalf of Falconbridge Limited”.
21.	Travel Allowance
The Company will in accordance with its policy pay a travel allowance pursuant to the current rates to employees who are temporarily assigned to work in a job location other than their regular job location and who are required to provide their own means of transportation from their permanent residences to their new job location.
Employees assigned to a new job location for a period in excess of four weeks are considered to be permanently assigned and will not receive the travel allowance.
155
The Company will inform the Union of any
changes made to this schedule.
22.	Paid Holidays - Strathcona Mine -Transportation Beat and Steady Night Shift Employees and Onaping Electrical Department Employees Affected by Steady Night Shift Schedule
The Company and Union agree that when a paid holiday falls on a Monday and no Strathcona Mine or Onaping Electrical Department employee is required to work the holiday, the holiday for the above group of employees will be observed on the immediately preceding Sunday from 8 a.m. to 8 a.m. Monday.
Considering the employees generally work from Sunday to Thursday, the above
arrangement will provide for more consecutive time off surrounding the paid holiday.
23.	Section 10.25 of the 1983 Collective Agreement
Section 20.01 of the 1994 Collective Agreement
The Company agrees to the following: at the beginning of his employment with the Company, each probationary employee will be informed of the standards of performance of the job he was hired to perform; the work performance of each probationary employee will be reviewed periodically during said probationary period; if a probationary
156
employee's performance is found to be unacceptable, he will be informed of how it is unacceptable, in the presence of a union Steward, if the employee so requests.
24.	Procedures for Handling Questions or Disputes about Disability Benefits
If employees in the P&M Union have questions about the benefit plans they should see their Supervisor or Union Representative at their work location or contact the Employee Benefits Group.
Weekly Indemnity Insurance Plan (Sickness and Accident Insurance) payments have, by reason of the many involved decisions made by the doctor(s) and the benefits carrier, and Insurance Company, been the subject of discussion and/or dispute in the past.
To assist in resolving these problems and to afford employees a means by which they can seek review and possible reconsideration of a denied claim, an informal procedure has been established between the Union and the Company: a Union representative, who may be accompanied by the employee, may go directly to the representative of the benefits carrier, an Insurance Company; this may be followed by discussion with representatives of Personnel Services, and finally by a written submission, presented by Senior Union Officials to Senior Company Officials.
157
25. Vacation Relief 1998,1999,2000
The parties agree to renew their letter of
August 14,1985 with respect to the temporary recall of laid off former employees for vacation relief for the duration of the renewed Agreement as follows.
Laid off former employees required by the Company for temporary vacation relief work who have informed the Company they are
readily available, are readily available and can perform such work, and who have the greatest seniority will:
1.	be employed by the Company for the
duration of such temporary relief work only; upon the expiry of such temporary work, he will revert to the status of a former laid-off employee, provided that he may exercise his seniority and “bump” a junior employee who has been temporarily recalled, provided he is able to perform the normal requirements of such job;
2.	receive the current P&M rate of pay for
such work including C.O.L.A., holiday pay, provided he meets the criteria of 11.08 of the Collective Agreement, floating holiday, and vacation pay based on earnings;
3.	have P&M benefits plans premiums as set out in Section 17.03 of the Collective
Agreement paid for by the Company;
4.	acquire job posting rights for temporary vacancies only, acquire no rights as per
158
Section 12.01, except those spelled out in (1) above, but shall be subject to the dues check-off provisions of Section 5.01;
5.	accumulate seniority and credited service while continuously performing the temporary relief work, including credited service as provided in Section 10.02(c)(iii)
of the Agreement;
6.	acquire recall rights as set forth in Section 14.01 of the Agreement.
Former laid-off employees rejecting the temporary vacation relief recall will not lose their recall rights.
It is understood that a temporarily recalled employee will not be placed in a permanent vacancy that was not filled through the job
posting procedure unless he is senior amongst the former laid off employees, including those who are temporarily recalled, who can fill the normal requirements of the job and there is no employee with retransfer rights to the division in which the vacancy was posted.
26.	Townsite - Gardeners
The Company will continue to use, where possible, employees from the Modified Work Centres to perform temporary gardening work on the townsites, excluding landscaping, providing such employees are physically fit to do this work and possess the skills required to perform such work.
159
27.	Article 29.03 (a) (i) Supplementary Semi Private Plan
During negotiations for renewal of the collective agreement the Company agreed to provide semi-private plan coverage for employees on Workers' Compensation Benefits. We will arrange to provide this coverage.
We trust this will resolve this matter between the Company and the Union.
28.	Sewage Disposal Plant Operator at Lockerby
Although neither the Sewage Disposal Plant at Onaping nor at Falconbridge belong to the Company; at Lockerby the duties concerning sewage disposal are being performed by a member of the bargaining unit. The purpose of this letter therefore is to confirm the Company intends to continue to have sewage disposal duties at Lockerby performed by an employee in the Production and Maintenance bargaining unit.
29.	Training of Employees In The Mines and
Mineral Processing Divisions
The Company expressed to the Union its concern about the Union’s proposal to train employees on the job in accordance with their seniority. More specifically the Company did not wish to rush into something that could cause both the Union and itself unforeseen
160
problems merely to expedite matters at
negotiations.
In order to address this predicament the Company is prepared to establish a Committee of three representatives from the Union, 1 being from the Plants, 1 from the Services and 1 from the Mines and three Company representatives. The purpose of the Committee will be to determine how it would be feasible in the Mines and Mineral Processing Divisions of the Company to provide training to employees on a seniority basis in a manner similar to that in Section 25.15 . The Committee will meet quarterly until such time as it makes it determinations.
The Company agrees to pay the wages, cost-of-living allowance and nickel bonus to the members of the Union's committee that would have been otherwise payable for time absent from work while performing committee work and such time shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of determining entitlement to overtime under section 22.02.
30.	‘Laid Off Employees’ 8 ‘Individuals’ vs ‘Employees'
The Company and Union agree that wherever the word “individual” appeared in the 1991 Collective Agreement and was changed to “laid off employee” in the 1994 Collective Agreement such change was not intended to confer employee status on any person laid off from the Company who retains recall rights as set out in Section 10.08 of the 1991 Collective Agreement.
161
31. Educational Assistance
During the term of this agreement where an employee undertakes to upgrade their
educational level in English, Math and Science (Chemistry or Physics focused) to either Grade 10 or Grade 12 on their own time the company shall assist in the following manner:
The Company shall arrange for the employee to be tested to determine their present educational level. The results of the test shall set the employee's “base” level.
The employee who then embarks on educational upgrading on their own time in a program acceptable to the Company will be paid one-half hour of wages at his basic hourly rate for each hour spent in attendance receiving instruction in English, Math and Science to a maximum of 30 hours of instruction for successfully obtaining each grade level for each of English, Math and Science. Employees shall be entitled to a lifetime maximum of instruction time reimbursement to be determined by multiplying their full years of seniority by five hours. Time paid is not considered as time worked for the purposes of the Collective Agreement.
The employee shall provide evidence of attendance in a manner acceptable to the Company.
162
32.	Section 10.21,1991 Collective Agreement &
Section 19.01,1994 Collective Agreement , Leave of Absence
The Company agreed to change the word “will” as it appeared in the first sentence of the above section in the 1991 Collective Agreement, to “shall” for the purposes of the 1994 Collective Agreement provided the Union made an undertaking to accommodate the Company's requirements in the circumstance where a leave is requested and the Company requires a replacement be in place before the leave can commence and this letter will serve as such undertaking.
Upon notification of a request for a leave of absence under section 19.01 of the 1994 Collective Agreement the Company shall make its best efforts to fill the job vacancy without undue delay.
33.	Single Arbitrator vs Board of Arbitrators
This is to confirm that the parties agree to use the Single Arbitrator procedure as set out in Section 7.09 of the Collective Agreement as the preferred procedure in the majority of
cases which advance to arbitration.
34.	Joint Job Evaluation
The Company commits to changing the current process of evaluating Production and Maintenance jobs to continue to ensure that jobs are evaluated fairly,
163
equitably and in a timely manner. In
particular the Company commits to:
•	The establishment and maintenance of
an effective Joint Job Evaluation Committee with the Union and the Company each having an equal number of members.
•	An independent consultant, jointly selected by the Company and the Union, will undertake a review of the process, make recommended changes and conduct training sessions for the Committee members. The nomination and selection of the consultant shall commence immediately upon conclusion of negotiations.
•	A representative sample of incumbents
is to be interviewed when describing and evaluating jobs. This could include more than one incumbent as may be appropriate.
•	All job evaluations will be done jointly.
•	The committee will interview as necessary supervisors and others who may be able to provide meaningful input when evaluating jobs.
•	Current outstanding requests to have jobs re-evaluated will be given top priority by the Joint Committee.
164
35.	Welders/Additional Tickets
At a Trades Committee meeting held on November 4th, 1994, the parties had discussed the issues of welders with multiple tickets and/or specialities. The parties had agreed, in principle, that some sort of recognition should be made to compensate those who hold multiple tickets and/or specialities.
As a result, the following has been proposed and agreed to by the parties:
(1)	if an employee is required to become a
holder of more than one ticket for the purposes of welding, the senior employee shall be offered the opportunity to acquire this ticket first.
(2)	if an employee is required to become a
holder of a ticket with a speciality for the purpose of welding, the senior employee shall be offered the opportunity to acquire this ticket first
The Company shall pay one job increment in the rate of pay for the maintenance of such additional tickets and/or speciality by said employee.
36.	Welders and Skills Loss
At a Trades Committee meeting held December 8th, 1994, the parties had
165
discussed the issue on ‘what to do if a welder losses his skills’. The parties agreed that those employees within the classification of welders are in a unique situation insofar as they are required to be tested, are subject to physical frailties and everchanging techniques, equipment and legislation that may lead to the loss of an employee’s posting. In that event, the parties have proposed and agreed to the following:
(1)	that the Company will provide the necessary opportunities for the employee to requalify himself as a welder; as per the current practice which is two opportunities generally but may, in unusual circumstances, be three opportunities;
(2)	that the employee’s job classification
will be governed by the principles found in the Technological Change clause, Article 23;
(3)	that the Company shall provide the
necessary training to the employee to enable said employee to retain a classification in his department or division or other department of another division within the Company.
166
37.	Agreement of Apprenticeship
i.	The Apprentice will:
(a)	successfully complete such Trade School, College, or Correspondence courses, as the Company deems necessary.
(b)	progress satisfactorily towards
proficiency in the practical performance and technical knowledge of the trade.
(c)	pass such in-house oral, written, and/or practical examinations as may be required including successfully writing a Department of Labour examination to receive a certificate of qualification of trade.
(d)	be available and shall report for work as scheduled and as required.
(e)	acquire his own tools of the trade during the course of his apprenticeship as specified by the Company.
ii.	The Company will:
(a)	pay the apprentice in accordance with the wage rates set out in the Collective Agreement.
167
(b)	arrange for the apprentice to work
under the direction of a Tradesman or other qualified people in order to become proficient in the trade.
(c)	during a period of authorized leave while the apprentice is in required attendance at a college or trade school, pay him the difference between his current wage rate and allowance from government sources for which he is eligible. (Article 25.02) also;
upon successful completion by an apprentice of an approved job related course taken during the term of his apprenticeship, the Company will indemnify such apprentice for an amount not exceeding 100% of the cost of the apprentice of such course, provided that he is in the employment of the Company on the completion of such course.
(d)	review the apprentice’s progress with him every 4-6 months during his apprenticeship.
iii.	General Conditions of Apprenticeship:
(a)	The Company shall be entitled to terminate the apprenticeship if the apprentice fails to fulfil his responsibilities as outlined in Part (i).
168
(b)	The Company does not guarantee to
provide work for any apprentice or to maintain the work-week or working hours presently in force.
(c)	Any time lost by the apprentice during his apprenticeship, due to illness, injury, or absence from work, will result in an extension of the term of apprenticeship for such period equal to the time lost from work.
(d)	Overtime worked shall be considered as reducing any time lost and shall be considered in computing the total number of hours required to complete the term of apprenticeship.
(e)	Time spent attending required Trade
School Courses shall be considered as time worked in computing the total number of hours required to complete the term of apprenticeship.
(f)	The Company shall consider that a
person has	completed	his
apprenticeship	when he	has
completed the prescribed term and has complied with all the items under Part (i) in this agreement.
169
benefit program. The employee's period of entitlement shall be equivalent to his seniority with a minimum of 1 year's entitlement provided he is ready and available to perform work that the Company has or makes available. The employee must participate and cooperate in any medical examinations,	rehabilitation
program and provide such reports as may be required of him from time to time. Employees with 10 or more years seniority who become entitled to this benefit, will remain, subject to the terms of this provision, entitled to these benefits until age 65 or until becoming entitled to an unreduced pension, whichever is earlier. Where the Company is able to identify reasonable employment	outside the
Company that the employee is able to perform and the employee does not actively pursue the attainment of such employment, the employee's entitlement to these benefits shall cease. For the purpose of calculating seniority, partial months shall be considered as a complete month. Benefits under the plan shall cease at the earlier of the employee obtaining age 65 or becoming entitled to an unreduced pension.
If at the conclusion of these benefits the employee still has not been returned to work he shall have the option of:
172
(a) ending his employment with the Company and receiving a Transition Assistance Package which shall be equal to 2 weeks' pay at his basic rate for each year of service but in no event shall the entitlement be less than 8 weeks' pay, or,
(b) being placed on layoff and continuing to receive Prescription Drug, Vision, Hearing, Dental and Semi-Private Hospital coverage at the same level of current active employees until the Company is in a position to either accommodate him, or, he acquires alternate employment or, he is able to proceed onto an unreduced early pension.
Employees receiving the Transition Assistance Package are not entitled to any other severance program offered under the terms of the Collective Agreement.
The Disability Management Committee shall do a quarterly review of employees off under the terms of this program.
39. Operations Health 8 Safety Committees
During the course of negotiations the Company voiced its concerns about its view that Operations Health and Safety
173
combination of action which may include elimination of the work, current employees taking on the work, or the addition of tradespersons and apprentices. The initial plan for these actions will be reviewed with the Union in 2 months. The Company also commits to no longer bringing in U/G Mobile Equipment Mechanics or Electrical Contractors, to replace employees for purposes of injury or illness, or vacancies due to employees leaving the bargaining unit except for instances of emergencies. Instances where contractors are brought in for these reasons will be reviewed with the Contracting Out Committee.
In addition, the Company commits to develop a plan within 6 months and to work with the Union to reduce contractors performing Production, Development, Services and other maintenance work in the Mines and Plants which is traditionally performed by employees in the bargaining unit. Such action may include elimination of work, current employees taking on work, or the hiring of additional employees in the workforce.
After the completion of the workforce plan the Company will work with the Union to determine whether alternatives to the current process would help reduce the incidences of mechanical, electrical and mining contractors.
176
44. Student Rate of Pay
The Company proposed a schedule of rates for students employed by the Company during vacation periods on work terms. The following Is the wage scale the Company proposed which is related to prior work experience and educational standing.
Years of Experience and % of Rate for JC 7
45. Filling Vacancies - Mines
The method of filling vacancies set out in Article 16.03 (b) of the Collective Agreement is a new concept and because there may be unforeseen problems which arise, the Company and Union agree that every six months there will be a review of how the process of filling vacancies is functioning.
Either party to the arrangement in 16.03 (b) may terminate the arrangement by giving to the other party 30 days written notice. Should the arrangement be terminated, vacancies shall be posted in the manner that existed before August 1,1997.
177
Meals:
Employee pays or provides his own meal. (except O/T lunches).
Elections:
Will affect employees on day shift who work 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. These employees are allowed to go home early with pay while the relieving shift comes in early and is paid overtime.
Daylight Saving Time:
In the Spring one shift loses one hours' pay. However, the employees who have 83 hours in the pay period are still allowed to bank 4 hours.
Bereavement:
As per the Collective Agreement Jury Duty:
As required, based on 12 hrs/day Medical Aid:
Paid remainder of shift on day of industrial accident based on 12 hrs/day
Vacations:
As per Collective Agreement 180
Paid Holiday:
Ten - pay based on 12hrs/day. An employee who is paid for a paid holiday not worked, that falls on his regularly scheduled work day is paid 12 hours pay. this time is considered time worked for overtime. An employee working on a paid holiday is paid 12 hours at double and one-half.
Floater:
One - pay based on 12 hrs/day Bank Hours:
If employees work an extra 4 hours per pay period they can bank these hours for future use or take pay.
All banking must be done in multiples of 4 hours.
All banked time will be entered on the last working day of the pay period.
When an employee receives his pay period cheque, he will receive all cOlA and any shift or Sunday differential for the four hours that was banked.
All banked hours will be paid for in full on the first week of December at the employee's posted rate, or if he leaves
181
if during the term of the agreement an alternative shift schedule(s) is Identified by either the Company or Union then the committee shall meet to discuss the proposed schedule. The Committee will make joint presentations to the employees before a vote is taken. Such presentations will be made on Company time.
The employees at each site shall vote in a manner agreed to by the committee. The Union shall conduct the vote.
After a six month trial the workers will again vote on whether to retain the schedule or revert to the former schedule. This provision can be waived by mutual agreement of the parties.
It is understood that where the Committee agrees and the employees at a site accept a new shift schedule, it will be implemented at that site on a trial basis for a 6 month period.
Any shift schedule in effect which no longer meets the Company's requirements or is no longer acceptable to the Union may be terminated by either party giving 30 days notice in writing. During the period of the 30 days, the Shift Scheduling Committee will meet to determine an alternative schedule. Should there be no agreement, the Company will implement the preexisting 4 shift schedule while the
184
Committee continues to meet to find a suitable schedule.
48. Nickel Bonus
The Company will continue to pay quarterly, a nickel price bonus based on hours worked, provided the Company is profitable, on the
following formula:
The price used in the above formula is the
average realized price in US dollars received by Falconbridge for sales of refined nickel in all forms.
The profitability of the Company is the consolidated earnings in the period before extraordinary items.
185
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company and the Union have caused their corporate seals to be affixed under the hands of the proper officers in that behalf and the authorized representatives of the Union have hereunto set their hands and seals.
EXECUTED at Falconbridge Ontario the
of_
1997.
W.W Holmes
President and General Manaaer
G.W. Foley Director Human Resources & Public Affairs
D.W. Mills Labour Relations Superintendent
B.D. Dagg
Mines Project Superintendent
Superintendent Central Shops	Director of Organizational Development
SUDBURY MINE, MILL & SMELTER WORKERS’ UNION LOCAL 598/CAW
N. Tschekalin
President.?
Business Agent
R. Coupal
Committee Member
B. MacDonald Committee Member
R. Lanois
Committee
Member
B. Robi son
Committee Member
INDEX
Subject	Section
Ability............................... 16.01-16.03
16.05-16.06
18.01
Agreement	of	Apprenticeship... Letter 37
Apprentices..................... 25.01-25.16
Schedule 'D'
Apprenticeship Qualifications.. Letter 42
Arbitration..................... 7.05
Arbitrator -	Single............. 7.09
Letter 33
Assignments............
Authority..............
Benefits Plans.........
Bereavement Leave..
Bulletin Boards........
Call-Out...............
Change of Days Off.. Christmas Gift.........
Close Down of (Part)
Department...........
Collar to Collar.......
Construction Pool......
16.04
22.16
32.01
29.03 22.18
31.01-31.02
22.04 22.13
Letter 4
13.01
12.02 22.15
Letter 8
Contracting Out............... 2.04
Letter 43
30.02
Cost-of-Living Allowance
to **>j ^ooNoo^o3^roo^N)(DSO)<DO)so)0)0)-^a>a}(Q
O <J1	CO	-k	-*0)01	CJ
Subject
Credited Seivice................
Curtailment of Operations.......
Demoted or Recalled
Employees......................
Designated Employee.............
Direct Difference...............
Disabled Employees..............
Disability Benefit..............
Discharge and Discipline........
Discrimination:
No Discrimination...............
Solicitation of Membership......
Union Membership...............
Divisions/Departments...........
Educational Assistance..........
Section
10.02
12.01
Letter 10 21.01 7.04 26.01 Letter 38 8.01
3.02
3.03
3.01
11.01
Letter 13 Letter 31
Electing Layoff.............. 12.01
Employee Assistance Program Letter 7
Essential Services............. Letter	16
Excluded Employees:
Scope........................ 1.01
Schedule “A”.................
Exclusion of Personnel
Working..................... 2.02-2.03
Familiarization.............. 16.05
Filling Vacancies............ Letter 45
Floating Holiday............. 22.07
Pg
32
36
145
69
16
101
170
25
7
9
7
35 147 162
36 142 153
f
127
2
58
177
72
Subject	Section
Further Conferences....... 34.01
General................... 33.01
Grievances:
Adjustment of...............
Arbitration.................
Arbitration Board...........
Arbitrator - Sing/e.........
Committeemen and Stewards
Direct Differences..........
Employee Rights.............
Failure to Process..........
General.....................
Management Representative
Mines Bonus.................
Notice of Discharge.........
Payment of Committeemen
and Stewards..............
Stage One...................
Stage Two...................
for Discharge.............
Time Limits.................
7.01
7.05-7.08
7.06
7.09
7.17
7.04
7.14
7.12
7.11
7.01-7.03
9.01
8.01
7.20-7.22
7.01
7.01
8.01
7.11-7.13
Pg
125
125
11
16
17
19
22
16
22
21
21
11
29
25
23
11
11
22
21
Harassment....................
Health and Safety.............
Health and Safety Committee..
Holidays......................
Hot Meals.....................
3.01-3.03
28-28.10
Letter 39 22.06-22.10
Letter 3
7
110
173
72
141
Subject
Hours of Work:
Bereavement Leave...........
Call-Out....................
Collar to Collar............
Distribution of Overtime....
Floating Holiday............
Hoisting Schedule...........
Holiday Pay.................
Holidays....................
Jury Duty...................
Overtime....................
Overtime Calculation........
Paid Personal Days..........
Shift - Change of...........
Shift Premiums..............
Standby Pay.................
Temporary Assignment........
Weekend Premiums............
Work - Non-Available........
Work on a Holiday...........
Impractical Provision re Laws
Investigatory Suspension....
Job Classes
Supp. to Schedule "B".......
Job Evaluation..............
Section
22.18
22.04
22.15 22.03
22.07
22.15 22.09 22.06 22.19
22.01-	22.03
22.01-	22.02
22.07 22.13 22.11
22.05
22.16 22.12 22.17
22.08
33.01
8.01
24.01
Pg
80
71 78 70
72 78 74
72 81 70
70
73
78 77
71
79 77
80
74
125
25
132
88
Job Posting
15.01-15.02	43
17.01	60
Subject
Job Selection.................
Factors in Promotion..........
Familiarization Period........
General.......................
Mines.......................
Skilled Trades................
Temporary Promotion and
Demotion....................
Joint Job Evaluation..........
Joint Job Evaluation
Committee.....................
Jury Duty.....................
'Laid Off Employees' and 'IndividualsVs 'Employee&....
Lay-Offs......................
Close Down..................
Demotions...................
Leader's Rate.................
Leaves of Absence:
Adoption....................
Bereavement...................
Maternity.....................
Parental......................
Personal Business.............
Union Business................
Letters.......................
Section
16.01-16.07
16.01.16.02
16.05
16.07
16.03
16.03
16.05-16.06
Letter 34
2.04 (e) 22.19
Letter 30
12.01
Letter 15 12.02 12.01
Letter 17 19.01-19.03
19.03 22.18
19.03
19.03
19.03 19.01 Letter 32 Schedule "Q"
Pg
53
53
58
58
55
53
58
163
6
81
161
36 148
37 36
153
63 67 80 65 67
64 63
163
138
Subject
Management Rights............
Maternity Leave..............
Medicals.....................
Mineral Processing Division...
Mines Bonus..................
Mines Division...............
Nickel Bonus.................
No Cessation of Work.........
No Discrimination............
No Guarantee of Work.........
No Lockout orStrika..........
Occupation and Job Class Schedule:
Mines Division...............
Mineral Processing...........
Skilled Trades/Services Division.....................
Opportunity To Train.........
Overtime.....................
Calculation of...............
Distribution of..............
Paid Holidays................
Paid Holidays-Steady Night Schedule.....................
Section
4.01 19.03 28.02
11.01 9.01-9.03 11.01 Letter 48 6.01
3.01 22.20
6.01
15.01
22.01-	22.03
22.01-	22.02 22.10 22.03
22.06-22.09
Letter 22
Paid Personal Days.......... 22.07 (b)
Pg
9
64
111
35
29
35
185
11
7
82
11
132
133
135
49
70
70
76
70
72
156
73
Subject
Parental Leave...............
Pay Grievances...............
Personal Days - Paid.........
Personal Matters.............
Pension and Health Benefits:
Differences..................
Extent of Coverage...........
Pension Plan.................
Posting Vacancies............
Premiums:
Shift........................
Weekend....................
Probationary Employees.......
Procedures-Disability Benefits
Promotion Factors............
Protective Clothing..........
Qualifying Day...............
Recall.......................
Recognition..................
Re-opener Provisions.........
Retransfer...................
Right to Refuse to Perform
Unsafe Work................
Safety and Health:
Committees.................
Medicals.....................
Section
19.03
7.13
22.07 (b) 7.15
29.02
29.03
29.01
15.01
22.11
22.12
20.01
Letter 24 16.01-16.02
Letter 2
22.06
22.09
14.01-14.02
2.01
34.01
13.01
Letter 40 28.01-28.10 28.01 28.02
pg
65
21
73 22
116
116
115
43
77
77
68
157
53
140
72
74 39
1
125
38
174
110
110
111
Subject	Section
Schedule ‘A'...,..,.......,...
Schedule ‘B’..................
Schedule ‘B’ Supplement to...
Schedule ‘Cl’.................
Scope......................... 1.01
Section 11.01,
Divisions/Departments....... Letter 13
11.01
Section 19.01, Leave of Absence....................... Letter 32
Section 20.01, Probationary
Employee......................*....
Section 22.02, Hours of Work
Seniority:......................
Definitions...................
Lists of Seniority............
Loss of Seniority and Credited Service..............
Service.........................
Letter 23 Letter 18
10.01-	10.04
10.01-	10.02 10.04
10.03
10.02
Sewage Disposal Plant OperatoratLockerby................ Letter	28
Shift Change....................... 22.13
Shift Scheduling - Committee..	Letter	47
Pg
127
131
132 138
1
147
35
163
156
154
32
32 34
33 32
160
78
183
Subject
Shift Scheduling - Smelter.. . Shift Premiums....................
Sickness & Accident Benefits vs Vacation Pay at Year End.. Sickness and Accident
Insurance.........................
Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan
Commencement......................
Sickness and Accident Insurance Plan Eligibility........
Single Arbitrators Board of
Arbitrators.......................
Skilled Trades and Apprentices.......................
Skilled Trades/Services Division..........................
Section
Letter 46 22.11
Letter 12
29.03
Letter 20 Letter 19 Letter 33
25.01-	25.16 11.01
25.01-	25.16
Stage One & Stage Two
Meetings.................... Letter 5
Stewards and Committeemen 7.16-7.21
31.02
Students.................... Letter 1
Student Rate of Pay......... Letter 44
Subpoenaed Witness..........	22.19
Supplement to Schedule "B"...
Pg
178
77
146
116
135
154
163
93
35
93
142
22
124
140
177
81
132
Subject
SupplementarySemiPrivate
Plan, Article 29.03(a)......
Suspension....................
Technological Change..........
Temporary Demotions and
Promotions..................
Temporary Transfer............
Termination of Agreement
Time Off for Union Reps for JJE...........................
Tools.........................
Townsite-Gardeners............
Tradesperson and Apprentice
Training......................
Training Opportunity..........
Transfer Window...............
Transfers.....................
Travel Allowance..............
Union Dues....................
Union Membership..............
Union Recognition.............
Section
Letter 27 8.01
23.01
16.06
22.16
17.01
35.01
Letter 14
Letter 6 Letter 26
25.01
21.01 Letter 29
15.01 Letter 9
18.01 22.04
Letter 21
5.01
3.01-3.03
2.01
pg
160
25
82
58 79 60 126 14 7
142
159 93 69
160
49
144
61
71
155
10
7
1
Subject	Section	Pg
Union Security............. 5.01	10
Unsafe Work - Right to Refuse Letter 40	174
to Perform...............
Vacancies - Filling......... Letter 45	177
Vacations (Annual):..........
Bonus.......................
Commencement...............
Entitlement.................
Interruption of Service.....
Pay.........................
Scheduling..................
Termination of Employment... Time of Granting...........
27.01-	27.09
27.08
27.03
27.01-	27.02
27.04 27.01 27.07
27.05-27.06
27.09 27.06
102
105
103
102
103 102
105
104
106
105
Vacations ( S p e c i a I) .	27.10
Vacation Relief
1998,1999,2000........... Letter 25
106
158
Wage Rates
Apprentice....
Student.......
Schedule ‘B’	131
Schedule'D'	137
Letter 44	177
Wages........................ 30.01
Warnings..................... 8.03
Weekend Premium................. 22.12
Welders - Additional Tickets.. Letter 35 Work - Right to Refuse to Perform Unsafe............... Letter 40
119
28
77
165
174
Subject	Section	Pg
Working Together			 Letter 41	175
Welder - Skills Loss			 Letter 36	165
Work Week			 22.21	82
1997
JANUARY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED 1	THU 2	FRI 3	SAT 4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
MARCH
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23 30	24 31	25	26	27	28	29
MAY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU 1	FRI 2	SAT 3
4	5	6	7	6	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
FEBRUARY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	
APRIL
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	26	29	30			
JUNE
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22 29	23 30	24	25	26	27	28
SUN MON TUES
6	7	8
13	14	15
20	21	22
27	28	29
THU FRI SAT
3	4	5
10	11	12
17	18	19
24	25	26
31
JULY
WED
2
9
16
23
30
AUGUST
SUN	MON	TUES	WEO	THU	FRI 1	SAT 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24 31	25	26	27	28	29	30
SEPTEMBER
SUN	MON 1	TUES 2
7	8	9
14	15	16
21	22	23
28	29	30
THU	FRI	SAT
4	5	6
11	12	13
18	19	20
25	26	27
WED
3
10
17
24
OCTOBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED 1	THU 2	FRI 3	SAT 4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
NOVEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23^	24	25	26	27	28	29
DECEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
1998
JANUARY |
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU 1	FRI 2	SAT 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
FEBRUARY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	26
MARCH
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
APRIL
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	26	29	30		
MAY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24 31	25	26	27	28	29	30
JULY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED 1	THU 2	FRI 3	SAT 4
5	6	7	6	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31	
SEPTEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
		1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30			
JUNE
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
AUGUST
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23 30	24 31	25	26	27	28	29
OCTOBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU 1	FRI 2	SAT 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
NOVEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES
1	2	3
8	9	10
15	16	17
22	23	24
29	30	
THU	FRI	SAT
5	6	7
12	13	14
19	20	21
26	27	28
WED
4
11
18
25
DECEMBER
SUN MON
6	7
13	14
20 21 27	28
TUES	WED
1	2
8	9
15	16
22	23
29	30
THU FRI
3	4
10 11 17	18
24	25
31
SAT
5
12
19
26
1999
JANUARY
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
FEBRUARY
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
APRIL
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
1
2
4
11 12 18	19
26
5	6	7	8	9
2	13	14	15	16
20	21	22	23
27	28	29	30
JUNE
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	iTHU	FRI	SAT
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23 30	24 31	25	26	27	28	29
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI
1	2	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	as	29	30
SAT
5
12
19
26
JULY
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU 1	FRI 2	SAT 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
16	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
NOVEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
AUGUST
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
OCTOBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI 1	SAT 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
DECEMBER
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
2000
JANUARY
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
3	4	5	6
10	11	12	13
17	18	19	20
24 31	25	26	27
FRI SAT		SUN
7 8		6
14 15		13
21 22		20
28 29		27
FEBRUARY
SUN MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
1	2	3	4	5
7	8	9	10	11	12
14	15	16	17	18	19
21	22	23	24	25	26
28	29
		MARCH				
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	26	29	30	31	
MAY
SUN	MON	TUES
	1	2
7	6	9
14	15	16
21	22	23
28	29	30
24
31
		APRIL				
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23 30	24	25	26	27	28	29
JULY
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
13	14
20 21 27	28
JUNE
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
1
s
15
22
28	29	30
AUGUST
SUN MON TUES WED THU FRI SAT
1	2	3	4	5
9 16 23 30
7
14
21
28
15
22
29
10
17
24
31
7
SEPTEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI 1	SAT 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
NOVEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30		
OCTOBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI	SAT
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
6	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31				
DECEMBER
SUN	MON	TUES	WED	THU	FRI 1	SAT 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24 31	25	26	27	28	29	30