INCO LIMITED, MANITOBA DIVISION
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 6166
00181(06)
Collective Bargaining Agreement
TABLE OF CONTENTS
STATEMENT ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT Preamble
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS Basic Rate
1.02	Department
1.03	Employee
1.04	Probationary Employee
1.05	Seniority And Seniority Ranking
1.06	Masculine & Feminine ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION
3.02	Supervisors Not To Perform Work Of Employees
3.03	Contracting Out
3.04	Temporary Staff ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK
6.01-6.05 Hours Of Work - Shift, Day, Week
6.06	CollarTo Collar
6.07	4 Hour Minimum
6.08-6.09 Call-Out
6.	K) Lunches On Overtime
6.11-6.15 Extended Shift Schedules
ARTICLE 7 - OVERTIME
7.01	Daily Overtime
7.02-7.02A Weekly Overtime
7.03	Distribution
7.04	Application Of Overtime Rate
7.05	Change In RDO Or Shift
7.06	Application Of Overtime Rate, Change Of RDO Or Shift
7.07	Banking of Overtime ARTICLE 8 -WAGES
8.01	Wages
8.02	New Classifications
8.03	Wage Inequality
8.04	Shift Premium
8.05	Sunday Premium
8.0	6 Temporary Assignment To Lower Classification
7
8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9 9
10
10
I	0
II 12 12 13
13
14 14
14
15
15
16 16 16
17
18 18 18 19 19 19 19
19
20 20 20
Page 1
8.07	Permanent Assignment To Lower Classification
8.08	Jury Duty Supplement
8.09-8.10 Bereavement Leave
ARTICLE 9 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
9.01-	9.03 General
9.04-9.06 CWS Committee
9.07	Settlement Of Differences
9.08	CWS Trades Tests
9.09	Delete Garage Mechanic ARTICLE 10 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01-	10.03 General
10.04	Notice Of Change
10.05- 10.06 Affected Employees	.
10.07	Technological Change Committee
ARTICLE 11 - MINES INCENTIVE BONUS
11.01-	11.03 Incentive Committees, Meetings
11.04	Time Off And Pay For Committee
11.05	Incorrect Calculation SubjectTo Grievance
11.06	Notice Of Change
11.07	New Mines Incentive System ARTICLE 12 - REGULAR VACATIONS
12.02	Definitions
12.03-	12.04 Length OfVacations
12.05-	12.09 Vacation Pay
12.10	Time Of Vacation 12.10A Partial Vacation List
12.11	Optional Leave Without Pay
12.12	Retiree Vacation Pay
12.13-12.14 Work Hour Definition
ARTICLE 13 - SPECIAL VACATIONS
13.01	Entitlement
13.02	Payout Week
13.03	Length Of Special Vacation
13.04-	13.06 Special Vacation Pay
13.07-13.12 Time Of Special Vacation Granted
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	General Holidays
14.02	Holidays Worked
14.03-14.07 Holidays Not Worked
14.08	Notice To Employees
14.09	General Holiday Work Preference ARTICLE 15-SENIORITY
15.01	Recognition
15.02	Giving Of Preference
20
21
21
22
22
22
23
23
23
23
23
24
25
26 26 26 27 27 27
27
28 28 28
30
31
32
32
33
33
34 34 34 34
34
35 35
35
36 36 38
38
39 39 39
Page 2
15.03	Probationary Employee Rights
15.04-	15.06 Transfers Out Of A Department
15.07	Job Posting - Mechanical and Electrical Departments
15.08-15.09 Promotions And Demotions
15.10-	15.11 Job Postings
15.12	Lay Off Over 30 Days
15.13	Severance Provisions
15.14	Lay Off, Temporary 15.15-15.19 Recall 15.20-15.21 Loss Of Seniority 15.22-15.25 General
15.26	Sick Leave
ARTICLE 16 -TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ARTICLE 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS ARTICLE 18 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
ARTICLE 19 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEEMEN, UNION STEWARDS AND FULL
TIME UNION POSITIONS
ARTICLE 20 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01-	20.04 Difference Between EmployeesAnd Company
20.05	Difference Between Union And Company
20.06	Extension Of Time Limits
20.07	Management Representative Stage One ARTICLE 21 - ARBITRATION
ARTICLE 22 - MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT TRADES AND POWER ENGINEERS
22.01-	22.05 Trades
22.06-22.09 Power Engineers
22.10	Incentive For Study Courses
22.11-	22.16 Apprentices
22.17	Trades Upgrade/Committee
22.18	Heavy Duty Mechanic
22.19	Heavy Duty Reassignment
22.20	Review of Heavy Duty Qualifications
22.21	Application to Heavy Duty Mechanic
22.23	Layoff of Heavy Duty or Maintenance Mech. by Seniority
22.24	Filling a Vacant Position
22.25	Apprenticeship - Work Experience
22.26	Application to Apprenticeship & Training
22.27	Amendment to 22.14 (Completes)
ARTICLE 23 - GENERAL TRAINING
23.01-	23.04 Training During Working Hours
23.05-	23.06 Home Study
ARTICLE 23A - “TRADE QUALIFIED”(T.Q.) TRADESMAN ARTICLE 23B -APPRENTICE MINERS
39
39
41
42
44
45
45
46
46
47 47 49 49
49
50
51 54
54
55
55
56 56
58
58
58
59
59
60 60 60 61 61 61 61 61 62 62 62 62 63
63
64
Page 3
ARTICLE 24 - EDUCATIONAL LEAVE	65
ARTICLE 25 - MATERNITY LEAVE	66
ARTICLE 26 - PUBLIC OFFICE LEAVE	67
ARTICLE 27 - NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS	67
ARTICLE 28 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT	67
28.01- 28.02 Safety, Health and Environment	67
28.03 Departments,H & E Committees	68
28.03A Pay For Departments, H & E Committees	68
28.04	Divisions, H& E Committee	68
28.04A Pay For Division S, H & E Committees	69
28.05	Serious Accident Or Incident	69
28.06	Accident During Work Hours, Pay	70
28.07	Company Required Medical	70
28.08	Summary Of Injuries	70
28.09-28.10 S, H & E Committee Training	70
28.11-28.11A Environmental Information Exchange Committee	70
28.12	Placement Committee	71
28.12A Rehabilitation Committee	71
28.13	Worker Safety Representative Duties	72
28.14	Union Co-chair Division Safety, Health And Environment Duties	73
ARTICLE 28A RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK	73
ARTICLE 28B: RIGHT TO AN OBSERVER DURING WORKPLACE MONITORING AND SAMPLING	74
ARTICLE 29 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS	74
29.01-	29.02 Union Activities On Company Property	74
29.03	Bulletin Boards	75
ARTICLE 30 - PENSION PLAN AND SECURITY FUND PLAN	75
ARTICLE 31 - INSURANCE BENEFITS	76
ARTICLE 32 - COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE	76
ARTICLE 33 -EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM	78
ARTICLE 34 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT	78
Signatures	78
SCHEDULE “A” DEPARTMENTS	79
SCHEDULE “B" STANDARD HOURLY WAGE SCALE	80
APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING WAGE	SCALE	81
(con't)	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING WAGE SCALE
82
DEPARTMENT SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT
SCHEDULE “C" SCHEDULED”
SCHEDULED COMMITTEES
SCHEDULE “E” DEPARTMENTAL WORKING AREAS SCHEDULED” Worker Safety Representative Work Locations SCHEDULE “G”
Heavy Duty Mechanic to Maintenance Mechanic Ratio APPENDIX C Group Prescription Plan
83
84
85
86 86 89
Page 4
APPENDIX D Group Dental Plan	90
APPENDIX E Group Optical Plan	91
APPENDIX F Pension Plan	92
Benefit Entitlement for Service On or After October 1, 1999 (Expressed in Dollars)
145
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October 1, 2000 ** (Expressed in Dollars)	146
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October 1,2001 ** (Expressedin Dollars)	147
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 1999 For	Disability Retirements*	93
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1,2000 For	Disability Retirements*	94
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 2000 For	Disability Retirements*	95
APPENDIX G Nickel Price Bonus	96
APPENDIX H Conflict Resolution Coordinator- Job	Description	97
APPENDIX I Joint Problem Solving Facilitator- Job	Description	99
APPENDIX J Worker Safety Representative- Job Description	101
APPENDIX K UNION Co-chair Division Safety, Health and Environment Job Description	103
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT	105
Security Fund Plan	106
Article 18 -Written Reprimand	108
Clause 15.09 - Working During Vacation	109
Summer Employment of Students	110
Apprenticeship T raining	111
Steelworker's Humanity Fund	112
Union Orientation	113
In-Term Meetings	114
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee	115
Trades Enhancement	116
Steelworker's Benevolence/Education Fund	117
Expedited Arbitration	118
Let Every Adult Read Now(L.E.A.R.N.)	120
Joint Problem Solving Committee	121
Controlled Products Inventory	123
EmploymentTransition Committee	124
Recall Name List to Contractors	126
EvaluateS.E.S. system-Mines	127
Vacation and Special Vacation Scheduling Mines	Extended Shift	128
Intradepartmental Force Adjustment-3 Flowcharts	130
Development of Safety Policies, Programs and Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI) - Flowchart	134
135
Success Sharing Letter	136
Success Sharing - Audit Letter	140
Page 5
Overtime Distribution Process - Flowchart Security Fund Plan Committee- Clairca Bi-weekly Payroll 131 INDEX
141
143
144 127
Page 6
nIE E. 1 ON SFXl .MS	3a/
Inco Limited, Manitoba Division and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 6166, are jointly committed to maintain a work environment that is free of sexual harassment. Sexual harassment will not be tolerated and any person who is in breach of this policy will be subject to disciplinary action or discharge.
Inco Limited, Manitoba Division will not knowingly permit the sexual harassment of any person and will take all reasonable steps to terminate such harassment, as required under the Human Rights Code of Manitoba.
Sexual harassment is any unsolicited and unwelcome sexually oriented behaviour.
It may include but is not limited to the following:
-	unwanted sexual attention of a persistent or abusive nature, made by a person who knows or ought reasonably to know that such attention is unwanted; or
-	implied or expressed promise of reward for complying with a sexually oriented request; or
-	implied or expressed threat of reprisal, in the form either of actual reprisal or the denial of opportunity, for refusal to comply with a sexually oriented request; or
-	unwelcome remarks, jokes, innuendos, propositions, or taunting about a person's body, attire, sex or sexual orientation; or
-	displaying of pornographic or sexist pictures or materials.
An individual who is being subjected to any form of sexual harassment may tell the offender that what is being said or done is offensive and ask that such behaviour stop or report the incident, at the earliest opportunity, to a union steward or committeeman, or a supervisor or other management personnel.
Page 7
Preamble
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the1 Oth day of December 1999;
BETWEEN:
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION, (hereinafter called "the Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART and -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166, (hereinafter called “the Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS by certificate of The Manitoba Labour Board dated the 31st of May, 1962, it was certified that the Union is the properly chosen bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in the Thompson, Manitoba operations except office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, foremen, shift bosses and those excluded by The Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
AND WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Union and the Company to further harmonious industrial relationships between the Company and those employees:
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
Basic Rate
1.1	The expression “basic rate” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean at any time with respect to any employee that straight time rate per hour, (exclusive of all premium
pay such as holiday pay, shift premium, Sunday premium and overtime) to which such employee is entitled under the terms of this Agreement in respect of the work which he is performing at such time.
1.02	Department
1.2	The word “department” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the departments as set forth in Schedule " Ahereto.
1.03	Employee
1.3	The word “employee” or “employees” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean all
Page 8
employees of the Company in its Thompson and other operations north of the 53rd parallel
of latitude in Manitoba except office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Foremen and
those excluded by The Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
1.04	Probationary Employee
1.4	Until an employee has worked at least three hundred and thirty-six (336) hours since the date of his most recent hiring he shall be a "probationary employee” and the words "probationary employee’ wherever used in this Agreement shall have that meaning.
105 Seniority And Seniority Ranking
1.05(a) The word “seniority” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee’s length of continuous employment with the Company since the date of his most recent hiring, less the periods to be subtracted under Clause 15.20.
1.05(b) The word "seniority ranking” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the relative seniority of an employee to others in the department in which he is then employed.
1.06	Masculine& Feminine
1.06	Whenever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement it shall also mean the feminine gender, unless the context requires otherwise.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Union recognizes that it is exclusively the function and right of the Company to direct the working forces and to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend or lay off employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause.
2.02	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the sole and exclusive prerogative of the Company to decide on the location of its plants and mines, the products to be mined and/or processed, the schedules of production, the methods of mining and processing used, the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, operating techniques, methods, machinery and equipment, and to exercise jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery and tools.
2.03	The Company agrees that any exercise of rights and powers under this Article in conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 3 ■ UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes that the Union is the bargaining agent of the employees and has the exclusive authority to bargain collectively on their behalf with respect to rates of pay, hours of work, and terms and conditions of
Page 9
employment of employees as set out in The Labour Relations Act.
3.02	Supervisors Not To Perform Work Of Employees
1.2	Subject to the requirements of operations, (including necessary instruction of employees and any cases of an emergency nature) Foremen, supervisors, and other persons employed by the Company but not employees as defined in this Agreement shall not perform work which is normally done by employees, where employees are reasonably available to do such work.
3.03	Contracting Out
3.03	The Company understands that the Union has a legitimate concern about contracting out because of its effect upon such matters as job security and job opportunity and will therefore use its best efforts to minimize the amount of production or maintenance work to be contracted out.
The Union understands that the Company has a legitimate concern about the efficiency of the operation and that sometimes it is necessary to contract work out.
Accordingly, work may be contracted out if:
(a)	it has been consistently performed by contractors in the past; or
(b)	qualified Company employees are not available in sufficient numbers to perform the work or when special skills, equipment or tools are required to perform the work; or
(c)	it is work of an emergency nature provided, however, that in the case of work of an emergency nature, the Company will, where practicable, give reasonable consideration to the use of employees who have the necessary skills to perform such work.
Some examples of work which will be contracted out are major capital projects, major construction, shaft sinking and related development, and specialized work such as stack inspection and repair.
A joint “Contracting Out Committee” will be established for the purpose of reviewing work currently contracted out and any planned contracting out of work. The Union representatives on the Committee may make recommendations which must be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The Committee will consist of the President cf the Local Union or his designate, a representative of United Steelworkers of America and three members of the bargaining unit to be chosen by the Union, as well as a Manager and the senior Central Maintenance Supervisor or their designates and up to three persons chosen by the Company.
The Committee will meet as often as they deem necessary but not less than once
Page 10
each month.
The Company will inform the Union Co-chair as soon as possible that work of an emergency nature is being contracted out. The Company will use its best efforts to keep such work to a minimum.
The Company agrees to provide the Committee with the following information regarding work that is contracted out or work planned to be contracted out: location of the work; type of work to be done; crafts or occupations involved; expected duration; numbers of both contract employees and bargaining unit employees to be used.
The Company will use its best efforts to:
(a)	give the Union thirty (30) days notice of work to be contracted out; and
(b)	hold a meeting in the first quarter of each year to review contracting out activities from the previous twelve (12) month period and major contracts to be awarded
or renewed in the current year; and
(c)	review with the Committee vacation and shutdown work to be contracted out prior to a vacation or production shutdown.
If ongoing, sustained need for new skills, not currently available in the Company, is identified, the Company will use its best efforts to train sufficient employees in such skills.
’The Union and the Company agree that they will jointly examine means, including but not limited to training, to increase mine development efficiencies by Inco employees, with the intent of increasing the potential for reducing the amount of mine development work to be contracted out.
No employee will be demoted or laid off as a direct result of work being contracted out by the Company.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members of the joint Contracting Out Committee.
3.04	Temporary Staff
3.04	Except with the consent of the Union, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, during the last thirty (30) days of the term of this Agreement the Company will not transfer any member of the bargaining unit to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Foreman or any position in which the individual is not an “employee” within the meaning of The Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.j01 The Company shall, during the life of this Agreement, deduct as a condition of each
Page 11
employee’s continued employment, Union dues in the amount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union Constitution, and remit the same in the week following the pay period in which such deduction is made to the International Treasurer, United Steelworkers of America accompanied by a completed form R-115 except that the line “3. Earnings $” shall not be completed.
The Company will, at the time of remittance, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted and name the employees whose employment has terminated in the period for which payment is being made.
1.2	The said deductions shall commence, in the case of each employee who is in the employment of the Company at the effective date of this Agreement, with the month
of September, 1999 and, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the month of hire if five (5) or more days are worked. In the event five (5) or more days are not worked in the month of hire, the said deductions will commence with the month following the month of hire.
1.2	Commencing March 1, 2000, the Company will on or before March 1st in each year furnish to each employee a statement of the total Union dues which have been deducted
from such employee’s pay cheques and remitted to the Union during the preceding calendar year.
1.2	In Clause 4.05 “Temporary Staff Employee” means an employee who is temporarily transferred to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, or Foreman.
1.2	In the week following each pay period that would have been a pay period for a Temporary Staff Employee if he had not been a Temporary Staff Employee, the Company shall remit to the Financial Secretary of the Union an amount equal to the Union dues that would have been remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union under Clause 4.01
with respect to that Temporary Staff Employee if he had not been a Temporary Staff Employee in that pay period.
ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION
5.01	The parties mutually agree that any employee of the Company may become a member of the Union if he wishes to do so, and may refrain from becoming or remaining a member of the Union if he so desires.
5.02	The parties mutually agree that there shall be no discrimination or harassment by either of them or by any members of the Union against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union or by reason of the employee’s sex, race, national origin, colour, religion, political belief, age, sexual orientation, family status, marital status, mental disability, physical handicap, or because an employee has or has not engaged in lawful union activity specifically provided for under this Agreement. The parties also agree that no employee should be subjected to sexual
Page 12
harassment.
5.03	The parties mutually agree that employees have a right to work in an environment	/
free from sexual harassment. The Company will take whatever action it deems necessary to maintain such a working environment. The action taken by the Company may include discipline and/or the termination of the employment of any person engaging in the sexual harassment of another person.
An employee may initiate a grievance alleging sexual harassment under the grievance procedure.
Where the alleged harasser is the person who would normally deal with the grievance, the complaint will automatically be advanced to the next stage of the grievance procedure.
Complaints of alleged sexual harassment will be handled with all possible confidentiality.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK
6.01-6.05 Hours Of Work - Shift, Day, Week
1.1	Nothing in this Agreement shall be considered a guarantee of work or of hours of work per day or per week.
6.02	Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half (V2) hour.
6.03	For shift work-
(a)	a day will consist of a series of shifts as scheduled.
(b)	a work week will commence with the day shift on Monday and end with the night shift on the following Sunday;
(c)	on continuous shift operations each employee not be required to work longer
than five (5) consecutive hours without a thirty (30) minute period to eat any 9 ^ meal which period shall be considered as time worked. Such meal may be	i
eaten in a lunchroom.
14 For work other than shift work, a work week will commence with the beginning of a day worker's hours on Monday and terminate at the same time on the following Monday.
1.4	Employees who are not regularly employed as shift workers and are working as day workers shall normally begin work at 8 a.m. However, it is recognized that in order
to maintain efficient operations, certain day workers must begin work earlier or later than that hour. Day workers will be given a lunch period of one-half (1A) hour per day, but such lunch period shall not be considered as time worked. The lunch
Page 13
may be eaten in a lunchroom.
6.06	Collar To Collar
6.06	Hoisting and lowering schedules at ths Company’s mines will be arranged to provide approximately the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, from collar to collar for each shift, but variations which do not occur consistently from such schedules, not exceeding ten (10) minutes, shall be disregarded. Delay time in such schedules in excess of the first ten (10) minutes shall be considered time worked, but not for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Agreement.
6.07	4 Hour Minimum
6.07	When an hourly paid employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at what would have been his basic rate without being required to work the said four (4) hours, but such four (4) hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of Article 7. The provisions of this Clause shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his Foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of his intention to return.
6.08-6.09 Call-Out
6.08	A “call-out” shall mean a request by the Company to an employee to work any time outside such employee’s regularly scheduled working hours other than time immediately following or time (not to exceed one (1) hour) immediately preceding a shift worked by such employee unless he shall have received such request at least sixteen (16) hours before such work is to commence. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement an employee reporting for work on a "call-out” shall be entitled to be paid for work so performed as follows:
(a) if the “call-out” occurs on a day other than a general holiday, or occurs on a general holiday and the work performed is within the hours that would have been his regularly scheduled working hours if he had been scheduled to work on that general holiday, at one and one-half (1^) times his basic rate or for at least four (4) hours at his basic rate, whichever is greater;
(b) if the “call-out” occurs on a general holiday and the work performed is outside the hours that would have been his regularly scheduled working hours if he had been scheduled to work on that general holiday, at two and one-half (2 Vz) times his basic rate or for at least four (4) hours at his basic rate, whichever is greater.
6.09	Transportation to and/or from call-out work will be provided by the Company when public transportation is not reasonably available or when in the opinion of the Company the urgency of the call-out work so requires it.
Page 14
<0 (0
.10 Lunches On Overtime
.10 An employee who continues working after completing his regular shift and then
works more than two (2) hours overtime, shall be provided by the Company with a Qi lunch. Should such employee work for more than five (5) hours overtime, he shall ^ be provided by the Company with an additional lunch, which lunch or lunches may be eaten in a lunchroom.
The Company will use its best efforts to supply a hot lunch for the first lunch. The additional lunchwill consist of a sandwich/beverage combination.
6.11-6.15 Extended Shift Schedules
1.11	Subject to Clause 6.12, the Company and the Union mutually agree that the Company may give effect to shift schedules which alter or exceed the daily and/or weekly hours of	>
work described elsewhere in this agreement. These schedules shall be termed $fr£/s} Extended Shift Schedules and are defined as:
A schedule of shifts in excess of eight (8) hours each, but not to exceed twelve (12) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, without the payment of wages at overtime rates provided, however, that the average weekly hours worked over the cycle of the schedule of shifts will not exceed forty (40) and if it does the hours in excess of forty (40) will be paid at overtime rate. The "cycle of the schedule of shifts” means the number of weeks that pass before the schedule repeats itself, which number of weeks shall not exceed eight (8) without prior consultation with the Union.
An hourly-paid employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule pursuant to this Clause 6.11 shall be paid at one and one-half (1 14) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of his Extended Shift Schedule hours at his basic rate in his work day, except where such excess time is worked by him due to his regularly scheduled change of shift and, where applicable shall be entitled to off-shift premium in accordance with Clause 8.04.
6.12	When an Extended Shift Schedule is planned for any group of employees of a Department (as set out in Schedule "Ahereto) the Joint Problem Solving Committee shall establish, for each Department affected, a Shift Schedule Committee that shall consist of a representative of the Joint Problem Solving Committee and two (2) representatives, appointed by the Union, from among the employees affected.
When the Company plans to implement an Extended Shift Schedule, the Manager of the Department or his designate and no more than two (2) other individuals appointed by the Company shall present to the Shift Schedule Committee, and to the employees involved, information pertinent to the planned implementation.
Within one (1) calendar week of such presentation, the Shift Schedule Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of specific concerns relating to the implementation plan. The Company shall give substantial weight and careful consideration to the concerns in its decision making process.
Page 15
Provisions of Clause 19.04 shall apply to the Union representatives of the Shift Schedule Committee.
6.13	Subject to Clause 6.01, the Company will schedule a minimum weekly average cf forty (40) hours for employees working on an Extended Shift Schedule.
6.14	The Company will not schedule an employee to work in excess of sixteen (16) consecutive hours and will use its best efforts to minimize the occurrence of employees working in excess of sixteen (16) consecutive hours.
ARTICLE 7 - OVERTIME
7.01	Daily Overtime
1.1	An hourly-paid employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule shall be paid at one and one-half (1 Vi) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the number of hours he was scheduled to work at his basic rate on that day.
7.02-7.02A Weekly Overtime
7.02	Where the average weekly hours worked by an employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule exceeds forty (40) hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts as defined in Clause 6.11, he shall be paid at one and one-half (1 Vi) times his basic rate for the hours in excess of forty (40), except that:
(a)	when a general holiday occurs in his regularly scheduledwork week but does not occur on his regular day off he shall be paid at one and one-half (1 Vi) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the difference between forty (40) and the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that general holiday, and
(b)	when two general holidays occur in his regularly scheduled work week but neither occurs on what is a regular day off for him, he shall be paid at one and one-half (1 Vi) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the difference between forty (40) and the number of hours he was scheduled to work on both of those general holidays
7.02A Subject to Clause 7.02 and Clause 7.06, an employee shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) times his basic rate for time worked outside his regularly scheduledwork hours in any week provided that any time not worked during his regularly scheduled work hours;
j) is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
ii)	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice; or
iii)	is pursuant to leave of absence granted by the Company; or
Page 16
iv)	is due to vacation granted pursuant to Article 12 ; or
v)	is due to Special vacation granted pursuant to Article 13; or 1.
vi)	is due to a holiday with pay granted pursuantto Clause 14.03.
7.03	Distribution
7.03	When the Company requires overtime work to be performed, other than work
pursuant to a "call-out”, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, distribute such work as evenly as practicable among the employees in the working group which normally performs the work, who are qualified to perform the work, considering the availability and wishes of employees who have the necessary qualifications.	\J
Prior to the offering of overtime the Company will make temporary promotions in accordance with Clause 15.09.
For the purposes of this Clause 7.03 an overtime opportunity shall be any time, except a "call-out”, outside an employee’s regularly scheduled working hours regardless of the rate of pay the employee receives for working or would have received had he worked such time.
Preference in the offering of overtime will be given first to the qualified employee in the working group with the least overtime recorded, if he is readily available, and, if he is not, or if he is not contacted for any reason, preference in the offering of overtime will be given to him at the next opportunity. If any employee refuses to work overtime offered to him, he shall not receive any pay for those overtime hours but they shall be added to his record of accumulated overtime hours for the purpose of overtime distribution.
In the event of overtime work being required in a trade the work will first be offered to employees in that trade in the working group (which is the trade that normally performs the work) and then to employees in the required trade in the Departmental Working Area listed in Schedule "E” before being offered to other qualified employees.
For the purposes of this Clause 7.03 “working group” is generally defined as that group of employees reporting to a first line supervisor. However, where shift sequences or supervisory coverage requires otherwise, the employees reporting to a first line supervisor may constitute two (2) or more working groups. The Company and the Union will agree on any working groups which do not conform to this definition.
Upon request to his immediate supervisor, an employee, accompanied if he so desires by a Union Steward, may examine the record of his immediate supervisor pertaining to overtime distribution within the employee’s working group.
Page 17
The record pertaining to overtime distribution for each working group will be posted each month in a suitable location.
Once a month during the first year of this Agreement and once a quarter thereafter, at the request of the Union, the Manager of Employee Relations and/or other designated officials of the Company shall meet with two (2) representatives of the Union to review the records of overtime distribution. The Union shall notify the Company at least five (5) working days prior to any such meeting of the particular records to be considered thereat. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to time lost shall apply to the two (2) representatives of the Union in attendance at such meetings.
If an employee has a complaint with respect to the record of overtime distribution which he has been unable to resolve with his supervisor and where there is mutual agreement, the parties will discuss the matter at the aforementioned meeting prior to such complaint being advanced through the grievance procedure.
7.04	Application Of Overtime Rate
1.4	Except as provided in Clause 6.08 or Clause 14.02 under the provisions of which an employee may be entitled to be paid at two and one-half (2 Vi) times his basic rate,
no employee paid on an hourly basis shall be entitled, apart from off-shift premium and Sunday premium, to more than one and one-half (1 Vi) times his applicable basic rate for any hours worked by him.
7.05	Change In RDO Or Shift
7.05	Any change in an employee's regular day off schedule or shift schedule shall be posted, or an employee instructed to that effect, not later than the end of his shift on the Friday prior to the work week in which the change is to take effect.
7.06	Application Of Overtime Rate, Change Of RDO Or Shift
7.06	Should an employee be instructed by the Company, during his work week or on the Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the commencement of such work week, to change his day off or days off in that work week to another day or days in that work week, he shall be considered as having worked his normal working hours on the previously scheduled day or days at what would have been his basic rate, but for the purpose only of ascertaining whether such employee shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) times his basic rate for any other time actually worked by him.
Any change or changes to an employee's normal shift schedule at the Company's instruction given during his work week or on the Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the commencement of such work week will entitle the employee to be considered as having worked the originally scheduled hours that were changed in that work week at what would have been his basic rate, but for the purpose only of ascertaining whether such employee shall be paid at one and one-half (11/4) times his basic rate for any other time actually worked by him.
This Clause 7.06 does not apply to changes of shift schedules made to
Page 18
accommodate employee training.
7.07	Banking of Overtime
7.07	Each employee who works overtime has the option of receiving pay for such work at the applicable overtime rate, or banking the time worked at the applicable basic rate and receiving pay for one-half (14) of the time worked at the applicable basic rate, provided that he does not have sufficient vacation entitlement to cover the vacation shutdown period.
Such time will be taken in conjunction with the next vacation shutdown and, if applicable, the Company will deduct from the pay for such time an amount equal to the employee’s contribution to the Security Fund Plan and the Company shall contribute to the Security Fund Plan an amount in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in such Plan.
If for any reason the employee is not required to use the banked time to cover the vacation shutdown period he will receive payment for such banked time at the applicable basic rate.
Subject to Clause 7.02A, such time off will not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Article 7.
ARTICLE 8 -WAGES
8.01	Wages
8.01	The wage rates per hour set forth in the applicable table in Schedule “B" hereto, shall be paid commencing on December 10, 1999.
8.02	New Classifications
8.02	In the event that any new occupational classification shall be established by the Company during the currency of this Agreement, the Company will fix the rate of pay therefor and shall give prompt notice thereof to the Union. The Union shall have the right, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of such notice, to request a meeting with the Company to discuss the wage rate applicable to the new classification established by the Company. If, as a result of any such discussions, the wage rate applicable to the new classification is changed, then payment of the wage rate as changed shall be made retroactive to the date notice of the new classification was given to the Union.
8.03	Wage Inequality
8.03	Upon receipt of a claim by the Union that a wage rate for a job constitutes an inequality under the existing wage structure, the Company will investigate and review the job and/or the rate therefor. If the Company decides that there should be an increase in such wage rate it will notify the Union and any such increase will be effective from the date of such notification. The Union representatives on the CWS
Page 19
Committee shall be entitled to meet with the Company representatives on the CWS Committee to discuss the wage rates under review. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the CWS Committee in carrying out their duties underthis Clause 8.03.
8.04	Shift Premium
8.04	For all work performed by an employee during afternoon shift hours, (and not within the regular day or night working hours of such employee) he shall be paid an off-shift premium in addition to his basic rate of fifty cents (500) per hour. For all work performed during night shift hours, (and not within the regular day or afternoon working hours of such employee) he shall be paid an off-shift premium of sixty cents (600) per hour in addition to his basic rate. Off-shift premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's basic rate.
8.05	Sunday Premium
8.05	An employee who works during the twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of the day shift on Sunday and ending with the start of the day shift on Monday shall be paid a Sunday premium as follows:
(a)	at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for time worked by him during a regularly scheduled shift,
(b)	at the rate of twenty-five cents (250) per hour for time worked by him that is not during a regularly scheduled shift.
8.06	Temporary Assignment To Lower Classification
8.06	An employee who is temporarily assigned to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his regular occupational classification shall continue to be paid at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification.
Provided that an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.
8.07	PermanentAssignmentTo Lower Classification
8.07	Where an employee who is permanently assigned (for any reason other than willful failure to fill the normal requirements of the job) to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his regular occupational classification, he shall for three (3) months be paid for the work he performs at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification.
During the above three (3) month period:
(a)	he may be required by the Company to accept any training in any occupational classification which is offered to him,
hhU&tr
/I

Page20
(b)	he shall be reassigned, subject to the wishes of employee, to his regular occupational classification in the event of a vacancy, and
(c)	he shall be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department.
If he refuses to accept such training, or to accept any reassignment or to accept any job offered to him by the Company, he shall forthwith cease to be entitled to the benefits of this Clause 8.07.
Where an employee is reassigned under subclause (b) of this Clause 8.07 the provisions of Article 15 with respect to job posting shall not apply to the vacancy to which he is reassigned.
Notwithstanding the foregoing an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.
8.08	Jury Duty Supplement
8.08	An employee who receivesjury duty fees for one or more days underThe Jury Act or The Queen’s Bench Act shall, for each of these days that is a regular work day for him, receive a supplement from the Company so that the total of what he receives from the Company for that day and the jury duty fees he receives for that day is equal to his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day.
8.09-8.10 Bereavement Leave
8.09	Subject to Clause 8.10, a bereavement leave of absence will be granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family. For each day of such leave of
' absence which is a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, he shall be paid his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day.
To qualify for bereavement leave, the employee shall notify his supervisor as soon as possible following the bereavement,
“immediatefamily” shall mean spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law,father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,grandmother,grandfather,spouse’s sister, spouse’s brother,spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather,brother’s spouse, sister’s spouse and employee’s grandchildren.
8.10	For the purpose of Clause 8.09, the leave of absence granted will be as follows:
(i)	if the deceased is the spouse, son or daughter of the employee, the maximum bereavement leave shall be ten (10) consecutive calendar days commencing on the date of death,
(ii)	Subject to Clause 8.10 (iii) and Clause 8.10 (iv), if the deceased is a member of the employee’s immediatefamily other than those in Clause 8.10 (I), the maximum bereavement leave shall be three (3) consecutive calendar days
Page 21
including the day of the funeral.
(iii)	if the funeral of the immediate family member other than those in Clause 8.10 (i) is at a distance greater than 500 kilometres by road from Thompson, and the employee attends the funeral, or where the employee does not attend the funeral because he is required to care for a dependant child or to deal with other family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature and the employee’s spouse attends the funeral, the maximum bereavement leave, including the day of the funeral, will be five (5) consecutive calendar days.
(iv)	in the case of Clause 8.10 (ii) and Clause 8.10 (iii), if the consecutive calendar days of leave include a Sunday which is not a regular working day for the employee, an additional day of bereavement leave will be granted, consecutive with the days already granted.
The Company will grant casual leave without pay to those employees who request such leave as a result of compassionate circumstances or to deal with personal or family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations and other circumstances the Company may take into account.
8.11	Compassionate Leave
8.11
8.11 The Company will grant casual leave without pay to those employees who request such leave as a result of compassionate circumstances or to deal with personal or family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations.
Iy4
ARTICLE 9 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
9.01-9.03 General
9.01	The Co-operative Wage Study Manual (herein referred to as “the Manual”), which was Appendix "A" to the previous Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union, shall be incorporated into this agreement as APPENDIX "Aa nd its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein.
9.02	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected.
9.03	Except as otherwise provided, no employee shall be entitled to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
9.04-9.06 CWS Committee
9.04	There shall be a committee known as the “CWS Committee” consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to represent the Union and three (3) individuals appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its
Page 22
representatives from time to time.
9.05	Meetings of the CWS Committee will be held as mutually agreed but not less than once per month.
9.06	Leaves of absence shall be granted to Union representatives on the CWS
Committee to	the extent required for handling job descriptions and job
classifications during the required stages to administer the Manual. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the members of the CWS Committee, but the Company may at any time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse of the privilege.
9.07	Settlement Of Differences
9.07	If the Company	and the Union fail to reach agreement upon any job description,
classification or	assignment to job class through the procedure provided in the
Manual, such matter shall constitute a difference between the Company and the Union to which Clause 20.05 applies and shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with Article 21.
9.08	CWS Trades Tests
9.08	The Company agrees to interpret the words in Section 5.05(c)(ii) of the manual which reads “an appropriate practical test” to mean “an on the job test” which will not include written tests. The Company understands that any dispute in relation to the development of trade tests will be settled by arbitration under Article 21.
9.09	Delete Garage Mechanic
9.09	The phrase “Garage Mechanic” wherever used in the manual shall be removed and not replaced
ARTICLE 10 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01-10.03 General
10.01	In this Article:
(a)	“technological change” means:
(i)	the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment, material or process of a different nature or kind than that previously used by the Company in the operation of its work, undertaking or business, and
(ii)	a change in the manner in which the Company carries on its work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
(b)	“Years of Service” means the period of time expressed as a number of full years and/or any fraction of a full yearthat the employee has been an employee of the
Page 23
Company since his most recent date of hiring except that:
(i)	the period of any leave of absence granted to the employee under Clause 17.01(a) or Clause 24.01 shall be deducted in computing his "Years of Service”, and
(ii)	where an employee is rehired under Clause 15.15 after having been laid off for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, his “Years of Service” shall be computed as though he had continued in the employment of the Company instead of being so laid off and rehired.
(c)	“Average Basic Rate” cf an employee entitled to payment of the amount described in Clause 10.05(a) or an employee deemed to have a basic rate in Clause 10.05(b) means his total earnings from the Company exclusive of all premium pay such as holiday pay, vacation pay, shift premium, Sunday premium, mines incentive bonus and overtime, for the hours that he worked for the Company in the period of thirty (30) calendar days ending with the last day on which he worked for the Company prior to the date he became affected by the technological change, divided by the total number of hours that he worked for the Company during that period of thirty (30) calendar days.
10.02	The provisions of this Article are intended to assist employees affected by any technological change to adjust to the effects of the technological change.
10.03	Sections 83, 84 and 85 of The Labour Relations Act of Manitoba do not apply during the term of this Agreement to the Company and the Union.
10.04	Notice Of Change
10.04	If the Company decides to effect a technological change that is likely to affect the ,i terms and conditions or the security of employment of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated:
(a) the Company will give the Union written notice of the technological change and will endeavour to give the Union written notice sixty (60) days prior to the technological change coming into effect and will discuss with the Union the steps to be taken to assist the employees affected to adjust to the effects of the technological change;
(b)	if in the opinion of the Union the Company has failed to comply with paragraph (a), the Union may submit this in writing as a difference between the Union and the Company under Clause 20.05 whereupon it shall be decided by arbitration under Article 21 whether or not the Company has effected a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of a significant number of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated; and
(c)	in the arbitration of a difference between the Union and the Company as referred to in paragraph (b),
Page 24
(j) such arbitration shall take priority over any other arbitration then in process,
(ii) the selection of a Chairman from the panel shall be subject to him being able and willing to hear the case within one (1) month from his selection and to render his decision within ten (10) days following the hearing of the case.
10.05-10.06 Affected Employees
10.05	If the Company has given written notice to the Union in accordance with Clause 10.04(a) or if it has been decided by arbitration that the Company has effected a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of a significant number of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated:
(a)	any employee other than a probationary employee who is laid off for a period exceeding ninety (90) days because of the technological change shall, in addition to any other payment he is entitled to on the termination of his /jL employment, be paid an amount equal to forty (40) times his Average Basic Rate multiplied by the Years of Service that he has, and upon being paid the amount he is entitled to under this paragraph (a) he shall cease to have any right of recall under Clause 15.15;
(b)	subject to Clause 10.06, if the Company introduces that technological change in a department, any employee who is employed in the department at the time and who is either transferred from such department as a result of that technological change or who remains in such department and is affected by that technological change by reason of the fact that his occupational classification is discontinued or he is placed in a different occupational classification shall be deemed to have a basic rate which is the greater of:
(i) the basic rate in respect of the work he performs, or (ii) his Average Basic Rate.
10.06	It is a condition of Clause 10.05(b) that any employee who becomes entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b) may at any time be required by the Company:
(a) to accept any training in any occupational classification which is offered to hi by the Company, and
(b) to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the basic rate he is deemed to have under Clause 10.05(b) at the time of posting.
If he refuses to accept such training or if he refuses to accept the promotion upon being named as the successful applicant for any such job, he shall forthwith cease to be entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b). If within ten (IO) days after ceasing to be entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b) he voluntarily terminates
Page 25
his employment, he shall, in addition to any other payment he is entitled to on the termination of his employment, be paid an amount equal to forty (40) times his Average Basic Rate multiplied by the Years of Service that he had at the date when he became affected by the technological change as described in Clause 10.05(b).
10.07	Technological Change Committee
10.07	A joint Technological Change Committee will be established consisting of six (6) members, three (3) to be appointed by the Union and three (3) to be appointed by the Company. The Technological Change Committee will meet monthly (or more frequently if mutually agreed upon) to discuss matters in connection with technological change. The Union representatives on the Technological Change Committee may make recommendations regarding the possible effects of technological changes on employees. Such recommendations will be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The provisions of Clause 19.03 with respect to time off and the provisions of Clause
19.04	with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the members of the Technological Change Committee.
ARTICLE 11 - MINES INCENTIVE BONUS
1.2	The incentive Bonus Committee shall be entitled once per month to present to representatives of the Company any complaints or objections with regard to any Mines Incentive Bonus applied during the preceding month and any matters pertaining to a particular incentive on which an individual or crew may be working currently or during the preceding month. The Incentive Bonus Committee shall notify the representatives of the Company at least two (2) working days prior to any such meeting of the particular incentives to be considered thereat. The Company will furnish the Union on request with all reasonable information as to the factors involved in the calculation of any such Mines Incentive Bonus. The Company will, once in each calendar month, grant to the Incentive Bonus Committee leave of absence with pay for up to forty-eight (48) hours in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04. Such leave of absence will include the monthly meeting with representatives of the Company. Where it is mutually agreed to hold a second meeting in any month the provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to time lost to attend such meeting will apply.
11.03	If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the Incentive Bonus Committee, the Committee shall be entitled, on application in writing to the Manager of Employee Relations, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection at a meeting with a Company Committee composed of the Manager of Employee
Page26
Relations and the Manager of Engineering and Technical Services or their designated representatives and not more than three (3) other representatives appointed by the Company, including a representative from the department concerned. Such application in writing shall be made at least three (3) working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Company representatives. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the Manager of Employee Relations and notice thereof shall be given to such Incentive Bonus Committee. At each such meeting the Incentive Bonus Committee may be accompanied, if it so desires, by a Staff or International Representative of the Union and/or an officer of the Local Union.
11.04	Time Off And Pay For Committee
11.04	Employeesworking on a particular incentive to be considered may be represented at any meeting provided for in this Article by not more than one (io> their number. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the representative of the employees herein mentioned.
1 105 Incorrect Calculation Subject To Grievance
11.05	An employee may initiate a grievance under Article 20 where he claims that his pay under the Mines Incentive Bonus has
been incorrectly calculated or the number of units of work has been wrongly determined.
11.06	Notice Of Change
11.06	The Company shall provide the Union with three (3) months prior written notice of any change in any existing mines incentive bonus standards. During the three (3) month notice period, the Company will discuss the changes with the Mines Incentive Bonus Committee.
11.07	New Mines Incentive System
11.07	When a new Mine Incentive System is planned for a Mine Department (as set out in Schedule "Ahereto), the Mine Manager or his designate shall advise the Union. Details of the new system will be presented to the Incentive Bonus Committee. The Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of any specific concerns and recommendations relating to the new plan at a meeting to be held within two (2) calendar weeks of the presentation.
The Incentive Bonus Committee shall establish, for each Department affected, an Incentive System Review Committee.	The Committee shall consist of a
representative of the Incentive Bonus Committee and one (1) employee representative from each supervisory area. The employee representative shall be from among the employees affected by the proposed new plan and shall be appointed by the crew.
When the Company plans to implement a new Mine Incentive System, the Manager of the Department or his designate and no more than two (2) other individuals appointed by the Company shall present, to the Incentive System
Page 27
Review Committee(s), information pertinent to the planned, new system.
Within two (2) calendar weeks of such presentation, the Incentive System Review Committee shall advise the Manager or designate cf specific concerns relating to the implementation plan. The Company shall give substantial weight and careful consideration to the concerns and recommendations in its decision making process.
Provisions of Clause 19.04 shall apply to the Union representatives of the Incentive System Review Committee.
ARTICLE 12 - REGULAR VACATIONS
12.01	The Company shall, during each year of this Agreement, grant each employee whose first or subsequent anniversary of employment falls within such year a vacation in accordance with this Article.
12.02	Definitions
12.02	(a) In this Article the expression "date of employment” shall mean an employee’s
date of last hiring.
(b)	In this Article, subject to paragraph (c) hereof, the expression “anniversary of employment” shall mean the anniversary of an employee’s date of employment, provided, however, that when January 2nd occurs for the second time since an employee’s date of employment, that January 2nd shall be deemed to be his second anniversary of employment for the purposes of this Article, and thereafter so long as he has not ceased to be an employee for reasons other than layoff, his anniversary of employment shall be deemed to be January 2nd in each year for the purposes of this Article.
(c)	In this Article, in the case of an employee whose date of employment is subsequent to December 10, 1999, when January 2nd occurs for the first time since his date of employment, that January 2nd shall be deemed to be his first anniversary of employment for the purpose of this Article, and thereafter so long as he has not ceased to be an employee for reasons other than layoff, his anniversary of employment shall be deemed to be January 2nd in each year for the purposes of this Article.
12.03-12.04 Length Of Vacations
12.03	Subject to Clause 12.04 and 12.12, the length of vacation granted to each employee under this Article:
(a)	shall be according to his anniversary of employment as follows:
Page28
Number of anniversary of
employment	Length of vacation
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30	or more
80 work hours 88 work hours 104 work hours 112 work hours .
120 work hours/
120 work hours 128 work hours 128 work hours 136 work hours 136 work hours 144 work hours 144 work hours 152 work hours 152 work hours 160 work h o u rd 160 work hours 168 work hours 168 work hours 176 work hours 176 work hours 184 work hours 184 work hours 192 work hours 192 work hours . 200 work hours-/ 200 work hours 208 work hours 208 work hours 216 work hours 216 work hours
(b)	shall be lengthened by sixteen (16) work hours (travel time), and
(c)	shall be further lengthened by eight (8) work hours where a general holiday occurs during that period of a vacation.
Page29
12.04	In the case of an employee whose date of employment is subsequent to September 30, 1996, the length of vacation granted to him on his first anniversary of employment:
(a) shall be according to the month of his date of employment as follows:
provided, however, that where the date of employment is the first day of January, the month of date of employment shall be deemed to be December for the purpose of the foregoing table,
(b)	shall be lengthened by sixteen (16) work hours (travel time), and
(c)	shall be further lengthened by eight (8) work hours where a general holiday occurs during that period of a vacation.
12.05-12.09 Vacation Pay
12.05	The vacation pay for each work hour of vacation granted to an employee under Clause 12.03 shall be not less than his basic rate. However, if preferable to the employee, the vacation pay for a vacation granted to an employee under Clause
12.03	shall be five hundredths of one percent (.05%) of his earnings from the Company in the twelve (12) months immediately preceding his applicable anniversary of employment for each work hour of vacation, less any amount which may have been theretofore paid to him by way of vacation pay computed having regard to any portion of his earnings from the Company during such period.
12.06	The vacation pay for each work hour of vacation granted to an employee under Clause 12.04 shall be equal to his basic rate.
12.07	In the case of an employee whose date of employment is prior to December 10, 1999 no amount paid to him as vacation pay for a vacation granted to him on the anniversary of his date of employment shall be deducted under Clause 12.05 for the purpose of computing the vacation pay for the vacation granted to him on his second
Month of date	Length of vacation
of employment
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Page30
anniversary of employment.
12.08	In addition to the vacation pay as described in Clause 12.05 or Clause 12.06 there shall be added to the vacation pay of any employee:
(a)	the amount of four dollars and thirty seven and one-half cents ($4.375) (Travel Allowance) for each work hour under Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04, and
(b)	the amount of one dollar and twenty five cents ($1.25) for each work hour under Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04 which is taken between October 1st and December 7th next ensuing or between January 7th and May 31st next ensuing.
12.09	An employee whose employment is terminated otherwise than by retirement shall be paid vacation pay as follows:
(a)	if his date of employment was less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of termination or if his last anniversary of employment was less than a fifth anniversary of employment he shall be paid four per cent (4%), or
(b)	if his last anniversary of employment was a fifth or subsequent anniversary of employment he shall be paid six per cent (6%) of his earnings from the Company in the period since his date of employment or of his last preceding anniversary of employment, whichever shall be later, up to the date of termination less any amount which may have been theretofore paid to him by way of vacation pay computed having regard to any portion of his earnings from the Company during such last mentioned period.
12.10	Time Of Vacation
12.10	Each employee will be granted and shall take his vacation for each year of the term of this Agreement at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering in each department the seniority ranking of the employee, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. Subject to the foregoing, each employee shall be permitted to schedule the total number of work hours granted to him under Clause 12.03 or 12.04 in not more than three (3) periods of vacation. Where an employee chooses to schedule more than one period of vacation, such employee shall be permitted to schedule the first period of his vacation in accordance with his seniority ranking and he shall be permitted to schedule the second period of his vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their first period of vacation. Similarly, the employee shall be permitted to schedule the third period of his vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their second period of vacation. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations. A vacation list will be posted in each department by April 1st in each year, the said list to show the name and number of each employee and the date of his scheduled vacation.
Subject to the foregoing, if the Company decides to shut down regular operations for
Page 31
vacation purposes it will,
(i)	notify employees of such vacation shutdown by November 30th of the preceding year;
(ii)	consult the Union regarding proposed dates of such vacation shutdown before finalizing those dates;
(iii)	use its best efforts to schedule such vacation shutdown during prime vacation periods (June, July, August, December);
(iv)	permit an employee who is not required to work during the shutdown the choice of his Regular Vacation entitlement, Special Vacation entitlement or a combination thereof to be scheduled during such vacation shutdown;
(v) endeavor to permit an employee who uses his Regular Vacation entitlement during such vacation shutdown the opportunity to complete his remaining Regular Vacation entitlement immediately prior to or following such vacation
shutdown;
(vi)	continue the practice of advancing Special Vacation entitlement to those employees with less than three (3) years continuous service who have yet to earn their first entitlement to Special Vacation; and
(vii)	where the number of work hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04 are insufficientto cover the full period of vacation shutdown, attempt to give that employee the opportunity to perform any available work, taking into consideration his qualifications to perform any available work and his seniority ranking.
12.10A Partial Vacation List
12.10A Employees wishing to take their vacation during the period between January 2nd and March 31st will, providing they make application before December 15th of the previous year, be granted their vacation during that period considering the seniority ranking of the employee, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. A partial vacation list covering the period January 2nd to March 31st will be posted in each department on January 2nd, the said list to show the name and number of each employee and the date of his scheduled vacation.
12.11
12.11
Optional Leave Without Pay
Where the number of work hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04 is less than eighty (80) and he requests additional time off from work, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant him not more than thirty-two (32) work hours off without pay, provided however, that the total of:
(a)	the number of work hours of vacation to which he is entitled under paragraph
(a)	of Clause 12.04, plus
Page 32
(b)	the number of work hours without pay granted to him under this Clause 12.11 shall never exceed eighty (80).
12.11A Where the number of hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under
Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04 exceeds the number of work hours required to equal a whole number of work days, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant to the employee the choice of:
(a)	an additional number of work hours without pay which when added to such excess work hours of vacation will equal a full work day; or
(b)	pay in lieu of such excees work hours of vacation, calculated in
accordance with Clause 12.05;or
(c)	time off with pay in conjunction with his next annual vacation or at an earlier time that is mutually agreed to by the employee and his supervisor.
12.12	Retiree Vacation Pay
12.12	An employee who retires will be granted a vacation the length
of which shall be determined in accordance with Clause 12.03 except that
(a)	the applicable number of work days described in Clause 12.03(a) shall be multiplied by a fraction of which the numerator is the number of days between his last anniversary of employment and the date of his retirement and the denominator is 365; and
(b)	where the number of work days of vacation so determined includes a fraction it shall be increased to the next whole number.
12.13-12.14 Work Hour Definition
12.13	In this Article 12 "work hour" means an hour that an employee would normally be scheduled to work in a week.
12.14	When a Mine Department employee is working on an extended shift schedule where the average of the scheduled weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the hours by which the average exceeds forty (40) shall not be considered as work hours for the purpose of scheduling vacation under this Article 12.
ARTICLE 13 - SPECIAL VACATIONS
13.01	Entitlement
13.01	During the life of this Agreement each employee who completes three (3) years of continuous service since the date of his most recent hiring or since the date he last became entitled to a Special Vacation with pay under the previous Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union, whichever is later, shall become
Page 33
entitled to one hundred and twenty (120) work hours of Special Vacation with pay.
13.02	Payout Week
13.02	Whenever an employee becomes entitled to some Special Vacation with pay and the total number of work hours of Special Vacation with pay to which he is entitled, including what he has just become entitled to, exceeds two hundred and forty (240), work hour(s) in excess of two hundred and forty (240) shall forthwith be known as a “Payout Hour(s)". In lieu of granting the Payout Hour(s) of Special Vacation, the Company will pay to such employee the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken the Payout Hour(s) of Special Vacation immediately prior to most recently becoming entitled to Special Vacation with pay. The total number of work hours of Special Vacation with pay to which he is entitled shall then be two hundred and forty (240).
13.03	Length Of Special Vacation
13.03	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven (7) consecutive days including Saturdays and Sundays. Where a general holiday occurs during a Special Vacation, the Special Vacation shall be lengthened by eight (8) work hours.
13.04-13.06 Special Vacation Pay
13.04	The pay for each-work hour of Special Vacation granted shall be equal to zero point zero five per cent (0.05%) of the employee’s earnings from the Company in the calendar year (January 1 to December 31) immediately preceding the taking of the Special Vacation provided, however, that:
(a)	if the employee was absent from work for more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days in that calendar year on account of illness or accident, the Special Vacation pay for each work hour shall, if preferable to the employee, be equal to zero point zero five per cent (0.05%) of the employee’s earnings from the Company in the most recent twelve (12) calendar months, not necessarily consecutive, in which he worked at least some time in the month, and
(b)	if preferable to the employee, the pay for each work hour of Special Vacation shall be equal to his basic rate.
13.05	Should an employee who is entitled to any Special Vacation with pay retire or otherwise cease to be employed by the Company or die before taking the same, the Company will in lieu of granting such Special Vacation, pay to such employee or to his estate should he have died, the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such Special Vacation immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death as the case may be.
13.06	In the case of any employee who retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to the payment provided for in Clause 13.05 of this Article, to an amount equal to two
Page 34
per cent (2%) of his earnings from the Company in the calendar year preceding his retirement, cessation of employment or death for each full year from the date of his last entitlement to a Special Vacation.
13.07-13.12 Time Of Special Vacation Granted
13.07	The allocation of vacations with pay under the provisions of Article 12 hereof shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations and banked overtime.
13.08	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its discretion may determine but subject thereto due consideration will be given to the wishes of the individual employee. It is anticipated that, in most cases, an employee’s Special Vacation will be taken within the three (3) year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it and it is hoped early in that period.
13.09	Special Vacation entitlement may not be taken in periods of less than one (1) full day.
13.10	Special Vacation entitlement when granted will be in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13.08.
13.11	In this Article 13 “work hour” means an hour that the employee would normally be scheduled to work in a week.
13.12	When a Mine Department employee is working on an extended shift schedule where the average of the scheduled weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the hour s by which the average exceeds forty (40) shall not be considered as work hours for the purpose of scheduling special Vacation under this Article 13.
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	General Holidays
14.01	The phrase “general holiday” wherever used in this Article shall mean any of the following days:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, a day to be known as “Miner’s Day” (which shall be July 14, 2000, July 13, 2001, July 12, 2002), Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day (which shall be deemed to be the 26th day of December).
14.02	Holidays Worked
14.02	If an employee is required to work on a general holiday and does so work:
(a) that day shall be deemed to have been his regularly scheduled work day for the
Page35
purpose of this Article, and
(c)	he shall be paid for the number of hours he was scheduled to work or less of such work at the rate of one and one-half {VA) times his basic rate and in addition he shall be paid holiday pay in an amount equal to his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, and

(d)	he shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 'A) times his basic rate for all hours worked by him on that general holiday in excess of the hours he was scheduled to work.
14.03-14.07 Holidays Not Worked
14.03	Where a general holiday falls on any employee's regularly scheduled day off, and he is not required to work that day, he
shall, subject to Clause 14.07, be granted a holiday with pay immediately preceding the time of and in conjunction with his next annual vacation, or at an earlier time mutually agreed to by the employee and his supervisor.
14.04	Where a general holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled work day but he is not required to work that day, he shall, subject to Clause 14.07, be paid for that holiday in accordance with Clause 14.05.
14.05	Subject to Clause 14.06 and Clause 14.07, the pay for a holiday granted under Clause 14.03 shall be the greater of:
(a)	an amount equal to the employee's basic rate for eight (8) hours, or
(b)	his average hourly earnings exclusive of overtime and exclusive of any mines incentive bonus for the hours on which he worked during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday plus the amount, if any, determined in accordance with Clause 14.06 multiplied
by eight (8);
and for a holiday granted under Clause 14.04 shall be the greater of;
(a)	an amount equal to the employee's basis rate for the hours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday, or
(b)	his average hourly earnings exclusive of overtime and exclusive of any mines incentive bonus for the hours on which he worked during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday plus the amount, if any, determined in accordance with Clause 14.06 multiplied
by the number of hours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday.
14.06	The amount, if any, to be determined underthis clause 14.06 for the purpose of Clause 14.05(b) shall be determined as follows:
Page36
1(a) if the employee actually worked ninety-six (96) hours or more (whether on mines incentive or not) during the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, the amount, if any, shall be in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 14.06;
(b)	the amount, if any, in accordance with this paragraph (b) shall be the amount, if any, determined by dividing the employee's mines incentive bonus, if any, for the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred by the number of hours which the employee actually worked (whether on mines incentive or not) during that immediately preceding calendar month; and
(c)	if the employee did not actually work (whether on mines incentive or not) at least ninety-six (96) hours during the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, the amount, if any, shall be the greater of:
(i)	the amount, if any, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 14.06, or,
(ii)	the amount, if any, determined by dividing the employee's mines incentive bonus for the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, by the number of hours which the employee actually worked (whether on mines incentive or not) during the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred.
14.07	An employee shall not be entitled to pay for any of the general holidays on which he has not worked where:
(a)	he has not worked in the thirty (30) day period immediately preceding the general holiday; or
(b)	he did not report for work on the general holiday after having been notified that he was required to work on the day of the general holiday; except where his absence:
(j)	is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
(ii)	is due to illness and a doctor's certificate is submitted to that effect; or
(iii)	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice;
Page 37
or
(c)	he has not worked either on his regularly scheduled work day immediately preceding or following the general holiday; except in the case of an employee whose absence on such work day or days:
(j) is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
(ii)	is due to illness and a doctor's certificate is submitted to that effect; or
(iii)	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice; or
(iv)	is pursuant to leave of absence granted by the Company.
14.08	Notice To Employees
14.08	Where reasonably possible and subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, the Company will notify each employee who is going to be required to work on a general holiday at least five (5) calendar days prior to such general holiday, that he is going to be required to work on that general holiday, but where in the opinion of the Company it is necessary for the requirements of operations, the Company may require an employee to work on a general holiday or may inform such employee that he is not required to work on the general holiday even though he has been notified to the contrary underthis Clause 14.08.
14.09	General Holiday Work Preference
14.09	When the Company requires work to be performed on a General Holiday, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the required occupational classification for whom the day the General Holiday fell on was a regularly scheduled work day.
Page38
ARTICLE 15 - SENIORITY
15.01	Recognition
15.01	The Company recognizes that, subject to Clause 15.02, job opportunity and job security should increase according to seniority or seniority ranking in the cases set forth in this Article 15. Subject to Clause 15.02, the Company shall give preference according to seniority or seniority ranking in the case of:
(a)	transfers out of a department,
(k)	promotions and demotions,
(c)	layoffs, and
(d)	recall,
in accordance with this Article 15.
15.02	Giving Of Preference
15.02	The giving of preference according to seniority or seniority ranking, in accordance with this Article 15, shall be subject to
the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee to fill the normal requirements of the job. ^
15.03	Probationary Employee Rights
15.03	A probationary employee may be terminated by the Company without review under the grievance procedure. However, so long as he is an employee, he shall be entitled to the benefits of Article 15, except for Clause 15.26.
15.04-15.06 Transfers Out Of A Department
15.04	In all cases of transfers out of a department (except where such transfer is temporary only, not to exceed sixty (60) days) resulting from a change or reduction in operations in such department, the Company shall transfer the employees affected in the reverse order of their seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
When employees are to be transferred out of a department other than pursuant to Clause 15.06 and other than in reverse order of their seniority ranking, the senior employee who is to be transferred will, where practicable, be given the opportunity to acquire through training the qualification necessary to fill the vacancy that would have been created had the employees been transferred in reverse order of their seniority ranking.
Where it is practicable to give a senior employee such training, the length of the training period shall be in proportion to his seniority and each such employee will be given a maximum of one week of training for each complete year of continuous
Page39
service.
The employees to be transferred pursuant to this Clause 15.04 shall be included on a Forced Transfer List. An employee on the Forced Transfer List may indicate to the Company his preference for the department to which he wishes to be transferred.
Prior to making a transfer the Company shall combine on a revised transfer list the employees on the Forced Transfer List together with the employees on the list of outstanding transfers, as outlined in Clause 15.06, who wish to transfer to the department where a vacancy exists.
Subject to Clause 15.02, the Company shall transfer the employees on the revised transfer list in the order of their seniority. Where such transfer results in a vacancy in a department the Company shall fill the vacancy from among the employees on the Forced Transfer List having consideration for the wishes of the employees and their respective seniority ranking.
Employees remaining on the Forced Transfer List shall, subject to Clause 15.12, be transferred to the department where a vacancy exists.
15.05	When an employee is transferred from one department to another and the Company has signified that such transfer is temporary only, such employee shall be returned to the department from which he was transferred within a period of sixty (60) days. During such period for the purpose of seniority ranking the employee shall be deemed:
(a)	to have seniority ranking in the department from which he has been temporarily transferred, and
(k) not to have seniority ranking in the department to which he has been temporarily transferred,
provided, however, that in the case of a temporary promotion to fill a temporary vacancy, other than a Temporary Vacancy as defined in Clause 15.08, he will be considered for that temporary promotion as though he had seniority ranking in the department to which he has been temporarily transferred, subject to Clause 15.02.
15.06	In the event an employee wishes to transfer from one department to another he may, providing he has not been granted a transfer at his own request for a period of six (6) months, file with the Company a written application for such transfer. The employee making such application shall be given a duplicate of such request for transfer. The Company shall maintain a file of such applications for transfer and shall consult such file when considering hiring new employees. In the event of a vacancy occurring in the department into which he wishes to transfer, preference shall be given to such employee’s application before a new employee is hired to fill the vacancy. For the purposes of this Clause “preference” shall mean the consideration of the following factors namely, the wishes of the employee and his expressed reasons therefor, his
Page 40
seniority, the efficiency and requirements of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee to progress in the department for which he has made application. In the event there are applications for transfer between departments where no vacancy exists, the Company will consider such applications in order to exchange suitable applicants. The Company will provide the Union with a list of all outstanding transfer applications once a month. Once a month at the request of the Union, the Manager of Employee Relations and/or other designated officials of the Company, shall meet with representatives of the Unionto review any outstanding applications for transfer. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respectto time lost shall apply to the two (2) representatives of the Union in attendance at such meetings.
15.07	Job Posting - Mechanical and Electrical Departments
15.07	The Company recognizes that an employee in the Mechanical Department or an employee in the Electrical Department may have a preference as to Departmental Working Area.
For the purposes of this Clause 15.07 a Vacant Position will occur when the Company decides to:
(a)	increase the total number of tradesmen within the Department,
(b)	adjust the number of tradesmen between Departmental Working Areas or between trades, or
(c)	assign a newly graduated T.Q. tradesman.
When a Vacant Position occurs:
(i)	The Company will post a notice for seven (7) calendar days in all areas. Any
employee in the Mechanical Department or in the Electrical Department may apply in writing within the seven (7) day period. The successful applicant will be selected according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
(ii)	Should the Company decide to fill the position in the Departmental Working Area vacated by the successful applicant in (i) above, it will post a notice for seven (7) days in all areas and any employee in the Mechanical Department or in the Electrical Department may apply in writing within the seven (7) day period. The successful applicant will be selected according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
(iii)	Should the Company decide to fill the position in the Departmental Working Area vacated by the successful applicant in (ii) above, it will select the successful applicant from among the employees on the Request for Reassignment List according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
Employees in the Central Maintenance Departmental Working Area may also make written application for a vacant position in Construction, Utilities or Shops within that
Page 41
Departmental Working Area. Similarly employees in Thompson Mine Departmental Working Area may also make written application for a vacant position in T-1 or T-3 Area.
In the event there is no successful applicant under (i), (ii) or (iii) above, or should the Company decide to fill the position in the Departmental Working Area vacated by the successful applicant in (iii) above, the Company may assign or reassign an employee to the Departmental Working Area as follows:
(a)	in the event of an increase in the total number of tradesmen within the Department, the tradesman entering the Department may be assigned,
(b)	in the event of an adjustment, the junior qualified tradesman in the Departmental Working Area or trade where the reduction is to take place may be reassigned. At the time of posting the notice, the Departmental Working Area or trade in which the reduction will take place will be indicated on the notice, or
(c)	the newly graduated apprentice may be assigned, if the notice was posted to provide a vacancy to accommodate his graduation.
For the purposes of this Clause 15.07, “Departmental Working Area” means the physical areas listed in Schedule "E".
An employee who is a successful applicant in (i), (ii) or (iii) above will not be eligible to make application under the terms of (i), (ii) or (iii) above for a period of six (6) months from the posting of his name as the successful applicant.
15.07A When an employee in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department is to be temporarily reassigned from one Departmental Working Area to another Departmental Working Area and such reassignment is to be for a period in excess of twenty (20) working days the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the required trade.
15.08-15.09 Promotions And Demotions
1.3	Except in the case of Vacant Position in the Mechanical Department or the Electrica Department as defined in Clause 15.07, when the Company is considering cases of promotion to fill a vacancy within a department (other than promotions of a temporary nature for a period not in excess of fifteen (15) days or promotions to or in supervisory or confidential positions), and when the Company is considering cases of demotions in a department (other than demotions of a temporary nature for a period not in excess of fifteen (15) days), the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees affected. Where the factors described in Clause 15.02 are to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more fOo
Page 42
employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern except that an incapacitated employee assigned, pursuant to Clause 15.25, shall not be demoted in order to create a vacancy for an employee with more seniority where no other suitable employment with the Company is available to the incapacitated employee or where such demotion would result in the incapacitated employee being laid off other than in reverse order of seniority.
15.08A Temporary Vacancy means a vacancy resulting from:
(a)	sick leave granted under Clause 15.26,
(b)	leave granted for reason of disabling accident or illness,
(C) vacation granted under Article 12 or Special Vacation granted under Article 13,
(d)	temporary transfer under Clause 15.05,
(e)	Union leave granted under Article 17,
(f)	educational leave granted under Article 24,
(g)	public office leave granted under Clause 26.01,
(h)	maternity leave granted under Article 25,
(i)	temporary transfer of less than six (6) months duration to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Foreman or any position in which the individual is not an "employee” within the meaning of The Labour Relations Act, or
(j)	any vacancy resulting from the assignment of an employee to modified work due to a temporary medical limitation.
In cases of temporary promotion to fill a Temporary Vacancy the Company will, subject to Clause 15.02, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees affected. Where the factors described in Clause 15.02 are to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their relative Seniority ranking shall govern.
15.09
In making temporary promotions other than temporary promotions to fill a Temporary Vacancy as defined in Clause 15.08A, and in making temporary demotions, the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, give preference to the employee with the greatest seniority ranking, who is working on his regularly scheduled work day, provided such employee is reasonably available.
Where the employee with the greatest seniority ranking is reasonably available and
Page 43
he is not temporarily promoted, provided he shall not have declined the opportunity for such temporary promotion and provided the reason he was not temporarily promoted was not Clause 15.02, he shall, subject to Clause 8.07, be paid for the time that the temporary promotion lasts at the rate applicable to the occupational classification in which the promotion occurred even though he did not actually perform work in that occupational classification.
15.10-15.11 Job Postings
15.10	Except in the case of a Temporary Vacancy as defined in Clause 15.08A, and except in the case of a vacancy in any job in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department, when a vacancy occurs in any job (other than a job considered by the Company to be temporary only, not to exceed thirty (30) days) for which the basic wage is Step 5 or higher in the case of underground jobs, or Step 3 or higher in the case of surface jobs, (except for the occupational classification of Janitor), notice of such vacancy shall be posted for seven (7) calendar days on the bulletin board provided in the department in which such vacancy has occurred. All notices of vacancy shall designate the shift (day, afternoon or night) in which the vacancy exists on the date on which the notice is posted.
Notices of vacancy in undergroundjobs in the Mine Departments shall indicate the level and the number of the mining complex or stope to which the successful applicant shall be assigned, provided, however, that he may be reassigned when warranted by the requirements or efficiency of operations or the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee. Where an employee in an undergroundjob in a Mine Department is reassigned the Company shall post a notice in the Department indicating the name of the employee and the number of the mining complex or stope to which he was reassigned and the Company shall promptly send to the Union a copy of such notice.
Any employee in the department in which the job is posted:
(a)	who is in an occupational classification different from that of the posted job, or
(b)	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to shift work while the posted job is for day-time work or vice-versa, or
(c)	who is in the same occupational classification as that of posted job but is assigned to a different level, mining complex, or stope, or
(d)	who is in the same occupational classification that of the posted job but is assigned to a different shift,
may apply in writing for such job within the said seven (7) days. In considering which applicant is to fill such vacancy, the Company shall give preference according to the
Page44
seniority ranking of the employees affected, subject to Clause 15.02. Where the factors described in Clause 15.02 are to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern.
An employee who is the successful applicant for a job in accordance with (c) or (d) above will not be eligible to make application under the terms of (c) or (d) for a period of six (6) months from the posting of his name as the successful applicant.
Nothing in the foregoing provisions shall limit the right of the Company to assign any employee in any occupational classification from day-time work to shift work or vice-versa in the same occupational classification..
15.11	The Company shall, without delay after a notice of a vacancy has been posted for
seven (7) calendar days, post for at least seven (7) calendar days the name, employment number, and seniority of the successful applicant. If there shall have been no applicant, or no successful applicant for such job, such fact shall be posted. Except in the case of the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department, the Company, if it fills such job from within the department, shall within four (4) weeks from date of posting and subject to Clause 15.02, select from among the employees therein, that employee having the lowest seniority ranking.
The Company will promptly send to the Union, a copy of the notice of vacancy showing the disposition thereof. When a vacancy has been filled, the name, employment number and seniority of the successful applicant or the employee who has been appointed, as the case may be, shall be shown on the notice.
15.12	Lay Off Over 30 Days
15.12The Company and the Union agree that employment security, though not a guarantee, should increase according to seniority.
When employees are laid off for more than thirty (30) days, either for lack of work or in order to create vacancies for employees with more seniority who would otherwise be laid off for lack of work, the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, lay off employees in the reverse order of their seniority.
When employees are to be laid off other than in reverse order of seniority, {he senior employee who is to be laid off will, where practicable, be given the opportunity to acquire through training the qualification necessary to fill the vacancy that would have been created had the employees been laid off in reverse order of their seniority.
Where it is practicable to give a senior employee such training the length of the training period shall be in proportion to his seniority and each such employee will be given a maximum of one week of training for each complete year of continuous service.
15.13	Severance Provisions
15.13	Subject to Clause 15.19, an employee who
Page45
(a)	has at least one (1) year of seniority,
(b)	is laid off either for lack of work or in order to create a vacancy for an employee with more seniority who would otherwise be laid off for lack of work, and the Company considers such lay off to be permanent, and
(c)	notifies the Company in writing, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of being so laid off, that he relinquishes his right of recall under Clause 15.15 and wishes to terminate his employment,
shall be paid as severance pay an amount equal to
i) one hundred and sixty (160) times his basic rate, plus
jj) forty (40) times his basic rate multiplied by a number which is the number of his “Years of Service” as defined in Clause 10.01(b) but disregarding any fraction of a year, minus
iii) any amount paid to him under Clause 10.05(a)
15.14	Lay Off, Temporary
15.14	When employees are temporarily laid off for thirty (30) days or less, either for lack of work or in order to create vacancies for employees with more seniority who would otherwise be laid off for lack of work, the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, lay off employees in the reverse order of their seniority ranking, except in cases of breakdown or other emergency or other circumstances beyond the immediate control of the Company.
15.15-15.19 Recall
15.15	During a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of a lay off of any employees having seniority rights, if the Company shall require workers the Company shall determine which individuals who were so laid off are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the jobs then available. From among such qualified individuals and to the extent of the number of workers required, the Company shall select those most recently laid off and a notice stating the title of the job for which such individual is considered qualified and the proposed time and place of hiring shall be sent to each such selected individual by registered mail addressed to the last address recorded by the individual with the Manager, Employee Relations of the Company at Thompson, Manitoba. The time of hiring specified in the notice shall be not less than ten (10) days later than the date on which the notice would, in the ordinary course of mail, be received at that address.
15.16	Individuals reporting for work pursuant to such notices shall, if they are then qualified to fill the normal requirements of the jobs available, be rehired in the inverse order to that in which they were laid off, and on such rehiring the seniority of such individual shall be computed as though he had continued in the employment of the Company instead of being so laid off and rehired.
Page46
15.17	The Company shall not be required to rehire at any time any individuals who shall fail to report for rehiring pursuant to such notice. The Company may fill any jobs available on a temporary basis pending rehiring of those having recall rights as hereinbefore set forth.
15.18	When the individual to whom such a notice has been sent is unable to report for work on the day specified in such notice by reason of sickness, then such individual shall not lose his recall rights by reason only of his failure to report for hiring pursuant to such notice if he shall have notified the Manager, Employee Relations of the Company at Thompson, Manitoba, in writing on or before the day specified in such notice of his sickness together with a satisfactory medical certificate. In such event, the name of the individual in question will be placed at the top of the recall list, provided that there shall be no right of recall after twenty-four (24) months from the date of layoff.
15.19	An employee who is employed by the Company in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department may, within five (5) working days of transfer or demotion to another classification due to lack of work, elect to be laid off and governed by the recall provisions set out in this Article 15, In addition, any such employee laid off either by his own election or for lack of work shall not lose his recall rights by reason only of his failure to report for rehiring in a job other than one in his former classification. An employee who elects to be laid off under this Clause 15.19 shall not be entitled to any severance pay under Clause 15.13.
15.20-15.21 Loss Of Seniority
When an employee is granted leave in excess of two (2) weeks for reason other than disabling accident or illness or other compassionate grounds, no such period of leave shall be counted in determining the seniority of any such employee. Provided, however, that when an employee is granted leave of absence pursuant to Article 17 or Article 24 or Article 25 or Article 26, the period of such leave of absence shall be counted in determining the seniority of such employee.
An employee shall lose his seniority whenever any of the following shall occur:
(a)	when he voluntarily terminates his employment;
(b)	when he is discharged for cause;
(C) when he is absent without leave for ten (10) or more consecutive working days, unless excused by his Foreman or the Employee Relations Department;
(d)	when he fails to report to the Manager, Employee Relations within the time specified by any notice of recall, subject to Clause 15.18 hereof;
(e)	when he fails to report to the Manager, Employee Relations on the expiring of an authorized leave of absence:
Page 47
(9 subject to Clause 15.16, when he is laid off.	g
15.22-15.25 General
15.22	The Company shall post seniority lists for each department showing the seniority ranking of each employee in such department. No complaints concerning the seniority lists shall be dealt with under the provisions of this Agreement concerning the adjustment of grievances. The seniority lists for each department shall be revised by the Company and brought up to date at least once during each three (3) month period. The Company will provide the Union with a copy of such lists.
15.23	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from transferring to the category of an employee any individual employed by the Company in another category, and (except where such transfer is temporary only), the length of such individual's continuous service with the Company shall be deemed to be accumulated seniority and shall be transferred and placed to his credit.
15.24	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from assigning individuals (including students in any part-time employment) to any job to try out their capabilities and/or to provide them with special training or experience in preparation for broader assignments with the Company or with associated companies, and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from promoting, demoting, engaging or dispensing with the services of any such individuals or from directing their efforts from time to time, provided, however, that no such individual shall be assigned to take over the job occupied by an employee if such an assignment would result in the demotion of such employee.
Training obtained under this Clause 15.24 subsequent to September 16, 1999 will not be considered in the application of Clause 15.02.
Individuals training under this Clause 15.24;
(i)	will not be considered to be performing work which is normally performed by employees, and
(ii)	will not be considered for temporary promotions or overtime during the day (as defined in Clause 6.03(a)) on which he has been receiving such training.
The provisions of Clause 15.08A(i) shall not apply to individualstraining under this Clause 15.24.
The Company shall, from time to time, provide the Union with a list of such individuals, not exceeding at any one time fifty (50) or five per cent (5%) of the employees, whichever shall be greater.
1.25 The Company will endeavour, subject to the requirements of operations, to find employment in his department (or failing his department, another department) which is suitable (in
Page 48
the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner) to any employee who has been temporarily or permanently incapacitated by age, disease or occupational accident and is therefore unable to perform his regular work. In the event such employment is not	^ ^
available, the Company may provide training opportunity for a permanently incapacitated employee where he can be qualified for a vacancy in a reasonable period of time. In assigning any such employee to any such employment the Company may disregard the seniority provisions of this Agreement except that such incapacitated employee shall not be assigned to take over a job occupied at the time by another employee.
15.26	Sick Leave
15.26	The Company will grant sick leave of up to one (1) year's leave of absence without pay to any employee having seniority rights and seniority of less than nine (9) years and up to two (2) years' leave of absence, without pay, to any employee with seniority
(a) of nine (9) years or more, or
(b)	of two (2) years or more if he is entitled to compensation under The Workers Compensation Act.
The Company may extend such leaves for such further period as it may decide. The Company when granting any such leave will require the production of satisfactory medical evidence of sickness.
ARTICLE 16 - TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
16.01	The employment of an employee of the Company shall be terminated whenever the employee voluntarily terminates his employment, or is discharged, and the employment of an employee of the Company shall be and be deemed to be terminated whenever any of the following shall occur:
(a)	he is absent without leave for eighty (80) or more consecutive working hours unless excused by his Foreman or the Employee Relations Department;
(b)	he fails to report to the Manager, Employee Relations or his designated representative on the expiry of an authorized leave of absence;
(C)	he is laid off for lack of work (other than a layoff considered by the Company
to be temporary).
ARTICLE 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
17.01	During each year of the life of this Agreement, leave of absence shall be granted as indicated below and on the following conditions:
(a) upon written application by the Union, not less than seven (7) days in
Page49
advance, the Company will grant a leave or leaves of absence without pay ,	,/	, .
totaling four (4) man years for work of an official nature for the Union; AaSt UlLJ
upon written application by the Union, not less than one week in advance, the Company will grant to employees leave of absence, without pay, not exceeding xjjJ jl twenty-one (21) days each, for the purpose of attending conventions or'* ' conferences of the Union;	/
(c)	upon request by the Union to the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and general holidays, the Company will, subject to the requirements of operations, grant to employees, for Union business, casual leave of absence without pay, of not more than fourteen (14) days, not to exceed five hundred (500) man days in total for any one year of the Agreement;
(d)	upon written request by the Union given not less than one (1) week in advance to the Company, the Company will grant two (2) leaves of absence without pay during each year of the currency of this Agreement to the employees named in such requests to absent themselves to attend the recognized Labour College of Canada, any such leave or leaves to be of a maximum duration of ten (10) weeks for each employee named;
(e)	not more than six (6Jemployees shall be absent from any department at any one time, on leave granted under sub-clause (b) and sub-clause (c) above, and not more than a total of thirty (30) employees shall be absent at any one time on leave granted under sub-clause (b) and sub-clause (c) above. Forthe purpose of this sub-clause only, T-1 and T-3 Mines shall be considered to be separate departments;
(f)	upon request by the Union to the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours
in advance, the Company will grant the Chairman of the Grievance Committee . , li-rl/'p twenty-four (24) leaves of absence. Each such leave shall be for eight (8) hours A^l ^ and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04. Not more than three (3) leaves shall be granted in any calendar month and not more than three (3) leaves shall be granted on consecutive work days;
(g)	upon written requests by the Union not less than seven (7) days in advance, the
Company will, subject to the requirements of operations, grant to Union Stewards casual leave of absence with pay in accordance with the provisions of I (f l, p Clause 19.04 of not more than two (2) days to absent themselves to attend /f p)U |U Union training sessions provided, however, that not more than fifteen (15) Union stewards shall be absent at any one time on leave granted under this sub-clause (g) and not more than a total of seventy (70) leaves of absence shall be granted underthis sub-clause (g) in any one (1) year of the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 18 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
Page50
18.01	The discharge or disciplining without just cause of employees, other than probationary employees, may be dealt with as a grievance under this Agreement, if the employee concerned believes that his discharge or disciplinary action is in violation of this Agreement; provided that any such discharge complaint is presented at the Second Stage of the grievance procedure contained herein not later than seven (7) calendar days after the date of such discharge. Every effort shall be made to hold such Second Stage meeting within forty-eight (48) hours from the receipt by the Company of such Second Stage grievance.
18.02	If it should be determined under the grievance procedure that the discharge or disciplining of any employee is in violation of this Agreement, then such employee shall be reinstated by the Company and paid full compensation (less money earned by the employee during the time lost) at the employee's basic rate plus any applicable C.O.L.A. for the time lost while such discharge or disciplining was in effect, but limitedto a maximum of forty (40) hours perweek, all in respect of time so lost after such date. Upon such reinstatement, the employee's seniority shall continue as if no discharge or disciplining had occurred.
18.03	Any Warning, Written Reprimand, Suspension or Notice of Discharge given to any employee shall be given in writing, in duplicate. Where practicable it shall be given within two (2) work days of the time when the incident giving rise to the discipline comes to the attention of the Company.
18.04	In any case where a period of ninety (90) calendar days has elapsed since an employee last received a Warning (as distinct from a Written Reprimand or a Suspension) for being absent without leave from his regular work, all previous Warnings (as distinct from Written Reprimands or Suspensions) for absence without leave shall be removed from the employee's record and shall not be taken into consideration by the Company when it decides upon the disciplinary action which is applicable with respect to subsequent absences without leave by such employee.
Similarly, in any case where a period of one (1) year has elapsed since an employee last received a Written Reprimand (as distinct from a Suspension) for being absent without leave, all previous Written Reprimands (as distinct from Suspensions) for absence without leave shall be removed from the employee's record and shall not be taken into consideration by the Company when it decides upon the disciplinary action which is applicable with respect to subsequent absences without leave by such employee.
18.05	Any Written Reprimand given as a Step II, Step III or Step IV or any Notice of Discharge will, where practicable, be given to an employee in the presence of a Union Steward if the employee so requests.
ARTICLE 19 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEEMEN, UNION STEWARDS AND FULLTIME UNION POSITIONS
19.01	The Grievance Committeemen and Union Stewards shall consist of not more
Page 51
than an aggregate total of one (1) for each thirty-five (35) employees, plus an additional ten (10) Stewards, or sixty (60), whichever is the greater. All Committeemen and Stewards shall be employees.
19.02	There shall be a Grievance Committee selected by the Union consisting of not more than nine (9) employees, from amongst the Union Stewards. The Union will indicate to the Company from time to time, the individuals acting as Chairman and members of the Grievance Committee.
19.03	If it shall be necessary for a Grievance Committeeman or Union Steward to take time off during working hours to attend any meeting with supervisory personnel as set forth in the' grievance procedure, he shall first obtain permission from his Foreman. The Company agrees that such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
19.04	Time lost by members of the Grievance Committee or Union Stewards during regular shifts in respect of meetings with Management Representatives held pursuant to the grievance procedure as hereinafter referred to, shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such members, plus any applicable shift premium andC.O.L.A., if any, and for those Mine Department employees who are eligible for mines incentive bonus and who are denied the opportunity to earn mines incentive bonus during a regularly scheduled shift as a result of attending such meeting, an allowance in lieu of mines incentive bonus shall be paid in accordance with Clause 28.04B, but the Company may at any time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse of the privilege of attending such meetings.
19.05	Where an employee so requests, Union Stewards will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, be allowed such time off as is reasonably required at a time to be arranged by supervision in order to assist the employee in connection with grievance or disciplinary matters which involve the employee.
In the case of underground operations arrangements will be made at each mine to permit Union Stewards to come up early or delay their descent on a pre-arranged schedule so that they may assist employees in connection with grievance or disciplinary matters which involve the employee. Where it is practicable other arrangements may be made by the Company.
19.06	The Parties recognize that it is most desirable that an earnest effort be made to develop and maintain a good relationship between employees and supervision.
If an employee has a complaint which he has been unable to resolve with his supervisor, a steward may attempt to resolve the complaint on behalf of the employee.
It is the further intent of the parties that issues and concerns be resolved prior to using the discipline or grievance procedures.
Page52
To accomplish this, the employee, accompanied by a Union Steward if requested by the employee or supervisor, should first attempt to resolve the above matters expediently.
Should any difference remain between the Company and any of the employees as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such difference without undue delay in the manner as outlined in Article 20.
19.07	A Conflict Resolution Coordinator appointed by the Local Union President and paid
at Job Class twenty (20), will in general
(a)	improve grievance handling through better organization of the grievance procedure and training of Stewards;
(b)	in co-operation with the Company, develop relationships between the Stewards and members of management;
(C) promote early resolution of work related issues.
The job description for the Conflict Resolution Coordinator is attached hereto as Appendix "H”
Upon completion of his term, he will return to his regular job which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
The parties agree to meet from time to time but not less than once each year during the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement to discuss and evaluate progress toward the above objectives.
19.08 A member of the Joint Problem Solving Committee (JPS), appointed by the Local	(qo)\
Union President following consultation with the Manager cf Employee Relations and paid by the Company, will act in the capacity of Facilitator and Resource Person.
The duties of the individual appointed to this position will include but not be limited to the following
(a)	facilitating JPS Committee meetings in conjunction with the Company facilitator;
(b)	liaising with other joint committees;
(c)	reviewing material provided by the Company concerning work to be contracted out;
(d)	developing and maintaining a working relationship with Department Heads;
(e)	carrying out special projects and tasks as may be assigned from time to time by
Page 53
the JPS Committee.
The job description for the JPS Facilitator is attached hereto as Appendix "I"
The individual appointed to this position will be paid at Job Class twenty (20) and upon completion of his term, will return to his regular job which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
Page54
ARTICLE 20 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01-20.04 Difference Between Employees And Company
Stage One
20.01	An aggrieved employee may, provided it is done within the first fourteen (14) days worked by such employee immediately following the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, make his representations orally or in writing to the Management Representative designated by the Company from time to time to handle such matter at this stage. In making such representations, he may, if he desires, be accompanied and represented by a Union Steward who is reasonably familiar with the work on which the employee is engaged. Such meeting will, except in unusual circumstances, occur during the grievor's working hours. Any settlement of the grievance reached between the aggrieved employee and the Company at this stage will be considered applicable to the case in question and not as establishing a precedent for future cases. If within three (3) work days (excluding the regular days off of the grievor and Management Representative) from the time when such representations were presented to such Management Representative a decision satisfactory to the employee is not given, then:
Stage Two
20.02	Notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter shall, within seven (7) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative for Stage One, be given by the aggrieved employee or the Grievance Committee to the Management Representative for Stage Two who shall be from the department in which the matter arose. The official to whom such notice is given or his designated representative shall notify the aggrieved employee and the Union of the time and place at which he will meet such aggrieved employee accompanied and represented by not more than three (3) members of the Grievance Committee. Prior to setting a date for such meeting, the Company will discuss the matter with a member of the Grievance Committee to determine if the matter should first be returned, with guidance, to the parties involved at Stage One for further attempt at resolution. An Employee Relations Representative and such other Company personnel as the Company may consider necessary to resolve the grievance shall accompany the Management Representative for Stage Two. The supervisor involved in the matter shall also accompany the Management Representatives if requested to do so by either the Company or the Union. Any such meeting will, except in unusual circumstances, be scheduled during the aggrieved employee's working hours and within fourteen (14) days of the date upon which it was requested. At such meeting, representations in writing shall be presented and the decision of the Management Representative for Stage One shall be considered and the Management Representative for this Stage Two shall give his decision in writing within seven (7) days from the date upon which such representations were presented to him, and if the matter is not satisfactorily disposed of, then:
Page 55
Stage Three
20.03	Notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter shall, within seven (7) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative at Stage Two, be given by the Grievance Committee to the Employee Relations Representative for Stage Three, who shall notify the Union of the time and place of the meeting with the Grievance Committee. Prior to setting a date for such meeting, the Company will discuss the matter with an officer of the Union to determine if the matter should be first returned with guidance to the parties involved at an earlier stage for further attempt at resolution. Such meeting will be held within seven (7) days of the date upon which such representations were presented to him. The Grievance Committee shall be represented by not more than three (3) of its members, accompanied, if so desired, by an officer of the Union and/or a representative of the United Steelworkers of America. The grievor shall also accompany the Grievance Committee if requested to do so by either the Company or the Union. The Company shall be represented by a Management Representative from the relevant department and a representative of the Employee Relations Department. At such meeting the written representations presented at Stage Two and the decision of the Management Representative for Stage Two shall be considered.
Every effort will be made to give the decision in writing on behalf of the Company within seven (7) days from the date upon which such meeting is held except in the case of discharge where every effort will be made to give the decision of the Company in writing within seven (7) days from the date upon which the written notice was received by the Employee Relations Representative for Stage Three.
20.04	Saturdays, Sundays and general holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing Stages One to Three.
20.05	Difference Between Union And Company
20.05	Any difference arising between the Union and the Company with respect to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, instead of following the procedure hereinbefore set out, may be submitted in writing by either of such parties to the other, with opportunity for oral discussion between the officers of the Union and the President or his designated representatives. Failing settlement, a date will be agreed upon at this meeting for a further meeting between such senior officials of the Company as the Company may designate for this purpose, and the officers of the Union, who may be accompanied by a representative of the United Steelworkers of America. In any event, the parties shall within twenty-one (21) days from the giving of notice as aforesaid, sign a memorandum of settlement, or, if the matter has not been satisfactorily adjusted, the party to whom the matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party a reply in writing to such submission.
20.06	Extension Of Time Limits
20.06	Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of the Agreement,
Page 56
or should any employee believe that his discharge is a violation of the provisions of this Agreement, and should any party desire to take advantage of the procedure provided for in this Agreement, each step in such procedure (up to and including the appointment of a Board of Arbitration) required to effect a satisfactory disposition of the matter shall be taken by such party within the time limits set forth, or the matter shall be deemed to have been abandoned, unless the time limit applicable has been extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
20.07	Management Representative Stage One
20.07	The Company will post notices for each department indicating from time to time the Management Representative for each department designated to handle matters in such department at Stage One of the grievance procedure, and, if no Management Representative shall have been designated, the matter may proceed to Stage Two.
ARTICLE 21 - ARBITRATION
1.1	Where a violation of this Agreement is alleged, or a difference between the parties to this
Agreement relating to the meaning or application of the Agreement (including a difference relating to whether or not a matter upon which arbitration has been sought comes within the scope of the Agreement) arises, either party thereto, within fourteen (14) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative at Stage Three (or in the event of a difference between the Union and the Company, within fourteen (14) days from the date when the written reply to the submission was or should have been delivered) may notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit the alleged violation or difference to arbitration, whereupon the Company and the Union will forthwith make a joint application to the Minister of Labour for Manitoba to have a grievance mediator appointed to assist them in resolving the alleged violation or difference.
At the end of each month all the cases which have been referred to arbitration during that month will be listed chronologically according to the time when, in the case of a grievance, the second stage meeting was held, or in the case of a Company- Union difference, the first meeting was held to discuss it, that case being listed first in which such meeting was held earliest, and then a single arbitrator shall be allocated to each case in sequence from the following panel cf individuals:
A BlairGraham, QC William D Hamilton Pauls. Teskey Gavin M Wood
commencing with the name following the name of the last arbitrator allocated and commencing again at the beginning of the panel after coming to the end of the panel and for the purpose of such allocation a case which has been withdrawn from arbitration shall be deemed not to have been withdrawn from arbitration. If no second stage meeting is held on a grievance, the time to be used for the chronological listing will be the time when notice requesting further consideration
Page 57
was given under this clause. If no meeting is held on a Company-Union difference, the time to be used for the chronological listing will be the time when it was submitted in writing under this clause. If in any case the arbitrator allocated is unable or unwilling to act, the individual whose name follows his in the panel shall be substituted as arbitrator in that case.
21.02	No matter shall be considered by the arbitrator nor shall he render any decision in connection therewith unless and until he has first decided that such matter constitutes a difference between the Company and the Union or the employee initiating the matter, as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of this Agreement.
21.03	Whenever the arbitrator shall have decided that a difference does come within the scope of this Agreement, or that the matter before the arbitrator constitutes a difference as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of this Agreement, then such decision shall be considered as having been preliminary only and the same arbitrator shall proceed to consider the matter in dispute with the intent and object that a multiplicity of proceedings before arbitrators shall be avoided.
2104 In any arbitration, the written representations of the aggrieved employee or the Grievance Committee made at Stage Two and the decision of the Company at Stage Three of the grievance procedure shall be presented to the arbitrator, and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out.
21.05	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled through counsel, or otherwise, to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party, and to present oral arguments. The parties recognize that in some circumstances it is desirable to have written argument but it will be up to the arbitrator to decide whether to give the parties time to file written argument in any particular case. However, neither party shall be entitled to file written argument in an arbitration where the matter in dispute is the discipline or discharge of an employee.
21.06	The finding of the arbitrator as to the facts and as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no event shall the arbitrator alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
1.7	Arbitrations shall be heard at Thompson, Manitoba, or at such other place as may be agreed upon by the parties from time to time.
21.08	The Union and the Company shall each be responsible for one-half (Vi) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator. The Company and the Union agree that the fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be such as he may reasonably require.
21.09	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
21.10	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
Page58
21.11	The decision of the arbitrator shall be given if possible within a period of fourteen (14) days after the close of arbitration proceedings in the case of a grievance respecting discharge or within a period of twenty-eight (28) days after the close of arbitration proceedings in the case of any other grievance.
ARTICLE 22 - MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT TRADES AND POWER ENGINEERS
22.01-22.05 Trades
22.01	This Article 22 applies only to employees in the Mechanical or Electrical Department.
22.02	It is the Company’s intention to provide opportunity for employees in the trades to improve their qualifications in order that they may have the opportunity to advance in their respective trades.
22.03	Therefore the Company will provide for employees in the trades, up to the number which are required to be trained in any trade at any time, training programs consisting of "on the job” training combined with appropriate study courses.
22.04	Any employee in a trade who desires to participate in such a training program may make application to register as a trainee with the Company’s Training Supervisor. Such applicants as may be selected will be informed as to the appropriate study course or courses that they must take, the nature of any such course or courses being dependent upon any prior training which may have been taken by the successful applicant. In selecting applicants the Company will give preference to their seniority ranking provided they have sufficient aptitude, knowledge or education to take the training.
22.05	The Company will upon the successful completion of any such approved study course by an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course, provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
22.06-22.09 Power Engineers
22.06	It is the Company's intention to provide opportunity for employees in the jobs of Power Engineers, to improve their qualifications in order that they may have the opportunity to advance in their respective job classes.
22.07	Therefore the Company will provide for such employees, up to the number which are required to be trained at any time, programs consisting of "on the job” training combined with appropriate study courses.
22.08	Any employee in the jobs referred to in Clause 22.06 hereof who desires to participate in such a training program may make application to register as a trainee with the Company’s Training Supervisor. Such applicants as may be selected will
Page 59
be informed as to the appropriate study course or courses that they must take, the nature of any such course or courses being dependent upon any prior training which may have been taken by the successful applicant. In selecting applicants the Company will give preference to their seniority ranking provided they have sufficient aptitude, knowledge or education to take the training.
22.09	The Company will upon the successful completion of any such approved study course by an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course, provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
22.10	Incentive For Study Courses
1.10	It is the Company's intention to further assist the employees hereinbefore referred to in this Article in the completion of any study courses approved under the previous Clauses
of this Article, and with this in view the Company will pay to each employee who successfully completes such a study course an amount equal to the employee's basic rate for one-half (1A) of the standard hours specified for the completion of such study course. The determination of the standard hours specified for the completion of any study course shall be made by the Company and shall be final following consultation by the Company with the school or other agency supplying each course.
laAl^
22.11-22.16 Apprentices
1.11	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to institute a training scheme for apprentices in each of the recognized trades. Such apprentices will be given opportunity for training in as many branches of their trade as the facilities of the -y plant will reasonably permit. At no time will the ratio of apprentices to employees in ' ^ the trade in any trade exceed the ratio of one (1) to two (2), provided there may be
at least one (1) apprentice in each trade notwithstanding the number of employees in the trade in that trade is less than two (2).
1.12	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 15.07 of this Agreement, no apprentice during his apprenticeship may apply to fill any job vacancy under the job posting provisions
of this Agreement.
1.13	The length of apprenticeship shall be three (3) or four (4) years depending upon the particular trade and as may be determined by the Company. The Company may reduce the regular period of apprenticeship training where it is satisfied that an apprentice has received equivalent training or experience in his trade outside the Company's apprenticeship program.
Upon the successful completion of the period of apprenticeship training, an apprentice will, subject to the requirements of operations, be employed as a (TQ) tradesman in the trade for which he has apprenticed.
1.14	It is the Company's intention to further assist those apprentices hereinbefore referred to in Clause 22.11 in the completion of an apprentice training course, and with this in
Page60
view the Company will pay to each apprentice who successfully completes such apprentice training course an amount equal to his basic rate for hours (up to a maximum of twenty-three (23) hours per week) in attendance at a government sponsored apprentice training course in related trade theory.
1.16	It is understood that age alone will not prevent entrance into the apprenticeship training program.
1.17	Subject to Article 9, the wage rates for apprentices shall be as set forth in the applicable table in Schedule“C” hereto.
22.17	Trades Upgrade/Committee
22.17	The Company and the Union recognise that the continued improvement and
upgrading of trades is necessary to keep pace with the rapid changes in technology and the workplace. Employees in their respective trades will have the opportunity to take upgrading programs offered by the Company. The selection of participants will be according to seniority ranking subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge and training of the employee. The fact that an employee has not completed any such upgrading program will not affect his opportunity to apply for a Vacant Position under Clause 15.07, provided he successfully completes any required upgrading as soon as is practical after the reassignment.
There shall be a committee known as the joint "Trades Committee” consisting of ^ three (3) employees appointed by the Union and three (3) persons appointed by the IpO-'i Company. The committee will meet at least once every month, and at such other times as may be agreed upon, for the purpose of exchanging and discussing information pertaining to trades and considering specific problems relating to the trades. These meetings may be attended by the President of the Union and/or a representative of the United Steelworkers of America and the Manager of Employee Relations and/or the Manager of Maintenance. The Committee may request the attendance at the meeting of an individual who has special knowledge of subjects under discussion.
The provision of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members cf the joint Trades Committee.
22.18	Heavy Duty Mechanic
1.18	The Company shall establish the job of Heavy Duty Mechanic. The job shall be described and evaluated in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and Appendix "A” of
this agreement. No employee holding the classification of Maintenance Mechanic effective September 15, 1999 shall be paid an amount lower than the rate applicable to his regular classification as a result of the establishment of the job of Heavy Duty Mechanic.
22.19	Heavy Duty Reassignment
22.19	A Maintenance Mechanic whose most recent date of hire is prior to December 10, 1999 may apply to be assigned to the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic provided that during the period January 1, 1989 to September 15,
Page 61
1999 he shall have had an equivalent of three (3) or more years suitable work experience with mobile equipment or he shall hold a valid Manitoba Certificate of Qualification in the trade of Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic.
Such assignment shall be to the Departmental Working Area in which he was located pursuant to Clause 15.07 prior to being in the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic.
For the purpose of this Clause 22.19:
(a)	suitable work experience shall include diagnosis, repair, modifications and servicing of mobile equipment to the extent required to effect proper repair and preventative maintenance needs;
(b)	mobile equipment shall include internal combustion, electric, and pneumatic powered self-propelled equipment and other pneumatic, hydraulic, and electro-hydraulic production equipment and related systems.
22.20	Review cf Heavy Duty Qualifications
22.20	A Maintenance Mechanic who believes he has been denied the opportunity to be assigned under Clause 22.19 because of an error in the consideration of his work experience may request a review of his eligibility for assignment. The review will be conducted by the President of the local Union or his designate and one (1) individual appointed by the Company. The decision of the committee shall be final.
22.21	Application to Heavy Duty Mechanic
22.21	Following assignment pursuant to Clause 22.19 an employee may make application for a Vacant Position in the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic in accordance with Clause 15.07.
22.22	Ratio of Heavy Duty to Maintenance Mech.
22.22	Prior to posting a Notice Of Vacant Position pursuant to Clause 15.07, the ratio of Heavy Duty Mechanics to Maintenance Mechanics shall be as shown in Schedule “G"
22.23	Layoff cf Heavy Duty or Maintenance Mech. by Seniority
22.23	An employee in the classification of Maintenance Mechanic or in the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic shall not be laid off due to lack of work except in reverse order of seniority ranking.
22.24	Filling a Vacant Position
22.24	No individual shall be hired to fill a Vacant Position in the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic unless the qualified employees, if any, transferred or demoted to another classification pursuant to Clause 15.04 or having recall rights pursuant to Clause 15.13 shall have first been reassigned or rehired.
Page62
22.25	Apprenticeship - Work Experience
22.25	The Company will review and, where necessary, amend the work experience
provided to Apprentices to comply with current government programs. In conducting such review the Company will give careful consideration and substantial weight to the concerns of the joint Trades Committee.
22.26	Application to Apprenticeship & Training
22.26	When an employee assigned to the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic pursuant
to Clause 22.19 wishes to make an application to the Apprenticeship and Trades Qualification Board for the purpose of obtaining a Manitoba Certificate of Qualification in the trade of Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic, the Company shall provide to the employee a record of suitable work experience, that complies with Manitoba legislation, during the period of his employment with the Company.
22.27	Amendment to 22.14 (Completes)
22.27	For the purpose of the application of Clause 22.14 subsequent to December 10, 1999 to an employee assigned to the classification of Heavy Duty Mechanic pursuant to Clause 22.19, the words “successfully completes” shall be removed and replaced by the word “completes”.
ARTICLE 23 - GENERAL TRAINING
23.01-23.04 Training During Working Hours
23.01	The Company desires to provide an opportunity for employees to qualify for certain higher rated occupational classifications by providing training during working hours. The jobs in which employees may be employed for these purposes are hereinafter called "trainee jobs”.
23.02	There shall be a committee known as the joint “Training Committee” consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union and three (3) persons appointed by the Company. The committee will meet at least once every month, and at such other times as may be agreed upon, for the purpose of exchanging and discussing information pertaining to Company training programs and considering specific problems relating to training. These meetings may be attended by the President of the Union and/or a representative of the United Steelworkers of America and the Manager of Employee Relations. The Committee may request the attendance at the meeting of an individual who has special knowledge of subjects under discussion.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members of the joint Training Committee.
23.03	Whenever the Company decides that additional employees are required to be trained in such occupational classifications it shall post vacancies for “trainee jobs”, except where the Company is assigning an employee to a trainee job as permitted by this Clause 23.03.
The employees required to fill the vacancies for trainee jobs will be determined in
Page 63
accordance with their respective seniority ranking. In the event that there is no successful applicant for a trainee job or in the event that a successful applicant for a trainee job is not from among the employees regularly working for the immediate supervisor where the additional training may be required, the Company may, in addition to any successful applicant, assign an employee to such trainee job from among the employees who are working for that supervisor. In making such assignment, the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking. Where practicable, the Company shall train the successful applicant either prior to or at least concurrently with the additional employee so assigned.
No employee shall be eligible to be assigned to such "trainee jobs”,
(a)	who in the judgment of the Company is qualified in such occupational classification:
(b)	who has been successfully trained as a result of a previous training posting within the previous six (6) month period unless waived by the Company in which case the senior applicant will be given preference;
(c)	who within the six (6) month period prior to his application has failed to qualify in the same trainee job for which he is currently applying unless waived by the Company ; cr
(d)	who does not possess sufficient knowledge, ability and skill to justify his being accepted for training.
Upon completion of the training period the trainee will be returned to his former classification.
23.04	A successful applicant for a training job shall be paid during the training period at the rate of his regular classification.
23.05-23.06 Home Study
23.05	Any employee who desires to take a home study course may prior to commencing such course make application to register the course with the Company’s Training Supervisor who will advise the applicant whether or not the proposed course is a work related course and is acceptable to the Company for that individual under the provisions of this Article. A training course in computer skills taken through an approved training or educational organization will be considered a work related course.
23.06	The Company will upon the successful completion of a work related study course, accepted under the provision of Clause 23.05 by an employee, reimburse such employee for the cost of such course taken by the employee provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
Page64
ARTICLE 23A - “TRADE QUALIFIED” (T.Q.) TRADESMAN
23A.01 The job classification level for a “Trade Qualified” (T.Q.) Tradesman in the Mechanical Department or Electrical Departmentwill be two job classes higherthan the job class of the Tradesman job in that Trade.
23A.02 The following “Trade Qualified” (T.Q.) job classifications will be recognized:
Bricklayer,T.Q.; Carpenter,T.Q.; Machinist.T.Q,; Heavy Duty Mechanic, T.Q.; Industrial Mechanic,T.Q.;industrial Pipefitter,T.Q.; Industrial Welder,T.Q.; Industrial Electrician,T.Q.;
Industrial Instrument Mechanic,T.Q.; and Winder,T.Q.
23A.03 Qualification for the "Trade Qualified” job classification levels except Industrial
Pipefitter,T.Q., will be via the current apprenticeship program which incorporates Community College training and the successful completion of provincial examinations, or by having an acceptable number of years in the trade to qualify for writing the provincial examinations followed by the successful completion of such examinations, either of which leads to the issuance of a Manitoba Certificate of Qualification in the above listed “Trade Qualified” classifications. A Manitoba Certificate of Qualification in the trade of Motor Vehicle Mechanic, or in the trade of Industrial Mechanic, or in the trade of Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic shall be accepted for the application of the Heavy Duty Mechanic, T.Q and the Industrial Mechanic, T.Q.
23A.04The three year and four year apprenticeship wage rates, as appropriate for a given trade, will apply in accordance with Schedule “C” of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. No apprenticeship is currently available for the Industrial Pipefitter,T.Q.
23A.05 Upon completion of the apprenticeship and issuance of a Certificate of Qualification in one of the preceding designated trades, or in the case of the Industrial Pipefitter,T.Q., upon the issuance of a Gas Fitter "Aor "B” licence, the “Trade Qualified” employee will, without any job posting requirement, be paid at the appropriate job classification level.
ARTICLE 23B - APPRENTICE MINERS
23B.01 In view of the recognition of mining as a trade under The Apprenticeship and Tradesmen’s Qualifications Act in the Province of Manitoba, the Company will continue with its training scheme for apprentice miners.
23B.02Apprentice miners will be given opportunity for training in as many branches of their trade as the facilities of the plant will reasonably permit. The ratio of apprentice miners to journeymen miners may, in the discretion of the Company, exceed one to two.
23B.03Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 15.10 of the Collective Bargaining
Page 65
Agreement, no apprentice miner during his apprenticeship may apply to fill any job vacancy under the job posting provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
23B.04The length of apprenticeship for apprentice miners shall be three (3) years except that the Company may reduce the regular period of apprenticeship training where it is satisfied that an apprentice miner has received equivalent training or experience in his trade outside the Company's apprenticeship program.
23B.05It is the Company's intention to further assist apprentice miners in the completion of an apprentice training course, and with this in view the Company will pay to each apprentice miner who successfully completes such apprentice training course an amount equal to his basic rate for hours (up to a maximum of twenty-three (23) hours per week) in attendance at a government sponsored apprentice training course in related trade theory.
23B.06It is understood that age alone will not prevent entrance into the miner apprenticeship training program.
23B.07The wage rates for apprentice miners shall be as set forth in Schedule C of the Collective BargainingAgreement, subject to Article 9.
23B.08An employee holding a Certificate of Qualification in the Miner Trade shall be paid a Miner (T.Q.) hourly premium based upon twice the difference between the rates shown for two successive steps in the applicable table shown in Schedule B of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, for each hour worked by him, provided he is performing one of the following functions or jobs:
Stope Leader Conventional; Stope Leader Mechanized; Drift Leader; Sandfill Boss; Topman; Construction Leader; Shaft Inspector Leader; Driller; Drift Driller; Production Trammer; Long Hole Driller; Raise Driller; L.H.D. Operator; Shaft Inspector; orV.B.M. Driller.
23B.09The Miner (T.Q.) premium shall be considered as part of an employee's basic rate while he is performing one of those functions.
24.01	Where an employee wishes to further the possibility of his advancement with the Company by taking a full-time course of training, the Company may, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant him a leave of absence without pay provided that:
(a)	he has at least two (2) years seniority;
(b)	no such leave will be for a period exceeding ten (10) months unless extended by the Company, and
(c)	the number of employees on such leave from any department at any one time
ARTICLE 24 - EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
Page66
will not in the opinion of the Company interfere with the requirements and efficiency of operations in that department.
1.2	When leave is granted to an employee under Clause 24.01 he will be permitted, if he wishes, to continue his entitlement to benefits under all but not less than all of the following four (4) Plans in accordance with Clause 31.01,
(a)	the Group Life Insurance Plan,
(b)	the Group Prescription Plan,
(c)	the Group Dental Plan,
(d)	the Group Optical Plan,
provided he pays to the Company such amount as the Company considers reasonable toward the cost cf these four (4) Plans.
24.03	If an employee on leave granted under Clause 24,01 fails to maintain regular attendance at the course of training for which that leave was granted, for reasons other than established illness, his employment may be terminated by the Company.
24.04	Subject to Clause 24.03, the period of leave granted under Clause 24.01 shall be counted in determining the employee's seniority,
ARTICLE 25 - MATERNITY LEAVE
25.01	In the event that an employee advises her immediate supervisor in writing, with confirmation from a qualified medical practitioner, that she is pregnant and wishes to have leave of
absence, the Company shall grant her a maternity leave of absence without pay for the period of time preceding the date of her delivery and for the six (6) week period immediately following the date of her delivery.
25.02	The Company may require a pregnant employee to commence a maternity leave of absence without pay at such time as she cannot, in the Company's opinion following consultation with a qualified medical practitioner, perform the normal duties of her job.
In any event, a pregnant employee will be required to commence maternity leave of absence without pay at least eleven (11) weeks before the expected date of her delivery.
Where the Company requires a pregnant employee to commence maternity leave of absence, she will be entitled to the weekly indemnity of the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan for the portion of such leave that occurs prior to eleven (11) weeks before the expected date of her delivery.
25.03	In the event that such employee is unable to return to work at the conclusion of the six (6) week period immediately following the date of delivery, referred to in Clause
Page67
25.01, because of complications arising out of her pregnancy and/or delivery, she shall be granted an extension of up to six (6) months in her maternity leave of absence and she shall be eligible to apply for the weekly indemnity of the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan during the period of such extension.
25.04	The Company may at any time require an employee on maternity leave or entitled to maternity leave pursuant to this Article, to provide certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and actual date of her delivery. In addition such an employee may be required by the Company prior to the employee returning to work from a maternity leave of absence, to present the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner that she is able to perform the normal duties of her job.
ARTICLE 26 - PUBLIC OFFICE LEAVE
26.01	Upon written request by the individual concerned, the Company shall grant leave of absence without pay to any employee elected to or campaigning for his own election to the Manitoba Legislature or the House of Commons of Canada. Such leave shall
be for a maximum period of two (2) months in the case of his campaigning or for the fl term of such office in the case of his election.
26.02	When leave is granted to an employee under Clause 26.01 he shall be permitted, if he wishes, to continue his entitlement to benefits under all but not less than all of the following four (4) Plans in accordance with Clause 31.01,
(a)	the Group Life Insurance Plan,
(k)	the Group Prescription Plan,
(c)	the Group Dental Plan,
(d)	the	Group Optical Plan,
provided he pays to the Company such amount as the Company considers reasonable toward the cost of these four (4) Plans.
ARTICLE 27 - NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS
27.01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settlement of disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, it shall not declare, authorize or engage in any strike, sit-down, slow-down or any suspension of work, nor shall the Company engage in any lockout at Thompson, Manitoba.
ARTICLE 28 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT
28.01-28.02 Safety, Health and Environment
Page68
28.01	The existing emergency response capability, safety devices and practices of the Company for the purpose of protecting employees from injury, accident and unhealthful conditions of work during their working hours shall be continued, subject to such improvements or changes as the Company may from time to time determine to be advisable. The Union shall have the right to discuss matters dealing with Safety, Health and Environment conditions at any time.
28.02	In recognition of the common concern of the Company and the Union in the area of safety, health, joint Safety, Health and Environment Committees shall be established.
28.03	Departments,H & E Committees
28.03	A Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall be established for each department. For all purposes of this Clause 28.03 Department Safety, Health and Environment Committees shall be shown in Schedule "D” of this Agreement. The number of Company Representatives on the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall be as designated in Schedule "D" of this Agreement, one of whom will be the Department Head or his designate. The Company Representatives shall be familiar with the Department. The Union and the Company shall each designate a member of the Committee as Co-chairman. The Committee shall meet at least once but not more than twice each month for the purpose of discussing matters dealing with safety and health conditions, the concept and development of new safety systems and the status of ongoing programs in the department, The Co-chairmen shall meet at least five (5) days prior to each scheduled meeting in order to discuss the matters to be dealt with by the Committee at that meeting. Each Co-chairman cf a Committee shall designate up to two (2) Committee members to a joint inspection team for that Committee. Where two Committee members are designated by the Union to the inspection team, one shall be from the Department in which the inspection will occur and the other shall be from the applicable Departmental Working Area of the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department. Each inspection team shall conduct a monthly inspection of up to eight (8) hours within its department and report its findings at the next Committee meeting. The Committee may make recommendations concerning matters discussed to the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee. The Company shall supply minutes of each meeting of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee to the members of the Committee, the members of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee and the Union.
28.03A Pay For Departments, H & E Committees
28.03A Time spent by employee members of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee while attending Committee meetings or making inspections as part of the Committee’s inspection team will be calculated in units of one-half (!4) hour and shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such members plus any applicable premiums, and for those Mine Department employee members of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee who are eligible for mines incentive bonus and who are denied the opportunity to earn mines incentive bonus during a regularly scheduled shift as a result cf attending Committee meetings or making inspections as part of the Committee’s inspection team, an
Page 69
allowance in lieu of mines incentive bonus shall be paid in accordance with Clause 28.Q4B.
28.04	Division S, H & E Committee
28.04	A Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee shall be established consisting of the President of the Union or his employee designate, a staff representative of the Union, a Committee Member from each Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee, Vice-president of the Company, the Manager of Safety, Health and Environment, the Manager of Employee Relations or their designates, and such other representatives of the Company as may be determined by the Company. The Union and the Company shall each designate a member as a Co-chairman. The Committee shall meet quarterly, or more frequently if agreed to between the Co-chairmen, for the purpose of reviewing the performance of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committees and such other Safety, Health and Environment matters as agreed to by the Co-chairmen. The Co-chairmen shall meet and prepare an agenda at least fourteen (14) days prior to any scheduled meeting. The Company shall supply minutes of such meetings to the members of the Committee and to the Union.
A Division Steering Committee shall be established consisting of the Co-chairmen of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee, one(1) employee to be chosen by the Union and one (1) individual to be chosen by the Company. Where it is mutually agreed the Division Steering Committee shall coordinate initiatives to develop and implement safety programs, safety policies and safety Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI). The committee shall meet as mutually agreed.
28.04A Pay For Division S, H & E Committees
28.04A Time spent by employee members of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee while attending Committee meetings will be calculated in units of one-half CA) hour and shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such members plus any applicable premiums, and for those Mine Department employee members of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee who are eligible for mines incentive bonus and who are denied the opportunity to earn mines incentive bonus during a regularly scheduled shift as a result of attending Committee meetings an allowance in lieu of mines incentive bonus shall be paid in accordance with Clause 28.04B.
28.04B The allowance, if any, in lieu of mines incentive bonus, to be paid for each half hour for the purpose of Clause 28.03A or Clause 28.04A shall be calculated in a manner similar to the calculation under Clause 14.06.
28.05	Serious Accident Or Incident
28.05	In the event of a serious accident or incident which has or could have resulted in a critical or fatal injury to an employee, the Company shall notify the Union in order that a member of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee from the department in which the accident or incident occurred may be accompanied to the site of the accident or incident as soon as possible
Page70
after the inspections required by law have been completed.
In making such notification the Company shall make reasonable effort to contact the Union Co-chairman of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
If the Co-chairman cannot be contacted a telephone message, where possible, shall be left and the Company shall then make reasonable effort to contact the Union CoChairman of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee. If the CoChairman of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee cannot be contacted a telephone message, where possible, shall be left and the Company shall then contact the Union President. If the Union President cannot be contacted a telephone message shall be left.
28.06	Accident During Work Hours, Pay
28.06	Where an employee, after he has commenced work in any day or shift, suffers an industrial accident which, in the opinion cf a duly qualified medical practitioner, prevents him from continuing at work he shall be paid at his basic rate, plus any applicable shift premium, Sunday premium and cost cf living allowance for the balance of the time he would have worked in such day or shift had such accident not occurred.
28.07	Company Required Medical
28.07	In any case where subsequent to his last date of hiring the Company requires that an employee undergo a medical examination or obtain a medical certificate as a condition of his employment with respect to a job, the examination will if possible be scheduled during the employee's regular working hours. If it is not possible to schedule such examination during an employee's regular working hours, the employee will be paid at his basic rate for any time spent on such examination.
28.08	Summary Of Injuries
28.08	The Company will furnish the Union on request with a weekly summary of injuries.
28.09-28.10 S, H& E Committee Training
28.09	Two (2) days of safety and health training will be given in each year of this Collective Bargaining Agreement to each employee who is a member of a Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee at the time such training is given. Each Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee member shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his basic rate plus any applicable shift premium and C.O.L.A. for each day of training he completes.
In addition to the above two (2) days, during each year of the life of this agreement the Company shall grant to Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee members two (2) days leave of absence to attend joint training, provided the Co-chairmen of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee have reached agreement on the need for training, the content of the training, the instructor for the training, the participants at the training, and the location and timing of the training. Each Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee member shall be paid eight (8) hours pay
Page 71
at his basic rate plus any applicable shift premium and C.O.L.A. for each day of training he completes.
28.10	The subject matter of training shall be discussed by the Company and the Union at a Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee meeting.
28.11-28.11A Environmental Information Exchange Committee
28.11	A joint Environmental Information Exchange Committee (EIE Committee) will be established for the purpose of exchanging information on environmental issues.
The EIE Committee will consist of three (3) employees appointed by the Union and three (3) persons appointed by the Company. Meetings of the EIE Committee will be held quarterly or as mutually agreed. The EIE Committee may request the attendance of individuals who have special knowledge of subjects under discussion.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members of the Environmental Information Exchange Committee.
28.11A The Company and the Union agree to establish jointly through the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee a program to monitor on an ongoing basis the effects, if any, to the health and safety of employees working on Extended Shift Schedules.
28.12	Placement Committee
28.12	A joint Placement Committee will be established for the purpose of making recommendations on new and alternate placement of temporarily (which for the purpose of this Clause 28.12 shall not be less than twenty (20) work days) or permanently incapacitated employees in accordance with Clause 15.25.
The Placement Committee will consist of one (1) employee to be chosen by the Union, one individual from Occupational Medicine, and one (1) person chosen by the Company. The Placement Committee will meet as mutually agreed but not less than monthly. The Placement Committee may request the attendance at the meetings cf an individual who has special knowledge of subjects under discussion. The Placement Committee will provide information on their activities and any issues arising from the application of the Company’s policy on partially disabled employees to the Rehabilitation Committee. The Placement Committee may meet with the Rehabilitation Committee upon request.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the member of the Placement Committee.
28.12A Rehabilitation Committee
28.12A A joint Rehabilitation Committee will be established for the	purpose of
advising on the application of the Company’s policy on partially disabled employees and conducting an annual review of such policy. The Union representatives on the Rehabilitation Committee may make recommendations on
Page 72
revisions to the aforementioned policy and such recommendations will be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The Rehabilitation Committee will consist of three (3) employees to be chosen by the Union, and up to three (3) persons chosen by the Company. The Rehabilitation Committee will meet quarterly or more frequently if mutually agreed. The meetings may be attended by the President of the Union and/or a representative of the United Steelworkers of America and the Manager of Employee Relations or his designate. The Rehabilitation Committee may request the attendance at the meetings of an individual or individuals having special knowledge of subjects under discussion. Such individual or individuals shall not be, or be considered to be, a member of the Rehabilitation Committee.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members of the Rehabilitation Committee.
28.13	Worker Safety Representative Duties
28.13	A system of Worker Safety Representatives having the duties and responsibilities set out in Schedule 'F' of this agreement shall be established. Three (3) employees will be selected by joint consultations between the Company and the Union from among the employees in the locations where they will work, as set out in Schedule ‘F\ The job description for the Worker Safety Representative is attached hereto as Appendix 'T.
Each Worker Safety Representative will report to the Co-chairmen of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee, and will be paid at Job Class twenty (20). Upon completion of his term, he will return to his regular occupational classification, which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
Each Worker Safety Representative will receive training and on the job experience in relation to the Company Safety Programs, the Standard St. John Ambulance certificate, The Workplace Safety and Health Act, the Occupational Exposure Monitoring Program and such other training as may be agreed upon.
In fulfilling his duties each Worker Safety Representative confers from time to time with the local Union President. The Union President may consult with or notify the Manager of Employee Relations of any matters of an exceptional nature, or when a Worker Safety Representative is to attend to matters other than normal safety duties.
The Worker Safety Representative is responsible to inform the Department Head concerned of any substantive matters pertaining to safety, health or environment, and will maintain an interdependent and continuous relationship with the Safety Department and will work cooperatively to achieve safety, health and environment objectives.
Page 73
Upon notification by the Union given not less than one (1) week in advance to the Company that a Worker Safety Representative will be absent for a period in excess of five (5) consecutive work days, he will be replaced by the Alternate Worker Safety Representative on the first day of his absence. Failing such notification, replacement will occur after the Worker Safety Representative has been absent for five (5) consecutive work days.
The Alternate Worker Safety Representative will be selected by joint consultation between the Company and the Union and will be trained as outlined above. The Alternate Worker Safety Representative shall be paid at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification except that for such period of time as he is replacing an absent Worker Safety Representative he will be paid at Job Class twenty (20).
The parties agree to meet periodically, but no less than once in each six (6) month period during the term of the Agreement, to discuss and evaluate the system.
28.14	Union Co-chair Division Safety, Health And Environment Duties
28.14	A Co-chairman, Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee will be appointed by the Local Union President and paid at Job Class twenty (20), and upon completion of his term, he will return to his regular job which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
The incumbent will function in accordance with the job description outlined in Appendix “K".
The parties agree to meet from time to time but not less than once in every six (6) month period during the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement to discuss and evaluate this position.
ARTICLE 28A RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK
28A.01 In the event that Section 43 of The Workplace Safety and Health Act is repealed and not replaced, or is replaced in a manner that diminishes an employee’s right to refuse unsafe work, this Article 28A shall come into effect.
28A.02An employee may refuse to perform work where he has reasonable grounds to believe and does believe that the particular work is dangerous to his safety or health, or the safety or health of another employee or any other person.
28A.03Where in accordance with Clause 28A.02 an employee refuses to work, the employee shall forthwith report his refusal and the reasons therefor to the immediate supervisor, foreman or any other person in charge at the workplace.
28A.04The person receiving a report under Clause 28A.03 or a person designated by him shall, together with the employee and at the option of the employee, another
Page74
employee (including, but not limited to, an employee who is a member of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee) representing the employee, make an immediate inspection of the worksite and take or cause to be taken such action as is necessary to remedy the dangerous condition.
28A.05Until the dangerous condition reported by an employee under Clause 28A.03 b remedied:
(a)	the employee may continue to refuse to perform the particular work that the employee believed to be dangerous; and
(b)	the Company shall not assign or require any other employee to perform the particular work unless that employee has been informed by the first employee, or a safety and health officer designated under The Workplace Safety and Health Act, of the employee's refusal to perform the work and the reasons therefor.
28A.06 Following completion cf an inspection under Clause 28A.04 if the dangerous condition is not remedied, any of the persons carrying out the inspection may notify a workplace safety and health officer of the refusal to work.
28A.07Subject to Clause 28A.05(b), nothing prevents the doing of any work or thing that may be necessary in order to
remedy a condition that is or is liable to be unusually dangerous to the safety or health of an employee.
ARTICLE 28B: RIGHT TO AN OBSERVER DURING WORKPLACE MONITORING AND SAMPLING
28B.01 In the event that Section 26 of The Workplace Health Hazard Regulation is repealed and not replaced, or is replaced in a manner that diminishes an employee's right to an observer during workplace monitoring and sampling, this Article 28B shall come into effect.
28B.02 Upon request by an employee, a member of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee, representing the employees, shall be permitted to act as an observer, to observe any monitoring in a workplace and the taking of samples or measurements done under the Occupational Exposure Monitoring Program (OEMP).
28B.03 The observer shall be given reasonable notice of the time and place of the commencement of the monitoring and of the taking of samples under the OEMP and shall provide access to a workplace for the purpose of observing the monitoring.
28B.04 Upon request by an observer, the monitoring procedure, including the taking of samples and measurements, shall be identified and explained
Page 75
28B.05 Where there is a health hazard to an observer for which protective equipment is necessary or advisable to prevent exposure of that observer, that protective equipment shall be provided with instructions with respect to procedures for its safe and healthy use and the observer shall be required to use or wear such equipment.
28B.06 An observer shall wear or use any protective equipment provided and shall comply with all procedures for the safe and healthy use of that equipment.
ARTICLE 29 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
29.01-29.02 Union Activities On Company Property
1.1	Neither the Union nor any other person acting in its interests will engage in Union activities on plant or mines property, and neither the Union nor any other person acting in its interest will engage in Union activities on any other part of the Company's premises without prior permission of the President, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
It is understood that the foregoing shall not be construed so as to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
29.02	No bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills or other documents shall be posted or distributed in or about the mines and plant of the Company by the Union or by any employee. The Company at the request of the Union will, however, from time to time post on the bulletin board hereinafter provided for notices of:
(a)	the time, place and type of meeting of the Union, including, if desired, the names of speakers at such meetings;
(b)	the names cf candidates for nomination of election as regular officers of the Union, or as delegates to Union conventions, and the names of the offices for which they are candidates and the results of such nominations or elections and the names of the officers and delegates;
(c)	the names of Grievance, Safety, Health and Environment and Incentive Bonus Committeemen;
(d)	recreational and social events sponsored by the Union;
(e)	notices of Scholarships or Bursaries of the Union; and
(9 such other notices approved by the Company;
provided, however, that nothing will be posted or approved by the Company which contains anything of a controversial nature.
29.03	Bulletin Boards
29.03	For the exclusive purpose of the above described notices, the Company will provide
Page76
general bulletin boards of an appropriate size for the purpose of bringing such notices to the attention of employees in each department. Such bulletin boards will be located in employee lunchrooms except in the underground mines departments.
ARTICLE 30 - PENSION PLAN AND SECURITY FUND PLAN
30.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will receive the benefits of a non-contributory pension plan and the benefits of a Security Fund Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out respectively in separate agreements between the Union and the Company.
30.02	The Security Fund Plan has been modified effective September 30, 1996 to
provide:
(a)	effective October 1, 1996, in addition to the basic contribution of two per cent (2%) of his Base Pay, an employee may make Additional Voluntary Contributions, in multiples of one per cent (1%) up to eight per cent (8%) of his Base Pay, provided, however, that such Additional Voluntary Contribution shall be without matching Company contribution.
(b)	effective October 1, 1996, the employee may make monthly contributions to a spousal Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) to the maximum annual amount which may be deducted by a Participant as set forth in the Plan. Such Spousal RRSP’s shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and on procedures to be written into the Plan by the board of administration in consultation with the Trustee of the Plan.
30.03	Any question as to the operation of the Security Fund Plan may be taken up by an employee or by the Union with the President or his designated representative, but such Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
ARTICLE 31 - INSURANCE BENEFITS
31.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will receive the benefits of a Group Life /3flJ
Insurance Plan, a Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan, a Group I3a.6fi Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan, a Group Prescription Plan, a Group Dental 1 ^ ^ Plan, and a Group Optical Plan, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in separate agreements between the Union and the Company attached hereto as Appendices “B”, "C", “D” and "E".
31.02	In consideration of improved employee benefits paid for by the Company, the Union for the employees releases the Company from any obligation it might hereafter have to pay to employees any Unemployment Insurance rebate available because of the existence of a wage loss plan (Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan).
Page 77
31.03	The Union for the employees also releases the Company and the Group Prescription Plan insurer from any obligation to provide further employee benefits in order to obtain reimbursement under The Prescription Drugs Cost Assistance Act.
ARTICLE 32 - COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE	„
Mifr
32.01	A cost of living allowance payment will, if applicable, be made to each employee as set out below. In this Article 32 a “quarter” means a calendar quarter ending December 31, March 31, June 30 or September 30 as the context requires.
The cost of living allowance will be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items - base: 1981=100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as the "CPI”) and will be calculated as follows:
(b)	the CPI published for September 1999, shall be compared with the CPI published for June 1999, and the allowance shall be one (1) cent for each zero point one three (0.13) point increase by which the September 1999 CPI exceeds the June 1999 CPI; and
(c)	a similar comparison shall be made thereafter on the basis of the CPI published for the last month of each quarter compared with the CPI published for the last month of the previous quarter during the remainder of the term of this Agreement; and
(d)	if there is an increase in the CPI on the basis of the quarter to quarter comparison, the allowance shall be adjusted upward, subject to Clause 32.06, using the formula set out above and that allowance will
be used to adjust the allowance for the next quarter; and
(e)	if there is a decrease in the CPI on the basis of the quarter to quarter comparison, the allowance shall be adjusted downward using the formula set out above subject to Clause 32.06; if the amount is a negative amount that negative amount will be used to adjust downward the allowance for the next quarter ,subjectto Clause 32.06.
32.02	The amount of the cost of living allowance payment to an employee for any quarter will be the cost of living allowance calculated for that quarter multiplied by the number of hours worked by the employee in that quarter, except that no cost of living allowance payment will be made to an employee for hours worked prior to December 10, 1999 or subsequent to June 30, 2002.
32.03	The cost of living allowance payment does not form part of an employee’s basic rate and will not be included for the calculation of vacation pay or the calculation of any other payments to employees.
Page78
32.04	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada.
32.05	Cost of living allowance payments will be made in the pay period following publication of the later of the Quarterly Report of Inco Limited or the relevant monthly CPI, subject to Clause 32.06.
32.06	Effective April 1,2000 the rates set forth in Schedule “B” shall be adjusted upward or downward by the amount of the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended December 31, 1999 and thereafter for the purposes of Clauses 32.01(c) and 32.01(d) the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended March 31, 2000 shall be deemed to be what it would have been if the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended December31, 1999 had been zero. Similarly, effective October 1, 2000, April 1, 2001, October 1, 2001 and April 1, 2002 the rates set forth in Schedule “B" as already adjusted will be further adjusted upward or downward by the amount of the cost of living allowance for the quarter preceding the quarter ended the day before such effective date and the cost of living allowance for the purposes of Clauses
32.01	(c) and 32.01 (d) for the quarter ended the day before such effective date shall be deemed to be what it would have been if the cost of living allowance for the quarter preceding that quarter had been zero..
ARTICLE 33 -EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
33.01	The Company will provide an Employee Assistance Program for the benefit of its employees and their dependants who are resident at Thompson.

ARTICLE 34 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
34.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 10th day of December, 199S and shall terminate on September 15, 2002.
34.02	Either party may, not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the termination date of this Agreement, give to the other party written notice of its intention to negotiate an Agreement with regard to pay, hours of work, and terms and conditions of employment of employees to take effect upon the expiration of this Agreement.
Executed at the City of Thompson, Manitoba as of the 13th day of December, 1999.
Signatures
INCO LIMITED,	UNITED STEELWORKERS
MANITOBA DIVISION	OF AMERICA,LOCAL 6166
M.V. Wyshynski	R.J. Desjarlais
Paae 79
R.T. Hamson W.D. Harwood F.M. Stanford B.C. Maynard
W. Skrypnyk
L.R. Ellsworth
M.	M. Sanders W.J. Levac
R. Brown
N.	E. Pruder R. Collin
Page 80
SCHEDULE“A”DEPARTMENTS
1.	Thompson Mine
2.	Birchtree Mine
3.	Mill
4.	Smelter
5.	Refinery
6.	Mechanical
7.	Electrical
a. Surface and Miscellaneous
Together with such other additional departments as the Company may from time to time establish.
Page 81
SCHEDULE “B” STANDARD HOURLY WAGE SCALE
JOB CLASS OR STEP —V 1 2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22 23
DEC. 10/99* $19,885/hour
20.165
20.445
20.725
21.005
21.285
21.565
21.845
22.125
22.405
22.685
22.965
23.245
23.525
23.805
24.085
24.365
24.645
24.925
25.205
25.485
25.765
26.045
SEPT. 16/00*
20.135/hour
20.415
20.695
20.975
21.255
21.535
21.815
22.095
22.375
22.655
22.935
23.215
23.495
23.775
24.055
24.335
24.615
24.895
25.175
25.455
25.735
26.015
26.295
SEPT. 16/01*
20.385/hour
20.665
20.945
21.225
21.505
21.785
22.065
22.345
22.625
22.905
23.185
23.465
23.745
24.025
24.305
24.585
24.865
25.145
25.425
25.705
25.985
26.265
26.545
*Wage rates will be adjusted by any change to the Cost of Living Allowance made pursuant to Article 32.
Page 82
SCHEDULE “C” APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING WAGE SCALE
Instrument Mechanic Apprenticeship 1st Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
2nd Year
-	second 6 months 3rd Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months 4th Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
Job Class Or Step
8
9
- first 6 months 11 13 15 17 19 21
Industrial Electrician Apprenticeship 1 st Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
2nd Year
-	second 6 months 3rd Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months 4th Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
6
7
first 6 months 9 11 13 15 17 19
Industrial Mechanic Apprenticeship 1st Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
2nd Year
-	second 6 months 3rd Year-first 6 months
-	second 6 months 4th Year - first 6 months
- second 6 months
6
7
first 6 months 11
14
15
16
9
17
Page83
SCHEDULE “C” (con't) APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING WAGE SCALE
Job Class Or Step
Machinist Apprenticeship
1st Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
2nd Year
-	second 6 months 3rd Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months 4th Year - first 6 months
-	second 6 months
6
7
- first 6 months 9 11 13 15
17
18
Welder Apprenticeship
1 st Year - first 6 months
- second 6 months
2nd Year
Miner Apprenticeship
2nd Year
6
7
	- first 6 months	9
second 6 months	11	
first 6 months	14	
second 6 months	17	
first 6 months	7	
second 6 months	a	
	-first6 months	9
second 6 months	10	
first 6 months		12
second 6 months	14	
Page 84
SCHEDULE “D” DEPARTMENT SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEES
Department Committee Number of Committee Members
UnionCompany Total
Thompson MineT-1	4
Thompson MineT-3	4
Mill	3
Smelter	5
Refinery	5
Central Maintenance & Transportation	4
Warehouse & Sampling 3 Birchtree Mine	4
4	8
4	8
3	6
5	10
5	IO
4	8
3	6
4	8
Page 85
SCHEDULE “E” DEPARTMENTAL WORKING AREAS
The following will be considered Departmental Working Areas for the purpose of Clause 15.07:
1.	Thompson Mine*
2.	Birchtree Mine
3.	Mill
4.	Smelter
5.	Refinery
6.	Central Maintenance**
*
The notice will also indicate whether T-1 orT-3 area at time of posting.
**The notice will also indicate whether Construction, Utilities or Shops at time of posting.
Page86
SCHEDULE “F” Worker Safety Representative Work Locations
The following will be considered work locations for the Worker Safety Representatives for the purpose of Clause 28.13:
•	One (1) Worker Safety Representative for Thompson Mine / Birchtree Mine
•	One (1) Worker Safety Representativefor Mill/ Smelter / Refinery
•	One (1) Worker Safety Representative for Central Maintenance / Surface and Miscellaneous
Page87
SCHEDULE“G”
Heavy Duty Mechanic to Maintenance Mechanic Ratio
The ratio of Heavy Duty Mechanics to Maintenance Mechanics in a Departmental Working Area may exceed the value below provided, however, that a Notice of Vacant Position for Heavy Duty Mechanic shall not be posted for any Departmental Working Area where the ratio exceeds the value shown.
1.	Thompson Mine	2: I
2.	Birchtree Mine	2:1
3.	Mill	1:20
4.	Smelter	1:20
5.	Refinery	1:20
6.	Central Shops	1:5
The minimum number of Heavy Duty Mechanics to exist in any Departmental working Area shall be one (1).
Page 88
APPENDIX B Ambulance/Hospital Plan, Group A.D.&D. Plan, Life Ins. Plan, Acc.& Sickness Ins. Plan
December 10,1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that:
Commencing December 10, 1999 the Company will provide coverage under the Manitoba Blue Cross Ambulance/Hospital Semi-Private Program.
The Company will provide from this date without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law, and save the amendments hereinafter referred to until September 15, 2002.
(a)	the existing Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
(b)	the existing Group Life Insurance Plan,
(c)	the existing Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan.
With respect to the limitation on weekly indemnity benefit under the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan which provides that no payment will be made for disability directly or indirectly due to or resulting from any cause which entitles the employee to indemnity or compensation under The Workers Compensation Act, it is agreed that where an employee is otherwise entitled to weekly indemnity benefit and a determination has been made under The Workers Compensation Act he is not entitled to indemnity or compensation under that Act, that he will not be denied weekly indemnity benefit on account of the above mentioned limitation.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all reasonable requirements of the insurer and the Company including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information whether as to age, change of status or otherwise, and the filing of any necessary applications and claims.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
Page 89
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue in effect the above mentioned Plans as aforesaid and to pay the premiums therefor, and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the Plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company; and
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 cf the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union as to the meaning, application or alleged violation cf any of the provisions of this Letter cf Agreement such difference shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure and the arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to US.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 90
APPENDIX C Group Prescription Plan
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will provide from this date until September 15, 2002 the Group Prescription Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Division. It will be the obligation of the employee to obtain all possible reimbursements for the cost of specified drugs under The Prescription Drugs Cost Assistance Act and the insurer under the Plan will then reimburse the employee for the balance of that cost, less the thirty-five cents (350) per prescription to be paid by the employee.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all requirements under the said Plan and the said Act and all reasonable requirements of the Company, including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information, whether as to age, change of status or otherwise and filing of any necessary applications and claims.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue in effect the above mentioned Plan as aforesaid and to pay the premiums therefor and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the said Plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company; and
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Letter of Agreement such difference shall be settled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure and the arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Page 91
APPENDIX D Group Dental Plan
December 10,1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will provide from this date until September 15, 2002 without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law and save the amendment hereinafter referred to, the Group Dental Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company’s Manitoba Division.
The Plan will be modified effective December 10, 1999 by deleting “1998 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “1999 Fee Schedule”. The Plan will be further modified effective January 1, 2000 by deleting “1999 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2000 Fee Schedule”. The Plan will be further modified effective January 1, 2001 by deleting “2000 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2001 Fee Schedule”.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all reasonable requirements of the insurer and the Company including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information whether as to age, change of status or otherwise, and the filing of any necessary applications and claims.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue the above mentioned plan and to pay the costs for it, and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company;
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the said Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Page 92
APPENDIX E Group Optical Plan
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will provide from this date until September 15, 2002, without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law, the Group Optical Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Division.
The Plan will provide up to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) coverage in each two year period for each employee, and, during the employment of the employee, the spouse of the employee and each child of the employee under 19 years of age.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all reasonable requirements of the insurer and the Company including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information whether as to age, change of status or otherwise, and the filing of any necessary applications and claims. Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue the above mentioned plan and to pay the premiums for it, and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company;
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the said plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Page93
APPENDIX F Pension Plan
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will continue in effect until September 15, 2002, without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law and save the amendments hereinafter referred to, the Pension Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Division.
The Plan will be modified effective September 30, 1999 to provide:
(a)	for employees retiring on or after October 1, 1999 a monthly Basic Benefit of $43 per Year of Employment with Pay (YEWP) effective October 1, 1999, $44.50 perYEWP effective October 1, 2000, $46 perYEWP effective October 1, 2001;
(b)	for those retiring on or after October 1, 1999 a monthly pre-age 65 minimum benefit of $2,500 after 30 Years cf Employment with Pay effective October 1, 1999, $2600 after
30 Years of Employment with Pay effective October 1, 2000, $2675 after 30 Years of Employment with Pay effective October 1, 2001. This minimum includes the Basic Benefit and the Pre-65 Supplement. The monthly minimum increases by $15 for each YEWP in excess of 30 YEWPS;
(c)	for an annual indexing adjustment to the Pensioner Side Fund from July 1, 2001 to July 1, 2010.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 94
(See tables for Pension at End of this book)
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1,1999 For Disability Retirements*
Monthly
Monthly	Pre-65
YEWPS**	Basic	Supplement
3-15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28 29
645
688
731
774
817
860
903
946
989
1032
1075
1118
1161
1204
1247
180
192
204
216
228
240
252
264
276
288
300
312
324
336
348
* Table applies for disability retirees underage 55 with less than thirty (30) YEWPS
** Years of EmploymentWith Pay
Page 95
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 2000 For Disability Retirements*
Monthly
YEWPS**	Basic***
Monthly
Pre-65
Supplement
3-15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28 29
668
712
757
801
846
890
935
979
1024
1068
1113
1157
1202
1246
1291
180
192
204
216
228
240
252
264
276
288
300
312
324
336
348
* Table applies for disability retirees underage 55 with less than thirty (30) YEWPS
** Years of Employment With Pay
** Benefit entitlement increase effective October 1, 2000 for employees who have retired on or after October 1,1999.
Page 96
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 2000 For Disability Retirements*
Monthly
YFWPS** Basic***
Monthly
Pre-65
Supplement
3-15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28 29
690
736
782
828
874
920
966
1012
1058
1104
1150
1196
1242
1288
1334
180
192
204
216
228
240
252
264
276
288
300
312
324
336
348
* Table applies for disability retirees underage 55 with less than thirty (30) YEWPS
** Years of Employment With Pay
*** Benefit entitlement increase effective October 1,2001 for employees who have retired on or after October 1, 1999.
Page 97
APPENDIX G Nickel Price Bonus
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the Nickel Price Bonus (Manitoba Division).
The Nickel Price Bonus will be based on the average realized price per pound of nickel, in U.S. dollars, including intermediates, published by the Company in its Quarterly Reports for periods ending March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st (hereinafter called the "Average Realized Price”).
If the Average Realized Price for any Quarter in which the Company has net earnings is $2.25 US., each employee will receive a lump sum payment in an amount equal to the number of hours worked by him in that Quarter multiplied by ten cents (100) Canadian. If
the Average Realized Price exceeds $2.25 U.S., the multiplier used to calculate the lump sum payment will be increased by one cent (10) Canadian for each one cent (10) U.S. by which the Average Realized Price exceeds $2.25 U.S..
All payments will be made in the second pay period following the publication of a Quarterly Report containing an Average Realized Price of $2.25 U.S. or greater.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page98
APPENDIX H Conflict Resolution Coordinator- Job Description
TITLE: Conflict Resolution Coordinator
AREA: Manitoba Division	DATE: December 10, 1999
JOB CLASS: 20 PRIMARY FUNCTION
To improve grievance handling through better organization of the grievance procedure and training of Stewards; in co-operation with the Company, to promote constructive relationships between Stewards and members of Management; to promote early resolution of work related issues.
REPORTING RELATIONSHIP
Daily reporting to the Local Union President. tEC EXERCISED
None.
WORK PROCEDURES
1.	Administers the Grievance System for the Union including;
-	Monitoring grievances throughout the grievance system.
-	Assigning Stewards to attend grievance meetings at various stages.
-	Researching, preparing and presenting cases at arbitration for the Union.
2.	Consults with Management, Union Stewards, and employees, to reduce and resolve conflict in the workplace.
- Where mutually agreed attends meetings with Management necessary to promote conflict resolution.
3.	Works with the Local Union Grievance Committee to research, identify, and advise on areas in need of further conflict resolution.
4.	Develops training programs for Union Stewards and others as may be deemed necessary in order to promote conflict resolution.
5.	Facilitates the training of Union Stewards and others as directed by the Local Union President.
6.	Carries out special projects or tasks that are consistent with the "Primary Function” above as may be assigned from time to time by the’ Local Union President.
The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principalfunctions of the job identified, and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be inherent
Page99
in the job as described in the “Primary Function” and the above procedures.
Page 100
APPENDIX I Joint Problem Solving Facilitator- Job Description
TITLE: Joint Problem Solving Facilitator
AREA: Manitoba Division	DATE: December 10, 1999
JOB CLASS: 20 PRIMARY FUNCTION
To act as facilitator and resource person to the Joint Problem Solving (JPS) Committee.
REPORTING RELATIONSHIP
To work co-operatively with the JPS Committee.
Reports to the Local Union President.
DIRECTION EXERCISED
None.
WORK PROCEDURES
1.	Facilitates the JPS Committee meetings.
2.	Maintains a working relationship with all Department Heads.
Interfaces with management and employees to problem solve.
-	Works with harassment and discrimination cases in a confidential
-	Works with management to resolve absentee issues.
3.	Liaison with other joint committees.
4.	Works in support of the Employee Assistance Program (E.A.P.) Coordinator in dealing with employee concerns in an efficient manner.
5.	Jointly works with the Rehabilitation Coordinator and Occupational Health Service (Medcan), in dealing with employee concerns with respect to Workers Compensation Board (WCB) claims and Accident and Sickness (A&S) claims.
.	Works with the Joint Placement committee and the Reh
Coordinator to identify opportunities for placement.
6.	Works with employees, at their request, to resolve pension related issues.
7.	Reviews all shift schedule material with shift schedule committees.
8.	Reviews all return to work policies and return to work SPI’s.
Page 101
Receives material provided by the Company concerning work to be contracted out.
9
10. Carries out special projects or tasks that are consistent with the “Primary Function” and the detailed procedures as may be assigned from time to time by the JPS committee or the Local Union President.
The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the job identified, and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be inherent in the job as described in the "Primary Function” and the above procedures.
Page 102
APPENDIX J Worker Safety Representative- Job Description
DEPARTMENT All_________________ TITLE Worker Safety Representative
AREA Safety Health & Environment	CODE___________________________
DATE	December 10. 1999	JOB CLASS _20______________
PRIMARY FUNCTION
To inspect, investigate and monitor conditions and practices pertaining to the health and safety of personnel in the mines and surface plant operations, and to instruct and promote approved practices and procedures in order to achieve and maintain safety awareness by all employees in the workplace.
REPORTING RELATIONSHIP
To report to the Division Safety, Health and Environment Cochairs, to notify and advise Department Heads of major problems, or other matters, to work with Department Safety, Health and Environment Committees and maintain an interdependent and continuous relationship with the Safety Department and work to achieve joint safety, health and environment objectives.
DIRECTION EXERCISED
None.
WORK PROCEDURE
Consult with Department Management, Safety Foremen, Safety Health and Environment Committees, Local Union and Employees regarding safety problems, complaints and concerns, and work to develop solutions to the same.
Accompany Safety, Health and Environment Committee members on tours and participate in Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee meetings whenever possible.
Accompany Government Inspection tours along with Safety Foreman and Committee members whenever possible.
Conduct regular tours of underground or surface operations.
Inform supervisors, Safety, Health and Environment Committeemen, and employees of unsafe practices and conditions, make recommendations to improve safety performance, practices, and conditions and work with management to ensure appropriate corrective action is taken.
Assist in the investigation of accidents in the conjunction with Supervision, Management Company Safety personnel and Department Safety, Health and Environment Committees
Page 103
where applicable, discuss cause and effect, and assist in determining remedial action.
May assist in performing and preparing safety audits as initiated by Department Safety, Health and Environment Committees.
Submit timely written or verbal reports to the Union and the Company relevant to safety and health conditions in the plant whenever necessary.
Assist in instructing employees concerning safety precautions, rules and regulations to assure that satisfactory health and safety standards are practised and maintained.
Participate in Division Safety, Health & Environment Committee meetings.
In carrying out responsibilities use tact and diplomacy to inform Foremen, Committeemen, and employees of unsafe practices and conditions.
Assist in Occupational Medicine Programs, which ensure employees' health.
As available, facilitate the development of procedures.
The achievement of other objectives as identified by the Department Safety & Health Committees.
The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the job identified and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all work requirements that may be inherent in the job.
Page 104
APPENDIX K UNION Co-chair Division Safety, Health and Environment Job Description
TASKS
1.	Develop, with the Company Co-chair, the Division Safety, Health and Environment plans, which would include the following:
-	5 Year Plan,
-	joint training,
-	revisions to WHMIS	program, and
-	future Divisional initiatives.
2.	Meet on a weekly/monthly basis with the Manager of the Safety, Health and
Environment Department, the Worker Safety Representatives and the Supervisor of the Safety Department to do the following:
- Review and monitor the safety performance of the Manitoba Division.
- Statistics: First Aid visits, Medical treatments,. Lost Time Accidents, etc.
-	Review the status of the Divisional safety plans.
-	Make recommendations with respect to new safety, health and environment initiatives.
-	Ensure that relevant information is forwarded to other Safety, Health & Environment Committees.
-	Develop Division safety, health and environment promotions.
3.	Promote the joint Safety, Health and Environmentprograms/initiatives with the Manager of the Safety, Health and Environment Department.
4.	Set the quarterly Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee meeting time and agenda with the Company Co-chair.
5.	Co-chair committees jointly established to address major safety, health and environment concerns, such as the Epidemiological Study.
6.	Determine and schedule the training for the Union Safety, Health and Environment Committee members.
7.	Perform safety visits with Management and a representative of the Union (a minimum of one visit per Department per year).
8.	Perform safety inspections with Management and a representative of the Union (a
Page 105
minimum of one inspection per Department per year).
9.	Attend Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee meetings to present Division safety plans, and recommendations, when invited to do so by the Department Committee.
10.	Work with the Manager of the Safety, Health and Environment Department and the applicable Department Safety, Health& Environment Committees to resolve issues that the Department Committees have not been able to resolve.
11.	Deal with Union business pertaining to the internal administration and organization of the Division Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
12.	Other duties as assigned by the President of the Union which are consistent with the scope of the above tasks.
Page 106
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
The following Letters of Agreement between the Company and the Union are intended for the purpose of information. They do not form part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and are not subject to grievance or arbitration.
Page 107
Security Fund Plan
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will continue in effect until September 15, 2002, the Security Fund Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Division, modified as may be required by law.
The Plan will be modified effective December 10,1999 to provide:
(a) the two percent (2%) Company Matching Contributions will be discontinued and will be replaced by an amount based on the following:
The total dollars available for distribution to the Security Fund Plan will be an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the sum of Manitoba Division after tax earnings plus Manitoba Division after tax interest minus fifteen percent (I5%) of Manitoba Division investment base. Such earnings, interest and investment base being as stated in the Annual Report of the Company.
The calculations for distribution of this money to individual employee SFP accounts will be as follows:
Employee Eligible Earnings (EEE) will be defined as the annual sum of the Employee's base pay in pay periods for which the employee contributed to the Security Fund Plan.
Total Employee Eligible Earnings (TEEE) will be defined as the annual sum of all EEE.
The percentage Return to Employee will be equal to the lesser of;
j) the product of the total dollars available for distribution divided by the Total Employee Eligible Earnings multiplied by one hundred (100), and
Page 108
four percent (4%).
ii)
The contribution to the employee’s Security Fund Plan account shall be equal to the product of the percentage Return to Employee multiplied by the Employee Eligible Earnings.
Company contributions will be made following the publication of the Annual Report of Inco Limited.
(b) At the request of a majority of members, the Company shall establish an advisory committee consisting of three (3) representatives of the Company and three (3) representatives of Plan members. The committee shall review the administration of the Plan, Plan documentation and interpretation, financial statements, accounting reports, completion of governmental reports, compliance with disclosure rules and any other matters involved in the administration of the Plan. The committee may make recommendations to the Company for changes to administrative procedures and interpretations. At the request of the committee, information will be provided concerning investment and maintenance of assets; however, the committee will have no authority concerning investments, funding decisions, or basic Plan provisions covering eligibility and benefit levels.
It is understood and agreed that the Security Fund Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 109,
Article 18 -Written Reprimand
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Article 18 of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement.
It is agreed that a Written Reprimand is distinct and different from a Warning and that a Written Reprimand is a more serious disciplinary action than a Warning.
When as part of a disciplinary program the Company requires an employee to absent himself from his regular work, with pay, this shall not be considered a Suspension within the meaning of Article 18.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 110
Clause 15.09 -Working During Vacation
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Clause 15.09 of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If an employee is permitted to work during the period of a vacation granted to him under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, he shall, for the purpose of Clause 15.09, be deemed not to be working on his regularly scheduled work day on any day during that period.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 111
Summer Employment of Students
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement between us respecting summer employment of students.
Every effort will be made to give preference to students having a parent who is an employee
There are instances where the Company is obliged to give special opportunity to some students for other reasons. One example of this might be a student holding a scholarship under the Inco Scholarship Programfor Children of Employees.
Another example would be compassionate grounds. There may be other special instances.
However, subject to the special cases that arise, Company policy will continue to be the giving of preference to students whose parent is an employee.
Notwithstanding the definition “probationary employee’’ in the Collective Agreement, every student shall be deemed to be a “probationary employee” subject to termination at any time prior to the month of October, without such termination being subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais
Page 112
W. Skyrpnyk
Page 113
Apprenticeship Training
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to employees being accepted into apprenticeship training by the Company.
When the Company requires additional apprentices, employees on the apprenticeship training waiting lists will be transferred into Mechanical or Electrical Department apprenticeship training on the basis of Clause 15.06. The list of applicants for apprenticeship training will be changed from a listing by date of formal acceptance to a listing by seniority. However, the Company may give preference to employees or individuals who obtain apprenticeship in-school credits of one year or more from the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department of Labour.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 114
Steelworker's Humanity Fund
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that the Company will deduct from the pay of each employee one cent (10) for each hour worked and forward the total deductions once each month to the Steelworkers' Humanity Fund. If an individual employee should so request in writing no such deduction will be made from his pay.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 115
Union Orientation
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreemen, reached during negotiations with respect to Union participation in the orientation of new employees. A member of the Local Union Executive shall have the opportunity to address new employees for up to one-half (V2) hour during the course of their introduction to employment. During such one-half (V2) hour the Union representative will be permitted to show a video-taped message from the President of the Local Union. It is understood that this opportunity will not be used to have new employees sign applications for union membership cards.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED, MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
Page 116
In-Term Meetings
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our understanding with respect to the holding of In-Term meetings between the Company, the Local Union and the Union at approximately six (6) month intervals during the term of this Agreement.
There will also be Divisional meetings between the Company, the Local Union and the Union at approximately six (6) month intervals alternating with the In-Term meetings.
The purpose of these meetings is to discuss any problems which may arise from the administration of this Agreement and to improve communications between the parties. These meetings will also provide an opportunity to discuss the implementation of new programs, policies and practices and the application of this Agreement to them.
The parties will exchange outlines of the topics they wish to discuss at least two (2) weeks prior to the date of the meeting.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 117
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations to jointly investigate ways in which to reduce the costs associated with the provision of the health care benefits under the Collective Bargaining Agreement without reducing the existing level of benefit coverage.
A “Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee” consisting of two (2) employees appointed by the Union and two (2) individuals appointed by the Company will be established to conduct the investigation. Meetings of the Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee will be held as frequently as required, at mutually agreeable times.
The Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee will make recommendations to the Joint Problem Solving Committee.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 118
Trades Enhancement
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America
Local 6166
19 Elizabeth Drive
Thompson, Manitoba
R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that the Union will participate with the Company in the development and implementation of a program of Trades Enhancement.
Recognizing that employees in the Mechanical Department and the Electrical Department have concerns regarding trades enhancement, the Company agrees that during the term of this agreement the scope of the program will include the skills covered in programs recognized by the Manitoba Department of Labour under the Apprenticeship and Trades Qualification Act.
Further, trade boundaries defined by current practice and limited to the skills covered in the above mentioned recognized programs will be established by mutual agreement.
Training will be offered in accordance with the provisions of Clause 22.17 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end cf the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 119
Steelworker's Benevolence/Education Fund
DecemberlO, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson,,Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that the Company will deduct from the pay of each employee one cent (10) for each hour worked and forward the total deductions once each month to the Steelworkers' Benevolence or the U.S.W.A. Education Fund as directed by the local union. If an individual
employee should so request in writing no such deduction will be made from his pay.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 120
Expedited Arbitration
December 10,1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement between the Company and the Union respecting expedited arbitration.
Except where otherwise specified in this Letter of Agreement, the provisions of Article 20 (Grievance Procedure) and Article 21 (Arbitration) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement continue to apply to a grievance under this Letter of Agreement.
Where it is mutually agreed that a grievance is suitable for expedited arbitration, in place of such grievance being submitted to arbitration as outlined in Article 21 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the parties shall apply the following expedited arbitration procedure.
1.	Those grievances agreed to be suitable for expedited arbitration shall be heard before Vincent L. Ready, who shall act as sole arbitrator.
2.	If in any case Vincent L. Ready is unable or unwilling to act, the parties shall appoint an individual, selected by mutual agreement, who shall act as sole arbitrator.
3.	All hearings will take place in Thompson, Manitoba.
4.	All presentations are to be short and concise and are to include a comprehensive opening statement. The parties agree to make limited use of authorities during their presentations.
5.	Prior to rendering a decision, the arbitrator may assist the parties in mediating a resolution to the grievance.
6.	Where mediation fails, or is not appropriate, a decision shall be rendered as contemplated herein.
Page 121
7.	The finding of the arbitrator as to the facts and as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no event shall the arbitrator alter, modify or amend any part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
8.	The decision of the arbitrator is to be completed and mailed to the parties within ten (10) working days of the hearing.
9.	The Union and the Company shall each be responsible for one-half (Vi) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator. The Company and the Union agree that the fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be such as he may reasonably require.
1 o. The expedited arbitrator shall have the same powers and authority as an arbitrator established under the provisions of the collective agreement.
11. All decisions of the arbitrator are to be limited in application to that particular dispute and are without prejudice. These decisions shall have no precedential value and shall not be referred to by either party unless it is mutually agreed that they will be instructive to the parties in reaching agreement in any subsequent proceeding before the expedited arbitrator.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 122
Let Every Adult Read Now(L.E.A.R.N.)
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, Mb.
R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiationsthatthe parties will continue the Let Every Adult Read Now (L.EAR.N.) programfor employees of the Manitoba Division.
Where, in the opinion of the course leader, the suitability of any two applicants to attend any course offered as part of the L.E.A.R.N. program is relatively equal, the senior applicant will be given preference to attend the course.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 123
Joint Problem Solving Committee
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, Mb.
R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
While the Company and the Union may give different emphasis to the interests of their various constituents, they share the common objective of a successful, continuing operation, functioning in an atmosphere of respect between a strong union and a strong company.
As both parties acknowledge that the ultimate determinant of employment security in the Manitoba Division is the cost of production, and as recent fundamental changes in the Division have resulted in an increased cost base, the Company and the Union commit that they will actively pursue mutually agreed upon.initiatives to address this imperative.
This is an enabling document, intended to formalize the mechanism by which the Union and the employees may contribute to the on-going viability of the Manitoba Division and thus provide greater employment security, opportunity and enhanced workplace safety and health.
A joint Union/Management committee shall be established with the responsibility to achieve these objectives.
It is agreed that the broad mandate of the committee is to focus upon:
-	improved effectiveness of labour relations.
-	the on-going management of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
-	initiatives to reduce the costs of production, better utilize the plant and equipment and increase product quality without negatively impacting employment security.
The committee shall be governed by the following terms of reference:
rERMS OF REFERENCE
Page 124
1.	The committee will be known as the Joint Problem Solving Committee (JPS Committee).
2.	The JPS Committee will consist of up to seven (7) members of the bargaining unit selected by the Local Union President, including the Local Union President, and up to seven (7) representatives of the Company selected by the Company, including the Manager of Employee Relations. A representative of the United Steelworkers of America may also attend JPS Committee meetings and otherwise be involved in matters dealt with by the JPS Committee. It is recognized that it is most desirable that the JPS Committee initially be comprised of the Negotiating Committees for the 1999 Collective Bargaining Agreement.
3.	The JPS Committee will meet at least once in each month or more frequently if mutually agreed. The JPS Committee meetings will be co-chaired by the Local Union President and the Manager of Employee Relations.
4.	It is recognized that replacement of JPS Committee members will from time to time be necessary. In order to minimize the impact on the functioning of the JPS Committee, the parties will endeavour to keep to a minimum the number cf individuals replaced on the JPS Committee at any given time.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 125
Controlled Products Inventory
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement respecting the maintenance of the controlled products inventory.
A member of the Department Safety, Health and Environment Committee will maintain the controlled products inventory during the monthly inspection pursuant to Clause 28.03. This responsibility will take effect after an initial controlled products inventory has been created and is available to be maintained.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skyrpnyk
Page 126
Employment Transition Committee
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations to investigate programs that provide employment counseling to those employees who have been laid off, as the result of one or more major plant closures in the Manitoba Division that would involve a reduction of one third or more of the total of all employees in the Manitoba Division at the time cf the closure.
An “Employment Transition Committee’’ consisting cf one (1) employee appointed by the Union and one (1) individual appointed by the Company will be established to expedite the process. The committee will co-ordinate the delivery of all applicable government services and programs designed to assist affected employees, in such areas as resume writing, counseling and financial management.
The Employment Transition Committee will make recommendations to the Joint Problem Solving Committee.
Meetings of the Employment Transition Committee will be held as often as required, at mutually agreeable times. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representative on the Committee.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166
Page 127
R.J. Desjarlais
W. Skyrpnyk
Page 128
Recall Name List to Contractors
December 10,1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiationswith respect to employees having recall rights pursuant to Clause 15.13 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and the contracting out of work.
Where the Company has laid off employees in the six (6) month period immediately preceding the tendering process for a major capital or a major construction project, a list of individualshaving recall rights pursuant to Clause 15.13 shall be included with the tendering documents so that the successful contractor may, if he so chooses, interview those individuals regarding potential employment.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form cf acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy cf this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 129
Evaluate S.E.S. system - Mines
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations to test and evaluate the S.E.S. system for new mine job descriptions consistent with the verbal agreement between C. Zahovskis, Vice President and B. Maynard, Mines Manager, for the Company and R. Desjarlais, President, Local 6166, United Steelworkers of America, and W. Levac for the Union.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day cf December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 130
Vacation and Special Vacation Scheduling Mines Extended Shift
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union respecting the scheduling of Vacation and Special Vacation for those Mine Department employees working on a current extended shift schedule where the average weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40). A copy of the schedules covered by this letter of agreement is attached.
In granting vacation and Special Vacation the employee will require ten (IO) work hours for each shift where the scheduled hours are ten and one-half (10.5) or twelve (12) taken as vacation or Special Vacation.
Should the Company introduce into the Mines Departments an alternate extended shift schedule where the average weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the parties will meet to develop a method for scheduling vacation and Special Vacation for employees working on such schedules.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 131
Rotating, 10.5 hour, 4-5/4-2/4-2/4-5/4-2/4-2 schedule; average 42; D = day;
A = afternoon;
- = day off
Week	M	T	W	T	F	S	S
1	D	D	D	D	-	-	-
2	-	-	A	A	A	A	-
3	-	D	D	D	D	-	-
4	A	A	A	A	-	-	-
5	-	-	D	D	D	D	-
6	-	A	A	A	A	-	-
Rotating, 8 and 12 hour, 7-5 / 7-2 / 7-5 / 7-2 schedule; average 42.67; d = day 8 hour;
D = day 12 hour; a = afternoon 8 hour;
A = afternoon 12 hour;
- = day off
Week	M	T	W	T	F	S	S
1	d	d	d	d	D	-	-
2	-	-	-	a	A	A	a
3	a	a	a	-	-	D	d
4	d	d	d	d	D	-	-
5	-	-	-	a	A	A	a
6	a	a	a	-	-	D	D
Page 132
Intradepartmental Force Adjustment-3 Flowcharts
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Clause
15.08	of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
When the Company is reducing the number of employees in a classification or classifications and such reduction is to be considered permanent the employees affected shall be dealt with in a manner as shown in the attached flowchart subject to Clause 15.08 with respect to an incapacitated employee.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 133
Page 134
Development of Safety Policies, Programs and Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI)- Flowchart
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the development of Safety Policies, Programs and Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI) pursuant to Clause 28.04 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The attached flow chart outlines the process to be followed with respect to the development of Safety Policies, Programs and SPI.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 141
Company Developed Policy, Program, SPI
Jointly Developed . Policy, Program, SPI		Union Developed Policy, Program, SPI
		
Yes
Jointly Supported Implementation Jointly Supported Implementatio
Page 142
Success Sharing Letter
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to the Success Sharing Program. The Program will commence January 1, 2000 and terminate December 31, 2000. The Program may be extended by mutual agreement.
While the Company and the Union may give different emphasis to the interests of their various constituents, they share the common objective of a successful, continuing operation, functioning in an atmosphere of respect between a strong Union and a strong Company.
As both parties acknowledge that the ultimate determinant of employment security in the Manitoba Division is the cost of production, the Company and the Union commit that they will actively pursue initiatives to address this imperative.
This is an enabling document, intended to formalize the mechanism by which the Union and employees may contribute to the on-going viability of the Manitoba Division, share in its success and provide greater employment security, opportunity and enhanced workplace safety and health.
The Company will develop initiatives to improve the efficiency of the Manitoba Division. Those initiatives which are of a large scale and suitable for involvement of the Union will be termed “Projects” and will be presented to the Joint Problem Solving (JPS) Committee.
The Company and the Union agree that some of these Projects will appropriately be pursued as Company initiatives only, while others will appropriately be pursued as joint Company and Union initiatives.
All Projects pursued as joint Company and Union initiatives will be carried out in accordance with the following principles:
1.	Disclosure - Through the JPS Committee, the Union will be kept informed of the status of the Projects whether or not the Union has chosen to be directly involved.
2.	Choice - The Union shall have the right to decide if it wishes to participate in a Project.
Page 143
3.	Commitment - Once agreement has been reached to proceed a Project will be completed without regard to other issues between the parties.
4.	Participation - Projects in which the Union has elected to participate shall be overseen by a Steering Committee composed of a maximum of two (2) representatives selected by the Union and two (2) individuals selected by the Company. There will be one (Ijn dividual selected by the Steering Committee appointed as Team Leader for any Project. The Steering Committee, on the advice of the Team Leader, shall determine the appropriate number of participants on a Project Team. The participants on the Project Team will be selected by job class and work area. The Union shall have the right to appoint employees to a Project Team from among those employees affected by the Project. Employee participation on any Project Team will be on a voluntary basis. Time lost by members of a Project Team will be paid in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
One objective of the Program is to share a portion of the gains from the success of the Projects and other changes at the Manitoba Division with hourly employees. Sharing will take place as follows:
1.	Calculation of gain.
The basis for the calculation of gain is the Operating Return on Investment (“OROI") for the Manitoba Division. For the purposes of this calculation, certain elements in the determination of OROI will be fixed as follows:
(a)	NARP at $US 2.40 per pound.
(b)	Copper at $US 0.75 per pound.
(c)	Cobalt at $US 12.00 per pound.
(d)	Precious metals value will be fixed at 2000 Plan amounts.
(e)	All other elements will be fixed at the level indicated in the Company’s Year 2000 Plan as attached, except:
Nickel, Copper and Cobalt Production;
Taxes & Insurance;
Power & Fuel;
Compensation; and
Supplies & Services.
Page 144
2.	Determination of quarterly OROI gain
The OROI target for the year 2000 will be set at 17% and the fixed elements in the calculation will be at 2000 Plan amounts.
If the OROI for the year 2000 is greater than 17%, the amount of the gain shall be calculated by multiplying the percentage difference by the total amount of the investment base.
If the Year 2000 Vacation Shutdown is otherthan that in the Year 2000 Plan (i.e. 4 weeks), the elements excluded in subparagraph (e) of paragraph Iw ill be adjusted for any month affected to the amounts shown in the Year 2000 Plan.
3.	Sharing of quarterly OROI gain.
The OROI gain shall be shared with employees as follows:
15% of the first $0.5 million, and
25% of the next $0.5 million, and
30% of the next $1.0 million, and
35% of any amount exceeding $2.0 million.
4.	Distribution of sharing payments.
(a)	Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 4, when the Company
reports positive pre-tax cashflow for the Success Sharing period, a payment shall be made as follows:
An individual who was an employee at the commencement of the Succe Sharing period shall receive a full share of the OROI gain;
An individual hired subsequent to the commencement of the Success Sh period shall receive a pro rata share of the OROI gain based on the length of his continuous employment with the Company during the Success Sharing period;
An employee whose employmentwas terminated by the Company for an reason other than layoff pursuant to Clause 15.12 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall receive a pro rata share of the OROI gain based on the length of his continuous employment with the Company during the Success sharing period, unless such employee was reinstated, in which event he shall receive a full share of the OROI gain;
An employee who was on Education Leave under Article 24 of the Collec Bargaining Agreement or Public Office Leave under Article 26 of the Collective Agreement shall receive a pro rata share of the OROI gain
Page 145
based on the length of his continuous employment with the Company minus the period of such leave.
(b)	In the event payment from the Success Sharing Program would result in negative pre-tax cash flow for the Success Sharing period, the payment shall be limited to the amount of pre-tax cash in excess of zero.
(c)	Seventy-five percent (75%) of the OROI gain shall be paid to employees who qualify for payment in accordance with subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 4.
(d)	Twenty-five percent (25%) of the OROI gain shall be deposited in a fund to be distributed equally among employees who are permanently laid off by the Company during the Success Sharing period. In the event no employees are permanently laid off by the Company during the Success Sharing period, the said twenty-five percent (25%) shall be distributed in accordance of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph^.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED MANITOBA DM SION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 6th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 146
Success Sharing - Audit Letter
Inco
Manitoba Division
Robert J Desjarlais
United Steelworkers of America
Local 6166
Thompson, Manitoba
Dear Sir;
As discussed, at the conclusion of the success sharing program, the calculations in the success sharing program will be audited by external auditors to provide an opinion on compliance with the stated guidelines of the program.
Sincerely,
Tyler S. Mitchelson Assistant Comptroller
Page 147
Overtime Distribution Process - Flowchart
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the application of Clause 7.03 in day to day operation. The attached flowchart is to provide clarity and guidance to Stewards and members of Management in the distribution of overtime opportunities. This document does not alter the intent of Clause 7.03 in any manner whatsoever. Any difference arising concerning the assignment of overtime opportunities will be handled under the provisions of Article 20 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 148
Page 151
Security Fund Plan Committee - Clairca
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the Security Fund Plan.
A “Security Fund Plan Committee” consisting of two (2) employees appointed by the Union and two (2) individuals appointed by the Company will be established to resolve the question “Should the Manitoba Division Security Fund Plan remain as is or should the Inco Clarica model be adopted?”
The committee will make its recommendation to the Manager, Employee Relations and the Local Union President no later than March 31, 2000.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the Security Fund Plan Committee
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 152
Bi-weekly Payroll 131
December 10, 1999
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting a bi-weekly payroll.
The Company will initiate a bi-weekly payroll system for bargaining unit employees. The Company will advise the Union and the employees a minimum of six (6) months notice prior to such bi-weekly payroll system coming into effect.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of this enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION R.T. Hamson
ACCEPTED this 13th day of December, 1999 UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166 R.J. Desjarlais W. Skrypnyk
Page 153
Benefit Entitlement for Service On or After October 1, 1999 (Expressed in Dollars)
Age Age64 Age63 Age62 Age 61 Age 60 Age 59 Age 58 Age 57 Age 56 Age 55 65
YEWPS	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-65 Basic Pre-65 Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic
*	65	65	65	65	65	65	65	65
20.0
20.5 21.0
21.5 22.0
22.5
23.0
23.5
24.0
24.5
25.0
25.5
26.0
26.5
27.0
27.5
28.0
28.5 29.0
29.5
860
882
903
925
946
968
989
1011
1032
1054
1075
1097
1118
1140
1161
1183
1204
1226
1247
1269
1319	839	1297	817
1351	859	1329	837
1384	880	1362	858
1417	901	1394	878
1450	922	1427	899
1483	943	1459	919
1516	964	1492	940
1549	985	1524	960
1582 1006 1556	980
1615 1027 1589 1001 1648 1048 1621 1021 1681 1069 1654 1042 1714 1090 1686 1062 1747 1111 1719 1083 1780 1132 1751 1103 1813 1153 1783 1123 1846 1174 1816 1144 1879 1195 1848 1164 1912 1216 1881 1185 1945 1237 1913 1205
1276
1307
1339
1371
1403
1435
1467
1499
1531
1562
1594
1626
1658
1690
1722
1754
1786
1818
1849
1881
796 1254	774
815 1285	793
835 1317	813
855 1348	832
875 1379	851
895 1411	871
915 1442	890
935 1473	909
955 1505	929
974 1536	948
994 1568	968
1014 1599	987
1034 1630 1006 1054 1662 1026 1074 1693 1045 1094 1724 1064 1114 1756 1084 1134 1787 1103 1153 1818 1122 1173 1850 1142
1233	753
1263	771
1294	790
1325	809
1356	828
1387	847
1417	865
1448	884
1479	903
1510	922
1541	941
1571	959
1602	978
1633	997
1664 1016 1695 1035 1726 1054 1756 1072 1787 1091 1818 1110
1211	731
1241	749
1272	768
1302	786
1332	804
1362	822
1393	841
1423	859
1453	877
1483	895
1514	914
1544	932
1574	950
1605	969
1635	987
1665 1005 1695 1023 1726 1042 1756 1060 1786 1078
1190	710
1219	727
1249	745
1279	763
1308	780
1338	798
1368	816
1398	834
1427	851
1457	869
1487	887
1517	905
1546	922
1576	940
1606	958
1636	976
1665	993
1695 1011 1725 1029 1755 1047
1168 688 1197	705
1226	722
1256	740
1285	757
1314	774
1343	791
1372	808
1402	826
1431	843
1460	860
1489	877
1518	894
1548	912
1577	929
1606	946
1635	963
1664	980
1694	998
1723 1015
1147	667
1175	683
1204	700
1232	716
1261	733
1290	750
1318	766
1347	783
1376	800
1404	816
1433	833
1462	850
1490	866
1519	883
1548	900
1576	916
1605	933
1634	950
1662	966
1691	983
1125	645
1153	661
1181	677
1209	693
1238	710
1266	726
1294	742
1322	758
1350	774
1378	790
1406	806
1434	822
1463	839
1491	855
1519	871
1547	887
1575	903
1603	919
1631	935
1659	951
* Years of EmploymentWith Pay
Page 154
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October 1, 2000 ** (Expressed in Dollars)
YEWPS
*
Age 65 Age 64 Basic Pre-65 Basic
Age 63 Age 62 Age 61 Age 60 Age 59
Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic Pre-	Basic
65	65	65	65	65
Age 58 Age 57 Age 56 Age 55
Pre- Basic Pre- Basic Pre-65 Basic Pre- Basic 65	65	65
20.0
20.5 21.0
21.5 22.0
22.5
23.0
23.5
24.0
24.5
25.0
25.5
26.0
26.5
27.0
27.5
28.0
28.5 29.0
29.5
890	1348	868
912	1381	889
935	1415	911
957	1449	933
979	1483	955
1001	1516	976
1024	1550	998
1046	1584	1020
1068	1617	1041
1090	1651	1063
1113	1685	1085
1135	1718	1106
1157	1752	1128
1179	1786	1150
1202	1819	1171
1224	1853	1193
1246	1887	1215
1268	1921	1237
1291	1954	1258
1313	1988	1280
1326	846	1303
1359	867	1336
1392	888	1368
1425	909	1401
1458	930	1434
1491	951	1466
1524	972	1499
1557	993	1531
1591 1015 1564 1624 1036 1596 1657 1057 1629 1690 1078 1662 1723 1099 1694 1756 1120 1727 1789 1141 1759 1823 1163 1792 1856 1184 1825 1889 1205 1857 1922 1226 1890 1955 1247 1922
823 1281	801
844 1313	821
864 1345	841
885 1377	861
906 1409	881
926 1441	901
947 1473	921
967 1505	941
988 1537	961
1008 1569	981
1029 1601 1001 1050 1633 1021 1070 1665 1041 1091 1697 1061 1111 1729 1081 1132 1761 1101 1153 1793 1121 1173 1825 1141 1194 1857 1161 1214 1889 1181
1259	779	1237
1290	798	1267
1322	818	1298
1353	837	1329
1385	857	1360
1416	876	1391
1448	896	1422
1479	915	1453
1511	935	1484
1542	954	1515
1573	973	1546
1605	993	1577
1636 1012 1607 1668 1032 1638 1699 1051 1669 1731 1071 1700 1762 1090 1731 1794 1110 1762 1825 1129 1793 1857 1149 1824
756.5 1214	734
775 1245	753
794 1275	771
813 1305	789
832 1336	808
851 1366	826
870 1396	844
889 1427	863
908 1457	881
927 1487	899
946 1518	918
965 1548	936
983 1579	955
1002 1609	973
1021 1639	991
1040 1670 1010 1059 1700 1028 1078 1730 1046 1097 1761 1065 1116 1791 1083
1192	712	1170
1222	730	1199
1252	748	1228
1281	765	1257
1311	783	1287
1341	801	1316
1371	819	1345
1401	837	1374
1430	854	1404
1460	872	1433
1490	890	1462
1520	908	1491
1550	926	1521
1579	943	1550
1609	961	1579
1639	979	1608
1669	997	1638
1699 1015	1667
1728 1032	1696
1758 1050	1725
690 1148	668
707 1176	684
724 1205	701
741 1234	718
759 1262	734
776 1291	751
793 1320	768
810 1348	784
828 1377	801
845 1406	818
862 1434	834
879 1463	851
897 1492	868
914 1520	884
931 1549	901
948 1578	918
966 1607	935
983 1635	951
1000 1664	968
1017 1693	985
* Years of Employment With Pay
** Benefit entitlement increase effective October 1,2000 for employees who have retired on or after October 1,1999
Page 155
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October I ^001 ** (Expressedin Dollars)
Age 65 Age 64 Age 63	Age 62	Age 61 Age 60 Age 59 Age 58 Age 57
Age 56 Age 55
YEWPS*
Basic Pre-65 Basic Pre- Basic Pre- Basi Pre- Basic Pre- Basic Pre- Basic Pre- Basic Pre- Basic Pre- Basic Pre- Basic
65
65
c 65
65
65
65
65
65
65
20.0
20.5
21.0
21.5
22.0
22.5
23.0
23.5
24.0
24.5
25.0
25.5
26.0
26.5
27.0
27.5
28.0
28.5
29.0
29.5
920
943
966
989
1012
1035
1058
1081
1104
1127
1150
1173
1196
1219
1242
1265
1288
1311
1334
1357
1377
1411
1446
1480
1515
1549
1584
1618
1652
1687
1721
1756
1790
1825
1859
1893
1928
1962
1997
2031
897
919
942
964
987
1009
1032
1054
1076
1099
1121
1144
1166
1189
1211
1233
1256
1278
1301
1323
1354
1388
1422
1456
1489
1523
1557
1591
1625
1659
1693
1726
1760
1794
1828
1862
1896
1929
1963
1997
874
896
918
940
961
983
1005
1027
1049
1071
1093
1114
1136
1158
1180
1202
1224
1245
1267
1289
1331
1364
1398
1431
1464
1497
1531
1564
1597
1630
1664
1697
1730
1764
1797
1830
1863
1897
1930
1963
851
872
894
915
936
957
979
1000
1021
1042
1064
1085
1106
1128
1149
1170
1191
1213
1234
1255
1308
1341
1373
1406
1439
1472
1504
1537
1570
1602
1635
1668
1700
1733
1766
1799
1831
1864
1897
1929
828
849
869
890
911
932
952
973
994
1014
1035
1056
1076
1097
1118
1139
1159
1180
1201
1221
1285
1317
1349
1381
1414
1446
1478
1510
1542
1574
1606
1638
1671
1703
1735
1767
1799
1831
1863
1895
805
825
845
865
886
906
926
946
966
986
1006
1026
1047
1067
1087
1107
1127
1147
1167
1187
1262
1294
1325
1357
1388
1420
1451
1483
1514
1546
1578
1609
1641
1672
1704
1735
1767
1798
1830
1861
782
802
821
841
860
880
899
919
938
958
978
997
1017
1036
1056
1075
1095
1114
1134
1153
1239
1270
1301
1332
1363
1394
1425
1456
1487
1518
1549
1580
1611
1642
1673
1704
1735
1766
1797
1828
759
778
797
816
835
854
873
892
911
930
949
968
987
1006
1025
1044
1063
1082
1101
1120
1216
1246
1277
1307
1338
1368
1398
1429
1459
1490
1520
1550
1581
1611
1642
1672
1702
1733
1763
1794
736
754
773
791
810
828
846
865
883
902
920
938
957
975
994
1012
1030
1049
1067
1086
1193
1223
1253
1282
1312
1342
1372
1402
1432
1461
1491
1521
1551
1581
1611
1640
1670
1700
1730
1760
713
731
749
766
784
802
820
838
856
873
891
909
927
945
963
980
998
1016
1034
1052
1170
1199
1229
1258
1287
1316
1346
1375
1404
1433
1463
1492
1521
1550
1580
1609
1638
1667
1697
1726
690
707
725
742
759
776
794
811
828
845
863
880
897
914
932
949
966
983
1001
1018
' Years of Employment With Pay
Benefit entitlement increase effective October 1,2001 for employees who have retired on or after October 1,1999.
INDEX
4 Hour Minimum Application Of Overtime Rate
Application Of Overtime Rate, Change Of RDO Or Shift
14
18
18
Application to Apprenticeships Training
Application to Heavy Duty Mechanic Apprentices
62
Apprenticeship-Work Experience Apprenticeship Training
Arbitration
Article 18 -Written Reprimand
anking of Overtime asic Rate
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee
Bereavement Leave
Bi-weekly Payroll
Bulletin Boards
Call-Out
Change In RDO Or Shift
Clause 15.09 - Working During Vacation
Collar To Collar
Compassionate Leave
Conflict Resolution Coordinator- Job Description Contracting Out
122
21
151
76
14
18
115
14
22
Controlled Products Inventory
S«ar*ge StUdy
CWS Trades Tests Daily Overtime Definitions
Delete Garage Mechanic
23
16
28
23
Departments, 15, 27, 28, 33, 35, 41,42, 44, 45, 47, 49, 52, 53, 55, 58, 64, 68, 69,
17, 145
71 73, 74, 75, 85, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 118, 124, 131, 136 )ution
Employee9, 12, 18, 27, 41,46, 47, 49, 53, 54, 55, 60, 62, 69, 72, 73, 79, 104, 111,
112, 130.144, 150 ^
Employee Assistance Program
Employment Transition Committee
79, 104 132
xch;
xpe'
Extended Shift Schedules General Holiday Work Preference General Holidays Giving Of Preference Grievance Procedure Group Dental Plan Group Optical Plan Group Prescription Plan Heavy Duty Mechanic
15
38 35
39
92, 93, 94, 126 66, 67, 77, 93 66, 67, 77, 94 66, 67, 77, 92 60, 61, 62, 64, 87
Heavy Duty Reassignment Holidays Not Worked Holidays Worked Home Study Hours Of Work
Hours OfWork - Shift, Day, Week Incentive Committees, Meetings Incentive For Study Courses in-Term Meetings
Intradepartmental Force Adjustment- 3 Flowcharts Job Postings
Joint Problem Solving Committee
Joint Problem Solving Facilitator- Job Description
Jury Duty Supplement
Lay Off Over 30 Days
Lay Off, Temporary
Let Every Adult Read Now (L.EAR.N.)
Loss Of Seniority Lunches On Overtime Masculine& Feminine Mines Incentive Bonus New Classifications New Mines incentive System Nickel Price Bonus Notice Cf Change Notice To Employees Optional Leave Without Pay Overtime
Overtime Distribution Process- Flowchart
Pay	27, 69, 70, 76,
Pension Plan
Permanent Assignment To Lower Classification
Placement Committee
Power Engineers
Probationary Employee
Probationary Employee Rights
Promotions And Demotions
Public Office Leave
Ratio of Heavy Duty to Maintenance Mech.
Recall
Recall Name List to Contractors Recognition
Rehabilitation Committee Review of Heavy Duty Qualifications S, H & E Committee Training
60
36
36
63
13
13
26
59
121
138
44
15, 53, 122, 129, 130, 132
104
21
45
46 128
47 15
9
26, 27
19 27
101 24, 27
38 32
148
148
96, 98, 99, 100, 152, 153, 154
96
20 71, 72
58 9, 39
39 42
145
61
46, 134 134 39 72 61 70
Safety, Health and Environment68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 106, 107, 108, 109, 131
Security Fund Plan
Security Fund Plan Committee - Clairca Seniority
Seniority And Seniority Ranking Serious Accident Or Incident Settlement Of Differences Severance Provisions Shift Premium Sick Leave Signatures Special Vacations Success Sharing - Audit Letter Success Sharing Letter Summary Of Injuries Sunday Premium Technological Change
Temporary Assignment To Lower Classification
Temporary Staff
Trades
Trades Enhancement
Trades Upgrade/Committee
Training During Working Hours
Transfers Out Of A Department
Union Activities On Company Property
Union Orientation
Vacation Pay
Wage Inequality
Wages
Weekly Overtime Work Hour Definition
Worker Safety Representative- Job Description Worker Safety Representative Duties
19, 76, 111, 112, 150 150 9, 61 9 70 23 45 20 49 80 35 147 143 70 20 26 20
11, 12 58,60, 62, 124 124 60 62 39 75 120 30, 33, 34 19 19 16 33 106 72
0018106.e
INCO Limited, Thompson, Manitoba
United Steelworkers of America, Local 6166 (AFL-CIO/CLC)
(1,050 mine employees)
A 36-month renewal agreement effective from September 16, 1999 to September 15, 2002, settled in December 1999 after a work stoppage. Duration of negotiations- 6 months.
Note: The settlement resolves a 12-week lockout that commenced September 16,1999. A nine-day grace period for a return to work without penalty will be provided to all employees.
Wages:
Effective	Dec. 10/99	Sept. 16/2000	Sept. 16/2001
COLA Fold-in	230
General Adjustments Hourly Rates
Job Class 1	$19,885'
($19.65)
Job Class 12	$22.96S
($22.73)
Job Class 18	$24.64.
($24.61)
Job Class 23	$26.04\
($25.81)
250
$20.13S $23.21S $24.89 $26.29 v
250
$20.38 S $23.46 Y $25,141 $26.54$"
Signing Bonus:
$1,000.
Nickel Price Bonus:
For any quarter in which the Company has net earnings and ifthe Average Realized Price (ARP) of nickel is $2.25 U.S. per pound, each employee will receive a lump-sum payment equal to 100 per hour worked in that quarter. The multiplier used to calculate the lump-sum payment will be increased by 10 for each 10 the ARP exceeds $2.25 U.S. (basic formula unchanged).
Success Sharing Program (new):
Effective for the 2000 calendaryear only, if return on operating investment is 17 percent or greater, a percentage of money will be set aside for distribution among employees. The parties will be jointly involved in co-design projects initiated to improve operational efficiencies. The program maybe renewed for future years upon the approval of both parties.
Security Fund Plan:
The current employer matching contribution of a maximum of 2.0 per cent of basic monthly pay will be
Note: Summary reflects the information received at time of ratification.
Collective Bargaining Agreement
TABLE OF CONTENTS
STATEMENT ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT Preamble
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS Basic Rate
1.02	Department
1.03	Employee
1.04	Probationary Employee
1.05	Seniority And Seniority Ranking
1.06	Masculine & Feminine ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION
3.02	Supervisors Not To Perform Work Of Employees
3.03	Contracting Out
3.04	Temporary Staff ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK
6.01-	6.05 Hours Of Work - Shift, Day, Week
6.06	CollarTo Collar
6.07	4 Hour Minimum
6.08-6.09 Call-Out
6.10	Lunches On Overtime
6.11-6.15 Extended Shift Schedules ARTICLE 7 - OVERTIME
7.01	Daily Overtime
7.02-	7.02A Weekly Overtime
7.03	Distribution
7.04	Application Of Overtime Rate
7.05	Change In RDO Or Shift
7.06	Application Of Overtime Rate, Change Of RDO Or Shift
7.07	Banking of Overtime ARTICLE 8-WAGES
8.01	Wages
8.02	New Classifications
8.03	Wage Inequality
8.04	Shift Premium
8.05	Sunday Premium
8.0 6 Temporary Assignment To Lower Classification
Page 1
7
8
8
8
8
9
9
9
9
9
10
10
10
11
12
12
13
13
14
14
14
15
15
16
16
16
17
18
18
18
19
19
19
19
19
20
20
20
8.07	Permanent Assignment To Lower Classification
8.08	Jury Duty Supplement
8.09-8.10 Bereavement Leave
ARTICLE 9 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
9.01-	9.03 General
9.04-9.06 CWS Committee
9.07	Settlement Of Differences
9.08	CWS Trades Tests
9.09	Delete Garage Mechanic ARTICLE 10 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01-	10.03 General
10.04	Notice Of Change
10.05-	10.06 Affected Employees
10.07	Technological Change Committee ARTICLE 11 - MINES INCENTIVE BONUS 1 101-11.03 Incentive Committees, Meetings
11.04	Time Off And Pay For Committee
11.05	Incorrect Calculation Subject To Grievance
11.06	Notice Of Change
11.07	New Mines Incentive System ARTICLE 12 - REGULAR VACATIONS
12.02	Definitions
12.03-	12.04 Length OfVacations
12.05-	12.09 Vacation Pay
12.10	Time Of Vacation 12.10A Partial Vacation List
12.11	Optional Leave Without Pay
12.12	Retiree Vacation Pay
12.13-12.14 Work Hour Definition
ARTICLE 13 - SPECIAL VACATIONS
13.01	Entitlement
13.02	Payout Week
13.03	Length Of Special Vacation
13.04-	13.06 Special Vacation Pay
13.07-13.12 Time Of Special Vacation Granted
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	General Holidays
14.02	Holidays Worked
14.03-14.07 Holidays Not Worked
14.08	NoticeTo Employees
14.09	General Holiday Work Preference ARTICLE 15-SENIORITY
15.01	Recognition
15.02	Giving Of Preference
Page 2
20
21
21
22
22
22
23
23
23
23
23
24
25
26
26
26
27
27
27
27
28
28
28
30
31
32
32
33
33
34
34
34
34
34
35
35
35
36
36
38
38
39
39
39
15.03	Probationary Employee Rights
15.04-	15.06 Transfers Out Of A Department
15.07	Job Posting - Mechanical and Electrical Departments
15.08-15.09 Promotions And Demotions
15.10-	15.11 Job Postings
15.12	Lay Off Over 30 Days
15.13	Severance Provisions
15.14	LayOff, Temporary 15.15-15.19 Recall 15.20-15.21 Loss Of Seniority 15.22-15.25 General
15.26	Sick Leave
ARTICLE 16 -TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ARTICLE 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS ARTICLE 18 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
ARTICLE 19 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEEMEN, UNION STEWARDS AND FULL TIME UNION POSITIONS
ARTICLE 20 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
20.01-	20.04 Difference Between Employees And Company
20.05	Difference Between Union And Company
20.06	Extension Of Time Limits
20.07	Management Representative Stage One ARTICLE 21 - ARBITRATION
ARTICLE 22 - MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT TRADES AND POWER ENGINEERS
22.01-	22.05 Trades
22.06-22.09 Power Engineers
22.10	Incentive For Study Courses
22.11-	22.16 Apprentices
22.17	Trades Upgrade/Committee
22.18	Heavy Duty Mechanic
22.19	Heavy Duty Reassignment
22.20	Review of Heavy Duty Qualifications
22.21	Application to Heavy Duty Mechanic
22.23	Layoff of Heavy Duty or Maintenance Mech. by Seniority
22.24	Filling a Vacant Position
22.25	Apprenticeship - Work Experience
22.26	Application to Apprenticeship & Training
22.27	Amendment to 22.14 (Completes)
ARTICLE 23 - GENERAL TRAINING
23.01-	23.04 Training During Working Hours
23.05-	23.06 Home Study
ARTICLE 23A - “TRADE QUALIFIED”(T.Q.) TRADESMAN ARTICLE 23B -APPRENTICE MINERS
Page 3
39
39
41
42
44
45
45
46
46
47
47
49
49
49
50
51
54
54
55
55
56
56
58
58
58
59
59
60
60
60
61
61
61
61
61
62
62
62
62
63
63
64
ARTICLE 24 - EDUCATIONAL LEAVE	65
ARTICLE 25 - MATERNITY LEAVE	66
ARTICLE 26 - PUBLIC OFFICE LEAVE	67
ARTICLE 27 - NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS	67
ARTICLE 28 - SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT	67
28.01- 28.02 Safety, Health and Environment	67
28.03	DepartmentS,H & E Committees	68
28.03A Pay For Departments, H & E Committees	68
28.04	Divisions, H& ECommittee	68
28.04A Pay For Division S, H & E Committees	69
28.05	Serious Accident Or Incident	69
28.06	Accident During Work Hours, Pay	70
28.07	Company Required Medical	70
28.08	Summary Of Injuries	70
28.09-28.10 S, H& E Committee Training	70
28.11-28.11A Environmental Information Exchange Committee	70
28.12	Placement Committee	71
28.12A Rehabilitation Committee	71
28.13	Worker Safety Representative Duties	72
28.14 Union Co-chair Division Safety, Health And Environment Duties	73
ARTICLE 28A RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK	73
ARTICLE 28B: RIGHTTOAN OBSERVER DURING WORKPLACE MONITORING AND SAMPLING	74
ARTICLE 29 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS	74
29.01-	29.02 Union Activities On Company Property	74
29.03	Bulletin Boards	75
ARTICLE 30 - PENSION PLAN AND SECURITY FUND PLAN	75
ARTICLE 31 - INSURANCE BENEFITS	76
ARTICLE 32 - COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE	76
ARTICLE 33 -EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM	78
ARTICLE 34 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT	78
Signatures	78
SCHEDULE “A” DEPARTMENTS	79
SCHEDULE "B" STANDARD HOURLY WAGE SCALE	80
SCHEDULE “C” APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING WAGE SCALE	81
SCHEDULE “C” (con't)	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING WAGE SCALE
82
SCHEDULED” DEPARTMENT SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEES	83
SCHEDULE “E” DEPARTMENTAL WORKING AREAS	84
SCHEDULE "F” Worker Safety Representative Work Locations	85
SCHEDULE “G”	86
Heavy Duty Mechanic to Maintenance Mechanic Ratio	86
APPENDIX C Group Prescription Plan	89
Page 4
APPENDIX D Group Dental Plan
APPENDIX E Group Optical Plan
APPENDIX F Pension Plan
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October 1,
90
91
92
1999 (Expressed in Dollars)
145
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October 1, 2000 ** (Expressed in Dollars)	146
Benefit Entitlementfor Service On or After October 1, 2001 ** (Expressedin Dollars)	147
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 1999 For Disability Retirements*	93
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 2000 For Disability Retirements*	94
Benefit Entitlement Effective October 1, 2000 For	Disability Retirements*	95
APPENDIX G Nickel Price Bonus	96
APPENDIX H Conflict Resolution Coordinator- Job	Description	97
APPENDIX I Joint Problem Solving Facilitator- Job	Description	99
APPENDIX J Worker Safety Representative - Job Description	101
APPENDIX K UNION Co-chair Division Safety, Health and Environment Job Description	103
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT	105
Security Fund Plan	106
Article 18 - Written Reprimand	108
Clause 15.09 - Working During Vacation	109
Summer Employment of Students	110
Apprenticeship Training	111
Steelworker's Humanity Fund	112
Union Orientation	113
In-Term Meetings	114
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee	115
Trades Enhancement	116
Steelworker's Benevolence/Education Fund	117
Expedited Arbitration	118
Let Every Adult Read Now (L.EAR.N.)	120
Joint Problem Solving Committee	121
Controlled Products Inventory	123
Employment Transition Committee	124
Recall Name List to Contractors	126
EvaluateS.E.S. system - Mines	127
Vacation and Special Vacation Scheduling Mines	Extended Shift	128
Intradepartmental Force Adjustment - 3 Flowcharts	130
Development of Safety Policies, Programs and Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI) - Flowchart	134
135
Success Sharing Letter	136
Success Sharing - Audit Letter	140
Page 5
Overtime Distribution Process- Flowchart Security Fund Plan Committee - Clairca Bi-weekly Payroll 131 INDEX
141
143
144 127
Page 6
STATEMENT ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Inco Limited, Manitoba Division and the United Steelworkers of America, Local 6166, are jointly committed to maintain a work environment that is free of sexual harassment. Sexual harassment will not be tolerated and any person who is in breach of this policy will be subject to disciplinary action or discharge.
Inco Limited, Manitoba Division will not knowingly permit the sexual harassment of any person and will take all reasonable steps to terminate such harassment, as required under the Human Rights Code of Manitoba.
Sexual harassment is any unsolicited and unwelcome sexually oriented behaviour.
It may include but is not limited to the following:
-	unwanted sexual attention of a persistent or abusive nature, made by a person who knows or ought reasonably to know that such attention is unwanted: or
-	implied or expressed promise of reward for complying with a sexually oriented request; or
-	implied or expressed threat of reprisal, in the form either of actual reprisal or the denial of opportunity, for refusal to comply with a sexually oriented request; or
-	unwelcome remarks, jokes, innuendos, propositions, or taunting about a person's body, attire, sex or sexual orientation; or
-	displaying of pornographic or sexist pictures or materials.
An individual who is being subjected to any form of sexual harassment may tell the offender that what is being said or done is offensive and ask that such behaviour stop or report the incident, at the earliest opportunity, to a union steward or committeeman, or a supervisor or other management personnel.
Page 7
Preamble
THIS AGREEMENT made as of thelOth day of December 1999;
BETWEEN:
INCO LIMITED,
MANITOBA DIVISION, (hereinafter called "the Company”)
OF THE FIRST PART and -
UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA,
LOCAL 6166, (hereinafter called “the Union”)
CF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS by certificate of The Manitoba Labour Board dated the 31 st of May, 1962, it was certified that the Union is the properly chosen bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in the Thompson, Manitoba operations except office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, foremen, shift bosses and those excluded by The Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
AND WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose cf the Union and the Company to further harmonious industrial relationships between the Company and those employees:
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
Basic Rate
1.1	The expression "basic rate” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean at any time with respect to any employee that straight time rate per hour, (exclusive of all premium
pay such as holiday pay, shift premium, Sunday premium and overtime) to which such employee is entitled under the terms of this Agreement in respect of the work which he is performing at such time.
1.02	Department
1.2	The word “department” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the departments as set forth in Schedule "Ah ereto.
1.03	Employee
1.3	The word “employee” or “employees” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean all
Page 8
employees of the Company in its Thompson and other operations north of the 53rd parallel
of latitude in Manitoba except office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Foremen and
those excluded by The Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
1.04	Probationary Employee
1.4	Until an employee has worked at least three hundred and thirty-six (336) hours since the date of his most recent hiring he shall be a “probationary employee” and the words “probationary employee’ wherever used in this Agreement shall have that meaning.
1.05	Seniority And Seniority Ranking
1.05(a) The word “seniority” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee’s length of continuous employment with the Company since the date of his most recent hiring, less the periods to be subtracted under Clause 15.20.
1.05(b) The word “seniority ranking” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the relative seniority of an employee to others in the department in which he is then employed.
1.06	Masculine & Feminine
1.06	Whenever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement it shall also mean the feminine gender, unless the context requires otherwise.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Union recognizes that it is exclusively the function and right of the Company to direct the working forces and to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend or lay off employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause.
2.02	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the sole and exclusive prerogative of the Company to decide on the location of its plants and mines, the products to be mined and/or processed, the schedules of production, the methods of mining and processing used, the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, operating techniques, methods, machinery and equipment, and to exercise jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery and tools.
2.03	The Company agrees that any exercise of rights and powers under this Article in conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes that the Union is the bargaining agent of the employees and has the exclusive authority to bargain collectively on their behalf with respect to rates of pay, hours of work, and terms and conditions of
Page 9
employment of employees as set out in The Labour Relations Act.
3.02	Supervisors Not To Perform Work Of Employees
1.2	Subject to the requirements of operations, (including necessary instruction of employees and any cases of an emergency nature) Foremen, supervisors, and other persons employed by the Company but not employees as defined in this Agreement shall not perform work which is normally done by employees, where employees are reasonably available to do such work.
3.03	Contracting Out
3.03	The Company understands that the Union has a legitimate concern about contracting out because of its effect upon such matters as job security and job opportunity and will therefore use its best efforts to minimize the amount of production or maintenance work to be contracted out.
The Union understands that the Company has a legitimate concern about the efficiency of the operation and that sometimes it is necessary to contract work out.
Accordingly, work may be contracted out if:
(a)	it has been consistently performed by contractors in the past; or
(b)	qualified Company employees are not available in sufficient numbers to perform the work or when special skills, equipment or tools are required to perform the work; or
(c)	it is work of an emergency nature provided, however, that in the case of work of an emergency nature, the Company will, where practicable, give reasonable consideration to the use of employees who have the necessary skills to perform such work.
Some examples of work which will be contracted out are major capital projects, major construction, shaft sinking and related development, and specialized work such as stack inspection and repair.
A joint “Contracting Out Committee” will be established for the purpose of reviewing work currently contracted out and any planned contracting out of work. The Union representatives on the Committee may make recommendations which must be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The Committee will consist of the President of the Local Union or his designate, a representative of United Steelworkers of America and three members of the bargaining unit to be chosen by the Union, as well as a Manager and the senior Central Maintenance Supervisor or their designates and up to three persons chosen by the Company.
The Committee will meet as often as they deem necessary but not less than once
Page 10
each month.
The Company will inform the Union Co-chair as soon as possible that work of an emergency nature is being contracted out. The Company will use its best efforts to keep such work to a minimum.
The Company agrees to provide the Committee with the following information regarding work that is contracted out or work planned to be contracted out: location of the work; type of work to be done; crafts or occupations involved; expected duration; numbers of both contract employees and bargaining unit employees to be used.
The Company will use its best efforts to:
(a)	give the Union thirty (30) days notice of work to be contracted out; and
(b)	hold a meeting in the first quarter of each year to review contracting out activities from the previous twelve (12) month period and major contracts to be awarded
or renewed in the current year; and
(c)	review with the Committee vacation and shutdown work to be contracted out prior to a vacation or production shutdown.
If ongoing, sustained need for new skills, not currently available in the Company, is identified, the Company will use its best efforts to train sufficient employees in such skills.
The Union and the Company agree that they will jointly examine means, including but not limited to training, to increase mine development efficiencies by Inco employees, with the intent of increasing the potential for reducing the amount of mine development work to be contracted out.
No employee will be demoted or laid off as a direct result of work being contracted out by the Company.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members of the joint Contracting Out Committee.
3.04	Temporary Staff
3.04	Except with the consent of the Union, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, during the last thirty (30) days of the term of this Agreement the Company will not transfer any member of the bargaining unit to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Foreman or any position in which the individual is not an "employee” within the meaning of The Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	The Company shall, during the life of this Agreement, deduct as a condition of each
Page 11
employee’s continued employment, Union dues in the amount certified by the Union to the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union Constitution, and remit the same in the week following the pay period in which such deduction is made to the International Treasurer, United Steelworkers of America accompanied by a completed form R-115 except that the line “3. Earnings $” shall not be completed.
The Company will, at the time of remittance, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted and name the employees whose employment has terminated in the period for which payment is being made.
1.2	The said deductions shall commence, in the case of each employee who is in the employment of the Company at the effective date of this Agreement, with the month
of September, 1999 and, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the month of hire if five (5) or more days are worked. In the event five (5) or more days are not worked in the month of hire, the said deductions will commence with the month following the month of hire.
1.2	Commencing March 1, 2000, the Company will on or before March 1st in each year furnish to each employee a statement of the total Union dues which have been deducted
from such employee’s pay cheques and remitted to the Union during the preceding calendar year.
1.2	In Clause 4.05 “Temporary Staff Employee” means an employee who is temporarily transferred to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, or Foreman.
1.2	In the week following each pay period that would have been a pay period for a Temporary Staff Employee if he had not been a Temporary Staff Employee, the Company shall remit to the Financial Secretary of the Union an amount equal to the Union dues that would have been remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union under Clause 4.01
with respect to that Temporary Staff Employee if he had not been a Temporary Staff Employee in that pay period.
ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION
5.01	The parties mutually agree that any employee of the Company may become a member of the Union if he wishes to do so, and may refrain from becoming or remaining a member of the Union if he so desires.
5.02	The parties mutually agree that there shall be no discrimination or harassment by either of them or by any members of the Union against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union or by reason of the employee’s sex, race, national origin, colour, religion, political belief, age, sexual orientation, family status, marital status, mental disability, physical handicap, or because an employee has or has not engaged in lawful union activity specifically provided for under this Agreement. The parties also agree that no employee should be subjected to sexual
Page 12
harassment.
5.03	The parties mutually agree that employees have a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. The Company will take whatever action it deems necessary to maintain such a working environment. The action taken by the Company may include discipline and/or the termination of the employment of any person engaging in the sexual harassment of another person.
An employee may initiate a grievance alleging sexual harassment under the grievance procedure.
Where the alleged harasser is the person who would normally deal with the grievance, the complaint will automatically be advanced to the next stage of the grievance procedure.
Complaints of alleged sexual harassment will be handled with all possible confidentiality.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK
6.01-6.05 Hours Of Work - Shift, Day, Week
1.1	Nothing in this Agreement shall be considered a guarantee of work or of hours of work per day or per week.
6.02	Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half (14) hour.
6.03	For shift work-
(a)	a day will consist of a series of shifts as scheduled.
(b)	a work week will commence with the day shift on Monday and end with the night shift on the following Sunday;
(c)	on continuous shift operations each employee not be required to work longer than five (5) consecutive hours without a thirty (30) minute period to eat any meal which period shall be considered as time worked. Such meal may be eaten in a lunchroom.
1.4	For work other than shift work, a work week will commence with the beginning of a day worker's hours on Monday and terminate at the same time on the following Monday.
1.4	Employees who are not regularly employed as shift workers and are working as day workers shall normally begin work at 8 a.m. However, it is recognized that in order
to maintain efficient operations, certain day workers must begin work earlier or later than that hour. Day workers will be given a lunch period of one-half (14) hour per day, but such lunch period shall not be considered as time worked. The lunch
Page 13
may be eaten in a lunchroom.
6.06	Collar To Collar
6.06	Hoisting and lowering schedules at the Company’s mines will be arranged to provide approximately the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, from collar to collar for each shift, but variations which do not occur consistently from such schedules, not exceeding ten (10) minutes, shall be disregarded. Delay time in such schedules in excess of the first ten (10) minutes shall be considered time worked, but not for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Agreement.
6.07	4 Hour Minimum
6.07	When an hourly paid employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at what would have been his basic rate without being required to work the said four (4) hours, but such four (4) hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of Article 7. The provisions of this Clause shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his Foreman or such other supervisor designated by the Company for this purpose of his intention to return.
6.08-6.09 Call-Out
6.08	A “call-out” shall mean a request by the Company to an employee to work any time outside such employee‘s regularly scheduled working hours other than time immediately following or time (not to exceed one (Ihour) immediately preceding a shift worked by such employee unless he shall have received such request at least sixteen (16) hours before such work is to commence. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement an employee reporting for work on a "call-out” shall be entitled to be paid for work so performed as follows:
(a) if the “call-out” occurs on a day other than a general holiday, or occurs on a general holiday and the work performed is within the hours that would have been his regularly scheduled working hours if he had been scheduled to work on that general holiday, at one and one-half (1 V2) times his basic rate or for at least four (4) hours at his basic rate, whichever is greater;
(b)	if the “call-out” occurs on a general holiday and the work performed is outside the hours that would have been his regularly scheduled working hours if he had been scheduled to work on that general holiday, at two and one-half (2 Yz) times his basic rate or for at least four (4) hours at his basic rate, whichever is greater.
6.09	Transportation to and/or from call-out work will be provided by the Company when public transportation is not reasonably available or when in the opinion of the Company the urgency of the call-out work so requires it.
Page 14
to CO
.10 Lunches On Overtime
.10 An employee who continues working after completing his regular shift and then works more than two (2) hours overtime, shall be provided by the Company with a lunch. Should such employee work for more than five (5) hours overtime, he shall be provided by the Company with an additional lunch, which lunch or lunches may be eaten in a lunchroom.
The Company will use its best efforts to supply a hot lunch for the first lunch. The additional lunch will consist of a sandwich/beverage combination.
6.11-6.15 Extended Shift Schedules
1.11	Subject to Clause 6.12, the Company and the Union mutually agree that the Company may give effect to shift schedules which alter or exceed the daily and/or weekly hours of work described elsewhere in this agreement. These schedules shall be termed Extended Shift Schedules and are defined as:
A schedule of shifts in excess of eight (8) hours each, but not to exceed twelve (12) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, without the payment of wages at overtime rates provided, however, that the average weekly hours worked over the cycle of the schedule of shifts will not exceed forty (40) and if it does the hours in excess of forty (40) will be paid at overtime rate. The "cycle of the schedule of shifts” means the number of weeks that pass before the schedule repeats itself, which number of weeks shall not exceed eight (8) without prior consultation with the Union.
An hourly-paid employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule pursuant to this Clause 6.11 shall be paid at one and one-half (1 Vi) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of his Extended Shift Schedule hours at his basic rate in his work day, except where such excess time is worked by him due to his regularly scheduled change of shift and, where applicable shall be entitled to off-shift premium in accordance with Clause 8.04.
6.12	When an Extended Shift Schedule is planned for any group of employees of a Department (as set out in Schedule "Ahereto) the Joint Problem Solving Committee shall establish, for each Department affected, a Shift Schedule Committee that shall consist of a representative of the Joint Problem Solving Committee and two (2) representatives, appointed by the Union, from among the employees affected.
When the Company plans to implement an Extended Shift Schedule, the Manager of the Department or his designate and no more than two (2) other individuals appointed by the Company shall present to the Shift Schedule Committee, and to the employees involved, information pertinent to the planned implementation.
Within one (1) calendar week of such presentation, the Shift Schedule Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of specific concerns relating to the implementation plan. The Company shall give substantial weight and careful consideration to the concerns in its decision making process.
Page 15
Provisions of Clause 19.04 shall apply to the Union representatives of the Shift Schedule Committee.
6.13	Subject to Clause 6.01, the Company will schedule a minimum weekly average of forty (40) hours for employees working on an Extended Shift Schedule.
6.14	The Company will not schedule an employee to work in excess of sixteen (16) consecutive hours and will use its best efforts to minimize the occurrence of employees working in excess of sixteen (6) consecutive hours.
ARTICLE 7 - OVERTIME
7.01	Daily Overtime
1.1	An hourly-paid employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule shall be paid at one and one-half (114) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the number of hours he was scheduled to work at his basic rate on that day.
7.02-7.02A Weekly Overtime
7.02	Where the average weekly hours worked by an employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule exceeds forty (40) hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts as defined in Clause6.11, he shall be paid at one and one-half (114) times his basic rate for the hours in excess of forty (40), except that:
(a)	when a general holiday occurs in his regularly scheduled work week but does not occur on his regular day off he shall be paid at one and one-half (1 14) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the difference between forty (40) and the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that general holiday, and
(5) when two general holidays occur in his regularly scheduled work week but neither occurs on what is a regular day off for him, he shall be paid at one and one-half (114) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the difference between forty (40) and the number of hours he was scheduled to work on both of those general holidays
7.02A Subject to Clause 7.02 and Clause 7.06, an employee shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) times his basic rate for time worked outside his regularly scheduled work hours in any week provided that any time not worked during his regularly scheduled work hours;
i)	is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
ii)	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice; or
iii)	is pursuant to leave of absence granted by the Company; or
Page 16
iv)	is due to vacation granted pursuant to Article 12 ; or
v)	is due to Special vacation granted pursuant to Article 13; or 1.
vj) is due to a holiday with pay granted pursuant to Clause 14.03.
7.03	Distribution
7.03	When the Company requires overtime work to be performed, other than work pursuant to a "call-out”, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, distribute such work as evenly as practicable among the employees in the working group which normally performs the work, who are qualified to perform the work, considering the availability and wishes of employees who have the necessary qualifications.
Prior to the offering of overtime the Company will make temporary promotions in accordance with Clause 15.09.
For the purposes of this Clause 7.03 an overtime opportunity shall be any time, except a "call-out”, outside an employee’s regularly scheduled working hours regardless of the rate of pay the employee receives for working or would have received had he worked such time.
Preference in the offering of overtime will be given first to the qualified employee in the working group with the least overtime recorded, if he is readily available, and, if he is not, or if he is not contacted for any reason, preference in the offering of overtime will be given to him at the next opportunity. If any employee refuses to work overtime offered to him, he shall not receive any pay for those overtime hours but they shall be added to his record of accumulated overtime hours for the purpose cf overtime distribution.
In the event of overtime work being required in a trade the work will first be offered to employees in that trade in the working group (which is the trade that normally performs the work) and then to employees in the required trade in the Departmental Working Area listed in Schedule "E” before being offered to other qualified employees.
For the purposes of this Clause 7.03 “working group” is generally defined as that group of employees reporting to a first line supervisor. However, where shift sequences or supervisory coverage requires otherwise, the employees reporting to a first line supervisor may constitute two (2) or more working groups. The Company and the Union will agree on any working groups which do not conform to this definition.
Upon request to his immediate supervisor, an employee, accompanied if he so desires by a Union Steward, may examine the record of his immediate supervisor pertaining to overtime distribution within the employee’s working group.
Page 17
The record pertaining to overtime distribution for each working group will be posted each month in a suitable location.
Once a month during the first year of this Agreement and once a quarter thereafter, at the request of the Union, the Manager of Employee Relations and/or other designated officials of the Company shall meet with two (2) representatives of the Union to review the records of overtime distribution. The Union shall notify the Company at least five (5) working days prior to any such meeting of the particular records to be considered thereat. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to time lost shall apply to the two (2) representatives <f the Union in attendance at such meetings.
If an employee has a complaint with respect to the record of overtime distribution which he has been unable to resolve with his supervisor and where there is mutual agreement, the parties will discuss the matter at the aforementioned meeting prior to such complaint being advanced through the grievance procedure.
7.04	Application Of Overtime Rate
1.4	Except as provided in Clause 6.08 or Clause 14.02 under the provisions of which an employee may be entitled to be paid at two and one-half (2 'A) times his basic rate,
no employee paid on an hourly basis shall be entitled, apart from off-shift premium and Sunday premium, to more than one and one-half (IA) times his applicable basic rate for any hours worked by him.
7.05	Change In RDO Or Shift
7.05	Any change in an employee's regular day off schedule or shift schedule shall be posted, or an employee instructed to that effect, not later than the end of his shift on the Friday prior to the work week in which the change is to take effect.
7.06	Application Of Overtime Rate, Change Of RDO Qc Shift
7.06	Should an employee be instructed by the Company, during his work week or on the Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the commencement of such work week, to change his day off or days off in that work week to another day or days in that work week, he shall be considered as having worked his normal working hours on the previously scheduled day or days at what would have been his basic rate, but for the purpose only of ascertaining whether such employee shall be paid at one and one-half (1%) times his basic rate for any other time actually worked by him.
Any change or changes to an employee's normal shift schedule at the Company's instruction given during his work week or on the Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the commencement of such work week will entitle the employee to be considered as having worked the originally scheduled hours that were changed in that work week at what would have been his basic rate, but for the purpose only of . ascertaining whether such employee shall be paid at one and one-half (11A) times his basic rate for any other time actually worked by him.
This Clause 7.06 does not apply to changes of shift schedules made to
Page 18
accommodate employee training.
7.07	Banking of Overtime
7.07	Each employee who works overtime has the option of receiving pay for such work at the applicable overtime rate, or banking the time worked at the applicable basic rate and receiving pay for one-half (Vz) of the time worked at the applicable basic rate, provided that he does not have sufficient vacation entitlement to cover the vacation shutdown period.
Such time will be taken in conjunction with the next vacation shutdown and, if applicable, the Company will deduct from the pay for such time an amount equal to the employee’s contribution to the Security Fund Plan and the Company shall contribute to the Security Fund Plan an amount in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in such Plan.
,If for any reason the employee is not required to use the banked time to cover the vacation shutdown period he will receive payment for such banked time at the applicable basic rate.
Subject to Clause 7.02A, such time off will not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Article 7.
ARTICLE 8 -WAGES
8.01	Wages
8.01	The wage rates per hour set forth in the applicable table in Schedule “B" hereto, shall be paid commencing on December 10, 1999.
8.02	New Classifications
8.02	In the event that any new occupational classification shall be established by the Company during the currency of this Agreement, the Company will fix the rate of pay therefor and shall give prompt notice thereof to the Union. The Union shall have the right, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of such notice, to request a meeting with the Company to discuss the wage rate applicable to the new classification established by the Company. If, as a result of any such discussions, the wage rate applicable to the new classification is changed, then payment of the wage rate as changed shall be made retroactive to the date notice of the new classification was given to the Union.
8.03	Wage Inequality
8.03	Upon receipt of a claim by the Union that a wage rate for a job constitutes an inequality under the existing wage structure, the Company will investigate and review the job and/or the rate therefor. If the Company decides that there should be an increase in such wage rate it will notify the Union and any such increase will be effective from the date of such notification. The Union representatives on the CWS
Page 19
Committee shall be entitled to meet with the Company representatives on the CWS Committee to discuss the wage rates under review. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the CWS Committee in carrying out their duties under this Clause 8.03.
8.04	Shift Premium
8.04	For all work performed by an employee during afternoon shift hours, (and not within
the regular day or night working hours of such employee) he shall be paid an off-shift premium in addition to his basic rate of fifty cents (500) per hour. For all work performed during night shift hours, (and not within the regular day or afternoon working hours of such employee) he shall be paid an off-shift premium of sixty cents (606) per hour in addition to his basic rate.	Off-shift premiums shall not be
considered as part of an employee's basic rate.
8.05	Sunday Premium
8.05	An employee who works during the twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of the day shift on Sunday and ending with the start of the day shift on Monday shall be paid a Sunday premium as follows:
(a)	at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for time worked by him during a regularly scheduled shift,
(b)	at the rate of twenty-five cents (250) per hour for time worked by him that is not during a regularly scheduled shift.
8.06	Temporary Assignment To Lower Classification
8.06	An employee who is temporarily assigned to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his regular occupational classification shall continue to be paid at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification.
Provided that an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.
8.07	Permanent Assignment To Lower Classification
8.07	Where an employee who is permanently assigned (for any reason other than willful failure to fill the normal requirements of the job) to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his regular occupational classification, he shall for three (3) months be paid for the work he performs at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification.
During the above three (3) month period:
(a)	he may be required by the Company to accept any training in any occupational classification which is offered to him,
Page 20
(b)	he shall be reassigned, subject to the wishes of employee, to his regular occupational classification in the event of a vacancy, and
(c)	he shall be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department.
If he refuses to accept such training, or to accept any reassignment or to accept any job offered to him by the Company, he shall forthwith cease to be entitled to the benefits of this Clause 8.07.
Where an employee is reassigned under subclause (b) of this Clause 8.07 the provisions of Article 15 with respect to job posting shall not apply to the vacancy to which he is reassigned.
Notwithstanding the foregoing an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.
8.08	Jury Duty Supplement
8.08	An employee who receivesjury duty fees for one or more days underThe Jury Act or The Queen‘s Bench Act shall, for each of these days that is a regular work day for him, receive a supplement from the Company so that the total of what he receives from the Company for that day and the jury duty fees he receives for that day is equal to his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day.
8.09-8.10 Bereavement Leave
8.09	Subject to Clause 8.10, a bereavement leave of absence will be granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family. For each day of such leave of absence which is a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, he shall be paid his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day.
To qualify for bereavement leave, the employee shall notify his supervisor as soon as possible following the bereavement.
“Immediatefamily” shall mean spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,grandmother,grandfather,spouse’s sister, spouse’s brother,spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather,brother’s spouse, sister’s spouse and employee’s grandchildren.
8.10	For the purpose of Clause 8.09, the leave of absence granted will be as follows:
(j) if the deceased is the spouse, son or daughter of the employee, the maximum bereavement leave shall be ten (10) consecutive calendar days commencing on the date of death,
(ii)	Subject to Clause 8.10 (iii) and Clause 8.10 (iv), if the deceased is a member of the employee’s immediate family other than those in Clause 8.10 (i), the maximum bereavement leave shall be three (3) consecutive calendar days
Page 21
including the day of the funeral.
(iii)	if the funeral of the immediate family member other than those in Clause 8.10 (i) is at a distance greater than 500 kilometres by road from Thompson, and the employee attends the funeral, or where the employee does not attend the funeral because he is required to care for a dependant child or to deal with other family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature and the employee’s spouse attends the funeral, the maximum bereavement leave, including the day of the funeral, will be five (5) consecutive calendar days.
(iv)	in the case of Clause 8.10 (ii) and Clause 8.10 (iii), if the consecutive calendar days of leave include a Sunday which is not a regular working day for the employee, an additional day of bereavement leave will be granted, consecutive with the days already granted.
The Company will grant casual leave without pay to those employees who request such leave as a result of compassionate circumstances or to deal with personal or family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations and other circumstances the Company may take into account.
8.11	Compassionate Leave
8.11
8.11	The Company will grant casual leave without pay to those employees who request such leave as a result of compassionate circumstances or to deal with personal or family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations.
ARTICLE 9 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
9.01-9.03 General
9.01	The Co-operative Wage Study Manual (herein referred to as “the Manual”), which was Appendix "Ato the previous Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union, shall be incorporated into this agreement as APPENDIX "Aa nd its provisions shall apply as if set forth in full herein.
9.02	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application of job descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected.
9.03	Except as otherwise provided, no employee shall be entitled to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
9.04-9.06 CWS Committee
9.04	There shall be a committee known as the “CWS Committee” consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to represent the Union and three (3) individuals appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its
Page 22
representatives from time to time.
9.05	Meetings of the CWS Committee will be held as mutually agreed but not less than once per month.
9.06 Leaves of absence shall be granted to Union representatives on the CWS Committee to the extent required for handling job descriptions and job classifications during the required stages to administer the Manual. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the members of the CWS Committee, but the Company may at any time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse of the privilege.
9.07	Settlement Of Differences
9.07	If the Company and the Union fail to reach agreement upon any job description, classification or assignment to job class through the procedure provided in the Manual, such matter shall constitute a difference between the Company and the Union to which Clause 20.05 applies and shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with Article 21.
9.08	CWS Trades Tests
9.08	The Company agrees to interpret the words in Section 5.05(c)(ii) of the manual which reads “an appropriate practical test” to mean “an on the job test” which will not include written tests. The Company understands that any dispute in relation to the development of trade tests will be settled by arbitration under Article 21.
9.09	Delete Garage Mechanic
9.09	The phrase “Garage Mechanic” wherever used in the manual shall be removed and not replaced
ARTICLE I 0 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01-10.03 General
10.01	In this Article:
(a)	"technological change” means:
(i)	the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment, material or process of a different nature or kind than that previously used by the Company in the operation of its work, undertaking or business, and
(ii)	a change in the manner in which the Company carries on its work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
(b)	“Years of Service” means the period of time expressed as a number of full years and/or any fraction of a full yearthat the employee has been an employee of the
Page23
Company since his most recent date of hiring except that:
(j) the period of any leave of absence granted to the employee under Clause 17.01(a) or Clause 24.01 shall be deducted in computing his “Years of Service”, and
(ii) where an employee is rehired under Clause 15.15 after having been laid off for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, his "Years of Service” shall be computed as though he had continued in the employment of the Company instead of being so laid off and rehired.
(c)	“Average Basic Rate” of an employee entitled to payment of the amount described in Clause 10.05(a) or an employee deemed to have a basic rate in Clause 10.05(b) means his total earnings from the Company exclusive of all premium pay such as holiday pay, vacation pay, shift premium, Sunday premium, mines incentive bonus and overtime, for the hours that he worked for the Company in the period of thirty (30) calendar days ending with the last day on which he worked for the Company prior to the date he became affected by the technological change, divided by the total number of hours that he worked for the Company during that period of thirty (30) calendar days.
10.02	The provisions of this Article are intended to assist employees affected by any technological change to adjust to the effects of the technological change.
10.03	Sections 83, 84 and 85 of The Labour Relations Act of Manitoba do not apply during the term of this Agreement to the Company and the Union.
10.04	Notice Of Change
10.04	If the Company decides to effect a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated:
(a)	the Company will give the Union written notice of the technological change and will endeavour to give the Union written notice sixty (60) days prior to the technological change coming into effect and will discuss with the Union the steps to be taken to assist the employees affected to adjust to the effects of the technological change;
(b)	if in the opinion of the Union the Company has failed to comply with paragraph (a), the Union may submit this in writing as a difference between the Union and the Company under Clause 20.05 whereupon it shall be decided by arbitration under Article 21 whether or not the Company has effected a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of a significant number of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated; and
(c)	in the arbitration of a difference between the Union and the Company as referred to in paragraph (b),
Page 24
(j) such arbitration shall take priority over any other arbitration then in process,
(ii) the selection of a Chairman from the panel shall be subject to him being able and willing to hear the case within one (I) month from his selection and to render his decision within ten (1O) days following the hearing of the case.
10.05-10.06 Affected Employees
10.05	If the Company has given written notice to the Union in accordance with Clause 10.04(a) or if it has been decided by arbitration that the Company has effected a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of a significant number of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated:
(a)	any employee other than a probationary employee who is laid off for a period exceeding ninety (90) days because of the technological change shall, in addition to any other payment he is entitled to on the termination of his employment, be paid an amount equal to forty (40) times his Average Basic Rate multiplied by the Years of Service that he has, and upon being paid the amount he is entitled to under this paragraph (a) he shall cease to have any
right of recall under Clause 15.15;
(b)	subject to Clause 10.06, if the Company introduces that technological change in a department, any employee who is employed in the department at the time and who is either transferred from such department as a result of that technological change or who remains in such department and is affected by that technological change by reason of the fact that his occupational classification is discontinued or he is placed in a different occupational classification shall be deemed to have a basic rate which is the greater of:
(i) the basic rate in respect of the work he performs, or (ii) his Average Basic Rate.
10.06	It is a condition of Clause 10.05(b) that any employee who becomes entitled to the
benefits of Clause 10.05(b) may at any time be required by the Company:
(a) to accept any training in any occupational classification which is offered to hi by the Company, and
(b)	to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the basic rate he is deemed to have under Clause 10.05(b) at the time of posting.
If he refuses to accept such training or if he refuses to accept the promotion upon being named as the successful applicant for any such job, he shall forthwith cease to be entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b). If within ten (10) days after ceasing to be entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b) he voluntarily terminates
Page 25
his employment, he shall, in addition to any other payment he is entitled to on the termination of his employment, be paid an amount equal to forty (40) times his Average Basic Rate multiplied by the Years of Service that he had at the date when he became affected by the technological change as described in Clause 10.05(b).
10.07	Technological Change Committee
10.07	Ajoint Technological Change Committeewill be established consisting of six (6) members, three (3) to be appointed by the Union and three (3) to be appointed by the Company. The Technological Change Committee will meet monthly (or more frequently if mutually agreed upon) to discuss matters in connection with technological change. The Union representatives on the Technological Change Committee may make recommendations regarding the possible effects of technological changes on employees. Such recommendations will be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The provisions of Clause 19.03 with respect to time off and the provisions of Clause
19.04	with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the members of the Technological Change Committee.
ARTICLE 11 - MINES INCENTIVE BONUS
11.01-11.03 Incentive Committees, Meetings
11.01	The Union may establish an Incentive Bonus Committee to consist of not more than six (6) employees.
I. 2	The Incentive Bonus Committee shall be entitled once per month to present to
representatives of the Company any complaints or objections with regard to any Mines Incentive Bonus applied during the preceding month and any matters pertaining to a particular incentive on which an individual or crew may be working currently or during the preceding month. The Incentive Bonus Committee shall notify the representatives of the Company at least two (2) working days prior to any such meeting of the particular incentives to be considered thereat. The Company will furnish the Union on request with all reasonable information as to the factors involved in the calculation of any such Mines Incentive Bonus. The Company will, once in each calendar month, grant to the Incentive Bonus Committee leave of absence with pay for up to forty-eight (48) hours in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04. Such leave of absence will include the monthly meeting with representatives of the Company. Where it is mutually agreed to hold a second meeting in any month the provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to time lost to attend such meeting will apply.
II.	03 If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the
Incentive Bonus Committee, the Committee shall be entitled, on application in writing to the Manager of Employee Relations, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection at a meeting with a Company Committee composed of the Manager of Employee
Page 26
Relations and the Manager of Engineering and Technical Services or their designated representatives and not more than three (3) other representatives appointed by the Company, including a representative from the department concerned. Such application in writing shall be made at least three (3) working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Company representatives. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the Manager of Employee Relations and notice thereof shall be given to such Incentive Bonus Committee. At each such meeting the Incentive Bonus Committee may be accompanied, if it so desires, by a Staff or International Representative of the Union and/or an officer of the Local Union.
11.04	Time Off And Pay For Committee
11.04	Employees working on a particular incentive to be considered may be represented at any meeting provided for in this Article by not more than one (I) of their number. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the representative of the employees herein mentioned.
11.05	Incorrect Calculation Subject To Grievance
11.05	An employee may initiate a grievance under Article 20 where he claims that his pay under the Mines Incentive Bonus has
been incorrectly calculated or the number of units of work has been wrongly determined.
11.06	Notice Of Change
11.06	The Company shall provide the Union with three (3) months prior written notice cf any change in any existing mines incentive bonus standards. During the three (3) month notice period, the Company will discuss the changes with the Mines Incentive Bonus Committee.
11.07	New Mines Incentive System
11.07	When a new Mine Incentive System is planned for a Mine Department (as set out in Schedule "Ahereto), the Mine Manager or his designate shall advise the Union. Details of the new system will be presented to the Incentive Bonus Committee. The Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of any specific concerns and recommendations relating to the new plan at a meeting to be held within two (2) calendar weeks of the presentation.
The Incentive Bonus Committee shall establish, for each Department affected, an Incentive System Review Committee.	The Committee shall consist of a
representative of the Incentive Bonus Committee and one (I) employee representative from each supervisory area. The employee representative shall be from among the employees affected by the proposed new plan and shall be appointed by the crew.
When the Company plans to implement a new Mine Incentive System, the Manager of the Department or his designate and no more than two (2) other individuals appointed by the Company shall present, to the Incentive System
Page 27
Review Committee(s), information pertinent to the planned, new system.
Within two (2) calendar weeks of such presentation, the Incentive System Review Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of specific concerns relating to the implementation plan. The Company shall give substantial weight and careful consideration to the concerns and recommendations in its decision making process.
Provisions of Clause 19.04 shall apply to the Union representatives of the Incentive System Review Committee.
ARTICLE 12 - REGULAR VACATIONS
12.01	The Company shall, during each year of this Agreement, grant each employee whose first or subsequent anniversary of employment falls within such year a vacation in accordance with this Article.
12.02	Definitions
12.02	(a) In this Article the expression “date of employment” shall mean an employee’s
date of last hiring.
(b)	In this Article, subject to paragraph (c) hereof, the expression “anniversary of employment” shall mean the anniversary of an employee’s date of employment, provided, however, that when January 2nd occurs for the second time since an employee’s date of employment, that January 2nd shall be deemed to be his second anniversary of employment for the purposes of this Article, and thereafter so long as he has not ceased to be an employee for reasons other than layoff, his anniversary of employment shall be deemed to be January 2nd in each year for the purposes of this Article.
(c)	In this Article, in the case of an employee whose date of employment is subsequent to December 10, 1999, when January 2nd occurs for the first time since his date of employment, that January 2nd shall be deemed to be his first anniversary of employment for the purpose of this Article, and thereafter so long as he has not ceased to be an employee for reasons other than layoff, his anniversary of employment shall be deemed to be January 2nd in each year for the purposes of this Article.
12.03-12.04 Length Of Vacations
12.03	Subject to Clause 12.04 and 12.12, the length of vacation granted to each employee under this Article:
(a)	shall be according to his anniversary of employment as follows:
Page 28
Number of anniversary of employment
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11 12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30	or more
Length of vacation
80 work hours 88 work hours 104 work hours 112 work hours 120 work hours 120 work hours 128 work hours 128 work hours 136 work hours 136 work hours 144 work hours 144 work hours 152 work hours 152 work hours 160 work hours 160 work hours 168 work hours 168 work hours 176 work hours 176 work hours 184 work hours 184 work hours 192 work hours 192 work hours 200 work hours 200 work hours 208 work hours 208 work hours 216 work hours 216 work hours
(b)	shall be lengthened by sixteen (16) work hours (travel time), and
(c)	shall be further lengthened by eight (SJwork hours where a general holiday occurs during that period of a vacation.
Page 29
12.04	In the case of an employee whose date of employment is subsequent to September 30, 1996, the length of vacation granted to him on his first anniversary of employment:
(a) shall be according to the month of his date of employment as follows:
provided, however, that where the date of employment is the first day of January, the month of date of employment shall be deemed to be December for the purpose of the foregoing table,
(b) shall be lengthened by sixteen (16) work hours (travel time), and
(C) shall be further lengthened by eight (8) work hours where a general holiday occurs during that period of a vacation.
12.05-12.09 Vacation Pay
12.05	The vacation pay for each work hour of vacation granted to an employee under Clause 12.03 shall be not less than his basic rate. However, if preferableto the employee, the vacation pay for a vacation granted to an employee under Clause
12.03	shall be five hundredths of one percent (.05%) of his earnings from the Company in the twelve (12) months immediately preceding his applicable anniversary of employment for each work hour of vacation, less any amount which may have been theretofore paid to him by way of vacation pay computed having regard to any portion of his earnings from the Company during such period.
12.06	The vacation pay for each work hour of vacation granted to an employee under Clause 12.04 shall be equal to his basic rate.
12.07	In the case of an employee whose date of employment is prior to December 10, 1999 no amount paid to him as vacation pay for a vacation granted to him on the anniversary of his date of employment shall be deducted under Clause 12.05 for the purpose of computing the vacation pay for the vacation granted to him on his second
Month of date Length of vacation of employment
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Page 30
anniversary of employment.
12.08	In addition to the vacation pay as described in Clause 12.05 or Clause 12.06 there shall be added to the vacation pay of any employee:
(a)	the amount of four dollars and thirty seven and one-half cents ($4,375) (Travel Allowance) for each work hour under Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04, and
(b)	the amount of one dollar and twenty five cents ($1.25) for each work hour under Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04 which is taken between October 1st and December 7th next ensuing or between January 7th and May 31st next ensuing.
12.09	An employee whose employment is terminated otherwise than by retirement shall be paid vacation pay as follows:
(a)	if his date of employment was less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of termination or if his last anniversary of employment was less than a fifth anniversary of employment he shall be paid four per cent (4%), or
(b)	if his last anniversary of employment was a fifth or subsequent anniversary of employment he shall be paid six per cent (6%) of his earnings from the Company in the period since his date of employment or of his last preceding anniversary of employment, whichever shall be later, up to the date of termination less any amount which may have been theretofore paid to him by way of vacation pay computed having regard to any portion of his earnings from the Company during such last mentioned period.
12.10	Time Of Vacation
12.10	Each employee will be granted and shall take his vacation for each year of the term of this Agreement at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering in each department the seniority ranking of the employee, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. Subject to the foregoing, each employee shall be permitted to schedule the total number of work hours granted to him under Clause 12.03 or 12.04 in not more than three (3) periods of vacation. Where an employee chooses to schedule more than one period of vacation, such employee shall be permitted to schedule the first period of his vacation in accordance with his seniority ranking and he shall be permitted to schedule the second period of his vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their first period of vacation. Similarly, the employee shall be permitted to schedule the third period of his vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their second period of vacation. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations. A vacation list will be posted in each department by April 1st in each year, the said list to show the name and number of each employee and the date of his scheduled vacation.
Subject to the foregoing, if the Company decides to shut down regular operations for
Page 31
vacation purposes it will,
(i)	notify employees of such vacation shutdown by November 30th of the preceding year;
(ii)	consult the Union regarding proposed dates of such vacation shutdown before finalizing those dates;
(iii)	use its best efforts to schedule such vacation shutdown during prime vacation periods (June, July, August, December);
(iv)	permit an employee who is not required to work during the shutdown the choice of his Regular Vacation entitlement, Special Vacation entitlement or a combination thereof to be scheduled during such vacation shutdown;
(v)	endeavor to permit an employee who uses his Regular Vacation entitlement during such vacation shutdown the opportunity to complete his remaining Regular Vacation entitlement immediately prior to or following such vacation
shutdown;
(vi)	continue the practice of advancing Special Vacation entitlement to those employees with less than three (3) years continuous service who have yet to earn their first entitlement to Special Vacation; and
(vii)	where the number of work hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04 are insufficient to cover the full period of vacation shutdown, attempt to give that employee the opportunity to perform any available work, taking into consideration his qualifications to perform any available work and his seniority ranking.
12.10A Partial Vacation List
12.10A Employees wishing to take their vacation during the period between January 2nd and March 31st will, providing they make application before December 15th of the previous year, be granted their vacation during that period considering the seniority ranking of the employee, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. A partial vacation list covering the period January 2nd to March 31 st will be posted in each department on January 2nd, the said list to show the name and number of each employee and the date of his scheduled vacation.
12.11	Optional Leave Without Pay
12.11	Where the number of work hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04 is less than eighty (80) and he requests additional time off from work, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant him not more than thirty-two (32) work hours off without pay, provided however, that the total of:
(a)	the number of work hours of vacation to which he is entitled under paragraph
(a)	of Clause 12.04, plus
Page 32
(b)	the number of work hours without pay granted to him under this Clause 12.11 shall never exceed eighty (80).
12.11A Where the number of hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under
Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04 exceeds the number of work hours required to equal a whole number of work days, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant to the employee the choice of:
(a)	an additional number of work hours without pay which when added to such excess work hours of vacation will equal a full work day; or
(b)	pay in lieu of such excees work hours of vacation, calculated in
accordance with Clause 12.05;or
(c)	time off with pay in conjunction with his next annual vacation or at an earlier time that is mutually agreed to by the employee and his supervisor.
12.12	Retiree Vacation Pay
12.12	An employee who retires will be granted a vacation the length
of which shall be determined in accordance with Clause 12.03 except that
(a)	the applicable number of work days described in Clause 12.03(a) shall be multiplied by a fraction of which the numerator is the number of days between his last anniversary of employment and the date of his retirement and the denominator is 365: and
(b)	where the number of work days of vacation so determined includes a fraction it shall be increased to the next whole number.
12.13-12.14 Work Hour Definition
12.13	In this Article 12 “work hour” means an hour that an employee would normally be scheduled to work in a week.
12.14	When a Mine Department employee is working on an extended shift schedule where the average of the scheduled weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the hours by which the average exceeds forty (40) shall not be considered as work hours for the purpose of scheduling vacation under this Article 12.
ARTICLE 13 - SPECIAL VACATIONS
13.01	Entitlement
13.01	During the life of this Agreement each employee who completes three (3) years of continuous service since the date of his most recent hiring or since the date he last became entitled to a Special Vacation with pay under the previous Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union, whichever is later, shall become
Page 33
entitled to one hundred and twenty (120) work hours of Special Vacation with pay.
13.02	Payout Week
13.02	Whenever an employee becomes entitled to some Special Vacation with pay and the total number of work hours of Special Vacation with pay to which he is entitled, including what he has just become entitled to, exceeds two hundred and forty (240), work hour(s) in excess of two hundred and forty (240) shall forthwith be known as a “Payout Hour(s)”. In lieu of granting the PayoutHour(s) of Special Vacation, the Company will pay to such employee the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken the Payout Hour(s) of Special Vacation immediately prior to most recently becoming entitled to Special Vacation with pay. The total number of work hours of Special Vacation with pay to which he is entitled shall then be two hundred and forty (240).
13.03	Length Of Special Vacation
13.03	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven (7) consecutive days including Saturdays and Sundays. Where a general holiday occurs during a Special Vacation, the Special Vacation shall be lengthened by eight (8) work hours.
13.04-13.06 Special Vacation Pay
13.04	The pay for each-work hour of Special Vacation granted shall be equal to zero point zero five per cent (0.05%) of the employee’s earnings from the Company in the calendar year (January 1 to December31) immediately preceding the taking of the Special Vacation provided, however, that:
(a)	if the employee was absent from work for more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days in that calendar year on account of illness or accident, the Special Vacation pay for each work hour shall, if preferable to the employee, be equal to zero point zero five per cent (0.05%) of the employee’s earnings from the Company in the most recent twelve (12) calendar months, not necessarily consecutive, in which he worked at least some time in the month, and
(b)	if preferable to the employee, the pay for each work hour of Special Vacation shall be equal to his basic rate.
13.05	Should an employee who is entitled to any Special Vacation with pay retire or otherwise cease to be employed by the Company or die before taking the same, the Company will in lieu of granting such Special Vacation, pay to such employee or to his estate should he have died, the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken such Special Vacation immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death as the case may be.
13.06	In the case of any employee who retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to the payment provided for in Clause 13.05 of this Article, to an amount equal to two
Page 34
per cent (2%) of his earnings from the Company in the calendar year preceding his retirement, cessation of employment or death for.each full year from the date cf his last entitlement to a Special Vacation.
13.07-13.12 Time Of Special Vacation Granted
13.07	The allocation of vacations with pay under the provisions of Article 12 hereof shall have priority over the allocation of Special Vacations and banked overtime.
13.08 In order to minimize interference with the normal operations cf the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its discretion may determine but subject thereto due consideration will be given to the wishes of the individual employee. It is anticipated that, in most cases, an employee‘s Special Vacation will be taken within the three (3) year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it and it is hoped early in that period.
13.09	Special Vacation entitlement may not be taken in periods of less than one (1) full day.
13.10	Special Vacation entitlement when granted will be in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13.08.
13.11	In this Article 13 “work hour” means an hour that the employee would normally be scheduled to work in a week.
13.12	When a Mine Department employee is working on an extended shift schedule where the average of the scheduled weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the hour s by which the average exceeds forty (40) shall not be considered as work hours for the purpose of scheduling special Vacation under this Article 13.
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	General Holidays
14.01	The phrase “general holiday” wherever used in this Article shall mean any of the following days:
New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, a day to be known as “Miner’s Day” (which shall be July 14, 2000, July 13, 2001, July 12, 2002), Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day (which shall be deemed to be the 26th day of December).
14.02	Holidays Worked
14.02	If an employee is required to work on a general holiday and does so work:
(a) that day shall be deemed to have been his regularly scheduled work day for the
Page 35
purpose of this Article, and
(c)	he shall be paid for the number of hours he was scheduled to work or less of such work at the rate of one and one-half (1%)times his basic rate and in addition he shall be paid holiday pay in an amount equal to his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, and
(d)	he shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 14) times his basic rate for all hours worked by him on that general holiday in excess of the hours he was scheduled to work.
14.03-14.07 Holidays NotWorked
14.03	Where a general holiday falls on any employee's regularly scheduled day off, and he is not required to work that day, he
shall, subject to Clause 14.07, be granted a holiday with pay immediately preceding the time of and in conjunction with his next annual vacation, or at an earlier time mutually agreed to by the employee and his supervisor.
14.04	Where a general holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled work day but he is not required to work that day, he shall, subject to Clause 14.07, be paid for that holiday in accordance with Clause 14.05.
14.05	Subject to Clause 14.06 and Clause 14.07, the pay for a holiday granted under Clause 14.03 shall be the greater of:
(a)	an amount equal to the employee's basic rate for eight (SJhours, or
(b)	his average hourly earnings exclusive of overtime and exclusive of any mines incentive bonus for the hours on which he worked during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday plus the amount, if any, determined in accordance with Clause 14.06 multiplied
by eight (8);
and for a holiday granted under Clause 14.04 shall be the greater of;
(a)	an amount equal to the employee's basis rate for the hours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday, or
(b)	his average hourly earnings exclusive of overtime and exclusive of any mines incentive bonus for the hours on which he worked during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday plus the amount, if any, determined in accordance with Clause 14.06 multiplied
by the number of hours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday.
14.06	The amount, if any, to be determined under this clause 14.06 for the purpose of Clause 14.05(b) shall be determined as follows:
Page 36
(a)	if the employee actually worked ninety-six (96) hours or more (whether on mines incentive or not) during the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, the amount,
if any, shall be in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 14.06;
(b)	the amount, if any, in accordance with this paragraph (b) shall be the amount, if any, determined by dividing the employee's mines incentive bonus, if any, for the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred by the number of hours which the employee actually worked (whether on mines incentive or not) during that immediately preceding calendar month; and
(c)	if the employee did not actually work (whether on mines incentive or not) at least ninety-six (96) hours during the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, the amount, if any, shall be the greater of:
(i)	the amount, if any, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 14.06, or,
(ii)	the amount, if any, determined by dividing the employee's mines incentive bonus for the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, by the number of hours which the employee actually worked (whether on mines incentive or not) during the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred.
14.07	An employee shall not be entitled to pay for any of the general holidays on which he has not worked where:
(a)	he has not worked in the thirty (30) day period immediately preceding the general holiday; or
(b)	he did not report for work on the general holiday after having been notified that he was required to work on the day of the general holiday; except where his absence:
(i)	is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
(ii)	is due to illness and a doctor's certificate is submitted to that effect; or
(jjj) is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice;
or
Page 37
(c)	he has not worked either on his regularly scheduled work day immediately preceding or following the general holiday; except in the case of an employee whose absence on such work day or days:
(j) is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
(ii) is due to illness and a doctor's certificate is submitted to that effect; or
(iii)	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice; or
(iv)	is pursuant to leave of absence granted by the Company.
14.08	Notice To Employees
14.08	Where reasonably possible and subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, the Company will notify each employee who is going to be required to work on a general holiday at least five (5) calendar days prior to such general holiday, that he is going to be required to work on that general holiday, but where in the opinion of the Company it is necessary for the requirements of operations, the Company may require an employee to work on a general holiday or may inform such employee that he is not required to work on the general holiday even though he has been notified to the contrary under this Clause 14.08.
14.09	General Holiday Work Preference
14.09	When the Company requires work to be performed on a General Holiday, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the required occupational classification for whom the day the General Holiday fell on was a regularly scheduled work day.
Page38