COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES LOCAL 2046 APRIL 1, 1995 TO MARCH 31, 1999
£to(T? (^^0
INDEX
PAGE
ARTICLE 1 ARTICLE 2 ARTICLE 3 ARTICLE 4 ARTICLE 5 ARTICLE 6 ARTICLE 7 ARTICLE 8 ARTICLE 9 ARTICLE 10 ARTICLE 11 ARTICLE 12 ARTICLE 13 ARTICLE 14
ARTICLE 15 ARTICLE 16 ARTICLE 17 ARTICLE 18 ARTICLE 19 ARTICLE 20 ARTICLE 21 ARTICLE 22 ARTICLE 23 ARTICLE 24 ARTICLE 25 ARTICLE 26 ARTICLE 27 ARTICLE 28 ARTICLE 29 ARTICLE 30 ARTICLE 31 ARTICLE 32 ARTICLE 33 ARTICLE 34 ARTICLE 35 ARTICLE 36 ARTICLE 37 ARTICLE 38 ARTICLE 39 ARTICLE 40 ARTICLE 41 ARTICLE 42 ARTICLE 43 ARTICLE ‘4-4-APPENDIX A APPENDIX B APPENDIX C
PREAMBLE
RECOGNITION
MANAGEMENT
DISCRIMINATION
ORIENTATION
SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT UNION SECURITY REGULARITY OF WORK UNION ACTIVITIES
LABOUR MANAGEMENT BARGAINING RELATIONS STRIKES, LOCKOUTS, ETC.
ALCOHOLISM AND DRUG ADDICTION
DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
NO GRIEVANCE WHEN MINE IS IDLE IN
VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
SENIORITY
HOURS OF WORK, OVERTIME PREMIUMS ASSIGNMENTS MILEAGE EXPENSES JURY/CROWN WITNESS DUTY BEREAVEMENT LEAVE MATERNITY LEAVE VACATIONS
STATUTORY HOLIDAYS SICK LEAVE
DEATH BENEFIT FOR PENSIONERS COMPASSIONATE LUMP SUN PAYMENT RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE SAFETY APPAREL
5 % CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN CONTRACTING OUT TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
SNOWSTORMS
MISCELLANEOUS
NURSES
DESPATCHERS ONLY JOB POSTINGS SALARIES OBLIGATIONS
NEGOTIATION DURING TERM OF AGREEMENT
duration
GROtJp-TNSURANCE
SCHEDULE OF RATES
COLLIERY SUPERVISOR 'A' AND 'B* RATES
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#1
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#2
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#3
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#4
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#5
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#6
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#7
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#8
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#9
LETTER	OF	UNDERSTANDING	#10
ADJUSTMENT OF WAGES ARTICLE 2.2
TWO CONSECUTIVE DAYS OFF IN EACH STANDARD WEEK SECURITY GUARDS
ACCIDENTS AND ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION ERIP AND SEVERANCE PLAN WORK FORCE REDUCTIONS ARTICLE 27.3 (E)
EMPLOYEE PAID TOP-UPS -SECTION 49 - NEW WCB ACT GAINSHARING PLAN
ARTICLE 1 PREAMBLE
Whereas the Cape Breton Development Corporation was set up because of the long and severe decline of the coal industry in Cape Breton, and
Whereas Devco and the Union agree that this decline can now be stopped, but to achieve this will require greatly increased productivity and a basis for reducing the operating losses paid by the Treasury of Canada and thereby justifying the investment of Federal funds in the maintenance, improvement, and development of mines, and
Whereas Devco and the Union share the objective of improving wages and working conditions to the maximum extent compatible with security of employment, and
Whereas Devco and the Union recognize that such security of employment depends on good working practices to utilize machinery efficiently, enhance safety and yield high productivity,
Therefore, Devco and the Union make the following agreement:
Whereas it is the desire of both parties of this Agreement:
To maintain and improve the harmonious relationship between the Corporation Management and the Union;
To provide for the prompt and equitable adjustment of all differences which may arise between the parties to or persons bound by this Agreement concerning its meaning or violation;
To recognize that safety and the health of all employees is a primary cons iderat ion of the part ies;
To promote health care and safety of employees to ensure a healthy and consequently productive work force.
ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION
2.1	The Corporation recognizes the Canadian Union of Public Employees, Local 2046, as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit employees as defined in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certificate.
2.2	The Union recognizes that Local 2046 is comprised of supervisors, nurses, security guards, and railway despatchers, and, it shall in no way restrict any employee in the discharge of his/her customary duties and responsibilities as a bargaining unit employee.
2.3	No employee covered by this Agreement shall be asked or permitted to make any verbal or written agreement which may conflict with the terms of this Agreement.
1
ARTICLE 3 MANAGEMENT
The Management of the employer's business and the employment, direction, and supervision of employees, including transfer, promotions, demotions, layoffs, supervision and discipline (including discharge) for proper cause is vested in the management, provided the foregoing shall not be exercised by the employer in a manner contrary to the terms of this Agreement. The Union shall have the right of appeal through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 4 DISCRIMINATION
The Corporation and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination exercised or practised with respect to an employee by reason of race, colour, religion, age, sex, ethnicity, marital status, family status, disability, conviction for which a pardon has been granted, or membership in a trade union.
ARTICLE 6 ORIENTATION
5.1	The site head, or designate, will ensure the new employee is provided a review of the employee benefit programs, the duties and responsibilities of the position to which appointed, and the obligations to the Corporation and the Union.
5.2	Upon first commencing employment within the bargaining unit, the employee's site head, or designate, will introduce the employee to the Department's Union representative.
5.3	The designated Union representative will be provided an opportunity to explain the Union organization and membership responsibilities to the employee during the first month of employment within the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 6 SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT
6.1	Any person who was on the books of Devco on April 1, 1968, will not be removed from the books unless offered reasonable alternative employment, subject to the following conditions.
6.2	The above undertaking in no way limits the right of Devco, because of its responsibility for the safe and efficient conduct of operations, to suspend or dismiss any employee for cause.
6.3	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the responsibility of Devco temporarily to reduce or suspend a particular operation or part of an operation if such action is necessary to the satisfactory conduct and development of the mining operation as a whole within the funds provided by the Parliament of Canada.
2
6.4	The above undertaking in no way qualifies the right of Devco to lay off employees if abnormal circumstances so require, but Devco will make every reasonable effort to ensure that a full forty hours' work each week is available to all employees who comply with the rules of regular attendance described in Article 8.
ARTTCT.F. 7 UNION SECURITY
7.1	Every employee who is a member of the Union at the effective date of this agreement, or who becomes a member of the Union during the life of the Agreement, shall continue to be a member in good standing of the Union during the life of the Agreement, provided he/she continues to be eligible as a member. During the life of the Agreement such employee shall have deducted from his/her wages all dues, levies, fines and assessments authorized by and in accordance with the Constitution of the Union and/or By-Laws. Dues to be deducted at the rate of 1.5% of gross 40 hours per week per member.
7.2	An employee not a member of the Union, but who occupies a position with the bargaining unit, shall after ninety (90) working days during the term of the Collective Agreement become a member of the bargaining unit or cease to perform work that is under the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit.
7.3	Every employee who is not a member of the Union but who occupies a position within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from his/her wages, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to its members according to the Union Constitution and/or By-Laws.
7.4	All new employees occupying positions within the bargaining unit shall have deducted from their wages, within 30 days of employment, a sum equivalent to Union dues in such amount as may from time to time be assessed to its members according to its Constitution and/or By-Laws.
7.5	At the end of each week, the Corporation shall remit by cheque the total of the weekly deductions made, together with a relevant statement. In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provision of the Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds will be made to the employee by the Union.
7.6	DUES RECEIPTS:	At the same time that Income Tax (T—4)slips are made
available, the Employer shall show the amount of Union dues paid by each Union member in the previous year.
7.7	The Union shall indemnify the Corporation and hold it harmless against any and all liability which may arise by reason of the checkoff by the Corporation of Union dues, levies, fines, and assessments from employees' wages in accordance with this agreement.
3
ARTICLE 8 REGULARITY OF WORK
8.1	Devco and the Union agree that conscientious and regular work is essential to the agreed objectives of maintaining employment at good wages, and both parties therefore recognize that absenteeism is a serious obstacle to their objectives.
8.2	Accordingly, Devco and the Union agree that it is a condition of continued employment that no employee will be absent from a scheduled shift, other than for reasons (such as sickness, compensable accident or welfare) already known to Devco, unless he/she gives the supervisor/department manager's office notice of his/her intended absence, along with a reason satisfactory to management, at least one hour before the starting time of the scheduled shift.
8.3	An employee who has been absent, for any reason other than one where the precise period of the absence was arranged in advance, must ensure that the supervisor/department manager's office is informed of his/her intended return to work at least two hours before the starting time of the shift, and if such notice has not been given he/she will be sent home.
8.4	Any employee who fails to give notice of absence, or who fails to establish satisfactory reason for absence, (this will include an employee who agrees to work a non-rostered shift and fails to give notice of his/her absence) will be disciplined as follows:-
First Offence After an absence without cause, a corrective interview will be held with the employee. This interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee.
Second Offence After the second absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee and followed up with a confirming letter to the employee.
Third Offence After the third absence without cause, a further corrective interview will be conducted with the employee. The interview will be followed with a confirming letter to the employee. At this stage, the employee will also be suspended, with pay, for one full work shift. A further absence without cause may result in the dismissal of the employee.
It is clearly understood that, should an employee have a clear record for a twelve (12) month period between the first offence and second offence, or the second offence and third offence, or after the third offence, his/her record shall be considered clear.
ARTICLE 9 UNION ACTIVITIES
9.1	The Union and the employees covered by this Agreement shall not conduct activities during working hours except as in this Agreement, expressly provided, nor shall Union meetings of any kind be held at any time on the premises of the Corporation without prior written consent of the Corporation.
4
9.2	The Union will provide the Corporation with the names of the Departmental Stewards and of the Local Chairman and will provide the name of any alternate in the event of substitution.
ARTICLE 10 LABOUR/MANAGEMENT BARGAINING RELATIONS
10.1	Representation
The Corporation shall not bargain with or enter into any agreement with an employee or group of employees in the bargaining unit. No employee or group of employees shall undertake to represent the union at meetings with the Corporation without the proper authorization of the Union. In representing an employee or group of employees, an elected or appointed representative of the Union shall be the spokesman. In order that this may be carried out, the Union will supply the Corporation with the names of its officers. Likewise, the Corporation shall supply the Union with a list of its management personnel with whom the Union may be required to transact business.
Union Bargaining Committee
10.2	A Union Bargaining Committee shall be elected or appointed and consist of
not more than five (5) members of the Union. The Union will advise the Corporation of the Union nominees to the Committee.
The Corporation will compensate two (2) designated bargaining unit representatives to attend contract negotiations. Payment will be made only for rostered shifts missed. Only those employees who are designated as official union representatives are eligible for such payment.
10.3	The Union/Corporation may have the assistance of a representative from
inside or outside the Union/Corporation in all matters pertaining to the relations between the Union and the Corporation.
10.4	If the National Representative of the Union servicing this bargaining unit or his/her nominee wishes to contact one of the Union representatives at work concerning some urgent in-plant problem relating to the agreement, he/she shall make such requests through the Department/Site Head, or designate, and, providing such meeting will not interfere with the operations, arrangements will be made for such Union representatives to confer in private, at the premises of the Corporation.
ARTICLE 11 STRIKES. LOCKOUTS. FTC.
11.1	The Corporation agrees that there shall be no lockout and the Union and the employees agree that there shall be no strike, picketing, slowdown of work, either complete or partial curtailment of production or interference with the operations of the Corporation during the life of this Agreement or while negotiations for its amendment or renewal are in progress.
6
11.2	Upon receipt of any notice pursuant to Part 1, Canada Labour Code from the Union of its intention to commence a lawful strike, representatives of the Corporation and the Union shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and determining the extent to which employees, coming within the bargaining unit, will be required to maintain services essential to the safety of the collieries and protection of the Corporation's product and property. Such employees shall not suspend work, but shall, when mining is suspended, fully protect all the Corporation's property under their care.
No member of the bargaining unit shall leave his/her place of work in any work stoppage situation without first ensuring that all equipment and/or machinery, etc. is shut down in a safe and orderly manner.
ARTICLE 12 ALCOHOLISM & DRUG ADDICTION
12.1	Without detracting from the existing rights and obligations of the parties recognized in other provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation and the Union agree to cooperate at the Colliery or department level in encouraging employees afflicted with alcoholism or drug addiction to undergo a co-ordinated program directed to the objective of their rehabilitation.
ART TCI ,F. 13 DISCHARGE AND DTSCTPT.TMF.
13.1	The Corporation Policy and Procedure entitled Corrective Discipline shall
cover all matters of discipline and discharge of employees covered by the Collective Agreement.
13.2	An employee who is to be disciplined shall be notified in writing by the
Corporation, with full disclosure of the reasons, grounds for action, and/or penalty, with a copy to the Secretary of the Union.
13.3	Any employee has the right to review his/her personnel file.
13.4	When an employee is to be given discipline, he/she will be entitled to
have a Union Representative present.
ARTICLE 14 NO GRIEVANCE WHEN NTNF. TS IDLE TN VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT
14.1	Under no circumstances shall a grievance be taken up for adjustment during a suspension of work in violation of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
15.1	A grievance shall be a difference of interpretation of this Agreement or
the violation of the provision of this Agreement. Every grievance shall be subject to the grievance procedure set out hereunder:
Step 1:	When an employee has a grievance he/she shall within five (5)
working days of the occurrence of the incident giving rise to the grievance, file the grievance in writing with his/her Shift Manager or Department Head. Within five (5) days the grievor will meet with his/her
6
supervisor, the designated manager, Employee Relations Manager, along with his/her steward to discuss the grievance. The shift manager or department head shall provide him/her with an answer, in writing, within three working days.
Step 2:	Failing settlement at Step 1, the grievance may be appealed by
the Local Chairman of the Grievance Committee to the General Manager or his/her nominee within five working days of delivery of the decision at Step 1. At this step, the General Manager or his/her nominee, and a representative of the Employee Relations Department shall meet and discuss the grievance with the Local Chairman or his nominee and other representatives of the Union as the local chairman shall designate, not to exceed two employee members of the bargaining unit together with a national representative of the union, or his/her nominee, if he/she desires to attend. The General Manager will act as Chairman of this Step 2 meeting. The two employee members of the bargaining unit may be exceeded from time to time when requested by the Union, and the circumstances of the particular grievance require additional representation. The decision of the Corporation at this step shall be rendered within ten (10) calendar days of the delivery of the appeal to the General Manager. Failing settlement of the grievance at Step 2, the matter may then be referred to arbitration within fifteen (15) days of the decision at Step 2.
In order to ensure all aspects of a grievance have been fully reviewed, the Corporation will meet with the Union to discuss such grievance prior to arbitration.
NOTE: Distribution of Replies:
Step 1 - Grievor and Recording Secretary
Step 2 - National Representative & Recording Secretary
15.2	In the case of a discharge or where a dispute involving a question of
general application or interpretation occurs, Step 1 may be by-passed.
15.3	The Corporation may institute a grievance by delivering the same, in
writing, to the President of Local Union 204b, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and the president shall answer such grievance within seven (7) working days. If the answer is not acceptable to the Corporation,, the Corporation may within ten (10) working days from the day the President gives his answer, give ten (10) working days' notice to the president of the Local Union 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, of its intention to refer the dispute to arbitration.
15.4	The time limits, as herein expressed, may be extended by mutual agreement
of the parties hereto.
15.5	For purposes of this Article - Sundays, Saturdays, and holidays shall
not be counted as working days.
7
ARBITRATION
15.6	Notice in writing may be given by one party to the other, after the foregoing designated procedures have been exhausted, requiring the unresolved grievance to be submitted to arbitration. In such cases, the Corporation and the Union shall each appoint an arbitrator within ten (10) days following the delivery of the written notice calling for arbitration, and these two (2) arbitrators shall endeavour to appoint a third, who shall be Chairman. The parties mav. however, mutually agree to the appointment of a single arbitrator to hear the matter. If the Chairman is not selected by the first two named within fifteen (15) days after the delivery of the written notice, then the Chairman shall be appointed by the Minister of Labour, Canada.
15.7	The hearing shall be heard in Cape Breton unless the parties otherwise mutually agree in writing. Each party shall bear the remuneration and expenses, if any, of the arbitrator appointed by that party. The remuneration and expenses of the chairman, if any, shall be borne equally by both parties. The Arbitration Board shall render a decision within thirty (30) days after presentation of arguments, unless there is a mutual agreement on a postponement.
15.8	In the event a unanimous decision is not reached, the decision of the majority shall be the decision of the Board. Should no majority decision be reached, the decision of the Chairman shall be the decision of the Board. Din all cases, the decision shall be final and binding upon both parties, but in no case shall the decision alter, modify, or amend any part of this Agreement, or make any other decision inconsistent with specific terms of this Agreement.
The Board shall have the authority, in cases where its decision is that the grievor was improperly discharged or suspended, to order his re instatement.
Any voluntary abandonment of a grievance by either party to the Agreement will not prejudice the processing of a similar grievance entered at a later date provided that the Union has acknowledged, in writing, that they were so abandoning the grievance without decision.
ART TCI ,F. 16 T.F.AVF. OF ABSF.NCF.
Union Functions
16.1	Upon written request to the employer, an employee elected or appointed to represent the Union at conventions, or to attend executive and committee meetings of CUPE, shall be allowed leave of absence without pay. This shall be limited to five (5) employees at any one time.
16.2(A) Elected union representatives will be permitted to report off work for the purpose of attending to Union business. Permission to take such time off must be requested under Clause .2, Article 8, Regularity of Work. Confirmation of such absence must be confirmed in writing by the Union Executive.
8
16.2(B) Union members who are off work in accordance with the provisions of
16.1	or 16.2(A) shall have any such time marked as time worked. The Employer agrees to continue paying all regular wages and benefits for such absences but shall submit (monthly) a billing for such costs to the Union. The Union agrees upon receipt of such billings (monthly) to repay the Corporation for such wages and benefits.
16.3	General Leave
An employee may be allowed ninety (90) calendar days leave of absence without pay in any one calendar year for personal reasons if a request is made to the Corporation in writing and the reason given is satisfactory to the Corporation. It is the exclusive right of the Corporation to refuse to grant leave of absence or to extend leave of absence for additional periods, for reasons satisfactory to the Corporation.
16.4	Leave of Absence for Full-Time Union or Public Duties
(a)	The employer recognizes the right of an employee to participate in public affairs. Therefore, upon written request, the employer shall allow leave of absence without pay or benefits so the employee may be a candidate in federal, provincial, or municipal elections.
(b)	An employee who is elected to public office, within the context of (a) of this article, shall be allowed leave of absence without loss of seniority during his/her term of office.
(c)	An employee who is elected or selected for a full-time position with the Union shall be granted leave of absence without loss of seniority for a maximum period of three years. Such leave will be renewed on request, by mutual agreement, during his/her term of office. It is understood such employee will not accrue credit for any Corporation benefits during such leave of absence.
(d)	Employees granted leave of absence under Article 16.4 (b) (c) must return to work within (2) months after the expiration of such elected position or appointment.
ART TIF F 17 SF.NTOR TTY
17.1	Definitions
(a)	For those employees in the bargaining unit prior to January 1, 1995, seniority is defined as the length of service in the bargaining unit and shall include service with the employer prior to becoming a member of the bargaining unit.
For those employees becoming members of the bargaining unit after January 1, 1995, seniority shall be defined as length of service in the bargaining unit only.
9
(b)	'Probationary Employee' means an employee on probation for the first six months from his/her most recent date of employment with the Corporation.
(c)	'Permanent Employee' means an employee who occupies a position within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement and who has satisfactorily completed his/her probationary period.
(d)	'Ability' shall include experience and skill on the job, aptitude, and adaptability.
(e)	'Redundant means the elimination of a position. Employees affected as a result of redundancy will be considered as laid off and will be entitled to exercise their seniority in accordance with Article 17.2(d).
17.2	Lay-off and Recall
(a)	The Corporation shall retain the right at all times to maintain an efficient working force. The Corporation will advise union representatives in advance of any layoffs and provide details of class ificat ions involved.
When Management is aware in advance of a reduction in the workforce, employees so affected by the reduction shall be given a minimum of five (5) days notice of layoff prior to the effective date of layoff.
(b)	In the event of a lay-off of employees covered by this Agreement, probationary employees shall be laid off before permanent employees.
(c)	Layoffs will be determined on the basis of bargaining unit seniority, subject to the employee's ability to perform the work. Ability is defined in 17.1 (d) above .
(d)	An employee affected by a layoff or redundancy shall have the right to exercise his/her seniority to bump any junior employee in the bargaining unit whose job he/she is able to perform.
(e)	Recall to work following a lay-off shall be done in order of seniority provided the employees recalled are able to perform satisfactorily the work to be done.
(f)	An employee who has exercised his/her right to bump must return to his/her former position if work that is expected to last more than two (2) weeks becomes available, such right shall remain for a minimum period of two (2) years.
17.3	Loss of Employment Status
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, an employee's employment with the Corporation shall be terminated upon any one of the following
(a)	He/she is dismissed for just cause and such dismissal is not reversed through the grievance procedure.
10
(b)	He/she resigns in writing and does not withdraw the resignation within five working days.
(c)	He/she is absent from work in excess of five (5) working days without sufficient cause or without notifying the employer, unless such notice was not reasonably possible.
(d)	He/she fails to return to work within fifteen (15) calendar days following a layoff and after being notified by registered mail to do so. It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep the employer informed of his/her current address. An employee recalled for casual work shall not lose his/her recall rights for refusal to return to work.
(e)	If an employee is off work as a result of layoff for 24 months, if his/her employment service is less than 24 months. In the event the employee's service is between 24 months and 60 months, the employee will not lose seniority until after a period of layoff corresponding to the length of the employee's service to a maximum of 60 months.
(f)	Absence extended beyond an authorized vacation period beyond a leave of absence granted by the Corporation where the reasons given for such extended absence are not satisfactory to the Corporation.
(g)	He/she retires.
17.4	Seniority List
The Corporation shall maintain a seniority list showing the current classification and the date upon which each employee's service commenced. An up-to-date seniority list shall be sent to the Union and posted on all bulletin boards in January of each year.
17.5	Transfers
The following terms will govern the transfer of employees into or out of the bargaining unit.
(a)	No employee will be promoted to a position outside the bargaining unit without his/her consent.
(b)	When employees are appointed to positions within the bargaining unit, the qualifying period will be three (3) months.
(c)	In the event an employee is transferred to a position outside the
bargaining unit, he/she shall have the right to return to the bargaining unit within one year of the appointment. If he/she does not return to the bargaining unit within the one (1) year period, then he/she shall forfeit his/her bargaining unit seniority.
11
(d)	If an employee who has been transferred out of the bargaining unit is appointed to a position in the bargaining unit after one year, or a person who was never a member of the bargaining unit is appointed to a bargaining unit position, such transfer or appointment will not result in the loss of a position to another bargaining unit member.
ARTICLE 18 HOURS OF WORK. OVERTIME
18.1	The standard hours of work shall be forty (40) hours per week consisting
of five (5) straight time eight-hour shifts. The standard hours of work are exclusive of any time spent by the employee either before or after his eight (8) hour shift in making or receiving reports, both oral and written, as required by Management. Shift starting times shall be arranged to suit the operating schedule of the collieries and/or departments.
18.2	It will be the responsibility of each employee to comply with the
timekeeping system requirements and be at his/her place of work by the established shift starting time and not leave this place of work until the end of the shift. In the case of underground employees, the last conveyance will leave the surface at the shift starting time and it will be the responsibility of the employee to be enroute to his/her work place below the portal at that time.
18.3 Employees required to work rotating shifts (days, nights, and evenings)
shall be scheduled in such a way as to equitably assign the rotation among the employees at each work site. This does not preclude employees from being continuously assigned to an evening or night shift if mutually agreed.
18.4	During each eight (8) hour shift, an employee is entitled to a lunch break
of one period of twenty (20) minutes, at a time designated by Management which will not prejudice the over-all efficiency of the operation.
18.5	The hours of work shall normally be posted one week in advance of the
schedule to be worked.
18.6	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates for the same hours worked.
18.7	An employee's scheduled hours of work shall not be construed as a
guarantee of a minimum or maximum hours of work.
18.8	Employees shall be deemed to be on duty during any period falling within
their scheduled hours of work.
18.9	Overtime shifts shall be shared equitably over a period of three months
among qualified employees who normally work in the place where the overtime work is required. Standard hours shall conform to the provisions in the Canada Labour Code.
12
18.10	Time worked in excess of the standard hours shall be compensated for at the rate of time and one-ha If (1 1/2) the classification rate for the work performed.
18.11	An employee occupying on a permanent basis a job classification coming within the jurisdiction of the bargaining unit (CUPE 2046), as described in the Canada Labour Relations Board Certification Order, will, subject to paragraph 2 hereof, be paid at premium overtime (1 1/2T) rates on the actual minute basis when directed by management to attend Planned Maintenance or Cost Analysis meetings continuous with their regular rostered shift hours.
18.12	For purposes of the above, premium overtime ( 1 1/2T) rates will commence only after the employee has completed pre-shift and post-shift reports as requ ired by Management.
(a)	Employees called back to work on irregular hours other than immediately following or immediately prior to their regularly rostered shift will be credited with four (4) hours actually worked. For the purpose of this clause, the expression "immediately following" an employee's regularly rostered shift means that the employee has not left the premises, and the expression "immediately prior" to an employee's regularly rostered shift means less than two (2) hours before the employee's shift.
(b)	Employees who are called back to work within the meaning of Clause (a) of this Article and who subsequently work more than four (4) hours and not more than eight (8) hours will be credited with eight (8) hours actually worked. Premium overtime provision applies in accordance with the Canada Labour Code.
18.13	Employees required by management to attend Arbitration Hearings or Investigations arising out of circumstances initiated by another union, shall be paid on an hour-for-hour basis and such time will be considered as time actually worked by that employee.
18.14	In the application of this provision there shall be no over-lapping of hours paid.
18.15	Overtime shall be paid within two (2) pay periods of its occurrence.
18.16	An employee who works a shift on Sunday and directly supervises employees receiving double time payment for work performed on Sundays shall be paid at double the regular classification rate when so employed. This double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his/her regular rostered shifts in that particular week.
18.17	Under no circumstances shall an employee be entitled to payment of the weekend premium in respect of Sundays for which he has been paid double the regular classification rate.
13
35-Hour Week Positions
The standard hours of work shall continue to be thirty-five (35 hours per week consisting of five (5) straight time 'I-hour shifts where concurrently applicable.
18.18	Banking of Overtime
Banking of overtime should be permitted on the following basis:
i)	Overtime of less than eight (8) hours cannot be banked.
ii)	The maximum amount of overtime that an employee can bank in a calendar year is one hundred twenty (120) hours.
iii)	Once an employee has Utilized forty (40) hours of banked overtime in a calendar year, the employee will not be entitled to make use of any additional banked overtime if his/her absentee rate for the year, as of the date time off is requested, exceeds ten percent (10%).
iv)	Requests to use banked overtime must be made one (1) week in advance of the time to be taken off and are subject to approval by the site head or designate.
v)	Time off will only be granted where operational requirements permit.
vi)	Banked overtime which is accumulated but not used in a calendar year will be paid out by the Corporation not later than January 15tn of the following year.
ARTICLE 19 PRF.MIIJMS
19.1	Shift Premium*
a)	Subject to clause b (below) shift differentials shall be paid at the rate of $0,175 per hour for each hour worked between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. and $0,350 per hour for each hour worked between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
b)	Shift differential shall not apply to:-
(i)	Overtime of less than four (4) hours.
(ii)	The calculation of holiday and vacation pay.
(iii)	Regular rostered day shift hours.
19.2	Weekend Premium
a) Subject to the conditions enumerated below, an employee shall receive a premium of ten dollars ($10.00) over his regular classification rate for each of those shifts between 7:00-a.m. on Saturday to 7:00 a.m. on Monday for which he/she is regularly scheduled and actually works the full eight (8) hours.
14
(i)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift is a shift in excess of his/her five (5) normal shifts for that week.
(ii)	The ten dollar ($10.00) premium will not be paid if the weekend shift otherwise entitles the employee to premium overtime pay.
19.3	Underground Prem ium
a)	A premium of $3.00 over eight (8) hour shift shall be paid to employees who are employed underground in the Corporation's several collieries.
b)	The underground premium shall not form part of any classification rate.
Railway Despatchers will continue to be paid shift differentials at the rate of $0.30 per hour for each hour worked between 3:00 p .m. and 11:00 p.m., and $0,350 per hour for each hour worked between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as a 'red-circled premium'.
19.4	Payment for Wet Conditions
The Corporation will pay a premium of $1.00 per day to an employee for working in wet conditions under the following criteria.
1.	Employees affected must be working at development faces, longwall faces, including stripping and set-up operations.
2.	The water causing the wet conditions must be coming from the roof, the shift manager will be responsible for determining when conditions are such that payments will be made.
ART TCI.F, 20 ASSIGNMENTS
20.1	When an employee is assigned by management to perform for a temporary
period the duties of a higher rated job within the bargaining unit, he/she shall be paid the rate for the job from the first day of such assignment provided such employee is fully qualified to perform same.
20.2	When an employee is assigned by Management to perform for a temporary
period the duties of a lower rated job (while his/her own job is working) he/she shall be paid at his/her regular rate of pay. If the employee requests such an assignment, he/she shall receive the rate covering the job.
Management will be responsible to adjust an employee's rate within twenty (20) working days and if not properly adjusted within this time frame, the employee will not be held accountable.
15
20.3	Wage Protection
An employee who is assigned to or bumps into a position as a result of a temporary workforce reduction is entitled to receive his/her regular rate of pay for up to a maximum of forty (40) working days in a calendar year.
20.4 Any employee who is permanently assigned to a lower rated job shall
receive the rate of the job from the first day of such assignment.
20.5	When members of the bargaining unit are appointed by management to
temporarily replace management personnel, or confidential personnel whose salary is higher than the bargaining unit employee, then the monthly rate of pay shall be fifteen percent (15 %) more than the current monthly salary of the employee so temporarily reassigned. The employee shall also be paid at the appropriate overtime rate for all overtime shifts and overtime hours worked in excess of the normal work day hours associated with the management position. The overtime payment shall be calculated on the employee's regular rate of pay. Any such overtime must be authorized by the manager or his/her designate. It is anticipated that overtime under this provision would be paid only in extraordinary circumstances.
ART TCI.F, 21 MTT.F.AGF. EXPENSES
21.1	Employees eligible to receive automobile mileage allowance will be paid in accordance with the Corporation's policy on mileage allowance.
21.2	Employees covered by this Collective Agreement who are required to work
any rostered shifts at areas other than their rostered location will be paid applicable mileage rates in accordance with the Corporation's policy.
21.3	Security Checks
The Corporation will pay the sum of $2.00 per trip or applicable mileage rate, whichever is the greater, to employees who, throughout their shift, are required to use their own vehicles to carry out security checks.
ARTICLE 22 TURY/CROWN WITNESS DUTY
22.1	An employee summoned for jury/crown witness duty and who is required to
lose time from his/her regular scheduled shift(s) as a result thereof shall be paid for actual time lost at the straight time rate applicable to the classification last performed for each day lost, less the amount allowed him/her for duty for each day, excluding allowances paid by the Court for meals, lodging, or transportation, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
22.2	The Corporation shall be liable for payment only in those cases where the
Court recognizes attendance and compensates the employee for same, if applicable. In all cases, the Corporation's financial liability shall be governed by the limitations contained in paragraph .1 above.
22.3	An employee must furnish the Corporation with a statement from the Court
of allowances paid and the days on which such duty was performed.
16
22.4	No jury/crown witness duty pay will be allowed for any day for which the employee is in receipt of annual vacation pay or general holiday pay.
ARTICLE 23 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
23.1	Any employee who has completed three (3) consecutive months of continuous
employment from date of hire shall be entitled to his/her bereavement leave with pay at his/her regular rate of wages exclusive of overtime.
23.2	In the event of the death of a spouse, or a child, an employee shall be
entitled to five (5) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regularly rostered shifts, exclusive of overtime, that occur immediately following the death.
23.3	In the event of the death of a parent, step-parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, s ister, grandchild, brother-in-law, s ister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter - in - law, grandparent, or any relative permanently residing* in employee's household or with whom the employee resides, the employee shall be entitled to three (3) rostered days bereavement leave on any of his/her regularly rostered shifts that occur immediately following the death. * Includes foster child (1989)
23.4	In the event an employee is required to cease work during one of his/her
rostered shifts due to bereavement in the family, he/she will not be docked for the unworked portion of that shift and that day will not be counted as a bereavement day.
23.5	An employee who qualifies under .2 above shall be entitled to two (2)
additional days for travel, if bereavement is outside Cape Breton, and such time off is without pay.
23.6	At the discretion of the Corporation, leave with pay may be granted to
employees in exceptional or emergency circumstances preventing them from reporting for or remaining on duty.
23.7	It is understood that this clause will not be applicable to employees who
so qualify and are off work due to sickness, compensable accident or without pay.
ARTICLE 24 MATERNITY LEAVE
24.1	Maternity Leave without pay shall be granted after twelve (12) months of
continuous service from the date of employment. Upon the advice of her physician, the employee may request leave starting at the beginning of her seventh month. The employee shall return to work within two (2) months following delivery. Upon written request, this period may be extended. The employee will return to her former position in the Corporation without loss of seniority.
24.2	Up to two (2) months' leave without pay shall be granted to an employee on
request for the adoption of a child.
17
ARTICLE 25 VACATIONS
As soon as possible after the first of January in each year, the eligibility of every employee for vacation shall be calculated based on the number of days worked less vacation entitlements, (depending upon years of service) and holidays.
A. Incumbent Employees Prior to January 1, 1997:
The maximum vacation with pay which may be earned shall be twenty-five (25) days for service in excess of twenty years, beginning January 1, 1997.
Vacation entitlements for incumbent employees with less than twenty years service will be calculated as follows:
after 10 years - 20 days after 12 years - 21 days after 14 years - 22 days after 16 years - 23 days after 18 years - 24 days after 20 years - 25 days
B. New Employees to Corporation Subsequent to January 1/97:
New employees to the Corporation will be entitled to earn fifteen (15) days vacation from their first (1st) year of full employment to the tenth (10th) year of employment. Entitlement for years of service beyond ten (10) years will be calculated as stated above.
25.1	As soon as possible after January 1 of each year, the eligibility of every
employee for vacation purposes shall be based on twenty (20) days worked per month. The maximum vacation entitlement shall be twenty-five (25) days. Employees will be paid at their current rates of pay.
25.2 Vacations will be scheduled to least interfere with the operation of the
business of the Corporation and will conform as near as possible with the general period of vacations scheduled by the Corporation. It is understood that, insofar as is practicable, the Corporation will schedule the fourth week of vacation, for employees qualified to receive same, during the period between Christmas Day and the first day of the New Year.
With the fifth (5) week (five days) commencing January 1, 1998, added to vacation with pay article, employees with the required credits as outlined in Article 25 hereof will be permitted to take the added week at a time mutually convenient to the Corporation and the employee.
25.3	Vacation credits are established in the calendar year immediately
preceding the year in which the vacation is normally due to be taken, except for those employees who earn vacation credits during the current calendar year.
18
25.4 Vacations will be taken in the year they fall due. If, however, employees
are requested by management to work vacation period(s) and not enough time remains in the calendar year for the employee to take his/her earned vacation in that year, the vacation days not taken shall be put over to the calendar year immediately following and taken at a time mutually convenient to the employee and management.
25.5	For purposes of calculating vacation pay, days worked shall mean paid
vacations days, paid statutory holidays, absences from work due to on-the-job injury (for which Workers' Compensation is paid), paid bereavement leave, jury duty absences, authorized absences for union business except those granted under Article 16.4, or an illness or accident for which benefits are received under Article 27 of this Agreement. In no case shall an employee receive credit for more than sixty-six (66) days in any calendar year in respect of the two last-named benefits. Where an employee has no earnings, the aforementioned sixty-six (66) days shall not be applicable.
25.6	An employee while on his/her annual vacation, becomes hospitalized* shall
have the right to be placed on sick leave and these days shall be counted as sick days and not vacation days.
^Hospitalized - The employee must actually be admitted to outpatients (this would include day surgery or outpatient treatment which could include being kept in overnight. The Corporation will have the right to solicit any such information from the employee's Doctor or the hospital in order to authenticate such information.
25.7	Any employee leaving the services of the Corporation after working a full
year since his/her last vacation period will be paid any unused vacation credits earned. Any employee leaving the Corporation's service after working less than a full year since his/her last vacation period will, providing he/she is not dismissed for cause or leaves the service of his/her own accord and for reasons beyond his/her control will be paid any unused vacation credits earned.
25.8	Vacation pay will be at the employee's current rate of pay when he/she
takes his/her vacation. If an employee works a part year on datal pay and reverts to a salary, he/she will draw as his/her vacation pay the datal rate or the salary rate whichever is greater.
ART TCI.F, 26 STATUTORY HOLIDAYS
A. Holiday Entitlement
26.1	Paid Holidays shall be granted
1.	New Years Day
2.	Good Friday
3.	Victoria Day
4.	Miners' Memorial Day
5.	Canada Day
19
as follows:-
6.	Labour Day
7.	Thanksgiving Day
8.	Remembrance Day
9.	Christmas Day
10.	Boxing Day
11.	Floating Holiday
26.2	(a) If the Government of Canada designates Heritage Day or such other
day as a General Holiday, the day so designated by the Government shall be substituted for the Floating Holiday. The Floating Holiday will be celebrated under the following conditions:
(b)	Employees can substitute the "additional holiday" with a "floating holiday" which may be taken at any time convenient to both employee and management with two weeks advance written request. Management reserves the right to limit the number granted a holiday on any given day. The eligibility requirement for the "floating holiday" shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the date of the day requested.
(c)	Eligibility for payment of 'additional holiday' shall be determined in the same manner as at present for statutory holidays, counting back from the first day of the Christmas vacation. Until the
'additional holiday' is named by statute, the eight hours pay will be included in the Christmas vacation pay.
26.3	When any of the above holidays fall on Sunday or Saturday, the day
observed by the Federal Government in respect of its employees as the holiday shall be recognized. If in the Province of Nova Scotia, a holiday is more generally recognized than any one of the holidays specified above, the signatories hereto will substitute such holidays.
26.4	If a statutory holiday falls within the employee's vacation period, the
employee is entitled to an additional day's pay provided he/she was entitled to pay for such holiday. The additional day may be taken as either -
1.	an extra day's pay; or
2.	an extra vacation day; or
3.	a floating holiday
Such day is to be taken at a date mutually agreed to between the employee and management under .8 of this Article.
26.5 The holiday rate of pay for employees qualified to receive same shall be
one day at the straight time classification rate of the majority of shifts paid in the week in which the holiday occurs. In cases where an equal number of shifts have been worked at different rates or where several rates are paid during the week in which the holiday occurs the rate of pay for the holiday shall be at the average daily straight time classification rate earned in that week.
26.6	The service qualification for payment of any of the holidays specified
above is as follows:
(a)	The employee must have been in the active employ of the Corporation for at least thirty (30) calendar days.
(b)	The employee must have been entitled to wages for at least five (5) days during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the statutory holiday concerned.
20
26.7	Employees shall be paid at double the regular classification rate for all
time worked on a paid statutory holiday. The double time payment is, however, wholly conditional upon the employee working all of his remaining regular rostered shifts during the week in which the holiday occurs. In addition to the foregoing, employees shall be paid for the statutory holiday provided the requisite conditions for such payment are met by the employee.
26.8	Banking Holidays
Employees who are rostered to work on any of the statutory holidays (excluding the floating holiday) may elect to bank the premium hours payable, to be taken as time off, with pay, at a later date on the follow ing cond it ions : -
(a)	the maximum time to be banked is forty-eight (48) hours.
(b)	time must be 'banked' in amounts of eight (8) hours.
(c)	time off will only be granted where operational requirements permit.
(d)	requests to bank time must be in writing on approved forms.
(e)	request for time off must be made at least one full week in advance. Approval of the site head or designate is required.
ARTICLE 27 SICK LEAVE
27.1	General - Incumbent Employees Prior to January 1, 1982
(a)	In the event of an employee being absent from work as a result of personal disability due to sickness or accident, such employee, while in the employ of the Corporation, shall continue to receive his/her normal rate of pay exclusive of premium pay, shift premium, or any special allowance to the extent that he/she is entitled according to the applicable provision of this Collective Agreement and this Article.
(b)	Salaries paid under this provision of this Article shall be subject to normal and statutory deductions and further reduced by the amounts of any Workers' Compensation payments that may be made to an employee with respect to the period in which such salary is drawn. For each day off work and receiving Workers' Compensation payments, one-quarter (1/4) day sick credit will be deducted from the employee's credits. Under no circumstances does an employee on compensation have his/her payments made up to his/her salary for more than sixty-six (66) working days, or his/her current entitlement as per Article 27.3(b) in any calendar year.
21
The Corporation will pay full salary while an employee is on Workers' Compensation for a maximum period of:
(1)	six (6) weeks;
(2)	until Workers' Compensation payments are received by the employee; or
(3)	until exhaustion of sick leave entitlements; whichever comes first.
(c)	Salary continuation is not applicable to self-inflicted illness or injury. Any employee who absents himself/herself from work due to sickness or accident may be required to submit to an examination by a doctor appointed by the Corporation.
An employee unable because of sickness or injury to attend at work at the beginning of a new calendar year and having worked the last rostered shift prior to Christmas vacation may receive the unused portion of his/her sick leave left from the previous year.
(d)	In all absences, in order to qualify for payment under this section, the employee's attending physician must fill out a Medical Disability Certificate supplied by the Corporation. Such certificate must be submitted to the manager or department supervisor within five working days after return to work. Management reserves the right to investigate any claim of absence to ensure authenticity, and may contact the employee's physician for further information on the employee's illness or injury.
(e)	To qualify for sick leave payment in a particular calendar year, the
employee must have worked a minimum of five rostered days during that calendar year.
(f)	Any employee who is off work due to sickness or personal disability at the beginning of a calendar year, and such absence from work is a continuation from the previous calendar year, then the employee will be entitled to use that portion of unused sick credits from the previous calendar year, provided that no employee shall be paid for more than 66 sick days in any calendar year.
27.2	Sick Leave Credit
Employees who have been members of the bargaining unit prior to the signing of the Memorandum of Settlement will be granted sick credits on the following basis:
Service Requirement
Under 12 months of	1 day for each month
continuous service	of service
Over 12 months of continuous 22 days during a service but under 60 months	calendar year
of continuous service
22
Over 60 months of continuous	44 days during a
service but under 180 months	calendar year
of continuous service
Over 180 months of continuous 66 days during a service	calendar year
27.3	Sick Leave - New Bargaining Unit Employees Subsequent to January 1, 1982
(a)	An employee incumbent in a position with the bargaining unit for six (6) months continuously from his/her most recent entry into the unit may earn sick leave credits as per Article 27.3(b) during the six months. The sick leave earned shall be credited to the employee at the expiry of the six months, provided he/she has worked all of his/her rostered shifts during the six month period.
(b)	Sick leave credits shall accumulate as a privilege at the rate of 1 1/4 working days for every twenty (20) regularly scheduled 8-hour shifts worked to a maximum of 66 days. Such sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular rate of pay for an eight (8) hour shift straight time; and further provided that the employee has received prior permission from the manager or designate to be absent from any remaining regularly scheduled shifts in respect of that month effective from the date of his appointment as a member of that bargaining unit.
(c)	Any salary paid under Article 27.3 shall be subject to the requirements of 27..1 (b).
(d)	An employee receiving Workers' Compensation as a result of injury or
accident shall have such Workers' Compensation benefits augmented by pay from the Corporation at the rate of one-quarter (1/4) an earned sick day for each day while on Workers' Compensation, provided that the combined benefits payable under this section shall in no case exceed the employee's pay for a regularly scheduled eight (8) hour shift after statutory deduct ions.
(e)	In no case shall payment of the combined benefit exceed 100% of his/her regular salary after statutory deductions. Payment of this combined benefit shall be limited to not more than three (3) months in any twelve (12) month period commencing from the date of disability. In the event of such disability, payments will commence on the first day of layoff on the first disability and on the second day of layoff in all succeeding periods of disability.
(f)	In the event of hospital ization, benefits will be paid from the first day of layoff provided that the employee has sick leave days to his/her credit. In this section, 'hospitalization' means that the employee has been admitted to a hospital for a 24-hour period and that the stay in the hospital has been paid for by the-Nova Scotia Health Services Commission.
23
(g)	Within five (5) days of his/her return to work, an employee must submit to the Corporation a Medical Disability Certificate as supplied by the Corporation and completed by the employee's attending physician. The Corporation reserves the right to request a medical examination of the employee by a physician appointed by the Corporation and in the event of hospitalization, the Corporation reserves the right to obtain further information on the nature and extent of the illness and recovery from the employee, his/her physician and/or the hospital.
(h)	It is the intention of this plan to assist employees with their expenses while sick or injured.
(i)	Sick leave shall not be paid concurrently with Unemployment Insurance
Comm iss ion benef its .
ARTICLE 28 DEATH BENEFIT FOR PENSIONERS
28.1	It is agreed that subject to the exceptions outlined in this Article,
there will be a deduction of ten ($0.10) cents from each employee and the amount so deducted shall be added to a Corporation payment of $750.00 and paid to the beneficiary upon the death of any person who retired prior to November 1, 1965, under the provisions of the 1923 Pension Plan provided that such persons had no benefits under the Current Group Life Insurance Plan. For the purposes of this Article? such employees covered shall be those who were on the books of the Dominion Coal Company Limited or Old Sydney Collieries Limited but off work at November 1, 1965, and who became deceased. The beneficiary shall be considered eligible for the Death Benefit as outlined herein.
If the Government accepts responsibility and a Compensation Pension had been paid, or if the former employee is on a 'burnt-out' pension, there will be a ten ($0.10) cent deduction from the employees but no $750.00 contribution by the Corporation.
ARTICLE 29 COMPASSIONATE JUMP SUN PAYMENT
29.1	The Corporation shall, subject to the terms and conditions set forth
below, make a compassionate lump sum payment not to exceed $25,000.00 to the widow and wholly dependent children of any employee who is fatally injured at his/her work place.
29.2	The maximum sum payable to the widow shall be $10,000. In cases where the
deceased employee has no surviving widow, then the principal sum of $10,000.00 which would otherwise have been payable to the widow shall be made to the legal guardian, if any, for the benefit of the deceased employee's wholly dependent children.
29.3	The maximum sum payable in respect to wholly dependent children shall be
$15,000.00 calculated on the following basis:-
(a) For each wholly dependent child $5,000.00 to a maximum of three children or $15,000.00 total.
24
(b) In cases where there are more than three wholly dependent children the amount per child shall be determined by dividing $15,000.00 by the total number of wholly dependent children.
29.4	Any dispute or question which may in the future arise from the interpretation of meaning of the work employee, fatal injury, legal guardian, work place, widow, or wholly dependent child, shall be resolved in a context as determined by the Workmen's Compensation Board of Nova Scotia.
ARTICLE 30 RF.TlkF.MF.NT ALLOWANCE
30.1	A Retirement Allowance of $1,124.52 (January 1, 1996) will be paid to each
active employee on the date of his/her normal retirement (age 65) and to employees on compassionate disability benefit or ERIP recipients on reaching 65 - (not applicable to P.R.L.).
30.2	The retirement allowance of $1,124.52 shall be escalated annually for
cost-of-living increases commencing January, 1996, on the same formula basis as that by which the Canada Pension Plan is escalated annually for cost-of-living increases, and, if the aforementioned formula shall be revised at any time, then the formula by which the retirement allowance is escalated annually shall be similarly and concurrently revised.
SRI IEI1I 131/	APPAREL
31.1	The Corporation shall provide, on an as needed basis, safety apparel to
active employees, subject to the following conditions:
31.2	Safety coveralls, safety work boots, and leather work gloves shall be worn
by employees at all times in work areas designated by Management.
31.3	The Corporation shall provide up to the following maximum per year:
a)	Two (2) pairs of coveralls to each surface employee.
b)	Three (3) pairs of coveralls to each underground employee.
c)	One (1) pair of low cut leather work boots or two (2) pair knee high rubber work boots to each employee.
d)	Two (2) pairs of leather work gloves to each employee.
31.4	Replacement items shall only be provided free of charge by the Corporation
on the basis that damaged or worn-out items to be replaced are turned in to the Corporation.
31.5	The low-cut leather work boots and leather work gloves shall be the kind
normally stocked in the Corporation's warehouse.
31.6	Safety apparel shall not be provided for employees in office of other
sedentary pos it ions.
25
31.7	For the purposes of this Article, the following are not deemed to be
active employees:
a)	Persons not working and in receipt of any retirement or disability benefits.
b)	Persons who for any reason have missed more than ninety (90) days' work during the year in which they request safety apparel.
NOTE: The above clauses do not apply to security guards and to nurses who are covered by the following:
31.8	Security Guards Only:
1	Pea Jacket 1 4-Seasons Jacket 1 Winter Hat 1 Summer Hat
1	Rain Coat
2	Pants
3	Shirts 1 Tie
Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Condemned Only Every Year Every Year Every Year
31.9	The Corporation will pay the sum of $110.00* in 1987 and in 1988 to employees covered by the bargaining unit so as to enable them to purchase a regular type and colour police boot, flashlight, work gloves etc., and batteries as required.
31.10 The aforementioned annual amounts shall be pro rated on a monthly basis in the contract year in respect to security personnel who are not actively employed for the full contract year in the Security Department.
31.11	Nurses Only
One hundred dollars (100.00)* per year for uniform purchase shall be provided to each nurse, pro-rated over the calendar year. The one hundred dollars shall be paid in May of each year. Part-time nurses shall receive one (1) lab coat during the term of the Collective Agreement.
This amount will be increased at a rate equivalent to the general wage increases granted by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 32 5% CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN
Eligibility
Optional to full time employees of the Corporation who commenced employment prior to February 22, 1987. Mandatory as a condition of employment for all new* employees to the bargaining unit on or after February 22, 1987.
*Excepting those employees of the former bargaining units who became members as a result of the vertical/horizontal review/merger.
26
Normal Ret irement
Age 65
Employee Contributions
5% of earnings, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions). Corporation Contributions
Equal to the total of the employees contributions, plus any additional contributions required to keep the Plan actuarially sound, (in addition to Canada Pension Plan contributions).
Pension at Retirement
(a)	Future Service
In addition to the Canada Pension Plan, 2% of career earnings while a participant of the Plan, adjusted for cost-of-living increases.*
(b)	Past Service
Employees in Union local 2046 who retire from the Corporation on their normal or early retirement date and are entitled to pension under the new Contributory Plan maintained by the Corporation, shall receive under the Non-Contributory Plan a basic pension benefit, if any, based on years of continuous service prior to joining the Contributory Pension Plan.
The basic pension benefit to be paid monthly is equal to fifteen dollars and fifty-nine ($15.59) (as of July 1, 1996) for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years, adjusted for cost-of-living* increases. However, no employee having less than 10 years of continuous service shall be entitled to any pension benefit under the non-contributory plan.
Dependents Benefit
(a)	Before Earliest Retirement Age
Five (5) years payment of earned pension with cost-of-living* increases (or employee contributions with interest if greater).
(b)	After Earliest Retirement Age
Balance of 5 years payment of pension with cost-of-living increases*.
If dependent is spouse - 60% of earned pension for life Total and permanent disability Waiver
A participant who becomes disabled may apply to the Pension Board for a waiver of contributions during the period of disability.
27
Term inat ion Serv ice
(a)	Cash Refund
If less than 10 years in the Plan, and under age forty-five (45), return of employee contributions with interest on contributions made before January 1, 1987.
(b)	Vesting
Full vesting will apply after 10 years of service and attainment of age forty-five (45) for service prior to January 1, 1987. For service after January 1, 1987, full vesting shall apply after two years service.
Any employee who does not elect to join the Contributory Plan will have a pension at retirement under the Non-Contributory Plan. The basic benefit under the Non-Contributory Plan is equal to fifteen dollars and fifty-nine cents ($15.59) (as of July 1, 1996) per month for each year of continuous service up to a maximum of 25 years.
* Cost -of -L iv ing Increases
The pension at retirement and/or the dependent benefit shall be subject to annual cost-of-living increases on July 1st of each year equivalent in rate to the rate of increases provided by way of annual adjustments in retirement under the Canada Pension Plan.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Corporation's pension plans. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the registered plan texts.
ART TCI ,F. 33 CONTRACTING OUT
33.1	It is understood and agreed that the Corporation will not contract out work that is currently and normally preformed by members of CUPE 2046. There will, however, be exceptions, as outlined below, but it is also understood and agreed it is not the intent of the Corporation to lay off members as a direct result of such contracting out.
The Corporation will not contract out work except:
(1)	when technical or managerial skills are not available from within the Corporation; or
(2)	where sufficient employees, qualified to perform work, are not available; or
(3)	when essential equipment or facilities are not available and cannot be made available from Corporation-owned property at the time and place required; or
(4)	where the nature or volume of the work is such that it does not justify the capital or operating expenditure involved; or
28
(5)	the required time of completion of the work cannot be met with the skills, personnel, or equipment within the Corporation; or
(6)	where the nature or volume of the work is such that undesirable fluctuation in employment would automatically result.
The conditions set forth above will not apply in emergencies, to items obtained from manufacturers or supplies nor to the performance of warranty work. In addition, the Corporation will advise the Union representatives involved, in writing, as far in advance as is practicable of its intention to contract out.
NOTE: RE SECURITY GUARDS ONLY
In order to provide job security for members of the bargaining unit, work, or services presently performed or hereafter assigned to the collective bargaining unit shall not be subcontracted, transferred, leased, assigned, or conveyed, in whole or in part, to any other plant, person, company, or non-union employees.
ARTICLE 34 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
34.1	For the purposes of the Collective Agreement, 'technological change' shall have the meaning defined in the Canada Labour Code.
34.2	For the purpose of the technological change provisions of the Collective
Agreement, an 'incumbent' shall mean any employee with more than ten (10) years compensated service from last date of hire.
34.3	No incumbent shall be laid off from the Corporation due to technological
change; provided that any incumbent, if required by the Corporation due to any technological change, shall submit to reasonable retraining by or under the auspices of the Corporation and shall accept transfer to any operating site within the Corporation.
34.4	Nothing in these provisions shall be construed as a waiver by an employee,
whether incumbent or otherwise, of his/her right under the Canada Labour Code to make an application in respect of technological change.
ARTICLE 35 SUPPLEMENTARY UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
The general purpose of the Cape Breton Development Corporation Supplementary Unemployment Benefit Plan is to supplement the Employment Insurance Benefits of eligible employees represented by the Canadian Union of Public Employees receiving Employment Insurance Benefits as a result of layoff.
1.	An eligible employee is one who has completed his/her probationary period and is deemed to be a permanent employee.
2.	The Plan is administered by the Corporation and financed out of general revenue, and a separate accounting will be kept of SUB payments.
29
3.	The Plan will become effective on January 1, 1995, and will be reviewed and revised if necessary, from time to time to ensure its ongoing appropriateness. The Corporation will notify the Human Resources Development Canada Department within thirty (30) days of the effective date of any such revision.
4.	The maximum number of weeks of SUB payments shall be fifty-two (52).
5.	The SUB will be sixty-seven dollars and forty-four cents ($67.44) per week (1996$), subject to indexation on January 1, 1997, and on January 1st of each year thereafter. In any week, the total SUB payments and the weekly rate of E.I. benefits will not exceed 95% of the employees weekly earnings. The employee does not have any vested rights under the SUB Plan, except to receive payments for the covered unemployment periods. The SUB can only be renewed for the duration of the Collective Agreement between the Corporation and the Canadian Union of Public Employees.
6.	An employee must apply for, and be in receipt of, unemployment insurance benefits to receive benefits under the Plan, except if:
(a)	he/she is serving the two week waiting period;
(b)	he/she has insufficient weeks of insurable employment to qualify for El benefits;
(c)	his/her entitlement to El has exhausted.
7.	No Supplementary Unemployment Benefit is payable if an employee:
a)	has submitted his/her resignation;
b)	has been suspended for disciplinary reasons;
c)	takes part in a strike, walkout, picket, act of sabotage or other action towards the work place or any other conflict in which the employees participate;
d)	is receiving wage loss replacement benefits for current compensation (not including permanent partial disability pensions) , El sick benefits, weekly indemnity, or long term disability;
e)	is on leave of absence;
f)	refuses to return to work when asked by the Corporation in accordance with the seniority provisions of the Agreement or for any other reason.
8.	Payments in respect of deferred remuneration or severance pay benefits will not be reduced or increased by payments received under the Plan.
9.	The Corporation's Revenue Taxation registration number is CBD 100064.
10.	The number of employees under the plan is approximately 150.
30
ARTICLE 36 SNOWSTORMS
36.1	This will confirm the understanding reached during negotiations concerning the policy which is to be adopted with respect to employees who, because of severe snow conditions, either report late for work or are unable to report at all.
36.2	All employees are expected to make every effort to report for work on time, notwithstanding snow or storm conditions. However, in the circumstances quoted above, it is agreed that employees, who arrive late for their assignments, but report prior to the mid-point of their tour of duty, will be paid for the day provided such late arrival is directly attributable to the aforementioned severe snow conditions. Employees who report after the mid-point of their tour of duty will be paid one-half day.
36.3	Employees referred to in .2 above, who only receive payment for one-haIf day may be provided the opportunity, during the immediate pay week, to work additional hours at straight time rates in order to make up part or all of such lost time.
36.4 With respect to employees referred to in .2 above, who miss the shift and are paid for the full day, will only be obligated to make up such lost time during the thirty (30) days immediately following the work day m issed.
36.5	The above policy only applies when the proper municipal authorities have requested the public to leave their motor vehicles at home and local public transportation services are not operating due to snowstorm.
ARTICLE 37 MISCELLANEOUS
37.1	Tax Deductions
The Corporation agrees to deduct property taxes when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
37.2	Credit Union Deductions
The Corporation agrees that deductions will be made for the Credit Union when so authorized, in writing, by the employee.
37.3	Price of Coal to Employees
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be governed by the terms negotiated between the Corporation and the major bargaining unit. In any event employees who have been laid off and still have recall rights shall be extended credit on the purchase of coal to a maximum of six (6) tons.
31
37.4	Overtime Meal
A member of the bargaining unit required to work more than two hours of overtime as an extension of his/her shift and has not been asked to do so prior to the start of that shift will be, when and where practicable, provided with a lunch, the cost of which shall be determined by Corporation Policy.
In the event, it is impractical to provide a meal to an employee so qualified (such as restaurant closing hours during back shift, etc.), then the employee will be provided with a meal chit to the value of $7.50.
37.5	Correspondence
All correspondence between the parties, arising out of this agreement or incidental thereto, shall pass to and from the Director, Human Resources and the Secretary of the Union and the National Representative.
37.6	Pay Days
(A)	The Corporation shall continue a pay system whereby employee weekly wages will be deposited to an account at the banking institution of the employee's choice.
(B)	A statement of the employee's weekly earnings and deductions will be provided to the employee at the worksite.
37.7	New C lass if icat ion
Should a new classification be created within the bargaining unit, as indicated in the Certification Order, during the term of this Agreement, the employer and the union will decide the rate of pay. Nothing herein prevents the employer from filling such positions and having employees working in such positions during such negotiations. The salary when determined will be retroactive to the date on which the employee commenced work in that classification. In the event that the parties are unable to agree on the rate of pay, then the rate shall be determined by arbitration.
37.8	Bulletin Boards
Bulletin Board space shall be provided or made available for use by the Union. The Union shall submit all notices to the Director, Human Resources, or his/her designate, for approval prior to posting on such boards.
ART TCI F. 38 NIJRSFS
38.1	Standby Pay
When requested by Management, a nurse on stand-by on her/his scheduled day off, or a nurse on call, shall be compensated on the following basis: January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1992 -	$20.00
32
38.2	Medical Examinations
Nurses required by the Corporation to have medical tests, etc., shall have same paid for by the Corporation. The results of medical tests, etc., or any other medical information on a nurse shall be handled in strict confidentiality.
38.3	Professional Standards and Development
The Corporation shall be responsible for a continuous inservice program focused on the needs of the Health Services Branch. In this regard, the Corporation shall assist each Certified Occupational Health Nurse and permanent part-time nurse in her/his efforts to keep her/his certification current by making available 75 hours of continuing education over a five (5) year period, in conformity with the continuing education criteria set down by the American Board of Occupational Health Nurses and the Canadian Council for Occupational Health.
The Corporation will pay RN dues and COHN(C) membership in accordance with the Corporation's policy on professional dues and membership.
38.4	It is recognized and agreed that nurses function within the framework of
the Canadian Nurses Association Code of Ethics.
ARTTCT.F. 39 DESPATCHERS ONT.Y
39.1	Despatchers will not be required to do clerical work, not associated with
their normal job functions, that will interfere with the proper handling of their trains.
39.2	Despatchers will not be required to issue train orders to any unqualified
person except in cases of emergency.
39.3	Despatchers will only be required to call train crews in cases of
emergency.
ARTICLE 40 TOG POSTINGS
40.1	Management agrees to inform the Union whenever a job vacancy of a
permanent nature occurs in any of the job classifications within the bargaining unit as listed in the Canada Labour Relations Board Cert if icat ion Order.
40.2	Where a job vacancy of a permanent nature occurs in any surface job
classification or in the position of methane degassing supervision, a job vacancy notice stating the required qualifications, knowledge, education, and ability will be posted by Management. The Corporation will review such postings with the Union prior to the actual posting to ensure both parties are in agreement that the posting contains information relevant to the job vacancy. The job posting will call for applications from current members of the bargaining unit. It will be posted for a five day period at the worksite where the vacancy exists in order that the interested CURE
33
2046 personnel in the bargaining unit at the worksite where the vacancy exists may apply for such vacancy. Should there be no successful applicant from the worksite where the vacancy exists, the Corporation shall post the job vacancy notice at all work sites for an additional five (5) day period for CUPE 2046 employees.
40.3	Applicants will be selected on the basis of seniority and the ability to
perform the duties of the position applied for. The Corporation will make such selections within a reasonable period of time following the completion of the job posting procedure.
40.4	When posting the positions of Car Shop Foreman, Section Foreman, or
Railway Dispatcher, the Corporation will provide reasonable training to successful applicants.
40.5	When a vacancy in an underground supervisory position is about to be
filled by the permanent appointment of a non-bargaining unit member to the bargaining unit, management will advise the site representatives of CUPE 2046 of its intentions so that they may request, if they so desire, that consideration be given to the transfer of an existing bargaining unit member(s) into the vacancy which is about to be filled.
ARTICLE 41 SALARIES
41.1	Effective January 1, 1997, all basic rates of pay will be increased as per
the Schedule of Rates, Appendix B. All classifications will be paid a supervisory premium of $2,00 per shift worked.
ARTICLE 42 OBLIGATIONS
42.1	All provisions and terms of this Agreement are hereby mutual agreed to by
and between the Cape Breton Development Corporation and all the employees of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and signed by the Representative of the parties hereto, who have been duly authorized to execute the same on behalf of Local 2046, Canadian Union of Public Employees.
42.2	The fulfilment of this Agreement and that of any subsequent joint
agreements entered into is guaranteed by the Canadian Union of Public Employees, the Officers of Local 2046 and the Operators, and it is their duty to see that all such agreements are carried out both in the letter and in the spirit.
ARTICLE 43 NEGOTIATION DURING TERM OF AGREEMENT
43.1	It is agreed during the term of this Agreement, to the extent Federal Legislation permits, and upon written application by the Union, the parties will convene meetings for the purpose of renegotiation of wages and fringe benefits.
34
ARTICLE 44 DURATION
44.1	This agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the period April to March 31, 1 and-shall-he renewed-,automatically from year to year thereafter, unless one of the parties gives to the other party, within 90 days of the expiry date of the agreement, notice of its intention to terminate or seek amendments to this agreement. After receipt of such notice, both parties shall meet for the purpose of negotiating amendments to this agreement. During the negotiating period, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Signed on behalf of:
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC
35
GROUP INSURANCE
APPENDIX A
i)	Employees will be able to retain their group coverages during strikes and lockouts, provided the Union pays the entire premium for same in accordance with the established payment structure.
ii)	The Corporation agrees to review its group coverages, including the LTD plan, and to make such changes as may be required, if any, to bring same into conformity with current laws regarding pregnancy and maternity leave.
iii)	The LTD plan should be amended to provide coverage for illness due to alcoholism.
Group Life Insurance Acc. Death & Dismemberment Retired Life Ins (Employee) Dependant Life Ins - Wife
- Child
Compassionate Disability, PRL, and
Pre-1991 ERIP Employees
1991 and later ERIP Employees
$
23.500
23.500 4,000
10,000
7,500
10,000
22.500
Hospital Private Room Accommodation Hospital Out-Patient Charges $25.00 Ambulance $40.00 per Insurance Year
Eye Care December 1, 1996 (Frames and lenses once every two years to maximum of $175.00)
Plus the usual and customary cost of an eye examination.
Prescription Drugs:
The maximum per person in any insurance year for analgesics, hypnotics, sedatives, and tranquilizers shall be increased to $500.00. If, however, due to extenuating medical circumstances, this amount is insufficient, the carrier will, on application, extend the maximum amount.
Diabetic and Colostomy Supplies:
Eligible employees will receive diabetic and colostomy supplies under the terms of the Group Insurance Policy in effect on the date of ratification.
Monthly Income Insurance:
60% of insured earnings at date of disability reduced by income from other sources. Maximum monthly payment is $1,500.
36
Dental Care:
Employees will be provided a Corporation paid basic dental care plan. This coverage includes spouse and dependant children. The cost of the dental plan to the employer will not exceed $13.00 per month per eligible employee. The amount covered by the Corporation dental plan, after the normal deductible, will match dentists ' fee in the current year to an annual maximum per person of $900.
The cost of the Insurance and Welfare Benefits Plan(excluding Dental Care Plan) will continue on a shared 60% - 40% employer/employee basis.
The foregoing is a synopsis only of benefits under the Group Insurance Plan. All questions of application or interpretation must be resolved in the content of the insurance contract between Great West Life Assurance Company and the Cape Breton Development Corporat ion.
37
APPENDIX B
The following method for the adjustment of rates will apply during the life of this Agreement and will expire at the expiration of the Agreement.
1. All upward adjustments will be effective from January 1, 1997.
SCHEDULE OF RATES
CANADIAN UNION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES -
Jan 1/92	Increase
Underground Position Area Supervisor	871.07
Prod. Supervisor^'	831,32
Const/Degass Suprv.	831.32
Prod Suprv. 'B1	813.15
Dev. Suprv.	813.15
Const. Suprv	813.15
Mech. Supr. 'A'	813.15
Wall Setup & St Supr	813.15
Elect. Suprv -Colly	813.15
Mech Supr. ’B'	796.11
Undg Transpt Supr	796.11
126.40
126.40
52.40
126.40
126.40
52.40
60.40
52.40
60.40
60.40
52.40
LOCAL 2046
New Rate Jan 1/97
997.47
957.72
883.72
939.55
939.55
865.55
873.55
865.55
873.55
856.51
848.51
Surface Positions Elect Const Suprv -Line Crew	831.32
Ironworker Suprv.	831.32
Const. Supr-Carptry	831.32
Remote Mon. Contr	813.15
Ch Mech Supr-VJCPP	813.15
Ch Instr Supr-VJCPP	813.15
Railway Despatchers	813.15
Suprv 'A'-Cent Shops	813.15
Shop Foreman Colly	796.11
Maint. Planner	796.11
Gen.Suprv-VJCPP	796.11
Rail Ctr Shops Supr	831.32
Railway Maint Supr	779.08
Suprv 1B1 C. Shops	796.11
Sfce Foreman-Colly	779.08
Mine Rescue Suprv	779.08
Suprv Invtry Cont.	779.08
Build Supt	779.08
Sect ion Foreman	758.63
Pier Foreman*	758.63
LBC Supervisors	758.63
Payroll Supervisor	831.32
Suprv Accts Pay	750.68
Whse Supervisor	796.11
34.00
34.00
34.00
26.00
34.00
34.00
26.00
34.00
34.00
34.00
26.00
34.00
26.00
34.00
26.00 26.00
22.75 26.00 26.00 26.00 26.00
22.75
22.75 26.00
865.32
865.32
865.32
839.15
847.15
847.15
839.15
847.15
830.11
830.11
822.11
865.32
805.08
830.11
805.08
805.08 801.83
805.08
784.63
784.63
784.63 854.07 773.43
822.11
38
Head Nurse 750.68 Nurse 739.97 Security Guard 638.25 Drafting Supervisor 841.49 Project Leader (IS) 871.07 Security SSC 750.68 El PIan/Supr Prince 831.32 Railway Despatcher** 841.80
22.75 26.00 26.00
22.75
22.75 26.00
34.00
26.00
773.43
765.97
664.25
864.24
893.82
776.68
865.32
867.80
*Rate Includes Consideration for Documenting Ships ** Railway Despatcher former RCTC
When these incumbents leave their positions this rate will become redundant.
APPENDIX C
COLLIERY SUPERVISOR 'A' AND 1B* RATES
Mechanical Supervisor "A" rate would be paid when supervisor is assigned the direct responsibility of maintenance and installation of production equipment such as wall face equipment and main belt line. Mechanical Supervisor "B" rate would be paid when the supervisor is assigned as a general mechanical supervisor for the whole mine and may at times be involved in repair of production equipment at various areas of the mine. He could be second supervisor when a supervisor receiving the "A" rate is also working.
Construction Supervisor "A" rate would cover construction supervisors in the collieries, such as Prince, No. 26 and Lingan. Construction Supervisor 11B" rate would be employed in 1-A and 1-B airways where basic airway maintenance is carried out. Also, if at some point in time, a second construction supervisor was required at the major operations, the second supervisor would be a Construction Supervisor VB" rate.
Production Supervisor "A" rate would be a full fledged production supervisor capable of running the whole wall face section. Production Supervisor "B" rate would be a new supervisor in the section who would require some assistance from the other supervisor in the section. Upon permanent assignment to a production wall face, the supervisor shall be paid the Supervisor "B" rate. After working ninety (90) starts as such, the supervisor shall be promoted to the Production Supervisor "A" rate. Also, anybody filling in would be a Supervisor "B" rate.
November 3, 1981
39
- 2 -
The Corporation and the Union will meet within one month of the signing of an amended Collective Agreement to discuss matters of relevance with regard to this Letter of Understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
■ achern
President, CUPE Local 2046
The calculation of continuous service, for those employees referred to above who were formerly employed at the Broughton Mine, will include their years of service with that employer for the purpose of eligibility.
Benefit Level and Other Requirements!
The current maximum allowable benefit under the ERIP is $1,851.04 per month and the benefit level will be indexed annually on May 1 using the formulae applicable to other Corporation Pension Plans subject to a 2% ceiling. Before receiving any benefit under the ERIP, all approved applicants will be required to apply for and exhaust all Employment Insurance Benefits to which they are entitled. While in receipt of El benefits, applicants will receive a stand-by pay in the amount of $68.00 per week. On exhaustion of El benefits, ERIP members will be required to apply for disability benefits under the Canada Pension Plan and to complete the CPP form "Authorization to Communicate Information" . Employees entitled to receive CPP disability benefits shall receive a maximum monthly allowance of $1,126.12 (also indexed annually). Those persons who do not receive disability benefits under CPP will receive the maximum benefit of $1,851.04 per month. Where circumstances permit and approved applicants exercise their option to receive a reduced retirement benefit under the Canada Pension Plan, they will not have their ERIP payments reduced by any amount related to these pensions. All approved applicants will have their benefit from the Corporation reduced on a dollar for dollar basis for any Automatic Assumption payment they are receiving in excess of $250. per month. Persons on the ERI program will be eligible to purchase coal at the rate specified in the Collective Agreement for Pre-Retirement Leave Pensioners.
Giroup Plan Benefits:
All group health benefits (excluding weekly indemnity benefits) will remain in force until age sixty-five (65). Life insurance coverage will be fixed at $22,500 until age sixty-five (65).
GENERAL
Inasmuch as the ERIP and the severance plan would be intended to minimize the impact of the termination of employment of employees, the benefits under these programs shall be deemed the maximum which might otherwise be available under provisions of any adjustment program pursuant to Sections 214 to 226 of the Canada Labour Code, which sections, for the purpose of early retirement incentives and severance allowances provisions, shall not apply in respect of employees in the bargaining unit.
The severance allowance payable in each case will be in accordance with the framework agreed to by the Joint Planning Committee signed April 10, 1996.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
I concur
iachern
President, CUPE Local 2046
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
* *
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU CAP-BRETON
1996/10/01
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Angus MacEachern President, CUPE, Local 2046 24 MacLel 1 an Heights New'Waterford, NS B1H 4K2
Dear Mr. ’MacEachern;
Re: ARTICLE 27.3 (E)
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto in respect to tne above mentioned matter.
It is understood-and agreed that the disability days outlined in Article 27.3 (E) will be cancelled on a temporary basis effective the date of ratification of this Agreement.
Both the Corporation and the Union agree that if during this period the absenteeism rate increases within CUPE Local 2046 bargaining unit, the parties will meet to discuss the increase, and if not justifiable, then such disability days will once again be implemented as per Article 27.03 (E).
It is further understood and agreed that the Corporation will notify the Union by letter the effective date of this decision.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
1 concu
Angitr MacEacher*ri President, CUPE Local 2046
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, C.P. 2500, Sydney.
N.S.. Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2846 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589 p n jJ
N-t. Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 642-2689 V/dlld-Ua
H'!
*V;
-S*'
• ’t
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
> *
SOCIETE DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU CAP-BRETON
•■m
1996/11/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Angus MacEachern President, CUPE Local 2046 24, MacLel 1 an He ights New Waterford, NS B1H 4K2
Dear Mr. MacEachern:
Re:	EMPLOYEE PAID TOP-UPS - SECTION 49 NEW WCB ACT
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.,
It is understood and agreed that the Corporation and the Union will meet to discuss the options available to deal with the changes in the WCB Act which affect the Collective Agreement, Article 27.01 (B).
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this, understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
I concur
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney. N.S., Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2569
C,P. 2500, Sydney. N-£, Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589
CAPE BRETON DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
_ * *
SOCIETE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT DU CAP-BRETON
1996/11/15
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Mr. Angus MacEachern President, CUPE, Local 2046 24 MacLel 1 an He ights New Waterford, N.S. B1H 4K2	'
Dear Mr. MacEachern:
Re: GAINSHARING PLAN
This letter will confirm the understanding reached this date between the parties signatory hereto respecting the above-mentioned matter.
The Corporation agrees to initiate a gain-sharing plan commencing with the fiscal year ending March 31, 1997,which will include all employees who are members of CUPE, Local 2046.
The Corporation agrees to meet with the Union Executive prior to implementation to discuss the structure and payment formula of the Plan.
The Plan will be based on the actual annual financial operating results of the Corporation, and other key indicators being better than planned. Bonus payments will be distributed by June 30, 1997.
Your signature in the space provided below will confirm the Union's concurrence with this understanding.
Yours truly,
Basil Crane
Director, Human Resources
I concur
President, CUPE Local 2046
■ •
P.O. Box 2500, Sydney, N.S.. Canada B1P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 642-2589
C.P. 2500. Sydney, N-E, Canada B1 P 6K9 Tel (902) 564-2848 Telex 019-351-32 Fax (902) 842-2589	.