VALE
Collective Bargaining Agreement
September 16, 2014 - September 15, 2019 Manitoba Operations
Article
Content
Clause
Page
Preamble
1 - DEFINITIONS		9
Basic Rate	l.01	
Department	l.02	
Employee	1.03	
Probationary Employee	1.04	
Seniority and Seniority Ranking	l.05	
Masculine & Feminine	l.06	
2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	2.01-2.03	IO
3 - UNION RECOGNITION	3.01-3.04	IO
4 - UNION SECURITY	4.01-4.05	12
5 - NO DISCRIMINATION	5.01-5.03	13
6 - HOURS OF WORK		14
Hours of Work - Shift, Day, Week	6.01-6.05	
Collar To Collar	6.06	
4 Hour Minimum	6.07	
Call-Out	6.08-6.09	
Lunches on Overtime	6.10	
Extended Shift Schedules	6.11-6.14	
7-0VERTIME		17
Daily Overtime	7.01	
Weekly Overtime	7.02-7.02A	
Distribution	7.03	
Application ofOvertime Rate	7.04	
Change in RDO or Shift	7.05	
Rate, Change of RDO or Shift	7.06	
Banking ofOvertime	7.07	
8 - WAGES		20
Wage Rates	8.01	
New Classifications	8.02	
Wage Inequality	8.03	
Shift Premium	8.04	
Sunday Premium	8.05	
Temporary Assignment to Lower Classification	8.06	
2
Permanent Assignment to Lower Classification	8.07
Jury Duty Supplement Bereavement Leave Compassionate Leave	8.08 8.09-8.10 8.11
9 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY	23
General CWS Committee Settlement of Differences CWS Trades Tests Delete Garage Mechanic	9.01-9.03 9.04-9.06 9.07 9.08 9.09
10 - TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE	24
General Notice of Change Affected Employees Technological Change Committee	9.01-9.03 10.04 10.05-10.06 10.07
11 - MINES INCENTIVE BONUS	27
Incentive Committees, Meetings Time off and Pay for Committee Incorrect Calculation Subject to Grievance Notice of Change New Mines Incentive System	11.01-11.03 11.04 11.05 11.06 11.07
12 - REGULAR VACATIONS	29
Definitions Length of Vacations Vacation Pay Time ofVacation Partial Vacation List Approved Regular Vacation Schedule Operational Leave Without Pay Retiree Vacation Pay Work Hour Definition	12.01 12.03-12.04 12.05-12.09 12.10 12.IOA 12.IOB 12.11 12.12 12.13-12.14
13 - SPECIAL VACATIONS	35
Entitlement Payout Week Length of Special Vacation Special Vacation Pay Time of Special Vacation Granted	13.01 13.02 13.03 13. 04-13.06 13.07-13.13
14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS	37
3
Holidays Worked	14.02	
Holidays Not Worked	14.03-14.07	
Notice To Employees	14.08	
General Holiday Work Preference	14.09	
15 -SENIORITY		40
Recognition	15.01	
Giving Of Preference	15.02	
Probationary Employee Rights	15.03	
Transfers Out Of A Department	15.04-15.06	
Job Posting - Mechanical and Electrical Departments	15.07	
Mechanical and Electrical Department Temporary Assignments	15.07A	
Promotions and Demotions	15.08-15.09	
Job Postings	15.10-15.11	
Mine Department Vacancy	15. l OA	
Lay Off Over 30 Days	15.12	
Severance Provisions	15.13	
Lay Off, Temporary	15.14	
Recall	15.15-15.19	
Loss OfSeniority	15.20-15.21	
General	15.22-15.25	
Sick Leave	15.26	
Reserved Job	15.27	
16 - TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT		51
17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS		52
18 - DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE		53
19 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEEMEN, UNION STEWARDS AND FULL TIME UNION		
POSITIONS		54
20 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE		56
Difference Between Employees and Company	20.01-20.04	
Difference Between Union and Company	20.05	
Extension OfTime Limits	20.06	
21-ARBITRATION		58
22 - MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT TRADES AND POWER		
ENGINEERS		60
Trades	22.01-22.05	
Power Engineers	22.06-22.09	
Incentive For Study Courses	22.10	
4
Apprentices Trades Upgrade/Committee Work Experience -Apprentices Application to Manitoba Certificate	22.11-22.15 22.16 22.23 22.24
23 - GENERAL TRAINING	63
Training During Working Hours Home Study	23.01-23.04 23.05-23.06
23A - “TRADE QUALIFIED” (T.Q.) TRADESMAN	23A.01 - 23A.05 65
24 - EDUCATIONAL LEAVE	24.01-24.04 66
25 - MATERNITY LEAVE	25.01 -25.05 67
26 - PUBLIC OFFICE LEAVE	26.01-26.02 68
27 - NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS	27.01 68
28 - ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY	69
Department E, H& S Committees Division E, H&S Committee Pay For E, H&S Committees Serious Accident Or Incident Accident During Work Hours, Pay Company Required Medicals Summary Of Injuries E, H& S Committee Training Environmental Information Exchange Committee Placement Committee Rehabilitation Committee Worker Safety Representative Duties Union Co-Chair Division Environment,	28.03 28.04 28.03A-28.04B 28.05 28.06 28.07 28.08 28.09-28.10 28.11-28.l lA 28.12 28.12A 28.13
Health & Safety - Duties Notice ofOEMP Monitoring Co-Chair Authority	28.14 28.15 28.16
28A RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK	73
28B: RIGHT TO AN OBSERVER DURING WORKPLACE MONITORING AND SAMPLING
74
28C HOURS OF WORK	75
29	-MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS	75
5
Union Activities On Company Property Bulletin Boards
29.01-29.02
29.03
30	- PENSION PLAN AND SECURITY FUND PLAN	76
31	- INSURANCE BENEFITS	77
32	- COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE	77
33	- EMPLOYEE AND FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM	79
34	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT	34.01-34.02	79
Signatures
SCHEDULE “A” -Departments	81
SCHEDULE “B” - Standard Hourly Wage Scale	82
SCHEDULE “C” - Apprenticeship Training Wage Scale	83
SCHEDULE “D” - Department Environment, Health and Safety Committees	85
SCHEDULE “E” - Departmental Working Areas	86
SCHEDULE “F” - Worker Safety Representative - Work Locations	87
SCHEDULE “G” - Contracting Out Committee - Area Rep.	88
APPENDIX B	89
Ambulance/Hospital Plan,
Group A.D. & D. Plan, Life
Ins. Plan, Acc. & Sickness	•
Ins. Plan
APPENDIX C	91
Group Prescription Plan
APPENDIX D	93
Group Dental Plan
APPENDIX E	95
Group Optical Plan
APPENDIX F	97
Pension
APPENDIX G	103
Hourly Employee Annual Incentive Plan
APPENDIX H-	106
Conflict Resolution Coordinator
APPENDIX I	107
Joint Problem Solving Coordinator
APPENDIX J	109
Worker Safety Representative
6
APPENDIXK	117
Union Co-Chair Division Environment, Health and Safety
APPENDIX L	119
Health and Environment Worker Representative
APPENDIXM	128
Contracting Out Coordinator
APPENDIX N	137
Joint Executive Steering Committee
APPENDIXO	138
Pension Changes
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT	140
Security Fund Plan	141
Article 18 - Written Reprimand	142
Clause 15.09- Working During Vacation	143
Summer Employment of Students	144
Apprenticeship Training	145
Steelworker’s Humanity Fund	146
Union Orientation	147
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee	148
Trades Enhancement	149
Steelworker’s Benevolence/Education Fund	150
Literacy and Numeracy Skills	151
Vacation and Special Vacation Scheduling - Mines Extended Shift	152
Intradepartmental Force Adjustment- 3 Flowsheets	153
Development of Safety Policies, Programs and SPI - Flowchart	157
Overtime Distribution Process	159
Anti-Harassment Training	164
Work Refusal	165
Day ofMourning	168
Ergonomic Awareness	169
Training Instructors	170
Health Benefits - Same-Sex Relationship	172
Accident and Sickness Plan	173
Contracting Out Committee	174
7
Rest Breaks	177
Construction Crew	178
Term Labour Pool	181
National King Miner Contest	184
Layoff-Insurance Benefits	185
Family Leave	186
Senior Years Apprenticeship Option (SYAO) program	187
Transfer Out (and flowcharts)	189
Job Posting (and flowcharts)	191
Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP)	195
Reduction ofContracting Out	197
I A/I B Open Pit	198
YEWP’s - Apprenticeship Training Program	199
Trades Apprenticeship Program	200
Bereavement Leave During Vacation	203
Joint Occupational Health Study Program	204
Medical Treatment Access Support Plan	205
Birchtree Ore and Rockfill Haulage	207
Joint Outcomes Presentation	208
Hoistman “trainee job”	209
Joint Harassment and Workplace Violence Prevention	210
Pipe Kipper	211
Defined Contribution (DC) Plan	212
Preferential Hiring	213
Apprentice Miners	216
Articles 17 and 19	217
Call-Outs	218
Definition Diamond Drilling and ACD	219
Transition Process	220
Retirement Incentive	227
8
THIS AGREEMENT made as of the 16th dav of September 2014:
BETWEEN:
Vale
Manitoba Operations, (hereinafter called “the Company”) OF THE FIRST PART
And-
United Steelworkers,
LOCAL 6166, (hereinafter called “the Union”)
OF THE SECOND PART
WHEREAS by certificate ofThe Manitoba Labour Board dated the 31st of May, 1962, it was certified that the Union is the properly chosen bargaining agent for all employees of the Company in the Thompson, Manitoba operations except office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, supervisors, shift bosses and those excluded by The Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
AND WHEREAS it is the intent and purpose of the Union and the Company to fiirther harmonious industrial relationships between the Company and those employees:
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH that the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
1.01	The expression “basic rate” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean at any time with respect to any employee that straight time rate per hour, (exclusive of all premium pay such as holiday pay, shift premium, Sunday premium and overtime) to which such employee is entitled under the terms of this Agreement in respect of the work which he is performing at such time.
1.02	The word “department” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the departments as set forth in Schedule “A” hereto.
1.03	The word “employee” or “employees” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean all employees of the Company in its Thompson and other operations north of the 53rd parallel of latitude in Manitoba except office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, supervisors and those excluded by The Manitoba Labour Relations Act.
9
1.04	Until an employee has worked at least five hundred and twenty (520) hours since the date
of his most recent hiring he shall be a “probationary employee and the words “probationary employee” wherever used in this Agreement shall have that meaning.
l .05(a)	The word “seniority” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean an employee's length
of continuous employment with the Company since the date of his most recent hiring, less the periods to be subtracted under Clause 15.20.
l .05(b)	The word “seniority ranking” wherever used in this Agreement shall mean the relative
seniority of an employee to others in the department in which he is then employed
1.06	Whenever the masculine gender appears in this Agreement it shall also mean the
feminine gender, unless the context requires otherwise.
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
2.01	The Union recognizes that it is exclusively the function and right of the Company to direct the working forces and to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend or lay off employees, and also the right of the Company to discipline or discharge any employee for just cause.
2.02	The Union further recognizes the right of the Company to operate and manage its business in accordance with its commitments and responsibilities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the sole and exclusive prerogative of the Company to decide on the location of its plants and mines, the products to be mined and/or processed, the schedules of production, the methods of mining and processing used, the number of employees needed by the Company at any time, operating techniques, methods, machinery and equipment, and to exercise jurisdiction over all operations, buildings, machinery and tools.
2.03	The Company agrees that any exercise of rights and powers under this Article in conflict with any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 3 - UNION RECOGNITION
3.01	The Company recognizes that the Union is the bargaining agent ofthe employees and has the exclusive authority to bargain collectively on their behalf with respect to rates of pay, hours of work, and terms and conditions of employment ofemployees as set out in The Labour Relations Act.
3.02	Subject to the requirements of operations, (including necessary instruction of employees and any cases of an emergency nature) f oremen, supervisors, and other persons employed by the Company but not employees as defined in this Agreement shall not perform work,
10
which is normally done by employees, where employees are reasonably available to do such work.
3.03
The Company understands that the Union has a legitimate concern about contracting out because of its effect upon such matters as job security and job opportunity and will therefore use its best efforts to minimize the amount of production or maintenance work to be contracted out.
The Union understands that the Company has a legitimate concern about the efficiency of the operation and that sometimes it is necessary to contract work out.
Accordingly, work may be contracted out if:
a)	it has been consistently performed by contractors in the past; or
b)	qualified Company employees are not available in sufficient numbers to perform the work or when special skills, equipment or tools are required to perform the work; or
c)	it is work of an emergency nature provided, however, that in the case of work of an emergency nature, the Company will, where practicable; give reasonable consideration to the use of employees who have the necessary skills to perform such work.
Some examples of work which will be contracted out are major capital projects, major construction, shaft, sinking and related development, and specialized work such as stack inspection and repair.
A joint “Contracting Out Committee” will be established for the purpose of reviewing work currently contracted out and any planned contracting out of work. The Union representatives on the Committee may make recommendations which must be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The Contracting Out Committee will consist of the Contracting Out Coordinator from the Local Union who will Co-Chair the committee, a designated Company Contracting Out Co-Chair, and one ( l) Company representative and one (l) Union representative from each of the areas as set out in Schedule “G”.
The Contracting Out Committee will meet as often as it deems necessary but not less than once each calendar month. In addition, the Company and Union Co-Chairs of the Contracting Out Committee will provide a quarterly update to the Manitoba Operations ExecutiveSteering Committee.
11
The Company will inform the Union Contracting Out Coordinator as soon as possible that work of an emergency nature is being contracted out. The Company will use its best efforts to keep such work to a minimum.
The Company agrees to provide the Contracting Out Committee with the following information regarding work that is contracted out or work planned to be contracted out: location of the work; type of work to be done; crafts or occupations involved; expected duration; numbers ofboth contract employees and bargaining unit employees to be used.
The Company will use its best efforts to:
a)	Give the Union thirty (30) days’ notice of work to be contracted out; and
b)	Hold a meeting in the first quarter of each year to review contracting out activities from the previous twelve ( 12) month period and major contract to be awarded or renewed in the current year; and
c)	Review with the Contracting Out Committee vacation and shutdown work to be contracted out prior to a vacation or production shutdown.
If ongoing, sustained need for new skills, not currently available in the Company, is identified, the Company will use its best efforts to train sufficient employees in such skills.
The Union and the Company agree that they will jointly examine means, including but not limited to training, to increase mine development efficiencies by Vale employees, with the intent of increasing the potential for reducing the amount of mine development work to be contracted out.
No employee will be demoted or laid off as a direct result of work being contracted out by the Company.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members of the joint Contracting Out Committee.
3.04	Except with the consent of the Union, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
during the last thirty (30) days of the term of this Agreement the Company will not transfer any member of the bargaining unit to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Supervisor or any position in which the individual is not an “employee” within the meaning of The Labour Relations Act.
ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY
4.01	The Company shall, during the life of this Agreement, deduct as a condition of each
employee's continued employment, Union dues in the amount certified by the Union to
12
the Company to be currently in effect according to the Union Constitution, and remit the same in the week following the pay period in which such deduction is made to the International Treasurer, United Steelworkers accompanied by a completed form R-115 except that the line “3. Earnings $” shall not be completed. The Company will, at the time of remittance, name the employees from whose pay such payment has been deducted and name the employees whose employment has terminated in the period for which payment is being made.
4.02	The said deductions shall commence, in the case of each employee who is in the employment of the Company at the effective date of this Agreement, with the month of September, 2014 and, in the case of each employee entering the employment of the Company subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, with the month of hire if five (5) or more days are worked. In the event five (5) or more days are not worked in the month of hire, the said deductions will commence with the month following the month ofhire.
4.03	Commencing March I, 2015, the Company will on or before March 1st in each year furnish to each employee a statement of the total Union dues which have been deducted from such employee's pay cheques and remitted to the Union during the preceding calendar year.
4.04	In Clause 4.05 ‘Temporary Staff Employee” means an employee who is temporarily transferred to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, or Supervisor.
4.05	In the week following each pay period that would have been a pay period for a Temporary Staff Employee if he had not been a Temporary Staff Employee, the Company shall remit to the Financial Secretary of the Union an amount equal to the Union dues that would have been remitted to the Financial Secretary of the Union under Clause 4.01 with respect to that Temporary Staff Employee if he had not been a Temporary Staff Employee in that pay period.
ARTICLE 5 - NO DISCRIMINATION
5.01	The parties mutually agree that any employee of the Company may become a member of the Union if he wishes to do so, and may refrain from becoming or remaining a member of the Union if he so desires.
5.02	The parties mutually agree that there shall be no discrimination or harassment by either of them or by any members of the Union against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Union or by reason of the employee’s sex, race, national origin, colour, religion, political belief, age, sexual orientation, family status, marital status, mental disability, physical handicap, or because an employee has or has not engaged in lawful union activity specifically provided for under this Agreement. The parties also agree that no employee should be subjected to sexual harassment.
13
5.03	The parties mutually agree that employees have a right to work in an environment fi’ee
fi‘om sexual harassment. The Company will take whatever action it deems necessary to maintain such a working environment. The action taken by the Company may include discipline and/or the termination of the employment of any person engaging in the sexual harassment of another person.
An employee may initiate a grievance alleging sexual harassment under the grievance procedure.
Where the alleged harasser is the person who would normally deal with the grievance, the complaint will automatically be advanced to the next stage ofthe grievance procedure.
Complaints of alleged sexual harassment will be handled with all possible confidentiality.
ARTICLE 6 - HOURS OF WORK
6.01	Nothing in this Agreement shall be considered a guarantee of work or of hours of work per day or per week.
6.02	Time worked will be calculated in units of one-half (h) hour.
6.03	For shift work
a)	a day will consist of a series of shifts as scheduled.
b)	a work week will commence with the day shift on Monday and end with the night shift on the following Sunday;
c)	on continuous shift operations each employee will not be required to work longer than five (5) consecutive hours without a thirty (30) minute period to eat any meal which period shall be considered as time worked. Such meal may be eaten in a lunchroom.
6.04	For work other than shift work, a work week will commence with the beginning of a day worker's hours on Monday and terminate at the same time on the following Monday.
6.05	Employees who are not regularly employed as shift workers and are working as day workers shall normally begin work at 8 a.m. However, it is recognized that in order to maintain efficient operations, certain day workers must begin work earlier or later than that hour. Day workers will be given a lunch period of one-half (V) hour per day, but such lunch period shall not be considered as time worked. The lunch may be eaten in a lunchroom.
6.06	Hoisting and lowering schedules at the Company's mines will be arranged to provide approximately the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, fi’om collar to
14
6.07
6.08
6.09
6.10 6.11
collar for each shift, but variations which do not occur consistently from such schedules, not exceeding ten (I0) minutes, shall be disregarded. Delay time in such schedules in excess of the first ten ( 10) minutes shall be considered time worked, but not for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Agreement.
When an hourly paid employee, because of failure of the Company to inform him by notice or otherwise that no work will be available, reports for work on schedule, in good faith, and is advised that there is no work available, he shall receive four (4) hours pay at what would have been his basic rate without being required to work the said four (4) hours, but such four (4) hours shall not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of Article 7. The provisions of this Clause shall not apply when an employee has been absent from his regular work period and has failed before reporting for work to inform his Supervisor or such other supervisor designated by the Company f or this purpose of his intention to return.
A "call-out” shall mean a request by the Company to an employee to work any time outside such employee's regularly scheduled working hours other than time immediately following or time (not to exceed one (1) hour) immediately preceding a shift worked by such employee unless he shall have received such request at least sixteen (16) hours before such work is to commence. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement an employee reporting for work on a “call-out” shall be entitled to be paid for work so performed as follows:
a)	If the “call-out”occurs on a day other than a general holiday, or occurs on a general holiday and the work performed is within the hours that would have been his regularly scheduled working hours if he had been scheduled to work on that general holiday, at one and one-half (I Y) times his basic rate or for at least four (4) hours at his basic rate, whichever is greater;
b)	if the “call-out” occurs on a general holiday and the work performed is outside the hours that would have been his regularly scheduled working hours if he had been scheduled to work on that general holiday, at two and one-half (2 V2) times his basic rate or for at least four (4) hours athis basic rate, whichever is greater.
Transportation to and/or from call-out work will be provided by the Company when in the opinion of the Company the urgency of the call-out work so requires it.
Call-out hours worked will be counted as overtime hours worked and will be recorded by the employee’s Supervisor in the working group’s record of overtime opportunity hours.
An employee who reports for work on an emergency (as defined in article 28C.Ol) “call-out” more than two (2) hours prior to the start of his regular scheduled shift and then continues to work into his regular scheduled shift and an employee who continues working after completing his regular scheduled shift and then works more than two (2) hours overtime shall be provided by the Company with a lunch. Should such employee
15
work more than five (5) hours overtime after completing his regular scheduled shift, he shall be provided by the Company with an additional lunch, which lunch or lunches may be eaten in a lunchroom.
The Company will use its best efforts to supply a hot lunch for the first lunch. The additional lunch will consist of a sandwich/beverage combination.
Extended Shift Schedules
6.12	Subject to Clause 6.13, the Company and the Union mutually agree that the Company may give effect to shift schedules which alter or exceed the daily and/or weekly hours of work described elsewhere in this agreement. These schedules shall be termed Extended Shift Schedules and are defined as:
A schedule of shifts in excess of eight (8) hours each, but not to exceed twelve (12) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, without the payment of wages at overtime rates provided, however, that the average weekly hours worked over the cycle of the schedule of shifts will not exceed forty (40) and if it does the hours in excess of forty (40) will be paid at overtime rate. The “cycle of the schedule of shifts” means the number of weeks that pass before the schedule repeats itself, which number of weeks shall not exceed eight (8) without prior consultation with the Union.
An hourly-paid employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule pursuant to this Clause 6.11 shall be paid at one and one-half (1 Yi) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of his Extended Shift Schedule hours at his basic rate in his work day, except where such excess time is worked by him due to his regularly scheduled change of shift and, where applicable shall be entitled to off-shift premium in accordance with Clause 8.04.
6.13	When an Extended Shift Schedule is planned for any group of employees of a Department (as set out in Schedule “A” hereto) the Joint Problem Solving Coordinator shall establish, for each Department affected, a Shift Schedule Committee that shall consist of a representative of the Joint Problem Solving Committee and two (2) representatives, appointed by the Union, from among the employees affected.
When the Company plans to implement an Extended Shift Schedule, the Manager of the Department or his designate and no more than two (2) other individuals appointed by the Company shall present to the Shift Schedule Committee, and to the employees involved, information pertinent to the planned implementation.
Within one (I) calendar week of such presentation, the Shift Schedule Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of specific concerns relating to the implementation plan. The Company shall give substantial weight and careful consideration to the concerns in its decision making process.
16
Provisions of Clause 19.04 shall apply to the Union representatives of the Shift Schedule Committee.
6.14	Subject to Clause 6.01, the Company will schedule a minimum weekly average of forty
(40) hours for employees working on an Extended Shift Schedule.
ARTICLE 7 - OVERTIME
7.01	An hourly-paid employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule shall be paid at one and one-half(1'/2) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the number of hours he was scheduled to work at his basic rate on that day.
7.02	Where the average weekly hours worked by an employee working on an Extended Shift Schedule exceeds forty (40) hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts as defined in Clause 6.12, he shall be paid at one and one-half (I Vi) times his basic rate for the hours in excess of forty (40), except that:
a) when a general holiday occurs in his regularly scheduled work week but does not occur on his regular day off he shall be paid at one and one-half (I Vi) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the difference between forty (40) and the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that general holiday, and
b) when two general holidays occur in his regularly scheduled work week but neither occurs on what is a regular day off for him, he shall be paid at one and one-half (UA) times his basic rate for time worked by him in excess of the difference between forty (40) and the number of hours he was scheduled to work on both of those general holidays
c) Amounts paid to an employee pursuant to Clause 6.08 and/or Clause 7.01 shall be deducted in computing amounts payable pursuant to this Clause 7.02.
7.02A	Subject to Clause 7.02 and Clause 7.06, an employee shall be paid at one and one-half
(1V2) times his basic rate for time worked outside his regularly scheduled work hours in any week provided that any time not worked during his regularly scheduled work hours;
i.	is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
ii.	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration of justice; or
iii.	is pursuant to leave of absence granted by the Company; or
iv.	is due to vacation granted pursuant to Article 12 ; or
v.	is due to Special vacation granted pursuant to Article 13; or
17
vi.	is due to a holiday with pay granted pursuant to Clause 14.03.
7 .03	When the Company requires overtime work to be performed, other than work pursuant to
a “call-out”, the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, distribute such work as evenly as practicable among the employees in the working group which normally performs the work, who are qualified to perform the work, considering the availability and wishes of employees who have the necessary qualifications.
Prior to the offering of overtime the Company will make temporary promotions in accordance with Clause 15.09.
For the purposes of this Clause 7.03 an overtime opportunity shall be any time, except a “call-out”, outside an employee’s regularly scheduled working hours regardless of the rate of pay the employee receives for working or would have received had he worked such time.
Preference in the offering of overtime will be given first to the qualified employee in the working group with the least recorded overtime opportunity hours, if he is readily available. If no attempt is made to contact the qualified employee with the least recorded overtime opportunity hours in the working group, preference will be given to him at the next available overtime opportunity within the working group, as is mutually agreeable between the employee and his Supervisor.
The mutually agreeable next available overtime opportunity within the employee’s working group must be an overtime opportunity as determined by the Company and must occur within the two week period following the original overtime opportunity. If a next available overtime opportunity does not exist within the two week period following the original overtime opportunity, the employee’s claim to said next available opportunity will cease.
In the case where the employee is offered an overtime opportunity within the working group, and the employee and his Supervisor are unable to mutually agree on the scheduling of the overtime opportunity within the two week period following the original overtime opportunity, the employee will be credited with a refusal for the appropriate number ofovertime opportunity hours.
If any employee refuses to work overtime offered to him, he shall not receive any pay for those overtime hours but they shall be added to his record of accumulated overtime hours for the purpose ofovertime distribution.
In the event of overtime work being required in a trade the work will first be offered to employees in that trade in the working group (which is the trade that normally performs
18
the work) and then to employees in the required trade in the Departmental Working Area listed in Schedule “E” before being offered to other qualified employees.
7.04
7.05
7.06
For the purposes of this Clause 7.03 “working group” is generally defined as that group of employees reporting to a first line supervisor. However, where shift sequences or supervisory coverage requires otherwise, the employees reporting to a first line supervisor may constitute two (2) or more working groups. The Company and the Union will agree on any working groups which do not conform to this definition.
Upon request to his immediate supervisor, an employee, accompanied ifhe so desires by a Union Steward, may examine the record of his immediate supervisor pertaining to overtime distribution within the employee's working group.
The record pertaining to overtime distribution for each working group will be posted each month in a suitable location. At a fiequency of once per quarter, the Human Resources Department shall forward to the Union a copy of the overtime records for all working groups within Manitoba Operations.
At the request of the Union, but at a frequency no greater than once per quarter, the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment’ designate and the Manager of the relevant department shall meet with the Conflict Resolution Coordinator and/or the Joint Problem Solving Coordinator to review the records of overtime distribution within that department. The Union shall notify the Company at least five (5) working days prior to any suchmeeting of the particular records to be considered thereat.
If an employee has a complaint with respect to the record of overtime distribution which he has been unable to resolve with his supervisor and where there is mutual agreement, the parties will discuss the matter at the aforementioned meeting prior to such complaint being advanced through the grievance procedure.
Except as provided in Clause 6.08 or Clause 14.02 under the provisions of which an employee may be entitled to be paid at two and one-half (2/2) times his basic rate, no employee paid on an hourly basis shall be entitled, apart from off-shift premium and Sunday premium, to more than one and one-half (1Y) times his applicable basic rate for any hours worked by him.
Any change in an employee's regular day off schedule or shift schedule shall be posted, or an employee instructed to that effect, not later than the end of his shift on the Friday prior to the work week in which the change is to take effect.
Should an employee be instructed by the Company, during his work week or on the Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the commencement of such work week, to change his day off or days off in that work week to another day or days in that work week, he shall be considered as having worked his normal working hours on the previously scheduled day or days at what would have been his basic rate, but for the
19
purpose only of ascertaining whether such employee shall be paid at one and one-half (I Yi) times his basic rate for any other time actually worked by him.
Any change or changes to an employee's normal shift schedule at the Company's instruction given during his work week or on the Saturday or Sunday immediately prior to the commencement of such work week will entitle the employee to be considered as having worked the originally scheduled hours that were changed in that work week at what would have been his basic rate, but for the purpose only of ascertaining whether such employee shall be paid at one and one-half (I Yi) times his basic rate for any other time actually worked by him.
This Clause 7.06 does not apply to changes of shift schedules made to accommodate employee training.
Banking of Overtime
7.07	Each employee who works overtime has the option of receiving pay for such work at the
applicable overtime rate, or banking the time worked at the applicable basic rate and receiving pay for one-half (Yi) of the time worked at the applicable basic rate, provided that he does not have sufficient vacation entitlement to cover the vacation shutdown period.
Such time will be taken in conjunction with the next vacation shutdown and, if applicable, the Company will deduct from the pay for such time an amount equal to the employee’s contribution to the Security Fund Plan and the Company shall contribute to the Security Fund Plan an amount in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in such Plan.
If for any reason the employee is not required to use the banked time to cover the vacation shutdown period he will receive payment for such banked time at the applicable basic rate.
Subject to Clause 7.02A, such time off will not be considered as hours worked for the purpose of applying the overtime provisions of this Article 7.
ARTICLE 8 - WAGES
8.01	The wage rates per hour set forth in the applicable table in Schedule “B” hereto shall be paid commencing on September 16, 2014.
8.02	In the event that any new occupational classification shall be established by the Company during the currency of this Agreement, the Company will fix the rate of pay therefore and shall give prompt notice thereof to the Union. The Union shall have the right, within fourteen ( 14) days of receipt of such notice, to request a meeting with the Company to discuss the wage rate applicable to the new classification established by the Company. If, as a result of any such discussions, the wage rate applicable to the new classification is
20
changed, then payment of the wage rate as changed shall be made retroactive to the date notice of the new classification was given to the Union.
8.03	Upon receipt of a claim by the Union that a wage rate for a job constitutes an inequality under the existing wage structure, the Company will investigate and review the job and/or the rate therefore. If the Company decides that there should be an increase in such wage rate it will notify the Union and any such increase will be effective from the date of such notification. The Union representatives on the CWS Committee shall be entitled to meet with the Company representatives on the 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the CWS Committee in carrying out their duties under this Clause 8.03.
8.04	For all work performed by an employee during afternoon shift hours, (and not within the regular day or night working hours of such employee) he shall be paid an off-shift premium in addition to his basic rate of fifty cents (500) per hour. For all work performed during night shift hours, (and not within the regular day or afternoon working hours of such employee) he shall be paid an off-shift premium of sixty cents (600) per hour in addition to his basic rate. Off-shift premiums shall not be considered as part of an employee's basic rate.
8.05	An employee who works during the twenty-four (24) hour period commencing with the start of the day shift on Sunday and ending with the start of the day shift on Monday shall be paid a Sunday premium as follows:
a)	at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for time worked by him during a regularly scheduled shift,
b)	at the rate of twenty-five cents (250) per hour for time worked by him that is not during a regularly scheduled shift.
8.06	An employee who is temporarily assigned to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his regular occupational classification shall continue to be paid at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification provided that an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.
8.07	Where an employee who is permanently assigned (for any reason other than willful failure to fill the normal requirements of the job) to work in an occupational classification carrying a lower rate of pay than his regular occupational classification, he shall for three (3) months be paid for the work he performs at the rate applicable to his regular occupational classification. During the above three (3) month period:
i.	he may be required by the Company to accept any training in any occupational classification which is offered to him,
21
8.08
8.09
8. IQ
ii.	he shall be reassigned, subject to Clause 15.27 and subject to the wishes of employee, to his regular occupational classification in the event of a vacancy, and
iii.	he shall be deemed to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department.
If he refuses to accept such training, or to accept any reassignment or to accept any job offered to him by the Company, he shall forthwith cease to be entitled to the benefits of this Clause 8.07.
Where an employee is reassigned under subclause (b) of this Clause 8.07 the provisions of Article 15 with respect to job posting shall not apply to the vacancy to which he is reassigned.
Notwithstanding the foregoing an employee will not be paid for work performed during a shift or day at a rate less than that applicable to the occupational category in which he commences work on such shift or day.
An employee who serves as a juror will be paid his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work during the period he serves as a juror, less any fees paid to the employee under The Jury Act or The Queen's Bench Act. In order to receive pay pursuant to this Clause, the employee must notify the Company within three (3) working days after receipt of his jury summons, present to the Company satisfactory proof of service and attendance, notify the Company of the date on which he will be released from jury duty immediately after such information is provided to the employee and report for work on his first scheduled shift immediately following his release.
Subject to Clause 8. I 0, a bereavement leave of absence will be granted to an employee upon a death in his immediate family. For each day of such leave of absence which is a regularly scheduled working day for the employee, he shall be paid his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day. To qualify for bereavement leave, the employee shall notify his supervisor as soon as possible following the bereavement.
“Immediate family” shall mean spouse, son, daughter, mother, father, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,grandmother, grandfather, spouse’s sister, spouse’s brother, spouse’s grandmother, spouse’s grandfather, brother’s spouse, sister’s spouse and employee’s grandchildren.
For the purpose of Clause 8.09, the leave of absence granted will beas follows:
i.	if the deceased is the spouse, son or daughter of the employee, the maximum
bereavement leave shall be ten (I 0) consecutive calendar days commencing on the date of death, commencing on the date of death,
22
ii.	subject to Clause 8.10 (iii) and Clause 8.10 (iv), ifthe deceased is a member of the employee's immediate family other than those in Clause 8.10 (i), the maximum bereavement leave shall be three (3) consecutive calendar days including the day of the fiineral.
iii.	if the fiineral of the immediate family member other than those in Clause 8.10 (i) is at a distance greater than 500 kilometers by road from Thompson, and the employee attends the funeral, or where the employee does not attend the fimeral because he is required to care for a dependent child or to deal with other family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature and the employee’s spouse attends the funeral, the maximum bereavement leave, including the day of the funeral, will be five (5) consecutive calendar days.
iv.	in the case ofClause 8.10 (ii) and Clause 8.10 (iii), ifthe consecutive calendar days of leave include a Sunday which is not a regular working day for the employee, an additional day of bereavement leave will be granted, consecutive with the days already granted.
8.11	The Company will grant casual leave without pay to those employees who request such
leave as a result of compassionate circumstances or to deal with personal or family matters of a legitimate and compelling nature, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operations.
ARTICLE 9 - CO-OPERATIVE WAGE STUDY
9.01	The Co-operative Wage Study Manual (herein referred to as “the Manual”), which was Appendix “A” to the previous Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union, shall be incorporated into this agreement as APPENDIX “A” and its provisions shall apply as if set forth in fill herein.
9.02	Any mathematical or clerical errors made in the preparation, establishment or application ofjob descriptions, classifications or standard hourly rates shall be corrected.
9.03	Except as otherwise provided, no employee shall be entitled to allege that a wage rate inequity exists.
9.04	There shall be a committee known as the “CWS Committee” consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union to represent the Union and three (3) individuals appointed by the Company to represent the Company. Either party may change its representatives from time to time.
9.05	Meetings of the CWS Committee will be held as mutually agreed but not less than once per month.
23
9.06	Leaves of absence shall be granted to Union representatives on the CWS Committee to the extent required for handling job descriptions and job classifications during the required stages to administer the Manual. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the members of the CWS Committee, but the Company may at any time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse of the privilege.
9.07	If the Company and the Union fail to reach agreement upon any job description, classification or assignment to job class through the procedure provided in the Manual, such matter shall constitute a difference between the Company and the Union to which Clause 20.05 applies and shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with Article 21.
9.08	The Company agrees to interpret the words in Section 5.05(c)(ii) of the manual which reads “an appropriate practical test” to mean “an on the job test’ which will not include written tests. The Company understands that any dispute in relation to the development of trade tests will be settled by arbitration under Article 21.
9.09	The phrase “Garage Mechanic” wherever used in the manual shall be removed and not replaced.
ARTICLE 10 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
10.01	In this Article:
a)	“technological change” means:
i.	the introduction by the Company into its work, undertaking or business of equipment, material or process of a different nature or kind than that previously used by the Company in the operation of its work, undertaking or business, and
ii.	a change in the manner in which the Company carries on its work, undertaking or business that is directly related to the introduction of that equipment or material.
b)	“Years of Service” means the period of time expressed as a number of full years and/or any fraction of a full year that the employee has been an employee of the Company since his most recent date of hiring except that:
i.	the period of any leave of absence granted to the employee under Clause
17.01	(a) or Clause 24.01 shall be deducted in computing his “Years of Service", and
ii.	where an employee is rehired under Clause 15.15 after having been laid off for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, his “Years of Service” shall be
24
computed as though he had continued in the employment of the Company instead of being so laid off and rehired.
c)	“Average Basic Rate” of an employee entitled to payment of the amount described in Clause 10.05(a) or an employee deemed to have a basic rate in Clause 10.05(b) means his total earnings from the Company exclusive of all premium pay such as holiday pay, vacation pay, shift premium, Sunday premium, mines incentive bonus and overtime, for the hours that he worked for the Company in the period of thirty (30) calendar days ending with the last day on which he worked for the Company prior to the date he became affected by the technological change, divided by the total number of hours that he worked for the Company during that period of thirty (30) calendar days.
10.02	The provisions of this Article are intended to assist employees affected by any technological change to adjust to the effects of the technological change.
10.03	Sections 83, 84 and 85 of The Labour Relations Act of Manitoba do not apply during the term of this Agreement to the Company and the Union.
10.04	If the Company decides to effect a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated:
a)	the Company will give the Union written notice of the technological change and will endeavor to give the Union written notice sixty (60) days prior to the technological change coming into effect and will discuss with the Union the steps to be taken to assist the employees affected to adjust to the effects of the technological change;
b)	If in the opinion of the Union the Company has failed to comply with paragraph (a), the Union may submit this in writing as a difference between the Union and the Company under Clause 20.05 whereupon it shall be decided by arbitration under Article 21 whether or not the Company has effected a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of a significant number of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated; and
c)	in the arbitration of a difference between the Union and the Company as referred to in paragraph (b),
i.	Such arbitration shall take priority over any other arbitration then in process,
ii.	The selection of a Chairman from the panel shall be subject to him being able
and willing to hear the case within one ( 1) month from his selection and to render his decision within ten (10) days following the hearing of the case.
25
10.05	If the Company has given written notice to the Union in accordance with Clause 10.04(a) or if it has been decided by arbitration that the Company has effected a technological change that is likely to affect the terms and conditions or the security of employment of a significant number of employees or to alter significantly the basis upon which this Agreement was negotiated:
a)	any employee other than a probationary employee who is laid off for a period exceeding ninety (90) days because of the technological change shall, in addition to any other payment he is entitled to on the termination of his employment, be paid an amount equal to forty (40) times his Average Basic Rate multiplied by the Years of Service that he has, and upon being paid the amount he is entitled to under this paragraph (a) he shall cease to have any right of recall under Clause 15.15;
b)	subject to Clause 10.06, if the Company introduces that technological change in a department, any employee who is employed in the department at the time and who is either transferred from such department as a result of that technological change or who remains in such department and is affected by that technological change by reason of the fact that his occupational classification is discontinued or he is placed in a different occupational classification shall be deemed to have a basic rate which is the greater of:
i.	the basic rate in respect of the work he performs, or
ii.	his Average Basic Rate.
10.06	It is a condition of Clause 10.05(b) that any employee who becomes entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b) may at any time be required by the Company:
a)	to accept any training in any occupational classification which is offered to him by the Company, and
b)	to be an applicant for any job vacancy which is posted in his department for a job the rate for which is higher than the basic rate he is deemed to have under Clause 10.05(b) at the time of posting.
If he refuses to accept such training or if he refuses to accept the promotion upon being named as the successful applicant for any such job, he shall forthwith cease to be entitled to the benefits of Clause 10.05(b). lf within ten (10) days after ceasing to be entitled to the benefits ofClause 10.05(b) he voluntarily terminates his employment, he shall, in addition to any other payment he is entitled to on the termination of his employment, be paid an amount equal to forty (40) times his Average Basic Rate multiplied by the Years of
26
Service that he had at the date when he became affected by the technological change as described in Clause 10.05(b).
10.07	A joint Technological Change Committee will be established consisting of six (6)
members, three (3) to be appointed by the Union and three (3) to be appointed by the Company. The Technological Change Committee will meet monthly (or more frequently if mutually agreed upon) to discuss matters in connection with technological change. The Union representatives on the Technological Change Committee may make recommendations regarding the possible effects of technological changes on employees. Such recommendations will be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process.
The provisions of Clause 19.03 with respect to time off and the provisions of Clause
19.04	with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the members of the Technological Change Committee.
ARTICLE 11 - MINES INCENTIVE BONUS
11.01	The Union may establish an Incentive Bonus Committee to consist of not more than six (6) employees , no more than two (2) of which will be employees in the same Mine Department as defined in Schedule “A”.
11.02	The Incenti ve Bonus Committee shall be entitled once per month to present to representatives of the Company any complaints or objections with regard to any Mines Incentive Bonus applied during the preceding month and any matters pertaining to a particular incentive on which an individual or crew may be working currently or during the preceding month. The Incentive Bonus Committee shall notify the representatives of the Company at least two (2) working days prior to any such meeting of the particular incentives to be considered thereat. The Company will furnish the Union on request with all reasonable information as to the factors involved in the calculation of any such Mines Incentive Bonus. The Company will, once in each calendar month, grant to the Incentive Bonus Committee leave of absence with pay for up to forty-eight (48) hours in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04. Such leave of absence will include the monthly meeting with representatives of the Company. Where it is mutually agreed to hold a second meeting in any month the provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to time lost to attend such meeting will apply.
11.03	If any such complaint or objection is not disposed of to the satisfaction of the Incentive Bonus Committee, the Committee shall be entitled, on application in writing to the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of the complaint or objection, to present any such complaint or objection at a meeting with a Company Committee composed of the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment and the Manager of Mines or their designated representatives and not more than three (3) other representatives appointed by the Company, including a representative from the department concerned. Such
27
application in writing shall be made at least three (3) working days prior to the meeting with the Company Committee and shall be made within a reasonable time after the meeting with the Company representatives. The date, time and place of such meeting shall be fixed by the Manager ofHuman Resources, Safety, Health and Environment and notice thereof shall be given to such Incentive Bonus Committee. At each such meeting the Incentive Bonus Committee may be accompanied, if it so desires, by a Staff or International Representative of the Union and/or an officer of the Local Union.
I 1 .04	Employees working on a particular incentive to be considered may be represented at any
meeting provided for in this Article by not more than one (1) of their number. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the representative of the employees herein mentioned.
11.05	An employee may initiate a grievance under Article 20 where he claims that his pay under the Mines Incentive Bonus has been incorrectly calculated or the number of units ofwork has been wrongly determined.
11.06	The Company shall provide the Union with three (3) months prior written notice of any change in any existing mines incentive bonus standards. During the three (3) month notice period, the Company will discuss the changes with the Mines 1ncentive Bonus Committee.
11.07	When a new Mine Incentive System is planned for a Mine Department (as set out in Schedule "A” hereto), the Manager of Mines or his designate shall advise the Union. Details of the new system will be presented to the Incentive Bonus Committee. The Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of any specific concerns and recommendations relating to the new plan at a meeting to be held within two (2) calendar weeks of the presentation.
The Incentive Bonus Committee shall establish, for each Department affected, an Incentive System Review Committee. The Committee shall consist of a representative of the Incentive Bonus Committee and one (I) employee representative from each supervisory area. The employee representative shall be from among the employees affected by the proposed new plan and shall be appointed by the crew.
When the Company plans to implement a new Mine 1ncentive System, the Manager of Mines or his designate and no more than two (2) other individuals appointed by the Company shall present, to the Incentive System Review Committee(s), information pertinent to the planned, new system.
Within two (2) calendar weeks of such presentation, the Incentive System Review Committee shall advise the Manager or designate of specific concerns relating to the implementation plan. The Company shall give substantial weight and careful consideration to the concerns and recommendations in its decision making process.
28
Provisions of Clause 19.04 shall apply to the Union representatives of the Incentive System Review Committee.
11.08	The Incentive Bonus Committee may, during the regular monthly meetings of the
Committee, present to the representatives of the Company suggestions for improvements to the Mines Incentive System. The representatives of the Company will give these suggestions due consideration.
ARTICLE 12 - REGULAR VACATIONS
12.01	The Company shall, during each year of this Agreement, grant each employee whose first or subsequent anniversary of employment falls within such year a vacation in accordance with this Article.
Definitions
12.02
a)	In this Article the expression “date of employment” shall mean an employee’s date of last hiring.
b)	In this Article, subject to paragraph (c) hereof, the expression “anniversary of employment” shall mean the anniversary of an employee's date of employment, provided, however, that when January 2nd occurs for the second time since an employee's date of employment, that January 2nd shall be deemed to be his second anniversary of employment for the purposes of this Article, and thereafter so long as he has not ceased to be an employee for reasons other than layoff, his anniversary of employment shall be deemed to be January 2nd in each year for the purposes of this Article.
c)	In this Article, in the case of an employee whose date of employment is subsequent to September 16, 2014, when January 2nd occurs for the first time since his date of employment, that January 2nd shall be deemed to be his first anniversary of employment for the purpose of this Article, and thereafter so long as he has not ceased to be an employee for reasons other than layoff, his anniversary of employment shall be deemed to be January 2nd in each year for the purposes of this Article.
12.03	Subject to Clause 12.04 and 12.12, the length of vacation granted to each employee under this Article:
a)	shall be according to his anniversary of employment as follows:
Number of anniversary
of employment	Length of vacation
1	80 work hours
2	88 work hours
29
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21 22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30	or more
1 04 work hours 112 work hours 120 work hours 120 work hours 128 work hours 128 work hours 136 work hours 136work hours 144 work hours 144 work hours 152 work hours 152 work hours 160 work hours 160 work hours 168 work hours 168 work hours 176 work hours 176 work hours 184 work hours 184 work hours 192 work hours 192 work hours 200 work hours 200 work hours 208 work hours 208 work hours 216work hours 216 work hours
b)	shall be lengthened by sixteen (16) work hours (travel time), and
c)	where a general holiday occurs during that period of a vacation, shall be father lengthened by the number of hours he would have been regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday.
12.04	In the case of an employee whose date of employment is subsequent to September 16,
2014, the length of vacation granted to him on his first anniversary of employment:
a) shall be according to the month of his date of employment as follows:
Month of date	Length of vacation
ofemployment
January	80 work hours
30
February	80 work hours
March	72 work hours
April	64 work hours
May	56 work hours
June	48 work hours
July	40 work hours
August	40 work hours
September	32 work hours
October	24 work hours
November	16 work hours
December	8 work hours
provided, however, that where the date of employment is the first day of January, the month of date of employment shall be deemed to be December for the purpose of the foregoing table,
b)	shall be lengthened by sixteen (16) work hours (travel time), and
c)	where a general holiday occurs during that period ofa vacation, shall be further lengthened by the number of hours he would have been regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday.
Vacation Pay
12.05	The vacation pay for each work hour of vacation granted to an employee under Clause
12.03	shall be not less than his basic rate. However, if preferable to the employee, the vacation pay for a vacation granted to an employee under Clause 12.03 shall be five hundredths of one percent (.05%) of his earnings from the Company in the twelve (12) months immediately preceding his applicable anniversary of employment for each work hour of vacation, less any amount which may have been theretofore paid to him by way of vacation pay computed having regard to any portion of his earnings from the Company during such period.
12.06	The vacation pay for each work hour of vacation granted to an employee under Clause
12.04	shall be equal to his basic rate.
12.07	In the case of an employee whose date of employment is prior to September 16, 2014 no amount paid to him as vacation pay for a vacation granted to him on the anniversary of his date of employment shall be deducted under Clause 12.05 for the purpose of computing the vacation pay for the vacation granted to him on his second anniversary of employment.
12.08	In addition to the vacation pay as described in Clause 12.05 or Clause 12.06 thereshall be added to the vacation pay of any employee:
31
a)	the amount of four dollars and thirty seven and one-half cents ($4.375) (Travel Allowance) for each work hour under Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04, and
b)	the amount of one dollar and twenty five cents ($1.25) for each work hour under Clause 12.03 or Clause 12.04 which is taken between October 1st and December 7th next ensuing or between January 7th and May 31st next ensuing.
12.09	An employee whose employment is terminated otherwise than by retirement shall be paid vacation pay as follows:
a)	ifhis date of employment was less than twelve (12) months prior to the date of termination or if his last anniversary of employment was less than a fifth anniversary of employment he shall be paid four per cent (4%), or
b)	if his last anniversary of employment was a fifth or subsequent anniversary of employment he shall be paid six per cent (6%),
of his earnings from the Company in the period since his date of employment or of his last preceding anniversary of employment, whichever shall be later, up to the date of termination less any amount which may have been theretofore paid to him by way of vacation pay computed having regard to any portion of his earnings from the Company during such last mentioned period.
Time of Vacation
12.10	Each employee will be granted and shall take his vacation for each year of the term of this Agreement at such times as the Company finds most suitable considering in each department the seniority ranking of the employee, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. Subject to the foregoing, each employee shall be permitted to schedule the total number ofwork hours granted to him under Clause 12.03 or 12.04 in not more than four (4) periods of vacation. Where an employee chooses to schedule more than one period of vacation, such employee shall be permitted to schedule the first period of his vacation in accordance with his seniority ranking and he shall be permitted to schedule the second period of his vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their first period of vacation. Similarly, the employee shall be permitted to schedule the third period of his vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their second period of vacation. Subsequently, the employee shall be permitted to schedule the fourth period ofhis vacation in order of seniority ranking only after all other employees in the working group have scheduled their third period of vacation. Vacation dates may be changed by the Company in cases where it considers it necessary for efficient operations. A vacation list will be posted in each department by April 1st in each year, the said list to show the name and number of each employee and the date ofhis scheduled vacation.
32
Subject to the foregoing, if the Company decides to shut down regular operations for vacation purposes it will,
1. notify employees of such vacation shutdown by November 30th of the preceding year;
ii.	consult the Union regarding proposed dates of such vacation shutdown before finalizing those dates;
iii.	use its best efforts to schedule such vacation shutdown during prime vacation periods (June, July, August, December);
iv.	permit an employee who is not required to work during the shutdown the choice ofhis Regular Vacation entitlement, Special Vacation entitlement or a combination thereof to be scheduled during such vacation shutdown;
v.	endeavor to permit an employee who uses his Regular Vacation entitlement during such vacation shutdown the opportunity to complete his remaining Regular Vacation entitlement immediately prior to or following such vacation shutdown;
vi.	continue the practice ofadvancing Special Vacation entitlement to those employees with less than three (3) years continuous service who have yet to earn their first entitlement to Special Vacation; and
vii.	where the number of work hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04 are insufficient to cover the full period of vacation shutdown, attempt to give that employee the opportunity to perform any available work, taking into consideration his qualifications to perform any available work and his seniority ranking.
Partial Vacation List
12.lOA Employees wishing to take their vacation during the period between January 2nd and March 31st will, providing they make application before December 15th of the previous year, be granted their vacation during that period considering the seniority ranking of the employee, the wishes of the employees and the efficient operation of the plant. A partial vacation list covering the period January 2nd to March 3 lst will be posted in each department on January 2nd, the said list to show the name and number of each employee and the date ofhis scheduled vacation.
Approved Regular Vacation Schedule
12.lOB The Company will make all reasonable efforts, subject to the requirements and efficiency of the operation, to honour the Regular Vacation previously approved and scheduled by
33
the Company if such employee is temporarily transferred by the Company to another department under Article 15.05 or is a mine department employee who has been reassigned by the Company to a new shift under Article I 5.10.
Optional Leave without Pay
12. I l	Where the number of work hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under
paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04 is less than eighty (80) and he requests additional time off from work, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant him not more than thirty-two (32) work hours off without pay, provided however, that the total of:
a)	the number of work hours of vacation to which he is entitled under paragraph (a) of Clause 12.04, plus
b)	the number of work hours without pay granted to him under this Clause 12.1 I shall never exceed eighty (80).
12. llA Where the number of hours of vacation to which an employee is entitled under Clause
12.03	or Clause 12.04 exceeds the number of work hours required to equal a whole number of work days, the Company will, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant to the employee the choice of:
a)	an additional number of work hours without pay which when added to such excess work hours of vacation will equal a full work day; or
b)	pay in lieu of such excees work hours of vacation, calculated in accordance with Clause l 2.05;or
c)	time off with pay in conjunction with his next annual vacation or at an earlier time that is mutually agreed to by the employee and his supervisor.
12. I 2	An employee who retires will be granted a vacation the length of which shall be
determined in accordance with Clause 12.03 except that;
a)	the applicable number of work days described in Clause l2.03(a) shall be multiplied by a fraction of which the numerator is the number of days between his last anniversary of employment and the date of his retirement and the denominator is 365; and
b)	where the number of work days of vacation so determined includes a f action it shall be increased to the next whole number.
34
12.13	In this Article 12 “work hour” means an hour that an employee would normally be scheduled to work in a week.
12.14	When a employee is working on an extended shift schedule where the average of the scheduled weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the hours by which the average exceeds forty (40) shall not be considered as work hours for the purpose of scheduling vacation under this Article 12.
ARTICLE 13 - SPECIAL VACATIONS
13.01	During the life of this Agreement each employee who completes three (3) years of continuous service since the date of his most recent hiring or since the date he last became entitled to a Special Vacation with pay under the previous Collective Agreement between the Company and the Union, whichever is later, shall become entitled to one hundred and twenty (120) work hours ofSpecial Vacation with pay.
13.02	During the three (3) year period since he last became entitled to a Special Vacation, an employee will be permitted to take a maximum of forty (40) work hours of Special Vacation ft'om his next entitlement to a Special Vacation for each completed year of employment since the date he last became entitled to a Special Vacation provided at the time the employee does not have any outstanding Special Vacation. Special Vacation taken pursuant to this Clause 13.02 shall be deducted from the employee’s next entitlement to a Special Vacation.
13.03	Whenever an employee becomes entitled to some Special Vacation with pay and the total number of work hours of Special Vacation with pay to which he is entitled, including what he has just become entitled to, exceeds two hundred and forty (240), work hour(s) in excess of two hundred and forty (240) shall forthwith be known as a “Payout Hour(s)”. In lieu of granting the Payout Hour(s) ofSpecial Vacation, the Company will pay to such employee the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled if he had taken the Payout Hour(s) of Special Vacation immediately prior to most recently becoming entitled to Special Vacation with pay. The total number of work hours of Special Vacation with pay to which he is entitled shall then be two hundred and forty (240).
13.04	In determining the length of a Special Vacation a week shall mean seven (7) consecutive days including Saturdays and Sundays. Where a general holiday occurs during a Special Vacation, the Special Vacation shall be lengthened by the number of hours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday or would have been scheduled to work if such general holiday had been a regularly scheduled work day for him.
13.05	The pay for each work hour of Special Vacation granted shall be equal to zero point zero five per cent (0.05%) of the employee's earnings from the Company in the calendar year (January 1 to December 31) immediately preceding the taking of the Special Vacation provided, however, that:
35
a)	if the employee was absent from work for more than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days in that calendar year on account of illness or accident, the Special Vacation pay for each work hour shall, if preferable to the employee, be equal to zero point zero five per cent (0.05%) of the employee's earnings from the Company in the most recent twelve (12) calendar months, not necessarily consecutive, in which he worked at least some time in the month, and
b)	if preferable to the employee, the pay for each work hour of Special Vacation shall be equal to his basic rate.
13.06	Should an employee who is entitled to any Special Vacation with pay retire or otherwise cease to be employed by the Company or die before taking the same, the Company will in lieu of granting such Special Vacation, pay to such employee or to his estate should he have died, the Special Vacation pay to which he would have been entitled ifhe had taken such Special Vacation immediately prior to the cessation of his employment with the Company or immediately prior to his death as the case may be.
13.07	In the case of any employee who retires or otherwise ceases to be employed by the Company or dies, he or his estate shall be entitled, in addition to the payment provided for in Clause 13.06 of this Article, to an amount equal to two per cent (2%) of his earnings from the Company in the calendar year preceding his retirement, cessation of employment or death for each full year from the date ofhis last entitlement to a Special Vacation.
13.08	The allocation of vacations with pay under the provisions of Article 12 hereof shall have priority over the allocation ofSpecial Vacations and banked overtime.
13.09	In order to minimize interference with the normal operations of the Company, Special Vacations will be granted only at such times and in such amounts as the Company in its discretion may determine but subject thereto, due consideration will be given to the wishes of the individual employee. It is anticipated that, in most cases, an employee's Special Vacation will be taken within the three (3) year period following the date on which he becomes entitled to it and it is hoped early in that period.
13.10	Special Vacation entitlement may not betaken in periods ofless than one (1) full day.
13.11	Special Vacation entitlement when granted will be in accordance with the provisions of Clause 13.09.
13.12	In this Article 13 “work hour" means an hour that the employee would normally be scheduled to work in a week.
13.13	When an employee is working on an extended shift schedule where the average of the scheduled weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the
36
hours by which the average exceeds forty (40) shall not be considered as work hours for the purpose of scheduling special Vacation under this Article 13.
ARTICLE 14 - GENERAL HOLIDAYS
14.01	The phrase “general holiday” wherever used in this Article shall mean any of the following days:
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Louis Riel Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, a day to be known as “Miner’s Day” (which shall be July 1O, 2015, July 8, 2016, July 14, 2017, July 13, 2018, July 12, 2019), Civic Holiday, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day, and Boxing Day (which shall be deemed to be the 26th day of December).
14.02	If an employee is required to work on a general holiday and does so work:
a)	that day shall be deemed to have been his regularly scheduled work day for the purpose of this Article, and
b)	he shall be paid for the number ofhours he was scheduled to work or less of such work at the rate of one and one-half ( 1 V2) times his basic rate and in addition he shall be paid holiday pay in an amount equal to his basic rate for the number of hours he was scheduled to work on that day, and
c)	he shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2\/2) times his basic rate for all hours worked by him on that general holiday in excess of the hours he was scheduled to work on that day.
14.03	Where a general holiday falls on any employee's regularly scheduled day off, and he is not required to work that day, he shall, subject to Clause 14.07, be granted a holiday with pay immediately preceding the time of and in conjunction with his next annual vacation, or at an earlier time mutually agreed to by the employee and his supervisor.
14.03A An employee who has qualified for a holiday with pay pursuant to Clause 14.03 may request to be paid for the banked holiday in advance of his next annual vacation and to waive the day off which would have otherwise been granted to him pursuant to Clause 14.03. However, an employee may not request that such a payment be made during the period December 1 to 31.
14.04	Where a general holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled work day but he is not required to work that day, he shall, subject to Clause 14.07, be paid for that holiday in accordance with Clause 14.05.
14.05	Subject to Clause 14.06 and Clause 14.07, the pay for a holiday granted under Clause
14.03	or for a holiday granted under Clause 14.04 shall be the greater of:
37
a)	an amount equal to the employee’s basic rate for the hours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday or would have been scheduled to work if such general holiday had been a regularly scheduled work day for him, or
b)	his average hourly earnings exclusive of overtime and exclusive of any mines incentive bonus for the hours on which he worked during the thirty (30) calendar days immediately preceding the general holiday plus the amount, if any, determined in accordance with Clause 14.06 multiplied by the number ofhours he was regularly scheduled to work on the day of the general holiday or would have been scheduled to work if such general holiday had been a regularly scheduled work day for him.
14.06	The amount, if any, to be determined under this clause 14.06 for the purpose of Clause 14.05(b) shall be determined as follows:
a)	if the employee actually worked ninety-six (96) hours or more (whether on mines incentive or not) during the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, the amount, if any, shall be in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 14.06;
b)	the amount, if any, in accordance with this paragraph (b) shall be the amount, if any, determined by dividing the employee's mines incentive bonus, if any, for the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred by the number of hours which the employee actually worked (whether on mines incentive or not) during that immediately preceding calendar month; and
c)	ifthe employee did not actually work (whether on mines incentive or not) at least ninety-six (96) hours during the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, the amount, if any, shall be the greater of:
i.	the amount, if any, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Clause 14.06, or,
ii.	the amount, if any, determined by dividing the employee's mines incentive bonus for the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred, by the number ofhours which the employee actually worked (whether on mines incentive or not) during the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the general holiday occurred.
14.07	An employee shall not be entitled to pay for any of the general holidays on which he has not worked where:
38
a)	he has not worked in the thirty (30) day period immediately preceding the general holiday;
b)	he did not report for work on the general holiday after having been notified that he was required to work on the day of the general holiday; except where his absence:
is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
isdue to illness and a doctor's certificate is submitted to that effect; or
is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration ofjustice;
or
has not worked either on his regularly scheduled work day immediately preceding or following the general holiday; except in the case of an employee whose absence on such work day or days:
i.	is due to a death in his immediate family as defined in Clause 8.09; or
ii.	is due to illness and a doctor's certificate is submitted to that effect; or
iii.	is due to his service on a legally constituted jury engaged in the administration ofjustice; or
iv.	is pursuant to leave of absence granted by the Company.
14.08	Where reasonably possible and subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, the Company will notify each employee who is going to be required to work on a general holiday at least five (5) calendar days prior to such general holiday, that he is going to be required to work on that general holiday, but where in the opinion of the Company it is necessary for the requirements of operations, the Company may require an employee to work on a general holiday or may inform such employee that he is not required to work on the general holiday even though he has been notified to the contrary under this Clause 14.08.
14.09	To the extent permitted by the requirements and efficiency of operations, the Company will schedule work required to be performed on a General Holiday by giving preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the required occupational classification (in this instance “occupational classification” means an individual’s foll-time bid job) in the workgroup for whom the day upon which the General Holiday fell was a regularly scheduled work day.
c) he
39
ARTICLE 15-SENIORITY
15.01	The Company recognizes that, subject to Clause 15.02, job opportunity and job security should increase according to seniority or seniority ranking in the cases set forth in this Article 15. Subject to Clause 15.02, the Company shall give preference according to seniority or seniority ranking in the case of:
a)	transfers out of a department
b)	promotions and demotions
c)	layoffs, and
d)	recall,
In accordance with this Article 15.
15.02	The giving of preference according to seniority or seniority ranking, in accordance with this Article 15, shall be subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee to fill the normal requirements of the job.
15.03	A probationary employee may be terminated by the Company without review under the grievance procedure. However, so long as he is an employee, he shall be entitled to the benefits ofArticle 15, except for Clause 15.26.
Transfers out of a Department
15.04	In all cases of transfers out of a department (except where such transfer is temporary only, not to exceed sixty (60) days) resulting fiom a change or reduction in operations in such department, the Company shall transfer the employees affected in the reverse order oftheir seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
When employees are to be transferred out of a department other than pursuant to Clause 15.06 and other than in reverse order of their seniority ranking, the senior employee who is to be transferred will, where practicable, be given the opportunity to acquire through training the qualification necessary to fill the vacancy that would have been created had the employees been transferred in reverse order of their seniority ranking.
Where it is practicable to give a senior employee such training, the length of the training period shall be in proportion to his seniority and each such employee will be given a maximum of one week of training for each complete year of continuous service.
The employees to be transferred pursuant to this Clause 15.04 shall be included on a Forced Transfer List. An employee on the Forced Transfer List may indicate to the Company his preference for the department to which he wishes to be transferred.
40
Prior to making a transfer the Company shall combine on a revised transfer list the employees on the Forced Transfer List together with the employees on the list of outstanding transfers, as outlined in Clause 15.06, who wish to transfer to the department where a vacancy exists.
Subject to Clause 15.02, the Company shall transfer the employees on the revised transfer list in the order of their seniority. Where such transfer results in a vacancy in a department the Company shall fill the vacancy from among the employees on the Forced Transfer List having consideration for the wishes of the employees and their respective seniority ranking.
Employees remaining on the Forced Transfer List shall, subject to Clause 15.12, be transferred to the department where a vacancy exists.
15.05	When an employee is transferred from one department to another and the Company has signified that such transfer is temporary only, such employee shall be returned to the department from which he was transferred within a period of sixty (60) days. During such period for the purpose of seniority ranking the employee shall be deemed:
a)	to have seniority ranking in the department from which he has been temporarily transferred, and
b)	not to have seniority ranking in the department to which he has been temporarily transferred,
provided, however, that in the case of a temporary promotion to fill a temporary vacancy, other than a Temporary Vacancy as defined in Clause 15.08, he will be considered for that temporary promotion as though he had seniority ranking in the department to which he has been temporarily transferred, subject to Clause 15.02.
15.06	An employee wishing to transfer from one department to another may file with the Company a written request to do so, providing he has not been granted a transfer at his own request for a period of six (6) months. The employee making such application shall be given a duplicate of such request for transfer. The Company shall maintain a file of such applications for transfer and shall consult such file when considering hiring new employees.
In the event of a vacancy occurring in the department into which the employee wishes to transfer, preference shall be given to such employee's application before a new employee is hired to fill the vacancy. For the purposes of this Clause “preference” shall mean the consideration of the following factors namely, the wishes of the employee and his expressed reasons therefore, his seniority, the efficiency and requirements of operations and the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee to progress in the department for which he has made application.
41
In the event there are applications for transfer between departments where no vacancy exists, the Company will consider such applications in order to exchange suitable applicants.
The Company will provide the Conflict Resolution Coordinator with a list of all outstanding transfer applications once per month. At the request of the Conflict Resolution Coordinator but at a frequency no greater than once per month, the Supervisor of Employee Relations and/or other designated officials of the Company shall meet with the Conflict Resolution Coordinator and up to one other representative of the Union to review any outstanding applications for transfer. At a frequency of twice per year, such meetings will also be used to remove from the list of outstanding applications for transfer the names of those employees who have recently been transferred or whose names should otherwise be removed from the list. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to time lost shall apply to the two (2) representatives of the Union in attendance at such meetings.
Job Posting - Mechanical and Electrical Departments
15.07	The Company recognizes that an employee in the Mechanical Department or an
employee in the Electrical Department may have a preference as to Departmental Working Area.
For the purposes of this Clause 15.07 a Vacant Position will occur when the Company decides to:
a)	increase thetotal number of tradesmen within the Department,
b)	adjust the number of tradesmen between Departmental Working areas or between trades, or
c)	assign a newly graduated T.Q. tradesman.
When a Vacant Position occurs due to (a) or (b) above:
i.	The Company will post a notice for seven (7) calendar days in all areas. Any employee in the Mechanical Department or in the Electrical Department may apply in writing within the seven (7) day period. The successful applicant will be selected according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
ii.	Should the Company decide to fill the position in the Departmental Working Area vacated by the successful applicant in (i) above, it will post a notice for seven (7) days in all areas and any employee in the Mechanical Department or in the Electrical Department may apply in writing within the seven (7) day period. The successful applicant will be selected according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
42
iii.	Should the Company decide to fi ll the position in the Departmental Working Area vacated by the successful applicant in (ii) above, it will select the successful applicant from among the employees on the Request for Reassignment List according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
When a Vacant Position occurs due to (c) above:
i. The Company will post a notice for seven (7) calendar days in all areas. Any employee in the Mechanical Department or in the Electrical Department may apply in writing within the seven (7) day period. The successful applicant will be selected according to seniority ranking, subject to Clause 15.02.
Employees in the Central Maintenance Departmental Working Area may also make written application for a vacant position in Construction, Utilities or Shops within that Departmental Working Area. Similarly employees in Thompson Mine Departmental Working Area may also make written application for a vacant position in T-1 or T-3 Area.
In the event there is no successful applicant under (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above, or should the Company decide to fill the position in the Departmental Working Area vacated by the successful applicant in (iii) or (iv) above, the Company may assign or reassign an employee to the Departmental Working Area as follows:
a)	in the event of an increase in the total number of tradesmen within the Department, the tradesman entering the Department may be assigned,
b)	in the event of an adjustment, the junior qualified tradesman in the Departmental Working Area or trade where the reduction is to take place may be reassigned. At the time of posting the notice, the Departmental Working Area or trade in which the reduction will take place will be indicated on the notice, or
c)	the newly graduated apprentice may be assigned, if the notice was posted to provide a vacancy to accommodate his graduation.
For the purposes of this Clause 15.07, “Departmental Working Area” means the physical areas listed in Schedule “E”.
An employee who is a successful applicant in (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above will not be eligible to make application under the terms of (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above for a period of six (6) months from the posting ofhis name as the successful applicant.
15.07A When an employee in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department is
to be temporarily reassigned fi'om one Departmental Working Area to another Departmental Working Area the Company shall, to the extent permitted by the
43
requirements and efficiency of operations, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees in the required trade.
Promotions and Demotions
15.08	When the Company is considering cases of promotion to fill a vacancy within a
department and when the Company is considering cases of demotions within a department, the Company shall give preference according to seniority ranking of the employees affected. These considerations shall be subject to Clause 15.02.
Where the factors described in Clause 15.02 are to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern except that an incapacitated employee assigned pursuant to Clause 15.25 shall not be demoted in order to create a vacancy for an employee with more seniority where no other suitable employment with the Company is available to the incapacitated employee or where such demotion would result in the incapacitated employee being laid off other than in reverse order of seniority.
Clause 15.08 shall not apply in the case of Vacant Position in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department as defined in Clause 15.07.
Promotions or demotions of a temporary nature for a period of fifteen (15) days or less shall not be subject to Clause 15.08.
Promotions to or in supervisory or confidential positions shall not be subject to Clause 15.08.
15.08A Temporary Vacancy means a vacancy resulting from:
a)	sick leave granted under Clause 15.26,
b)	leave granted for reason of disabling accident or illness,
c)	vacation granted under Article 12 or Special Vacation granted under Article 13,
d)	temporary transfer under Clause 15.05,
e)	Union leave granted under Article 17,
f)	educational leave granted under Article 24,
g)	public office leave granted under Clause 26.01,
h)	maternity leave granted under Article 25,
44
i)	temporary transfer ofless than six (6) months duration to office staff, engineering staff, geological staff, Supervisor or any position in which the individual is not an “employee” within the meaning ofThe Labour Relations Act,
j) any vacancy resulting from the assignment of an employee to modified work due to a temporary medical limitation, or
k)	any vacancy resulting from the temporary assignment of an employee under clause 15.27.
In cases of temporary promotion to fill a Temporary Vacancy the Company will, subject to Clause 15.02, give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees affected. Where the factors described in Clause 15.02 are to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern.
15.09	In making temporary promotions other than temporary promotions to fill a Temporary Vacancy as defined in Clause I 5.08A, and in making temporary demotions, the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, give preference to the employee with the greatest seniority ranking, who is working on his regularly scheduled work day, provided such employee is reasonably available.
Where the employee with the greatest seniority ranking is reasonably available and he is not temporarily promoted, provided he shall not have declined the opportunity for such temporary promotion and provided the reason he was not temporarily promoted was not Clause 15.02, he shall, subject to Clause 8.07, be paid for the time that the temporary promotion lasts at the rate applicable to the occupational classification in which the promotion occurred even though he did not actually perform work in that occupational classification.
Job Posting
15.10	Except in the case of
a)	a Temporary Vacancy as defined in Clause 15.08A; or,
b)	a vacancy in any job in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department; or,
when a vacancy occurs in any job (other than a job considered by the Company to be temporary only, not to exceed thirty (30) days) for which the basic wage is Step 8 or higher in the case of underground jobs, or Step 3 or higher in the case of surface jobs, (except for the occupational classification of Janitor), notice of such vacancy shall be posted for seven (7) calendar days on the bulletin board provided in the department in which such vacancy has occurred. All notices of vacancy shall designate the shift position on which the vacancy exists on the date on which the notice is posted.
45
Notices of vacancy in underground jobs in the Mine Departments shall indicate the mining complex and shift position (e.g. A, B, C or D) to which the successful applicant shall be assigned, provided, however, that he may be reassigned when warranted by the requirements or efficiency of operations or the ability, knowledge, training and skill of the employee. Prior to any reassignment of an employee, the company will review the reassignment with the Joint Problem Solving Coordinator. Where an employee in an underground job in a Mine Department is reassigned the Company shall post a notice in the Department indicating the name of the employee and the mining complex to which he was reassigned and the Company shall promptly send to the Union a copy of such notice.
Any employee in the department in which the job is posted or who applies in accordance with Clause 15.1OA:
i.	who isin an occupational classification different from that of t he posted job, or
ii.	who is in the same occupational classification but is assigned to shift work while the posted job is for day-time work or vice-versa, or
iii.	who is in the same occupational classification as that of posted job but is assigned to a different mining complex, or
iv.	who is in the same occupational classification that of the posted job but is assigned to a different shift,
may apply in writing for such job within the said seven (7) days. In considering which applicant is to fill such vacancy, the Company shall give preference according to the seniority ranking of the employees affected, subject to Clause 15.02. Where the factors described in Clause 15.02 are to all intents and purposes equal as between two or more employees, their relative seniority ranking shall govern.
An employee who is the successful applicant for a job in accordance with (iii) or (iv) above will not be eligible to make application under the terms of (iii) or (iv) for a period of six (6) months from the posting of his name as the successful applicant.
Nothing in the foregoing provisions shall limit the right of the Company to assign any employee in any occupational classification from day-time work to shift work or vice-versa in the same occupational classification.
15.IOA An employee in a Mine Department may apply in writing to fill a vacancy posted pursuant to Clause 15.10 in another Mine Department providing he has not been employed in an occupational classification in such other Mine Department in the six (6) month period immediately preceding the date ofthe posting.
46
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, an employee who has been transferred, pursuant to Clause 15.04 from the Mine Department in which the vacancy exists shall be permitted to make application for such vacancy.
15.11	The Company shall, without delay after a notice of a vacancy has been posted f or seven (7) calendar days, post for at least seven (7) calendar days the name, employment number, and seniority of the successful applicant. If there shall have been no applicant, or no successful applicant for such job, such fact shall be posted. Except in the case of the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department, the Company, if it fills such job from within the department, shall within f our (4) weeks from date of posting and subject to Clause 15.02, select from among the employees therein, that employee having the lowest seniority ranking.
The Company shall, without delay after a notice of a vacancy has been posted for seven (7) calendar days, post for at least seven (7) calendar days the name, employment number, and seniority of the successful applicant. An employee who is a successful applicant in Clause 15.10 (i), (ii) or (iii) above will, except in unusual circumstances, be transferred by the Company to his new position within sixty (60) calendar days of the postingofhis name as the successful applicant.
The Company will promptly send to the Union, a copy of the notice of vacancy showing the disposition thereof. When a vacancy has been filled, the name, employment number and seniority of the successful applicant or the employee who has been appointed, as the case may be, shall be shown on the notice.
Layoff
15.12	The Company and the Union agree that employment security, though not a guarantee, should increase according to seniority.
When employees are laid off for more than thirty (30) days, either for lack of work or in order to create vacancies for employees with more seniority who would otherwise be laid off for lack of work, the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, lay off employees in the reverse order oftheir seniority.
When employees are to be laid off other than in reverse order of seniority, the senior employee who is to be laid off will, where practicable, be given the opportunity to acquire through training the qualification necessary to fill the vacancy that would have been created had the employees been laid off in reverse order of their seniority.
Where it is practicable to give a senior employee such training the length of the training period shall be in proportion to his seniority and each such employee will be given a maximum ofone week oftraining for each complete year ofcontinuous service.
15.13	Subject to Clause 15.19, an employee who
47
a)	has at least one (I) year of seniority,
b)	is laid off either for lack of work or in order to create a vacancy for an employee with more seniority who would otherwise be laid off for lack of work, and the Company considers such lay off to be permanent, and
c)	notifies the Company in writing, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of being so laid off, that he relinquishes his right of recall under Clause 15.I 5 and wishes to terminate his employment,
shall be paid as severance pay an amount equal to
(i)	one hundred and sixty ( 160) times his basic rate, plus
(ii)	forty (40) times his basic rate multiplied by a number which is the number of his “Years of Service” as defined in Clause I 0.0 I (b) but disregarding any fraction of a year, minus
(iii)	any amount paid to him under Clause I 0.05(a).
15.14	When employees are temporarily laid off for thirty (30) days or less, either for lack of work or in order to create vacancies for employees with more seniority who would otherwise be laid off for lack of work, the Company shall, subject to Clause 15.02, lay off employees in the reverse order of their seniority ranking, except in cases of breakdown or other emergency or other circumstances beyond the immediate control of the Company.
Recall
15.15	During a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of a lay off' of any employees having seniority rights, if the Company shall require workers the Company shall determine which individuals who were so laid off are qualified to fill the normal requirements of the jobs then available. From among such qualified individuals and to the extent of the number of workers required, the Company shall select those most recently laid off and a notice stating the title of the job for which such individual is considered qualified and the proposed time and place of hiring shall be sent to each such selected individual by registered mail addressed to the last address recorded by the individual with the Manager, Human Resources of the Company at Thompson, Manitoba. The time of hiring specified in the notice shall be not less than ten (I0) days later than the date on which the notice would, in the ordinary course of mail, be received at that address.
15.16	Individuals reporting for work pursuant to such notices shall, if they are then qualified to fill the normal requirements of the jobs available, be rehired in the inverse order to that in which they were laid off, and on such rehiring the seniority of such individual shall be computed as though he had continued in the employment of the Company instead of being so laid off and rehired.
48
The Company shall not be required to rehire at any time any individuals who shall fail to report for rehiring pursuant to such notice. The Company may fi.ll any jobs available on a temporary basis pending rehiring of those having recall rights as hereinbefore set forth.
When the individual to whom such a notice has been sent isunable toreport for work on the day specified in such notice by reason of sickness, then such individual shall not lose his recall rights by reason only of his failure to report for hiring pursuant to such notice if he shall have notified the Manager, Human Resources, Health, Safety & Environment of the Company at Thompson, Manitoba, in writing on or before the day specified in such notice of his sickness together with a satisfactory medical certificate. In such event, the name of the individual in question will be placed at the top of the recall list, provided that there shall be no right ofrecall after twenty-four (24) months fiom the date oflayoff
An employee who is employed by the Company in the Mechanical Department or the Electrical Department may, within five (5) working days of transfer or demotion to another classification due to lack of work, elect to be laid off and governed by the recall provisions set out in this Article 15. In addition, any such employee laid off either by his own election or for lack of work shall not lose his recall rights by reason only of his failure to report for rehiring in a job other than one in his former classification. An employee who elects to be laid off under this Clause 15. 19 shall not be entitled to any severance pay under Clause 15.13.
Loss of Seniority
15.20	When an employee is granted leave in excess of two (2) weeks for reason other than disabling accident or illness or other compassionate grounds, no such period of leave shall be counted in determining the seniority of any such employee. Provided, however, that when an employee is granted leave of absence pursuant to Article 17 or Article 24 or Article 25 or Article 26, the period of such leave of absence shall be counted in determining the seniority ofsuch employee.
15.21	An employee shall lose his seniority whenever any oft he following shall occur:
a)	when he voluntarily terminates his employment;
b)	when he is discharged for cause;
c)	when he is absent without leave for eighty (80) or more consecutive working hours unless excused by his Supervisor or the Human Resources Department;
d)	when he fails to report to the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment within the time specified by any notice of recall, subject to Clause 15.18hereof;
15.17
15.18
15.19
49
General
15.22
15.23
15.24
e)	when he fails to report to the Manager Human Resources Safety Health and Environment on the expiring of an authorized leave of absence;
f)	subject to Clause 15.16, when he is laid off.
The Company shall post seniority lists for each department showing the seniority ranking of each employee in such department. No complaints concerning the seniority lists shall be dealt with under the provisions of this Agreement concerning the adjustment of grievances. The seniority lists for each department shall be revised by the Company and brought up to date at least once during each three (3) month period. The Company will provide the Union with a copy of such lists.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be constmed so as to preclude the Company from transferring to the category of an employee any individual employed by the Company in another category, and (except where such transfer is temporary only), the length of such individual's continuous service with the Company shall be deemed to be accumulated seniority and shall be transferred and placed to his credit.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from assigning individuals (including students in any part-time employment) to any job to try out their capabilities and/or to provide them with special training or experience in preparation for broader assignments with the Company or with associated companies, and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to preclude the Company from promoting, demoting, engaging or dispensing with the services of any such individuals or from directing their efforts from time to time, provided, however, that no such individual shall be assigned to take over the job occupied by an employee if such an assignment would result in the demotion of such employee.
Training obtained under this Clause 15.24 subsequent to September 16, 1999 will not be considered in the application of Clause 15.02. Individuals training under this Clause 15.24;
i.	will not be considered to be performing work which is normally performed by employees, and
ii.	will not be considered for temporary promotions or overtime during the day (as defined in Clause 6.03(a) on which he has been receiving such training.
The provisions of Clause 15.08A(i) shall not apply to individuals training under this Clause 15.24.
50
The Company shall, fi’om time to time, provide the Union with a list of such individuals, not exceeding at any one time fifty (50) or five per cent (5%) of the employees, whichever shall be greater.
15.25	The Company will endeavour, subject to the requirements of operations, to find employment in the employee’s home department (or failing the home department, or another department) which is suitable (in the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner) to any employee who has been incapacitated by an occupational or nonoccupational condition and is therefore unable to perform his/her regular work. In the event such employment is not available, the Company may provide training opportunity for a permanently incapacitated employee where he can be qualified for a vacancy in a reasonable period of time. In assigning any such employee to any such employment the Company may disregard the seniority provisions of this Agreement except that such incapacitated employee shall not be assigned to take over a job occupied at the time by another employee.
15.26	The Company will grant sick leave of up to one ( 1) year's leave of absence without pay to any employee having seniority rights and seniority of less than nine (9) years and up to two (2) years' leave of absence, without pay, to any employee with seniority:
a)	ofnine (9) years or more, or
b)	of two (2) years or more if he is entitled to compensation under The Workers Compensation Act.
The Company may extend such leaves for such further period as it may decide. The Company when granting any such leave will require the production of satisfactory medical evidence of sickness.
15.27	Placement of an incapacitated employee shall be done by following the Company’s Return to Work process as amended from time to time. All placements shall be done in accordance to with Clause 28.12.
ARTICLE 16- TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
16.01	The employment of an employee of the Company shall be terminated whenever the
employee voluntarily terminates his employment, or is discharged, and the employment of an employee of the Company shall be and be deemed to be terminated whenever any of the f ollowing shall occur:
a)	he is absent without leave for eighty (80) or more consecutive working hours unless excused by his Supervisor or the Human Resources Department;
b)	he fails to report to the Manager, Human Resources or his designated representative on the expiry of an authorized leave of absence;
51
c)	he is laid off for lack of work (other than a layoff considered by the Company to be temporary).
ARTICLE 17 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
17.01	During each year of the life of this Agreement, leave of absence shall be granted as
indicated below and on the following conditions:
a)	upon written application by the Union, not less than seven (7) days in advance, the Company will grant a leave or leaves of absence without pay totaling four (4) man years for work of an official nature for the Union;
b)	upon written application by the Union, not less than one week in advance, the Company will grant to employees leave of absence, without pay, not exceeding twenty-one (21) days each, for the purpose of attending conventions or conferences of the Union;
c)	upon request by the Union to the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and general holidays, the Company will, subject to the requirements of operations, grant to employees, for Union business, casual leave of absence without pay, of not more than fourteen (14) days, not to exceed five hundred (500) man days in total for any one year of the Agreement;
d)	upon written request by the Union given not less than one (1) week in advance to the Company, the Company will grant two (2) leaves of absence without pay during each year of the currency of this Agreement to the employees named in such requests to absent themselves to attend the recognized Labour College of Canada, any such leave or leaves to be of a maximum duration of ten ( 10) weeks for each employee named;
e)	not more than six (6) employees shall be absent from any department at any one time, on leave granted under sub-clause (b) and sub-clause (c) above, and not more than a total of thirty (30) employees shall be absent at any one time on leave granted under sub-clause (b) and sub-clause (c) above. For the purpose of this sub-clause only, T-1 and T-3 Mines shall be considered to be separate departments;
t) upon request by the Union to the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours in advance, the Company will grant the Chairman of the Grievance Committee leaves of absence totaling four hundred and sixteen (416) work-hours. Each such work-hour shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04. Not more than forty-eight (48) work-hours shall be granted in any calendar month and not more than forty-eight (48) work-hours shall be granted on consecutive work days;
52
g)	upon written requests by the Union not less than seven (7) days in advance, the Company will, subject to the requirements of operations, grant to Union Stewards casual leave of absence with pay in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19.04 of not more than two (2) days to absent themselves to attend Union training sessions provided, however, that not more than fifteen (15) Union stewards shall be absent at any one time on leave granted under this sub-clause (g) and not more than a total of seventy (70) leaves of absence shall be granted under this sub-clause (g) in any one (I) year of the life of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 18-DISCHARGE AND DISCIPLINE
18.0 I	The discharge or disciplining without just cause of employees, other than probationary
employees, may be dealt with as a grievance under this Agreement, if the employee concerned believes that his discharge or disciplinary action is in violation of this Agreement; provided that any such discharge complaint is presented at the Second Stage of the grievance procedure contained herein not later than seven (7) calendar days after the date of such discharge. Every effort shall be made to hold such Second Stage meeting within forty-eight (48) hours from the receipt by the Company of such Second Stage grievance.
18.02	If it should be determined under the grievance procedure that the discharge or disciplining ofany employee is in violation ofthis Agreement, then such employee shall be reinstated by the Company and paid fill compensation (less money earned by the employee during the time lost) at the employee's basic rate plus any applicable C.O.L.A. for the time lost while such discharge or disciplining was in effect, but limited to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, all in respect of time so lost after such date. Upon such reinstatement, the employee's seniority shall continue as if no discharge or disciplining had occurred.
18.03	Any Warning, Written Reprimand, Suspension or Notice of Discharge given to any employee shall be given in writing, in duplicate. Where practicable it shall be given within two (2) workdays of the time when the incident giving rise to the discipline comes to the attention ofthe Company.
18.04	In any case where a period of ninety (90) calendar days has elapsed since an employee last received a Warning (as distinct fi'om a Written Reprimand or a Suspension) for being absent without leave from his regular work, all previous Warnings (as distinct from Written Reprimands or Suspensions) for absence without leave shall be removed from the employee's record and shall not be taken into consideration by the Company when it decides upon the disciplinary action which is applicable with respect to subsequent absences without leave by such employee.
Similarly, in any case where a period of one (1) year has elapsed since an employee last received a Written Reprimand (as distinct from a Suspension) for being absent without
53
leave, all previous Written Reprimands (as distinct fi’om Suspensions) for absence without leave shall be removed fi’om the employee's record and shall not be taken into consideration by the Company when it decides upon the disciplinary action which is applicable with respect to subsequent absences without leave by such employee.
I 8.05	Any Written Reprimand given as a Step II, Step III or Step IV or anyNotice of
Discharge will, where practicable, be given to an employee in the presence of a Union Steward ifthe employee so requests.
ARTICLE 19 - GRIEVANCE COMMITTEEMEN, UNION STEWARDS AND FULL TIME UNION POSITIONS
1 9.01	The Grievance Committeemen and Union Stewards shall consist of not more than an
aggregate total of one (I) for each thirty-five (35) employees, plus an additional ten (10) Stewards, or sixty (60), whichever is the greater. All Committeemen and Stewards shall be employees.
19.02	There shall be a Grievance Committee selected by the Union consisting of not more than
nine (9) employees, from amongst the Union Stewards. The Union will indicate to the Company fi’om time to time, the individuals acting as Chairman and members of the Grievance Committee.
1 9.03	If it shall be necessary for a Grievance Committeeman or Union Steward to take time off
during working hours to attend any meeting with supervisory personnel as set forth in the grievance procedure, he shall first obtain permission fi’om his Supervisor. The Company agrees that such permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
I 9.04	Time lost by members of the Grievance Committee or Union Stewards during regular
shifts in respect of meetings with Management Representatives held pursuant to the grievance procedure as hereinafter referred to, shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such members, plus any applicable shift premium and C.0.L.A., if any, and for those Mine Department employees who are eligible for mines incentive bonus and who are denied the opportunity to earn mines incentive bonus during a regularly scheduled shift as a result of attending such meeting, an allowance in lieu of mines incentive bonus shall be paid in accordance with Clause 28.04B, but the Company may at any time discontinue such payments if, in the opinion of the Company, there is abuse ofthe privilege of attending such meetings.
1 9.05	Where an employee so requests, Union Stewards will, subject to the requirements and
efficiency of operations, be allowed such time off as is reasonably required at a time to be arranged by supervision in order to assist the employee in connection with grievance or disciplinary matters which involve the employee.
In the case of underground operations arrangements will be made at each mine to permit Union Stewards to come up early or delay their descent on a pre-arranged schedule so that they may assist employees in connection with grievance or disciplinary matters
54
which involve the employee. Where it is practicable other arrangements may be made by the Company.
19.06
19.07
19.08
The Parties recognize that it is most desirable that an earnest effort be made to develop and maintain a good relationship between employees and supervision.
Ifan employee has a complaint which he has been unable to resolve with his supervisor, a steward may attempt to resolve the complaint on behalf of the employee.
It is the further intent of the parties that issues and concerns be resolved prior to using the discipline or grievance procedures.
To accomplish this, the employee, accompanied by a Union Steward if requested by the employee or supervisor, should first attempt to resolve the above matters expediently.
Should any difference remain between the Company and any of the employees as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, an earnest effort shall be made to settle such difference without undue delay in the manner as outlined in Article 20.
A Conflict Resolution Coordinator appointed by the Local Union President and paid at Job Class twenty-one (21 ), will in general
a)	improve grievance handling through better organization of the grievance procedure and training of Stewards;
b)	in co-operation with the Company, develop relationships between the Stewards and members of management;
c)	promote early resolution of work related issues.
The job description for the Conflict Resolution Coordinator is attached hereto as Appendix “H”
Upon completion ofhis terrn, he will return to his regular job which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
An individual appointed by the President of USW Local 6166 following consultation with the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment and paid by the Company, will act in the capacity of Joint Problem Solving Coordinator (“JPS Coordinator”). The job description for the JPS Coordinator is attached hereto as Appendix “I”.
The duties ofthe individual appointed to this position will include but not be limited to the following
55
19.09
ARTICLE 20 Stage One
20.0 I
Stage Two
20.02
a)	liaising with other joint committees;
b)	reviewing material provided by the Company concerning work to be contracted out;
c)	developing and maintaining a working relationship with Department Heads;
d)	carrying out special projects and tasks as may be assigned from time to time by the Joint Executive Steering Committee.
The job description for the JPS Coordinator is attached hereto as Appendix “I”
The JPS Coordinator will be paid at Job Class twenty-one (21) and upon completion of his term, will return to his regular job which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
Subject to Clause 19.07, Clause 19.08, Clause 28.13, and Clause 28.14, the appointment, removal or replacement of the Conflict Resolution Coordinator, the Joint Problem Solving Facilitator and Resource Person, the Worker Safety Representatives, and the CoChair, Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee will be in keeping with the By-Laws and Constitution of the Local Union.
- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
An aggrieved employee may, provided it is done within the first ten (I 0) working days immediately following the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, make his representations orally or in writing to his supervisor or the Management Representative designated by the Company from time to time to handle such matter at this stage. In making such representations, he may, if he desires, be accompanied and represented by a Union Steward who is reasonably familiar with the work on which the employee is engaged. Such meeting will, except in unusual circumstances, occur during the griever’s working hours. Any settlement of the grievance reached between the aggrieved employee and the Company at this stage will be considered applicable to the case in question and not as establishing a precedent for future cases. If within three (3) work days (excluding the regular days off of the griever and Management Representative) from the time when such representations were presented to such Management Representative a decision satisfactory to the employee is not given, then:
Notice in writing requesting further consideration of the matter shall, within seven (7) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative at Stage One, be given by the aggrieved employee or a member of the Steward Committee to the Management Representative for Stage Two, who shall be from the department in which
56
20.03
20.04
20.05
20.06
the matter arose. The official to whom such notice is given or his designated representative shall notify the aggrieved employee and the Union of the time and place at which he will meet such aggrieved employee accompanied and represented by not more than three (3) members of the Steward Committee and if so desired, by an officer of the union and/or a representative of the United Steelworkers. Prior to setting a date for such meeting, the Company will discuss the matter with a member of the Steward Committee or the Conflict Resolution Coordinator to determine whether the matter should be first returned with guidance to the parties involved at Stage One for further attempt at resolution. A Human Resources Representative and such other Company personnel as the Company may consider necessary to resolve the grievance may accompany the Management Representative for Stage Two. Such meeting will be held within fourteen ( 14) days of the date upon which it was requested and should be scheduled during the working hours of the aggrieved employee. At such meeting, representations in writing shall be presented and the decision of the Management Representative for Stage One shall be considered. Any settlement of the grievance reached between the aggrieved employee and the Company at this stage will be considered applicable to the case in question and not as establishing a precedent for future cases.
Every effort will be made to give the decision in writing on behalf of the Company within seven (7) days from the date upon which the Stage Two meeting is held.
Saturdays, Sundays and general holidays shall not be counted in determining the time within which any action is to be taken in each of the foregoing Stage One or Stage Two.
Any difference arising between the Union and the Company with respect to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement, instead of following the procedure hereinbefore set out, may be submitted in writing by either of such parties to the other, with opportunity for oral discussion between the officers of the Union and the General Managers or their designated representatives. Failing settlement, a date will be agreed upon atthis meeting for a further meeting between such senior officials of the Company as the Company may designate for this purpose, and the officers of the Union, who may be accompanied by a representative ofthe United Steelworkers.
In any event, the parties shall within twenty-one (21) days from the giving of notice as aforesaid, sign a memorandum of settlement, or, if the matter has not been satisfactorily adjusted, the party to whom the matter was submitted shall deliver to the other party a reply in writing to such submission.
Should any difference arise between the Company and the Union or any employee as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of the Agreement, or should any employee believe that his discharge is a violation of the provisions of this Agreement, and should any party desire to take advantage of the procedure provided for in this Agreement, each step in such procedure (up to and including the appointment of an arbitrator) required to effect a satisfactory disposition of the matter shall be taken by such party within the time limits set forth, or the matter shall be deemed to have been
57
abandoned, unless the time limit applicable has been extended by written agreement between the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE 21 - ARBITRATION
21.01	Where a violation of this Agreement is alleged, ora difference between the parties tothis Agreement relating to the meaning or application of the Agreement (including a difference relating to whether or not a matter upon which arbitration has been sought comes within the scope of the Agreement) arises, either party thereto, within thirty (30) days from the giving of the decision of the Management Representative at Stage Two (or in the event of a difference between the Union and the Company, within thirty (30) days from the date when the written reply to the submission was or should have been delivered) may notify the other party in writing of its desire to submit the alleged violation or difference to arbitration, whereupon the Company and the Union will make a joint application to the Minister of Labour for Manitoba to have a grievance mediator appointed to assist them in resolving the alleged violation or difference.
At the end of each month all the cases which have been referred to arbitration during that month will be listed chronologically according to the time when, in the case of a grievance, the Stage Two meeting was held, or in the case of a Company-Union difference, the first meeting was held to discuss it, that case being listed first in which such meeting was held earliest, and then a single arbitrator shall be allocated to each case in sequence from the following panel ofindividuals:
William D Hamilton Arne Peltz Michael Werier Diane Jones
Commencing with the name following the name of the last arbitrator allocated and commencing again at the beginning of the panel after coming to the end of the panel and for the purpose of such allocation a case which has been withdrawn from arbitration shall be deemed not to have been withdrawn from arbitration. If no Stage Two meeting is held on a grievance, the time to be used for the chronological listing will be the time when notice requesting further consideration was given under this clause. If no meeting is held on a Company-Union difference, the time to be used for the chronological listing will be the time when it was submitted in writing under this clause. Ifin any case the arbitrator allocated is unable or unwilling to act within 1 80 days, the next arbitrator on the list will be contacted for the purpose of scheduling the hearing date within I 80 days. If all the arbitrators on the list are unavailable to set a hearing date within the I 80 days, the hearing will be scheduled with the individual arbitrator who is available at the earliest possible date. In any event, the timelines described herein shall not result in an individual arbitrator being scheduled for consecutive arbitration hearings.
21.02	No matter shall be considered by the arbitrator nor shall he render any decision in connection therewith unless and until he has first decided that such matter constitutes a
58
difference between the Company and the Union or the employee initiating the matter, as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of this Agreement.
21.03	Whenever the arbitrator shall have decided that a difference does come within the scope of this Agreement, or that the matter before the arbitrator constitutes a difference as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of this Agreement, then such decision shall be considered as having been preliminary only and the same arbitrator shall proceed to consider the matter in dispute with the intent and object that a multiplicity of proceedings before arbitrators shall be avoided.
21.04	In any arbitration, the written representations of the aggrieved employee or the Grievance Committee made at Stage Two and the decision of the Company at Stage Two of the grievance procedure shall be presented to the arbitrator, and the award of the arbitrator shall be confined to determining the issues therein set out.
21.05	Each party to an arbitration shall be entitled through counsel, or otherwise, to present evidence, to cross-examine the witnesses of the other party, and to present oral arguments. The parties recognize that in some circumstances it is desirable to have written argument but it will be up to the arbitrator to decide whether to give the parties time to file written argument in any particular case. However, neither party shall be entitled to file written argument in an arbitration where the matter in dispute is the discipline or discharge of an employee.
21.06	The finding of the arbitrator as to the facts and as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of the provisions of this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties concerned, but in no event shall the arbitrator alter, modify or amend any part of this Agreement.
21.07	Arbitrations shall be heard at Thompson, Manitoba, or at such other place as may be agreed upon by the parties from time to time.
21.08	The Union and the Company shall each be responsible for one-half (Yi) of the expenses of and fees payable to the arbitrator. The Company and the Union agree that the fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be such as he may reasonably require.
21.09	Witness fees and allowances shall be paid by the party calling the witness.
21.10	No costs of any arbitration shall be awarded to or against either party.
21.11	The decision of the arbitrator shall be given if possible within a period of fourteen (14) days after the close of arbitration proceedings in the case of a grievance respecting discharge or within a period of twenty-eight (28) days after the close of
arbitration proceedings in the case of any other grievance.
59
ARTICLE 22 - MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT TRADES AND POWER ENGINEERS
Trades
22.01	This Article 22 applies only to employees in the Mechanical or Electrical Department.
22.02	It is the Company's intention to provide opportunity for employees in the trades to improve their qualifications in order that they may have the opportunity to advance in their respective trades.
22.03	Therefore the Company will provide for employees in the trades, up to the number which are required to be trained in any trade at any time, training programs consisting of“on the job” training combined with appropriate study courses.
22.04	Any employee in a trade who desires to participate in such a training program may make application to register as a trainee with the Company's Training Supervisor. Such applicants as may be selected will be informed as to the appropriate study course or courses that they must take, the nature of any such course or courses being dependent upon any prior training which may have been taken by the successful applicant. In selecting applicants the Company will give preference to their seniority ranking provided they have sufficient aptitude, knowledge or education to take the training.
22.05	The Company will upon the successful completion of any such approved study course by an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course, provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
Power Engineers
22.06	It is the Company’s intention to provide opportunity for employees in the jobs of Power Engineers, to improve their qualifications in order that they may have the opportunity to advance in their respective job classes.
22.07	Therefore the Company will provide for such employees, up to the number which are required to be trained at any time, programs consisting of“on the job” training combined with appropriate study courses.
22.08	Any employee in the jobs referred to in Clause 22.06 hereof who desires to participate in such a training program may make application to register as a trainee with the Company's Superintendent of Learning and Development. Such applicants as may be selected will be informed as to the appropriate study course or courses that they must take, the nature of any such course or courses being dependent upon any prior training which may have been taken by the successful applicant. In selecting applicants the Company will give
60
preference to their seniority ranking provided they have sufficient aptitude, knowledge or education to take the training.
22.09	The Company will upon the successful completion of any such approved study course by
an employee reimburse such employee for the cost of such course, provided that at the time of completion of the course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid offby the Company for lack of work.
Incentive for Study Courses
22.10	It is the Company's intention to further assist the employees hereinbefore referred to in this
Article in the completion of any study courses approved under the previous Clauses of this Article, and with this in view the Company will pay to each employee who successfully completes such a study course an amount equal to the employee's basic rate for one-half (Yz) of the standard hours specified for the completion of such study course. The determination of the standard hours specified for the completion of any study course shall be made by the Company and shall be final following consultation by the Company with the school or other agency supplying each course.
22.10A An employee who participates in the Power Engineer training program shall sign a Re^^ Service Agreement with the Company, the specific terms of which will be determined by the Company. The terms of the Return Service Agreement shall apply and shall commence upon payment by the Company of any reimbursement of expenses or Incentive for Study Courses provided for under the previous Clauses in this Article.
Apprentices
22.11	The Union recognizes the right of the Company to institute a training scheme for
apprentices in each of the recognized trades. Such apprentices will be given opportunity for training in as many branches of their trade as the facilities of the plant will reasonably permit. At no time will the ratio of apprentices to employees in the trade in any trade exceed the ratio of one(1) to two (2), provided there may be at least one (I) apprentice in each trade notwithstanding the number of employees in the trade in that trade is less than two (2).
22.12	Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 15.07 of this Agreement, no apprentice during
his apprenticeship may apply to fill any job vacancy under the job posting provisions of this Agreement.
22.13	The length of apprenticeship shall be three (3) or four (4) years depending upon the
particular trade and as may be determined by the Company. The Company may reduce the regular period of apprenticeship training where it is satisfied that an apprentice has received equivalent training or experience in his trade outside the Company's apprenticeship program.
61
Upon the successful completion of the period of apprenticeship training, an apprentice will, subject to the requirements of operations, be employed as a (TQ) tradesman in the trade for which he has apprenticed.
22.14	It is understood that age alone will not prevent entrance into the apprenticeship training program.
22.15	Subject to Article 9, the wage rates for apprentices shall be as set forth in the applicable table in Schedule “C” hereto.
Trades Upgrades/Committee
22.16	The Company and the Union recognize that the continued improvement and upgrading of trades is necessary to keep pace with the rapid changes in technology and the workplace. Employees in their respective trades will have the opportunity to take upgrading programs offered by the Company. The selection of participants will be according to seniority ranking subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations and the ability, knowledge and training of the employee. The fact that an employee has not completed any such upgrading, enhancement or plant familiarization training will not affect his opportunity to apply for a Vacant Position under Clause 15.07, provided he successfully completes any required upgrading as soon as is practical after the reassignment.
There shall be a committee known as the joint "Trades Committee" consisting of three (3) employees appointed by the Union and three (3) persons appointed by the Company. The committee will meet at least once every month, and at such other times as may be agreed upon, for the purpose of exchanging and discussing information pertaining to trades and any program of Trades Enhancement and considering specific problems relating to the trades and trades enhancement. Such discussions may relate to the manner in which skills training will be delivered in order to ensure that the required safety, efficiency and quality standards are maintained.
These meetings may be attended by the President of the Union and/or a representative of the United Steelworkers and the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment, and/or the Manager of Support and Technical Services. The Committee will receive direction fiom and report to the Executive Steering Committee. The Committee may request the attendance at the meeting of an individual who has special knowledge of subjects under discussion.
22.17	The Company will review and, where necessary, amend the work experience provided to
Apprentices to comply with current government programs. In conducting such review the Company will give careful consideration and substantial weight to the concerns of the Joint Trades Committee.
62
ARTICLE 23 - GENERAL TRAINING
23.01
23.02
23.03
The Company desires to provide an opportunity for employees to qualify for certain higher rated occupational classifications by providing training during working hours. The jobs in which employees may be employed for these purposes are hereinafter called “trainee jobs”.
There shall be a committee known as the joint “Training Committee” consisting of the Joint Problem Solving Coordinator and up to two (2) additional representatives appointed by the Union, and either the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment or Superintendent of Leaming and Development and up to two (2) additional representatives appointed by the Company.
The committee will meet at least once per quarter, and at such other times as may be mutually agreed upon, which agreement will not be unreasonably withheld, for the purpose of exchanging and discussing information pertaining to Company training programs considering specific concerns related to training, new or changing training programs.
These meetings may be attended by the President of the Union and the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment. The Committee may request the attendance at the meeting of other individuals who have special knowledge of subjects under discussion.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members ofthe joint Training Committee.
Whenever the Company decides that additional employees are required to be trained in such occupational classifications it shall post vacancies for “trainee jobs”, except where the Company is assigning an employee to a trainee job as permitted by this Clause 23.03.
The employees required to fill the vacancies for trainee jobs will be determined in accordance with their respective seniority ranking. In the event that there is no successfiil applicant for a trainee job, or in the event that a successful applicant for a trainee job is not from among the employees regularly working for the immediate Supervisor where the additional training may be required, the Company may, in addition to any successful applicant, assign an employee to such trainee job from among the employees who are working for that Supervisor. In making such assignment, the Company will, to the extent permitted by the requirements of operations, give preference according to their respective seniority ranking.
Where practicable, the Company shall endeavor to train the successful applicant either prior to or concurrent with the additional employee so assigned. Where the assigned employee is trained prior to the successful applicant, the successful applicant will be deemed qualified in that occupational classification upon commencement of the assigned employee’s training, and will be offered the opportunity to begin training in that
63
occupational classification within 12 months. The Company will send to the Union a copy of the notice associated with the awarding or assigning of a trainee jobs.
In this Clause 23.03 “deemed qualified” shall mean the employee is considered as having the ability, knowledge and skill to fill the normal requirements of the job, subject to him successfully completing the training required to obtain such ability, knowledge and skill.
Where he is the successful applicant for such vacancy, or at such time as is mutually agreed to by the employee and his Supervisor, the Company will provide him with the training and provided he successfully completes such training, assign him to the vacancy. Where he does not successfully complete such training, he shall be reassigned to his regular occupational classification which shall have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his training. In the event that the successful applicant for a trainee job, prior to being trained, is to be laid off pursuant to Clause 15.12, or transferred out of a Department pursuant to Clause 15.04, or demoted pursuant to Clause 15.08, then, provided being successfully trained will result in him not being so laid off or so transferred, or will result in him being demoted to an occupational classification more favourable to him, the Company shall provide him with the training as soon as practicable. Where he does not successfully complete such training, he shall be laid off pursuant to Clause 15.12, or transferred out ofa Department pursuant to Clause 15.04, or demoted pursuant to Clause 15.08.
If the employee refuses to accept training or otherwise fails to successfully complete the training in an occupational classification for which he is deemed qualified, he shall forfeit his right to be trained in that occupational classification until he shall again have been the successful applicant for a training job in that occupational classification posted pursuant to this Clause 23.03.
No employee shall be eligible to be assigned such “traineejobs”,
a)	who in the judgment of the Company is qualified in such occupational classification;
b)	who has been successfully trained as a result of a previous training posting within the previous twelve ( 12) month period unless waived by the Company in which case the senior applicant will be given preference;
c)	who within the twelve (12) month period prior to his application has failed to qualify in the same trainee job for which he is currently applying unless waived by the Company; or
d)	who does not possess sufficient knowledge ability and skill to justify his being accepted for training.
Upon completion of the training period the trainee will be returned to his former classi-
64
fication.
23.04
A successful applicant for a training job shall be paid during the training period at the rate of his regular classification.
Home Study
23.05	Any employee who desires to take a home study course may prior to commencing such course make application to register the course with the Company’s Training Supervisor who will advise the applicant whether or not the proposed course is a work related course and is acceptable to the Company for that individual under the provisions of this Article. A training course in computer skills taken through an approved training or educational organization will be considered a work related course.
23.06	The Company will upon the successful completion of a work related study course, accepted under the provision of Clause 23.05 by an employee, reimburse such employee for the cost of such course taken by the employee provided that at the time of completion ofthe course the employee shall be in the employ of the Company, unless he shall at such time have been laid off by the Company for lack of work.
ARTICLE 23A - “TRADE QUALIFIED” (T.Q.) TRADESMAN
23A.01 The job classification level for a “Trade Qualified” (T.Q.) Tradesman in the Mechanical Department or Electrical Department will be two job classes higher than the job class of the Tradesman job in that Trade.
23A.02 The following “Trade Qualified” (T.Q.)job classifications will be recognized:
Bricklayer,T.Q.	Carpenter,T.Q.
Machinist,T.Q.	Heavy Duty Mechanic, T.Q.
Industrial Mechanic,T.Q.	Industrial Pipefitter,T.Q.
Industrial Welder,T.Q.	Industrial Electrician,T.Q.
Industrial Instrument Mechanicic,T.Q.
23A.03 Qualification for the “Trade Qualified” job classification levels except Industrial Pipefitter,T.Q., will be via the current apprenticeship program which incorporates Community College training and the successful completion of provincial examinations, or by having an acceptable number of years in the trade to qualify for writing the provincial examinations followed by the successful completion of such examinations, either of which leads to the issuance of a Manitoba Certificate of Qualification in the above listed “Trade Qualified” classifications. A Manitoba Certificate of Qualification in the trade of Motor Vehicle Mechanic, or in the trade of Industrial Mechanic, or in the trade of Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic shall be accepted for the application of the Heavy Duty Mechanic, T.Q .and the Industrial Mechanic, T.Q.
65
23A.04 The three year and four year apprenticeship wage rates, as appropriate for a given trade, will apply in accordance with Schedule “C” of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. No apprenticeship is currently available for the Industrial Pipefitter,T.Q.
23A.05 Upon completion of the apprenticeship and issuance of a Certificate of Qualification in one of the preceding designated trades, or in the case of the Industrial Pipefitter,T.Q., upon the issuance of a Gas Fitter “A” or “B” license, the “Trade Qualified” employee will, without any job posting requirement, be paid at the appropriate job classification level.
ARTICLE 24 - EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
24.01	Where an employee wishes to further the possibility of his advancement with the Company by taking a full-time course of training, the Company may, subject to the requirements and efficiency of operations, grant him a leave of absence without pay provided that:
a)	he has at least two (2) years seniority;
b)	no such leave will be for a period exceeding ten (I 0) months unless extended by the Company, and
c)	the number of employees on such leave from any department at any one time will not in the opinion of the Company interfere with the requirements and efficiency of operations in that department.
24.02	When leave is granted to an employee under Clause 24.0 I he will be permitted, if he wishes, to continue his entitlement to benefits under all but not less than all of the following four (4) Plans in accordance with Clause 31.01,
a)	the Group Life Insurance Plan,
b)	the Group Prescription Plan,
c)	the Group Dental Plan,
d)	the Group Optical Plan,
provided he pays to the Company such amount as the Company considers toward the cost ofthese four (4) Plans.
24.03	If an employee on leave granted under Clause 24.01 fails to maintain regular at the course of training for which that leave was granted, for reasons established illness, his employment may be terminated by the Company.
reasonable
attendance other than
66
24.04
Subject to Clause 24.03, the period of leave granted under Clause 24.01 shall be counted in determining the employee's seniority.
ARTICLE 25 - MATERNITY LEAVE
25.01	Maternity leave will be granted in accordance with the provisions of The Employment Standards Code (Manitoba).
25.02	An employee who is granted maternity leave pursuant to Article 25.01 will be provided Supplemental Pay for a maximum period of seventeen (l 7) weeks provided that she:
a)	has completed at least one ( l) year of continuous service with the Company immediately prior to the commencement ofher maternity leave;
b)	provides to the Company satisfactory proof that she has applied for and is in receipt of Employment Insurance maternity benefits; and
c)	signs an agreement with the Company which indicates that she will return to work for a period of at least six (6) months on the expiry of her maternity leave or, if she takes parental leave immediately following her maternity leave, on the expiry of her parental leave and that she will immediately repay to the Company the amount of Supplemental Pay provided to her in the event that she fails to return to work for a period of at least six (6) months for reasons other than disability, death or layoff on the expiry of her maternity leave or, if she takes parental leave immediately following her maternity leave, on the expiry of her parental leave.
25.03	The amount of Supplemental Pay provided to an eligible employee will be as follows:
a)	for the two (2) week waiting period for Employment Insurance maternity benefits, ninety percent (90%) of the employee’s basic weekly wage in effect immediately prior to the commencement of her maternity leave; and
b)	for each week of maternity leave in respect of which the employee receives Employment Insurance maternity benefits, to a maximum of fifteen (15) weeks, ninety percent (90%) of the employee’s basic weekly wage in effect immediately prior to the commencement of her maternity leave, less the gross amount of Employment Insurance maternity benefits paid to the employee.
For the purpose of this Article 25, “basic weekly wage” shall mean that straight time weekly wage (exclusive of all premium pay such as holiday pay, shift premium, Sunday premium, overtime, cost ofliving allowance, and hourly employee annual incentive plan), based on the basic rate, to which the employee was entitled under the terms of this Agreement immediately prior to the commencement of her maternity leave.
67
25.04	If the Company cannot reasonably accommodate a pregnant employee, the Company may require the employee to commence a maternity leave of absence without pay at such time as she cannot, in the Company's opinion following consultation with a qualified medical practitioner, perform the normal duties of her job. Where the Company requires a pregnant employee to commence maternity leave of absence, she will be entitled to the weekly indemnity of the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan for the portion of such leave that occurs prior to the expected date ofher delivery.
25.05	The Company may at any time require an employee on maternity leave or entitled to maternity leave pursuant to this Article, to provide certification from a qualified medical practitioner of her condition including the expected and actual date of her delivery. In addition such an employee may be required by the Company prior to the employee returning to work fi’om maternity leave or, if she takes parental leave immediately following her maternity leave, parental leave to present the Company with the written opinion of a qualified medical practitioner that she is able to perform the normal duties of her job.
ARTICLE 26 - PUBLIC OFFICE LEAVE
26.01	Upon written request by the individual concerned, the Company shall grant leave of absence without pay to any employee elected to or campaigning for his own election to the Manitoba Legislature or the House of Commons of Canada, or municipal office in the City of Thompson. Such leave shall be for a maximum period of two (2) months in the case of his campaigning or for the term of such office in the case of his election.
26.02	When leave is granted to an employee under Clause 26.01 he shall be permitted, if he wishes, to continue his entitlement to benefits under all but not less than all of the following four (4) Plans in accordance with Clause 31.01,
a)	The Group Life Insurance Plan,
b)	The Group Prescription Plan,
c)	The Group Dental Plan,
d)	The Group Optical Plan,
provided he pays to the Company such amount as the Company considers reasonable toward the cost ofthese four (4) Plans.
ARTICLE 27 - NO STRIKES NO LOCKOUTS
27 .01	In view of the orderly procedures established by this Agreement for the settlement of
disputes and the handling of grievances, the Union agrees that, during the life of this Agreement, it shall not declare, authorize or engage in any strike, sit-down, slow-down or
68
any suspension of work, nor shall the Company engage in any lockout at Thompson, Manitoba.
ARTICLE 28 - ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY
28.01	The existing emergency response capability, safety devices and practices of the Company for the purpose of protecting employees from injury, accident and unhealthful conditions of work during their working hours shall be continued, subject to such improvements or changes as the Company may fi om time to time determine to be advisable. The Union shall have the right to discuss matters dealing with Environment, Health and Safety conditions at any time.
28.02	in recognition of the common concern of the Company and the Union in the area of safety and health, joint Environment, Health and Safety Committees shall be established.
28.03	Where a Committee member working on an Extended Shift Schedule attends a meeting scheduled pursuant to this Clause 28.03 or is designated by the Union to an inspection team and takes part in the monthly inspection, the difference between the hours that he was scheduled to work on that day and eight (8) hours will be spent at a location agreed to by the Department Co-Chairs working on Environment, Health and Safety issues as directed by the Union Co-Chairman of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee and will be paid in accordance with Clause 28.03A.
28.03A Time spent by employee members of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee while attending Committee meetings or making inspections as part of the Committee's inspection team will be calculated in units of one-half (Yi) hour and shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such members plus any applicable premiums, and for those Mine Department employee members of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee who are eligible for mines incentive bonus and who are denied the opportunity to earn mines incentive bonus during a regularly scheduled shift as a result of attending Committee meetings or making inspections as part of the Committee’s inspection team, an allowance in lieu of mines incentive bonus shall be paid in accordance with Clause 28.04B.
28.04	A Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee shall be established consisting of the President of the Union or his employee designate, a staff representative of the Union, a Committee Member fiom each Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee, the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment/the Superintendent of Safe Production, or their designates, and such other representatives of the Company as may be determined by the Company. The Union and the Company shall each designate a member as a Co-Chairman. The Committee shall meet quarterly, or more frequently if agreed to between the Co-Chairmen, for the purpose of reviewing the performance of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committees and such other Environment, Health and Safety matters as agreed to by the Co-Chairmen. The Co-Chairmen shall meet and prepare an agenda at least fourteen (14) days prior to any scheduled meeting. The
69
Company shall supply minutes of such meetings to the members of the Committee and to the Union.
28.04A
28.04B
28.05
28.06
28.07
A Division Steering Committee shall be established consisting of the Co-Chairman of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee, one (I) employee to be chosen by the Union and one (1) individual to be chosen by the Company. Where it is mutually agreed the Division Steering Committee shall coordinate initiatives to develop and implement safety programs, safety policies and safety Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI). The committee shall meet as mutually agreed.
Time spent by employee members of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee while attending Committee meetings will be calculated in units of one-half (Yi) hour and shall be paid for by the Company at the respective basic rates of such members plus any applicable premiums, and for those Mine Department employee members of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee who are eligible for mines incentive bonus and who are denied the opportunity to earn mines incentive bonus during a regularly scheduled shift as a result of attending Committee meetings an allowance in lieu of mines incentive bonus shall be paid in accordance with Clause 28.04B.
The allowance, if any, in lieu of mines incentive bonus, to be paid for each half hour for the purpose of Clause 28.03A or Clause 28.04A shall be calculated in a manner similar to the calculation under Clause 14.06.
In the event ofa serious accident or incident which has or could have resulted in a critical or fatal injury to an employee, the Company shall notify the Union in order that a member of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee from the department in which the accident or incident occurred may be accompanied to the site of the accident or incident as soon as possible after the inspections required by law have been completed.
In making such notification the Company shall make reasonable effort to contact the Union Co-Chairman ofthe Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee. Ifthe Co-Chairman cannot be contacted a telephone message, where possible, shall be left and the Company shall then make reasonable effort to contact the Union Co-Chairman of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee. If the Co-Chairman of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee cannot be contacted a telephone message, where possible, shall be left and the Company shall then contact the Union President. If the Union President cannot be contacted a telephone message shall be left.
Where an employee, after he has commenced work in any day or shift, suffers an industrial accident which, in the opinion of a duly qualified medical practitioner, prevents him from continuing at work he shall be paid at his basic rate, plus any applicable shift premium, Sunday premium and cost of living allowance for the balance of the time he would have worked in such day or shift had such accident not occurred.
In any case where subsequent to his last date of hiring the Company requires that an employee undergo a medical examination or obtain a medical certificate as a condition of
70
28.08
28.09
28.10
28.11
his employment with respect to a job, the examination will if possible be scheduled during the employee's regular working hours. If it is not possible to schedule such examination during an employee’s regular working hours, the employee will be paid at his basic rate f or any time spent on such examination.
The Company will furnish the Union on request with a weekly summary of injuries.
Two (2) days of safety and health training will be given in each year of this Collective Bargaining Agreement to each employee who is a member of a Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee at the time such training is given. Each Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee member shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his basic rate plus any applicable shift premium and C.O.L.A. for each day of training he completes.
In addition to the above two (2) days, during each year of the life of this agreement the Company shall grant to Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee members two (2) days leave of absence to attend joint training, provided the Co-Chairmen of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee have reached agreement on the need for training, the content of the training, the instructor for the training, the participants at the training, and the location and timing of the training. Each Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee member shall be paid eight (8) hours pay at his basic rate plus any applicable shift premium and C.O.L.A. for each day of training he completes.
The subject matter of training shall be discussed by the Company and the Union at a Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee meeting.
A joint Environmental Steering Committee (ES Committee) will be established for the purpose of providing context for joint actions on specific environmental issues such as licensed discharge points, Smelter emissions, tailings basin, reclamation and public environmental concerns.
The ES Committee will consist of three (3) Union representatives and three (3) Company representatives. Union representatives will include the Union Divisional Environment, Health and Safety Co-chair, EHS Worker Rep and a third employee appointed by the Union. Company representatives will include the Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment, Environmental Coordinator, and a third person appointed by the Company. The Union Divisional Environment, Health and Safety Co-chair and Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment will act as joint Co-chairs of the ES Committee. Meetings of the ES Committee will be held quarterly or as mutually agreed. The ES Committee may request the attendance of individuals who have special knowledge of subjects under discussion.
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to members ofthe Environmental Steering Committee.
71
28.HA
28.12
28.13
The Company and the Union agree to establish jointly through the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee a program to monitor on an ongoing basis the effects, if any, to the health and safety of employees working on Extended Shift Schedules.
A Joint Placement Committee will be established for the purpose of making recommendations on new and alternate placement of temporarily (which for the purpose of this Clause 28.12 shall not be less than twenty (20) work days) or permanently incapacitated employees in accordance with Clause 15.25.
The Placement Committee will consist of one ( 1) employee to be chosen by the Union, one individual from Occupational Medicine, and one (1) person chosen by the Company. The Placement Committee will meet as mutually agreed but not less than monthly. The Placement Committee may request the attendance at the meetings of an individual who has special knowledge of subjects under discussion. The Placement Committee will provide information on their activities and any issues arising from the application of the Company’s Return to Work policy to the Divisional SPI Steering Committee
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the member of the Placement Committee.
A Worker Safety/H&E Representative shall be established foreach location as set out in Schedule “F”. Each Worker Safety/H&E Representative will be appointed by the President of the Local Union following consultation with the Company, from among the employees regularly employed in the location to which he is to be appointed. The duties and responsibilities of the Worker Safety/H&E Representative will be as set out in the role descriptions attached hereto as Appendix “J” and Appendix “L”.
Each Worker Safety/H&E Representative will report to the Union Co-Chairman of the Divisional Environment, Health and Safety Committee. The Department Head may assign safety and health related tasks comprising up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Worker Safety/H&E Representative’s time, provided that no assigned task will put the Worker Safety/H&E Representative in violation of the By-Laws and Constitution of the Local Union. The roles will be paid at Job Class twenty-one (21). Upon completion of his term, he will return to his regular occupational classification, which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
Each Worker Safety/H&E Representative will receive training and on the job experience in relation to the Company Safety Programs, the Standard St. John Ambulance certificate, The Workplace Safety and Health Act, the Occupational Exposure Monitoring Program and such other training as may be agreed upon.
In fulfilling his duties each Worker Safety/H&E Representative confers from time to time with the local Union President. The Union President may consult with or notify the Manager of Human Resources, Environment, Health and Safety of any matters of an exceptional nature, or when a Worker Safety/H&E Representative is to attend to matters other than normal safety duties.
72
Each Worker Safety Representative is accountable to inform the Department Head concerned of any substantive matters pertaining to safety, health or environment, and will maintain an interdependent and continuous relationship with the Safety Department and will work cooperatively to achieve safety, health and environment objectives
Upon notification by the Union given not less than one ( 1) week in advance to the Company that a Worker Safety Representative will be absent for a period of five (5) consecutive work days, he will be replaced by a Department Safety and Health committee member commencing on the first day of his absence.
The parties agree to meet periodically, but no less than once in each six (6) month period during the term of the Agreement, to discuss and evaluate the Worker Safety Representative positions
28.14	A Co-Chairman, Divisional Environment, Health and Safety Committee will be appointed by the Local Union President and paid at Job Class twenty-one (21 ), and upon completion ofhis term, he will re^turn to his regular job which will have been considered a Temporary Vacancy for the period of his absence.
The incumbent will function in accordance with the job description outlined in Appendix
“K”
The parties agree to meet from time to time but not less than once in every six (6) month period during the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement to discuss and evaluate this position.
28.15	The Company shall give notice to the Co-Chairmen, Department, Environment, Health and Safety Committee seven (7) calendar days in advance of any monitoring or talking of samples under the OEMP planned forthe department.
28.16	The Company shall as required, appoint individuals to serve as Co-Chairs of the Departmental Environment, Health and Safety Committees as outlined in Schedule ‘D’ of this Agreement. Such individuals will have the authority to make all appropriate decisions with regards to workplace Environment, Health and Safety matters.
ARTICLE 28A - RIGHT TO REFUSE UNSAFE WORK
28A.Ol In the event that Section 43 ofThe Workplace Safety and Health Act is repealed and not replaced, or is replaced in a manner that diminishes an employee’s right to refuse unsafe work, this Article 28A shall come into effect.
28A.02 An employee may refuse to perform work where he has reasonable grounds to believe and does believe that the particular work is dangerous to his safety or health, or the safety or health ofanother employee or any other person.
73
28A.03 Where in accordance with Clause 28A.02 an employee refuses to work, the employee shall forthwith report his refusal and the reasons therefore to the immediate supervisor, foreman or any other person in charge at the workplace.
28A.04 The person receiving a report under Clause 28A.03 or a person designated by him shall, together with the employee and at the option of the employee, another employee (including, but not limited to, an employee who is a member of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee) representing the employee, make an immediate inspection of the dangerous condition and take or cause to be taken such action as is necessary to remedy the dangerous condition.
28A.05 Until the dangerous condition reported by an employee under Clause 28A.03 is remedied:
a)	the employee may continue to refuse to perform the particular work that the employee believed to be dangerous; and
b)	the Company shall not assign or require any other employee to perform the particular work unless;
i.	The employer has provided the alternate worker with a written copy of the reasons for the first worker’s refusal, information on the worker’s right to refuse dangerous work, and the reason why the task does not present a danger to the safety and health of the alternate worker or any person.
ii.	In addition, where practicable, the worker that has refused work has advised the alternate worker of the work refusal and the reasons for it.
28A.06 Following completion of an inspection under Clause 28A.04 if the dangerous condition is not remedied, any of the persons carrying out the inspection may notify a workplace safety and health officer of the refusal to work.
28A.07 Subject to Clause 28A.05(b), nothing prevents the doing of any work or thing that may be necessary in order to remedy a condition that is or is liable to be unusually dangerous to the safety or health of an employee
ARTICLE 28B: RIGHT TO AN OBSERVER DURING WORKPLACE MONITORING AND SAMPLING
28B.Ol In the event that Section 26 ofThe Workplace Health Hazard Regulation is repealed and not replaced, or is replaced in a manner that diminishes an employee’s right to an observer during workplace monitoring and sampling, this Article 28B shall come into effect.
74
28B.02 Upon request by an employee, a member of the Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee, representing the employees, shall be permitted to act as an observer, to observe any monitoring in a workplace and the taking of samples or measurements done under the Occupational Exposure Monitoring Program (OEMP).
288.03	The observer shall be given reasonable notice of the time and place of the commencement of the monitoring and of the taking of samples under the OEMP and shall provide access to a workplace for the purpose of observing the monitoring.
288.04	Upon request by an observer, the monitoring procedure, including the taking of samples and measurements, shall be identified and explained.
288.05	Where there is a health hazard to an observer for which protective equipment is necessary or advisable to prevent exposure of that observer, that protective equipment shall be provided with instructions with respect to procedures for its safe and healthy use and the observer shall be required to use or wear such equipment.
288.06	An observer shall wear or use any protective equipment provided and shall comply with all procedures for the safe and healthy use of that equipment.
ARTICLE 28C - HOURS OF WORK
28C.Ol	An employee will not work in excess of sixteen (l 6) hours in any twenty-four (24) hour
period, except when authorized to do so by the Department Head in the event of an
emergency. An emergency is defined as:
•	Fire;
•	Environmental incident or spill;
•	Incident which has or could have resulted in a critical or fatal injury to an employee;
•	Departmental power failure; or
•	Incident which has or could have resulted in serious damage to physical assets or a significant loss of production.
28C.02 An employee who is authorized to work in excess of sixteen ( 16) hours as described in Clause 28C.Ol will not thereafter be scheduled to commence work within eight (8) hours, and will not suffer any loss of pay as a result of any reduction in his hours of work pursuant to this Clause 28C.02.
28C.03 The Company will provide to all Environment, Health and Safety Committees a monthly summary of all occurrences of employees working in excess of sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
ARTICLE 29 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
29.0l	Neither the Union nor any other person acting in its interests will engage in Union
activities on plant or mines property, and neither the Union nor any other person acting in
75
its interest will engage in Union activities on any other part of the Company’s premises without prior permission of the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment or his designate, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. It is understood that the foregoing shall not be construed so as to prevent employees from engaging in casual conversation relating to Union affairs.
29.02	No bills, bulletins, newspapers, handbills or other documents shall be posted or distributed in or about the mines and plant of the Company by the Union or by any employee. The Company at the request of the Union will, however, fom time to time post on the bulletin board hereinafter provided for notices of:
a)	the time, place and type of meeting of the Union, including, if desired, the names of speakers at such meetings;
b)	the names of candidates for nomination of election as regular officers of the Union, or as delegates to Union conventions, and the names of the offices for which they are candidates and the results of such nominations or elections and the names of the officers and delegates;
c)	the names of Grievance, Environment, Health and Safety and Incentive Bonus Committeemen;
d)	recreational and social events sponsored by the Union;
e)	notices of Scholarships or Bursaries of the Union; and
f)	such other notices approved by the Company;
provided, however, that nothing will be posted or approved by the Company which contains anything of a controversial nature.
29.03	For the exclusive purpose of the above described notices, the Company will provide general bulletin boards of an appropriate size for the purpose of bringing such notices to the attention of employees in each department. Such bulletin boards will be located in employee lunchrooms except in the underground mines departments.
ARTICLE 30 - PENSION PLAN AND SECURITY FUND PLAN
30.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will continue to receive the benefits of the
Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Operations, as registered under The Pension Benefits Act of Manitoba. Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union covering the interpretation, application, administration or alleged violation of the provisions of the Pension Plan, such difference shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure and the arbitration provisions of this Agreement.
76
30.02	The employees covered by this Agreement will receive the benefits of the Security Fund Plan in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in a separate agreement between the Union and the Company.
30.03	Any questions as to the operation of the Security Fund Plan may be taken up by an employee or by the Union with the President or his designated representative, but such Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
ARTICLE 31 - INSURANCE BENEFITS
31.01	The employees covered by this Agreement will receive the benefits of a Group Life Insurance Plan, a Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan, a Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan, a Group Prescription Plan, a Group Dental Plan, and a Group Optical Plan, subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions as set out in separate agreements between the Union and the Company attached hereto as Appendices “B”, “C”, “D” and “E”.
31.02	In consideration of improved employee benefits paid for by the Company, the Union for the employees releases the Company from any obligation it might hereafter have to pay to employees any Unemployment Insurance rebate available because of the existence of a wage loss plan (Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan).
31.03	The Union for the employees also releases the Company and the Group Prescription Plan insurer from any obligation to provide fiuther employee benefits in order to obtain reimbursement under The Prescription Drugs Cost Assistance Act.
ARTICLE 32 - COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
32.01	A cost of living allowance payment will, if applicable, be made to each employee as set
out below. In this Article 32 a “quarter” means a calendar quarter ending December 31, March 31, June 30or September 30as the context requires.
The cost of living allowance will be based on the Consumer Price Index (all items - base: 1981=100) published by Statistics Canada (hereinafter referred to as the “CPI”) and will be calculated as follows:
a)	the CPI published for September 2014, shall be compared with the CPI published for June 2014, and the allowance shall be one (1) cent for each zero point one three (0.13) point increase by which the September 2014 CPI exceeds the June 2014 CPI; and
b)	a similar comparison shall be made thereafter on the basis of the CPI published for the last month of each quarter compared with the CPI published for the last month of the previous quarter during the remainder of the term of this Agreement; and
77
32.02
32.03
32.04
32.05
32.06
c)	if there is an increase in the CPI on the basis of the quarter to quarter comparison, the allowance shall be adjusted upward, subject to Clause 32.06, using the formula set out above and that allowance will be used to adjust the allowance for the next quarter; and
d)	if there is a decrease in the CPI on the basis of the quarter to quarter comparison, the allowance shall be adjusted downward using the formula set out above subject to Clause 32.06; if the amount is a negative amount that negative amount will be used to adjust downward the allowance for the next quarter, subject to Clause 32.06.
The amount of the cost of living allowance payment to an employee for any quarter will be the cost of living allowance calculated for that quarter multiplied by the number of hours worked by the employee in that quarter.
The cost of living allowance payment does not form part of an employee's basic rate and will not be included for the calculation of vacation pay or the calculation of any other payments to employees.
No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which may later be made in any Consumer Price Index published by Statistics Canada.
Cost ofliving allowance payments will be made in the pay period following publication of the later of the Quarterly Report of Vale Limited or the relevant monthly CPI, subject to Clause 32.06.
Effective April 1, 2015 the rates set forth in Schedule “B” shall be adjusted as follows:
a)	if the amount of the cost of living allowance for December 31,2014 is greater than zero, the rates will be adjusted upward by such amount, and thereafter for the purposes of Clauses 32.0l(c) and 32.0l(d) the cost ofliving allowance for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 shall be deemed to be what it would have been if the cost of living allowance for December 31,2014 had been zero, or
b)	if the amount of the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended December 3 1, 2014 is less than zero, the rates will be not adjusted except as provided below, and thereafter for the purposes of Clauses 32.0l(c) and 32.0l(d) the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 shall be the cost of living allowance for December 31,2014; and
Similarly, effective October 1, 2015, April 1, 2016, October 1, 2016 and April 1, 2017, October 1, 2017, April 1, 2018, October 1, 2018, April 1, 2019, the rates set forth in Schedule “B” in effect immediately preceding such effective date shall be adjusted in accordance with the following;
78
if the amount of the cost of living allowance for the quarter preceding the quarter ended the day before such effective date is greater than zero, the rates will be adjusted upward by such amount, and thereafter forthe purposes of Clauses 32.0l(c) and 32.01 (d) the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended the day before such effective date shall be deemed to be what it would have been if the cost of living allowance for the quarter preceding that quarter had been zero, or
if the amount of the cost ofliving allowance for the quarter preceding the quarter ended the day before such effective date is less than zero, the rates will be not adjusted except as provided below, and thereafter for the purposes of Clauses 32.0l (c) and 32.0l(d) the cost of living allowance for the quarter ended the day before such effective date shall be the cost of living allowance for the quarter preceding the quarter ended the day before such effective date
Where there has been no adjustment in accordance with sub-paragraph d) above and the cost of living allowance applicable to the next effective date is less than zero, the rates set out in Schedule “B” then in effect will be adjusted downward by such amount, and thereafter for the purposes of Clauses 32.0l(c) and 32.0l(d) the cost of living allowance for the quarter shall be deemed to be what it would have been if the cost of living allowance forthe quarter preceding that quarter had been zero.
32.07	The cost of living allowance payment for the quarter preceding the date of commencement
of the Collective Agreement will be made for the amount of the cost of living allowance outstanding on September 15, 2014 (i.e., Forty Four (440)) times the hours worked from July I, 2014 to September 15, 2014.
ARTICLE 33 - EMPLOYEE AND FAMILY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
33.01	The Company will provide an Employee and Family Assistance Program for the benefit of its employees and their dependents who are resident atThompson.
ARTICLE 34 - DURATION OF AGREEMENT
34.01	This Agreement shall become effective on the 16th day of September, 2014 and shall terminate on September 15, 2019.
34.02	Either party may, not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the termination date ofthis Agreement, give to the other party written notice ofits intention to negotiate an Agreement with regard to pay, hours of work, and terms and conditions of employment of employees to take effect upon the expiration of this Agreement.
c)
d)
79
Executed at the City ofThompson, Manitoba as ofthe 16th day of September, 2014
Vale Canada Limited, Manitoba Operations	United Steelworkers Local 6166
M. Scott K. Regular M. McDonald R. Van Drunen	M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie S. Clements W. Luky J. Crawley R.	Sanche G. Medwid S.	Thompson
80
SCHEDULE “A” - Departments
1.	Tl MINE
2.	T3 MINE
3.	BIRCHTREE MINE
4.	MILL
5.	SMELTER
6.	REFINERY
7.	MECHANICAL
8.	ELECTRICAL
9.	SURFACE AND MISCELLANEOUS
10.	LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
11.	TRANSPORTATION
Together with such other additional departments as the Company may from time to time establish.
81
SCHEDULE “B” - Standard Hourly Wage Scale
Step	Existing Rate	Existing + $0.44 COLA	1%lncrease 16-Sep-14
1	28.23	28.67	28.95
2	28.56	29.00	29.29
3	28.90	29.34	29.63
4	29.27	29.71	30.01
5	29.66	30.10	30.40
6	30.06	30.50	30.81
7	30.48	30.92	31.23
8	30.92	31.36	31.67
9	31.37	31.81	32.12
10	31.84	32.28	32.60
11	32.32	32.76	33.09
12	32.82	33.26	33.59
13	33.35	33.79	34.12
14	33.88	34.32	34.66
15	34.44	34.88	35.22
16	35.01	35.45	35.80
17	35.60	36.04	36.40
18	36.20	36 64	37.01
19	36.82	37.26	37.63
20	37.46	37.90	38.27
21	38.11	38.55	38.94
22	38.79	39.23	39.62
23	39.48	39.92	40.32
24	40.18	40.62	41.02
25	40.91	41.35	41.76
26	41.51	41.95	42.37
27	42.12	42.56	42.98
28	42.74	43.18	43.61
29	43.37	4381	44.25
30	44.02	44.46	44.90
The wages shown above will be amended during the term of the agreement in accordance with the COLA roll-in provision in Article 32.
Annual base wage increases of 1% will take effect on September 16, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018.
82
SCHEDULE “C” - Apprenticeship Training Wage Scale
Job Class Or Step
Instmment Mechanic Apprenticeship
I st Year -first 6 months	8
-	second 6 months	9
2nd Year - first 6 months	11
-	second 6 months	13
3rd Year -first 6 months	15
-	second 6 months	17
4th Year - first 6 months	19
-	second 6 months	21
Industrial Electrician Apprenticeship
1st Year - first 6 months	6
-	second 6 months	7
2nd Year - first 6 months	9
-	second 6 months	11
3rd Year - first 6 months	13
-	second 6 months	15
4th Year - first 6 months	17
-second 6 months	19
Industrial Mechanic Apprenticeship
1st Year - first 6 months	6
-	second 6 months	7
2nd Year - first 6 months	9
-	second 6 months	11
3rd Year -first 6 months	14
-second 6 months	15
4th Year -first 6 months	16
- second 6 months	17
Machinist Apprenticeship
1st Year -first 6 months	6
-	second 6 months	7
2nd Year - first 6 months	9
-	second 6 months	11
3rd Year -first 6 months	13
-	second 6 months	15
4th Year - first 6 months	17
-	second 6 months	18
83
SCHEDULE “C” (con't)
Apprenticeship Training Wage Scale
	Job Class
	Or Step
Welder Apprenticeship I st Year - first 6 months	6
- second 6 months	7
2nd Year - first 6 months	9
- second 6 months	II
3rd Year - first 6 months	14
- second 6 months	17
84
SCHEDULE “D”- Department Environment, Health and Safety Committees
Department Committee Number of Committee Members
Thompson Mine T-l
Thompson Mine T-3
Mill
Smelter
Refinery
Central Maintenance & Transportation
Warehouse
Birchtree
Union	Company	Total
4	4	8
4	4	8
3	3	6
5	5	1O
5	5	1O
4	4	8
3	3	6
4	4	8
Where a substantial change occurs in the number of employees in a working location or department, the Company and the Union will meet to determine the required number of committees and committee members.
85
SCHEDULE “E” - Departmental Working Areas
The following will be considered Departmental Working Areas for the purpose of Clause 15.07:
1.	Tl Mine
2.	T3 Mine
3.	Birchtree Mine
4.	Mill
5.	Smelter
6.	Refinery
7.	Central Maintenance*
* The notice will also indicate whether Construction, Utilities or Shops at time of posting.
86
SCHEDULE “F” - Worker Safety Representative - Work Locations
The following will be considered work locations for the Worker Safety Representatives for the purpose of Clause 28.13:
1.	Tl Mine
2.	T3 Mine
3.	Birchtree Mine
4.	Refinery
5.	Smelter
6.	Mill/Warehouse
7.	Central Maintenance & Transportation
8.	Health & Environment
Where there are additions or deletions to the above list or where a substantial change occurs in the number of employees in a working location the Company and the Union will meet to determine the required number of committees and revisions, if necessary, in the number and duties of the Worker Safety Representative.
87
SCHEDULE “G” - Contracting Out Committee - Area Rep.
CONTRACTING OUT COMMITTEE AREA REPRESENTATIVES
One (I) management representative and one (I) Union representative from each of the areas listed below will be appointed to the Contracting Out Committee
1.	Tl MINE
2.	T3 MINE
3.	BIRCHTREE MINE AND MILL
4.	SMELTER
5.	REFINERY
6.	CENTRAL MAINTENANCE
Where a substantial change occurs in the number of employees in a working location or department, the Company and the Union will meet to determine the required number of committees and committee members.
88
APPENDIX B
Ambulance/Hospital Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that:
Commencing September 16, 2014 the Company will provide coverage under the Manulife Financial, Extended Health Care, Medical Services and Supplies, Ambulance program and Manulife Financial, Extended Health Care, Hospital Services in Canada, Hospital Care (for Semi-Private).
The Company will provide from this date without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law, and save the amendments hereinafter referred to until September 15, 2019:
(a)	the existing Group Accidental Death and Dismemberment Plan.
(b)	the existing Group Life Insurance Plan, modified effective October l, 2008 to provide sixty thousand dollars ($60,000) for death for all eligible employees under age 65
(c)	the existing Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan modified as follows:
(i) commencing October l, 2008, a weekly indemnity of six hundred and seventy-five dollars ($675). Such increased weekly benefit will apply for periods of illness after October l, 2008
With respect to the limitation on weekly indemnity benefit under the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan which provides that no payment will be made for disability directly or indirectly due to or resulting from any cause which entitles the employee to indemnity or compensation under The Workers Compensation Act, it is agreed that where an employee is otherwise entitled to weekly indemnity benefit and a determination has been made under The Workers Compensation Act he is not entitled to indemnity or compensation under that Act, that he will not be denied weekly indemnity benefit on account of the above mentioned limitation.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all reasonable requirements of the insurer and the Company including without limitation all
89
requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information whether as to age, change of status or otherwise, and the filing of any necessary applications and claims.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue in effect the above mentioned Plans as aforesaid and to pay the premiums therefore, and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the Plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company; and
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Letter of Agreement such difference shall be settled in accordance with the grievance procedure and the arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
VALE CANADA LIMITED,
MANITOBA OPERATIONS Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 UNITED STEELWORKERS,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
90
APPENDIX C
Group Prescription Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confrnn that the Company will provide from this date until September 15, 2019 the Group Prescription Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Operations. It will be the obligation of the employee to obtain all possible reimbursements for the cost of specified drugs under The Prescription Drugs Cost Assistance Act and the insurer under the Plan will then reimburse the employee for the balance of that cost, less the thirty-five cents (350) per prescription to be paid by the employee.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all requirements under the said Plan and the said Act and all reasonable requirements of the Company, including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information, whether as to age, change of status or otherwise and filing of any necessary applications and claims.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue in effect the above mentioned Plan as aforesaid and to pay the premiums therefore and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the said Plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company; and
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15. 26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Should any difference arise between the Company and any of the employees or between the Company and the Union as to the meaning, application or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this Letter of Agreement such difference shall be settled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure and the arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union.
91
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
VALE CANADA LIMITED MANITOBA OPERATIONS Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 UNITED STEELWORKERS,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
92
APPENDIX D
Group Dental Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will provide from this date until September 15, 2019 without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law and save the amendment hereinafter referred to, the Group Dental Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Operations.
The Plan will be modified effective January 1, 2015 by deleting “2014 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2015 Fee Schedule”. The plan will be further modified effective January I, 2016 by deleting “2015 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2016 Fee Schedule”. The plan will be further modified effective January 1, 2017 by deleting “2016 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2017 Fee Schedule”. The plan will be further modified effective January 1, 2017 by deleting “2016 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2017 Fee Schedule”. The plan will be further modified effective January I, 2018 by deleting “2017 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2018 Fee Schedule”. The plan will be further modified effective January 1,2019 by deleting “2018 Fee Schedule” and substituting therefore “2019 Fee Schedule”
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all reasonable requirements of the insurer and the Company including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information whether as to age, change of status or otherwise, and the filing of any necessary applications and claims.
Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue the above mentioned plan and to pay the costs for it, and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company;
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave ofabsence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
93
It is understood and agreed that the said Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
VALE CANADA LIMITED,
MANITOBA OPERATIONS Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 UNITED STEELWORKERS,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
94
APPENDIXE Group Optical Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will provide from this date until September 15, 2019, without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law, the Group Optical Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Operations.
The Plan will provide up to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) coverage in each two year period for each employee, and, during the employment of the employee, the spouse of the employee and each child of the employee under 19 years of age.
All of the foregoing shall be conditional upon the employee concerned complying with all reasonable requirements of the insurer and the Company including without limitation all requirements as to the furnishing of any necessary proofs and information whether as to age, change of status or otherwise, and the filing of any necessary applications and claims. Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, it is understood and agreed:
(a)	that the obligation of the Company hereunder shall be limited to taking all reasonable steps to continue the above mentioned plan and to pay the premiums for it, and without limitation, the obligation of the Company shall in no manner whatsoever extend to the performance of the obligations under the plan of the insurer or any employee or any person other than the Company;
(b)	that the Company shall have no obligation hereunder with respect to an employee on leave of absence for a period longer than four (4) calendar weeks, unless such leave of absence is sick leave granted under Clause 15.26 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that the said plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not be subject to the Grievance Procedure or the arbitration provisions contained in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
95
Yours truly,
VALE CANADA LIMITED,
MANITOBA OPERATIONS Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 UNITED STEELWORKERS,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
96
APPENDIX F Pension
September 16, 2014 United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will continue in effect until September 15, 2019, without modification or amendment save such as may be required by law and save the amendments hereinafter referred to, the Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Operations.
The Plan will be modified effective September 16, 2014 to provide:
(a)	employees retiring on or after September 16, 2017 a monthly Basic Benefit of $60 per Years of Employment with Pay (YEWP);
(b)	employees retiring on or after September 16, 2017 a monthly Minimum Pre-Age 65 Benefit of$3,700 after 30 Years ofEmployment with Pay (YEWP);
(c)	foran extension of Side Fund 5 until July I, 2020; and
(d)	credited partial Years of Employment with Pay (YEWP) for individuals who are active employees as of September 16, 2014 and who were laid off for the period of time during which they attended trade school on a fiill-time basis as a part of the Company’s Apprenticeship Training Program.
Unless otherwise stated, all capitalizedterms used in this letter refer to the meanings assigned to those terms in the Plan.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
VALE CANADA LIMITED,
MANITOBA OPERATIONS Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember 2014 UNITED STEELWORKERS,
LOCAL6166 M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
97
TABLE I
Benefit Entitlement for retirements on or after September 16, 2017 (Expressed in Dollars)
	Agees				63	Age 62		Age 61		Age 60		Age 59	
YEWPS*	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic
20.0	1,200	1,650	1,170	1,620	1,140	1,590	1,110	1,560	1,080	1,530	1,050	1,500	1,020
21.0	1,260	1,733	1,229	1,701	1,197	1,670	1,166	1,638	1,134	1,607	1,103	1,575	1,071
22.0	1,320	1,815	1,287	1,782	1,254	1,749	1,221	1,716	1,188	1,683	1,155	1,650	1,122
23.0	1,380	1,898	1,346	1,863	1,311	1,829	1,277	1,794	1,242	1,760	1,208	1,725	1,173
24.0	1,440	1,980	1,404	1,944	1,368	1,908	1,332	1,872	1,296	1,836	1,260	1,800	1,224
25.0	1,500	2,063	1,463	2,025	1,425	1,988	1,388	1,950	1,350	1,913	1,313	1,875	1,275
26.0	1,560	2,145	1,521	2,106	1,482	2,067	1,443	2,028	1,404	1,989	1,365	1,950	1,326
27.0	1,620	2,228	1,580	2,187	1,539	2,147	1,499	2,106	1,458	2,066	1,418	2,025	1,377
28.0	1,680	2,310	1,638	2,268	1,596	2,226	1,554	2,184	1,512	2,142	1,470	2,100	1,428
29.0	1,740	2,393	1,697	2,349	1,653	2,306	1,610	2,262	1,566	2,219	1,523	2,175	1,479
30.0	1,800	3,700	k 1,800	3,700	” 1,800	3,700	” 1,800	3,700	" 1,800	3,700	' 1,800	3,700	' 1,800
31.0	1,860	3,715	1,860	3,715	1,860	3,715	1,860	” 3,715	1,860	' 3,715	1,860	3,715	1,860
32.0	1,920	3,730	1,920	3,730	1,920	3,730	1,920	' 3,730	1,920	” 3,730	1,920	3,730	1,920
33.0	1,980	3,745	1,980	3,745	1,980	3,745	1,980	r 3,745	1,980	" 3,745	1,980	3,745	1,980
34.0	2,040	3,760	2,040	3,760	2,040	3,760	2,040	" 3,760	2,040	” 3,760	2,040	3,760	2,040
35.0	2,100	3,775	2,100	' 3,775	2,100	3,775	2,100	3,775	2,100	r 3,775	2,100	3,775	2,100
36.0	2,160	3,790	2,160	3,790	2,160	3,790	2,160	" 3,790	2,160	r 3,790	2,160	3,790	2,160
37.0	2,220	3,805	2,220	3,805	2,220	3,805	2,220	" 3,805	2,220	F 3,805	2,220	3,805	2,220
38.0	2,280	3,820	2,280	' 3,820	2,280	3,820	2,280	' 3,820	2,280	” 3,820	2,280	3,820	2,280
39.0	2,340	3,835	2,340	' 3,835	2,340	3,835	2,340	' 3,835	2,340	' 3,835	2,340	3,835	2,340
40.0	2,400	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400
41.0	2,460	3,865	2,460	3,865	2,460	3,865	2,460	3,865	2,460	3,865	2,460	3,865	2,460
42.0	2,520	3,880	2,520	3,880	2,520	3,880	2,520	3,880	2,520	3,880	2,520	3,880	2,520
43.0	2,580	3,895	2,580	3,895	2,580	3,895	2,580	3,895	2,580	3,895	2,580	3,895	2,580
44.0	2,640	3,910	2,640	3,910	2,640	3,910	2,640	3,910	2,640	3,910	2,640		
45.0	2,700	3,925	2,700	3,925	2,700	3,925	2,700	3,925	2,700				
Years employed with pay.
** Figures shown in age 53 column also apply at earlier retirement ages (for members with at least 30 YEWPs)
Page98
TABLE I
Benefit Entitlement for retirements on or after September 16, 2017 (Expressed in Dollars)
	Agess		Ag»Wf				Age 55		Age 54		Age 53“	
YEW PS*	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic	Pre-65	Basic
20.0	1,470	990	1,440	960	1,410	930	1,380	900				
21.0	1,544	1,040	1,512	1,008	1,481	977	1,449	945				
22.0	1,617	1,089	1,584	1,056	1,551	1,023	1,518	990				
23.0	1,691	1,139	1,656	1,104	1,622	1,070	1,587	1,035				
24.0	1,764	1,188	1,728	1,152	1,692	1,116	1,656	1,080				
25.0	1,838	1,238	1,800	1,200	1,763	1,163	1,725	1,125				
26.0	1,911	1,287	1,872	1,248	1,833	1,209	1,794	1,170				
27.0	1,985	1,337	1,944	1,296	1,904	1,256	1,863	1,215				
28.0	2,058	1,386	2,016	1,344	1,974	1,302	1,932	1,260				
29.0	2,132	1,436	2,088	1,392	2,045	1,349	2,001	1,305				
30.0	3,700	CO o o	3,700	CO o o	3,700	CO o o	3,700	" 1,800	3,700	” 1,800	3,700	1,800
31.0	' 3,715	1,860	r 3,715	1,860	" 3,715	1,860	r 3,715	1,860	r 3,715	1,860	3,715	1,860
32.0	' 3,730	1,920	r 3,730	1,920	" 3,730	1,920	r 3,730	1,920	" 3,730	1,920	3,730	1,920
33.0	" 3,745	1,980	r 3,745	1,980	" 3,745	1,980	r 3,745	1,980	" 3,745	1,980	3,745	1,980
34.0	" 3,760	2,040	r 3,760	2,040	F 3,760	2,040	' 3,760	2,040	r 3,760	2,040	3,760	2,040
35.0	' 3,775	2,100	" 3,775	2,100	" 3,775	2,100	r 3,775	2,100	” 3,775	2,100	3,775	2,100
36.0	' 3,790	2,160	' 3,790	2,160	r 3,790	2,160	" 3,790	2,160	” 3,790	2,160	3,790	2,160
37.0	" 3,805	2,220	" 3,805	2,220	" 3,805	2,220	" 3,805	2,220	" 3,805	2,220	3,805	2,220
38.0	' 3,820	2,280	" 3,820	2,280	' 3,820	2,280	' 3,820	2,280	' 3,820	2,280		
39.0	r 3,835	2,340	' 3,835	2,340	r 3,835	2,340	F 3,835	2,340				
40.0	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400	3,850	2,400						
41.0	3,865	2,460	3,865	2,460								
42.0	3,880	2,520										
43.0												
44.0												
45.0												
Yeats employed with pay. **Figures shown in age 53 column also apply at earlier retirement ages (for members with at least 30 YEWPs}
Page 99
TABLE I
Benefit Entitlement for retirements on or after September 16, 2013 (Expressed in Dollars) *
20.0		1,437	957	1,408	928	1,379	899	1.350	870				
21.0		1,509	1,005	1,478	974	1,448	944	1,418	914				
22.0		1,581	1,053	1,549	1.021	1,517	989	1,485	957				
23.0		1,653	1,101	1.619	1.067	1.586	1,034	1,553	1,001				
24.0		1,724	1,148	1.690	1,114	1,655	1,079	1,620	1,044				
25.0		1,796	1,196	1,760	1,160	1,724	1,124	1,688	1,088				
26.0		1,868	1,244	1,830	1,206	1,793	1,169	1,755	1,131				
27.0		1,940	1.292	1.901	1,253	1.862	1.214	1,823	1,175				
28.0		2,012	1,340	1,971	1,299	1,931	1.259	1,890	1,218				
29.0		2,084	1,388	2,042	1,346	2,000	1,304	1,958	1.262				
30.0		3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740
31.0		3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798
32.0		3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856
330		3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1.914
34.0		3,610	1.972	3,610	1.972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1.972
35.0		3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030
36.0		3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088
37.0		3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146
38.0		3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204		
39.0		3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262				
40.0		3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320						
41.0		3,715	2,378	3,715	2,378								
42.0		3,730	2,436										
43.0													
44.0													
45.0 II II II 1								i i i i i					
*Years employed with pay **Figures shown in age 53 column also apply at earlier retirement ages.
Page 100
TABLE I
Benefit Entitlement for retirements on or after September 16, 2013
		' , ♦				■		IlliiSiSl		■ m		3 1	Age59	
1 \ \ "			fill	tS»l				* w*' ' ;				Basic	' Pm-es	Sasic
20.0		1,160	1,611	1,131	1,582	1,102	1,553	1,073	1,524	1,044	1,495	1,015	1,466	986
21.0	1	1,218	1,692	1,188	1,661	1,157	1,631	1,127	1,600	1,096	1,570	1,066	1,539	1,035
22.0		1,276	1,772	1,244	1,740	1,212	1,708	1,180	1,676	1,148	1,645	1,117	1,613	1,085
23.0		1,334	1,853	1,301	1,819	1,267	1,786	1,234	1,753	1.201	1,719	1,167	1,686	1,134
24.0		1,392	1,933	1,357	1,898	1,322	1,864	1,288	1,829	1,253	1,794	1,218	1,759	1,183
25.0		1,450	2,014	1,414	1,978	1,378	1,941	1,341	1,905	1,305	1,869	1,269	1,833	1,233
26.0		1,508	2,094	1,470	2,057	1,433	2,019	1,395	1,981	1,357	1,944	1,320	1,906	1,282
27.0		1,566	2,175	1,527	2,136	1,488	2,097	1,449	2,057	1,409	2,018	1,370	1,979	1,331
28.0		1,624	2,255	1,583	2,215	1,543	2,174	1,502	2,134	1,462	2,093	1,421	2,052	1,380
29.0		1,682	2,336	1,640	2,294	1,598	2,252	1,556	2,210	1,514	2,168	1,472	2,126	1,430
30.0		1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740	3,550	1,740
31.0		1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798	3,565	1,798
32.0		1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856	3,580	1,856
33.0		1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914	3,595	1,914
34.0		1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972	3,610	1,972
35.0		2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030	3,625	2,030
36.0		2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088	3,640	2,088
37.0		2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146	3,655	2,146
38.0		2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204	3,670	2,204
39.0		2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262	3,685	2,262
40.0		2,320	3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320	3,700	2,320
41.0		2,378	3,715	2,378	3,715	2,378	3,715	2,378	3,715	2,378	3,715	2,378	3,715	2,378
42.0		2,436	3,730	2,436	3,730	2.436	3,730	2,436	3,730	2,436	3,730	2,436	3,730	2,436
43.0		2,494	3,745	2.494	3,745	2,494	3,745	2,494	3,745	2,494	3,745	2,494	3,745	2,494
44.0		2,552	3,760	2,552	3,760	2,552	3,760	2,552	3,760	2,552	3,760	2,552		
45.0		2,610	3,775	2.610	3,775	2,610	3,775	2,610	3,775	2,610				
Years employed with pay.**Figures shown in age 53 column also apply at earlier retirement ages.
Page 101
TABLE II
Benefit Entitlement Increase Effective October I, 2017 for Disability Retirements*
YEWPS**	Monthly Basic	Monthly Pre-65 Supplement
		
3-15	900	180
16	960	192
17	1,020	204
18	1,080	216
19	1,140	228
20	1,200	240
21	1,260	252
22	1,320	264
23	1.380	276
24	1,440	288
25	1,500	300
26	1,560	312
27	1,620	324
28	1,680	336
29	1,740	348
Table applies for disability retirees under age 55 with less than 30 YEWPS. Years ofEmployment With Pay
102
APPENDIX G
APPENDIX G
Hourly Employee Annual Incentive Plan
This will confiim our agreement with respect to the Hourly Employee Annual Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan").
The Incentive Plan consists of three components (the “Components").
Subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below, regular full- time employees will be eligible to receive, in respect of each twelve month period of January I to December 31 (the “Incentive Period") commencing January 1, 2014, an annual payment under the Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Payment”), based on Components I, 2 and 3 described below to a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the employee’s Eligible Earnings (as defined below).
Component 1: Vale S.A. Results
Component I determines up to twenty five percent (25%) of any Incentive Payment in each Incentive Period and is based on the rating announced by Vale S.A. that represents how Vale S.A. has performed during the Incentive Period.
Vale S.A. or the Company may from time to time change the metric used to measure such performance for a given Incentive Period.
Component 2: Business Unit Results
The Business Unit component represents up to twenty five percent (25%) of the Incentive in each year and is part of the Vale Canada Annual Incentive Plan (AIP).
The Business Unit component is the measure used by Vale Canada to represent howthe Manitoba Operations has performed during the Incentive period. The Company may from time to time change the metric usedto measure Business Unit performance for a given Incentive Period.
The metric used to measure Business Unit results is Manitoba Operations EBITDA (^Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization) compared to the budgeted Manitoba Operations EBITDA for the same period except that, for the purposes of this comparison, the budgeted Manitoba Operations EBITDA will be adjusted by replacing the budgeted Nickel Price and Foreign Exchange values with the actual Nickel Price and Foreign Exchange values.
Comrament 3: Manitoba Operations Team Results
The Manitoba Operations Team component determines up to fifty percent (50%) of any Incentive Payment in each Incentive Period and is based on four (4) metrics to which the efforts of each hourly employee in the Manitoba Operations make a direct contribution. The four (4) metrics used to measure Manitoba Operations Team results are as follows:
I.	Quality: Thompson Nickel Refinery Overall Plate Grade vs. Plan
103
Refinery plate grade represents the quality of the product being produced by Manitoba Operations. Each step in the mining, milling, smelting and refining process contributes to the achievement of this metric. The measure is based on performance versus the annual Manitoba Operations plan value, which is typically ninety percent (90%) overall plate grade.
2.	Production: Total Contained Equivalent Nickel Unit Production from Manitoba Operations vs. Plan
Contained Equivalent Nickel Unit (CENU) measures the total output of finished products, by-products and intermediates from Manitoba Operations. The measure is based on performance versus the annual Manitoba Operations metallurgical production plan. The CENU calculation assigns a plan value for production and price which will be realized for each finished product and intermediate, and converts this value to a number of “Equivalent Nickel Units". CENU is defined as follows:
CENU = (Ni and contained Cu, Ni, Co x plan price) I Plan Ni Price
3.	Cost: Manitoba Operations Cash Product Cost per Contained Equivalent Nickel Unit ($/CENU) vs. Plan
Manitoba Operations Cash Expenditures represent the annual cash product costs incurred by Manitoba Operations. Cash product costs are those expenditures associated with current operational activities, and do not include amortization and depreciation charges associated with capital expenditures. The measure is based on actual cash expenditures to produce the total Contained Equivalent Nickel Units (CENU) versus the annual Manitoba Operations plan. All plan and actual dollar amounts will be expressed in Canadian dollars. Cash Product Cost per CENU is defined as follows:
(Total Cash Spent) ! (CENU Production) = Cash Cost per CENU
4.	Productivity: Pounds Cu/Ni Produced per Person Shift vs. Plan
Productivity measures the number of pounds of copper and nickel produced during an average working shift. The productivity calculation divides production by the number ofhours worked and is normalized for an eight (8) hour person shift. The metallurgical plan foreach yearidentifies the production and labour plan values for Manitoba Operations.
The plan values referred to in relation to each ofthe above four (4) metrics are determined by the Company in its annual business planning routines. Each of the metrics in Component 3 are weighted equally at 12.5% of the total Incentive Payment calculation.
In the year in which the Smelter and Refinery closes metric #I above shall be eliminated and the weighting for the remaining metrics shall be 15% for metrics #2 and #3, respectively, and 20% for metric #4.
Payment Calculation
Points for each metric shall be calculated by multiplying the rating achieved for the metric (based on a six [6] level rating scale of zero [O] to five [5]) by the weight (%) of the respective metric as noted above. The Total Points Earned is determined by adding the scores for each ofthe three Components. Notwithstanding the amount ofTotal Points Earned, no Incentive Payment will be made ifthe score for Component 3 (Manitoba Operations Team Results) is less than 1OO.
104
The amount of any Incentive Payment varies according to such scores and the Total Points Earned.
The Incentive Payment calculation is as follows:
Maximum Participation Level (25%)
X
Total Points Earned I 500 (Component I + Component 2 + Component 3)
X
Eligible Earnings
In order to participate in the Incentive Plan, an employee must be a regular full-time employee who has completed at least one (I) full calendar month of active employment in the Incentive Period and be employed with the Company on the last day of the Incentive Period (December 31st), except that regular full-time employees who have completed at least one (I) full calendar month of active employment in the Incentive Period and are laid off or retire from their employment with the Company during the Incentive Period are eligible to participate in the Incentive Plan for that portion of the Incentive Period worked by them.
Employees who are dismissed for cause or who resign from their employment with the Company on or before December 31st during an Incentive Period are not eligible to participate in the Incentive Plan for any portion of that or any subsequent Incentive Period.
Eligible ^Earnings for the purpose of the Incentive Plan are the employee’s Straight Time Earnings for the Regular Hours Worked by the employee during the Incentive Period. Straight Time Earnings for the purpose of the Incentive Plan shall mean the employee’s straight time earnings during the Incentive Period inclusive of vacation pay for vacation taken during the Incentive Period but exclusive of all premium pay such as holiday pay, shift premium, vacation not taken or paid, Sunday premium, overtime and all bonus or incentive payments and compensation.
Regular Hours Worked for the purpose of the Incentive Plan shall mean the regular scheduled hours of work that are actually worked by the employee during the Incentive Period, exclusive of all scheduled and unscheduled overtime hours, which in no event shall exceed 2080 hours in the Incentive Period.
The Incentive Payment will be paid annually, in the first quarter of the year following the Incentive Period to which the Incentive Payment relates.
Verification Process
The Company wi II meet with two (2) representatives of the Union within sixty (60) days of the completion of each Incentive Period and make a report on the financial results that are relevant to the calculation ofthe Incentive Payment for that period. For this purpose, the Union will sign a confidentiality agreement that is satisfactory to the Company.
105
APPENDIX H
APPENDIX H
Conflict Resolution Coordinator TITLE: Conflict Resolution Coordinator
AREA: Manitoba Operations	DATE: December 10, 1999
JOB CLASS: 21
PRIMARY FUNCTION
To improve grievance handling through better organization of the grievance procedure and training of Stewards; in co-operation with the Company, to promote constructive relationships between Stewards and members of Management; to promote early resolution of work related issues.
REPORTING RELATIONSHIP
Daily reporting to the Local Union President.
DIRECTION EXERCISED None.
WORK PROCEDURES
1.	Administers the Grievance System for the Union including;
-	Monitoring grievances throughout the grievance system.
-	Assigning Stewards to attend grievance meetings at various stages.
-	Researching, preparing and presenting cases at arbitration for the Union.
2.	Consults with Management, Union Stewards, and employees, to reduce and resolve conflict in the workplace.
-	Where mutually agreed attends meetings with Management necessary to promote conflict resolution.
3.	Works with the Local Union Grievance Committee to research, identify, and advise on areas in need of further conflict resolution.
4.	Develops training programs for Union Stewards and others as may be deemed necessary in order to promote conflict resolution.
5.	Facilitates the training ofUnion Stewards and others as directed by the Local Union President.
6.	Carries out special projects or tasks that are consistent with the “Primary Function” above as may be assigned from time to time by the Local Union President.
The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the job identified, and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be inherent in the job as described in the “Primary Function” and the above procedures.
106
APPENDIX I
Joint Problem Solving Coordinator
TITLE: Joint Problem Solving Coordinator
AREA: Manitoba Operations	DATE: December l 0, 1999
JOB CLASS: 21
PRIMARY FUNCTION
To act as resource person to the Union and Company REPORTING RELATIONSHIP
To work co-operatively with the Joint Executive Steering Committee.
Reports to the Local Union President.
DIRECTION EXERCISED None.
WORK PROCEDURES
1.	Maintains a working relationship with all Department Heads.
-	Interfaces with management and employees to problem solve.
-	Works with harassment and discrimination cases in a confidential manner.
-	Works with management to resolve absentee issues.
2.	Liaison with other joint committees.
3.	Works in support of the Employee Assistance Program (E.A.P.) Coordinator in dealing with employee concerns in an efficient manner.
4.	Jointly works with the Rehabilitation Coordinator and Occupational Health Service, in dealing with employee concerns with respect to Workers Compensation Board (WCB) claims and Accident and Sickness (A&S) claims.
-	Works with the joint Placement Committee and the Rehabilitation Coordinator to identify opportunities for placement.
5.	Works with employees, at their request, to resolve pension related issues.
6.	Reviews all shift schedule material with shift schedule committees.
7.	Reviews all return to work policies and return to work SPI’s.
8.	Receives material provided by the Company concerning work to be contracted out.
9.	Carries out special projects or tasks that are consistent with the “Primary Function” and the de-
tailed procedures as may be assigned fom time to time by the Joint Executive Steering committee or the Local Union President.
107
The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the job identified, and shall not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be inherent in the job as described in the “Primary Function" and the above procedures.
108
APPENDIX J
Role Profile - Worker Safety Representative
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
________________________CONTEXT AND PURPOSE OF THIS ROLE___________________________
To advance the EHS activities in the mines and surface plants, in order to ensure the health and safety of personnel.
KEY ACCOUNTABILITIES
This individual will workjointly with the Divisional Union Co-Chairand plant management to strengthen the application of theSafety Systems andthe achievement of plant EHS objectives.
ON-GOING ACCOUNTABILITIES
Safety, Environment and Health:
•	To act as Co-Chair of the Department EHS Committee
•	Conduct regular visits to workplaces in the plant or mine to which they are assigned in order to inspect, investigate and monitor conditions and practices pertaining to the health and safety of personnel in those operations
•	Receive applicable training and Assist in administering Occupational Medicine Programs (l.e. PDA’s)
Production:
•	Prepare and perform safety audits initiated by the Department EHS Committees, Department Head, Divisional Union Co- Chair
•	Submit timely written or verbal reports to the Union and the Company relevant to EHS conditions in the plant whenever necessary
•	As available, facilitate the development and sign off of procedures prior to department approval
•	The achievement of other objectives identified by the Department Head, Divisional Union Co-Chair and the Department EHS Committees
•	Collect data relevant to safety programs and audit systems within their area of accountability
•	When necessary assist management to identify resources from within the department EHS committees to ensure significant incidents/accidents are investigated in a timely manner
•	Provide technical expertise in interpretation of legislation and company policies and procedures
•	Work with EHS committee members in developing monthly planned inspections with a pre-determined theme
•	Assess problems, opportunities and develop action and education that clearly defines operational impact, options, actions and accountabilities. Present/publicize as required to the Department EHS Safety and Health committee.
•	Assist with Development of implementation plans for safety systems that the Divisional Union Co-Chair/Department Head request
•	Assist with Research and find solutions to specific operational concerns
109
ROLE PROFILE__________________WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
Costs:
•	N/A
Quality / Customer:
•	Consult with Department Management, Safety Foremen, EHS Committees, Local Union and Employees regarding safety problems, complaints and concerns and work to develop solutions
•	Accompany or identify a designate during visits by the Mines Inspector
•	Inform supervisors, EHS Committees, and employees of unsafe practices and conditions
•	Assist Management, Safety Supervisors and Department HSE Committees in the investigation of accidents, discuss cause and effect, and assist in determining remedial action as per the SPI
•	Identify and execute a Divisional Union Co-Chair/Department Head system audit for your plant/mine. Audit is to be relevant to your operations involving a regulatory system requirement as identified in the Mines and Mining Regulations W2 l 0 or otherrelevant legislation.
•	Provide listening and or problem solving advice from a safety perspective on operational issues
•	Act as a resource to the Divisional EHS Committee
People:
•	Advise employees concerning safety precautions, rules and regulations to assure that satisfactory health and safety standards are practiced and maintained
•	Participate in the Occupation Exposure Monitoring Program (OEMP) when required, and explain to employees the context ofthe OEMP system, and its intent and importance to the overall health and safety of plant personnel
•	In carrying out responsibilities use tact and diplomacy to inform Foremen, Committeemen, and employees of unsafe practices and conditions
•	Develop and nurture relationship with Union & Management member counterparts
•	Commit 30% of time in the field coaching line management on EHS systems Safe production.
•	Participate with line management with the aim of assisting in identifying and initiating improvement changes as well jointly developing leading indicators to measure change.
•	Ensure prompt and timely communication to Department Head/Company Co-Chair of events and items of significance.
•	Works collaterally with Safety Supervisor on divisional safety initiatives, thrusts, audits, etc.
Physical Assets:
•	To utilize the office, tools and equipment in the plant to which they have been assigned
•	Responsible to facilitate the Department controlled products inventory and hard copy per regulations under the Workplace Safety and Health Act (W2 I 0)
Note: The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the
role identified and shall not be constructed as a detailed description of all work requirements that may be inherent
in the role
110
ROLE PROFILE	WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
Generic Responsibilities	
The role is responsible for the following:	Divisional Union Co-Chair is responsible for the following:
■	Informing the Divisional Union Co-Chair regarding progress on tasks, then report immediately when a judgment is made that the output targets cannot be met, or more can be achieved. ■	Informing the Department Head regarding progress on tasks, then report immediately when a judgment is made that the output targets cannot be met, or more can be achieved. ■	Asking the Divisional Union Co-Chair for clarification, when needed, on what is expected of the role. ■	Asking the Department Head for clarification, when needed, on what is expected of the role. The intent of the following is to define key responsibilities for those individuals new to the WSR role or those being developed as future WSR’s ■	Taking the initiative to improve your work, the overall business, and promote the goals of the Union/Company organization. ■	Working effectively and collaterally with immediate colleagues and others in crossfunctional relationships, on tasks within the context of Union/Corporate policy, values, and culture.	■	Formulating and assigning tasks to EHS Committee members. ■	Providing performance feedback, coaching, and merit recognition. ■	Ensuring their direct reports are exercising sound leadership practices. ■	Assessment of current role holder’s ability and matching capability with Divisional Union Co-Chair requirements.
111
ROLE PROFILE	WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: Au gust 29, 2005
Worker Safety Representative Reporting and TIRR Relationships
	Union President t Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair t Worker Safety Representative		
INTERNAL			
Initiator	Responder	Authority Level	Comments
Safety Supervisor	Worker Safety Representative	Advising/Coordinating	To share divisional safety information with applicable personnel within the department. To work jointly implementing, conducting divisional initiatives.
Superintendent	Worker Safety Representative	Coordinating	Determine course of action for JSA/PHA facilitation, procedure creation, etc.
Department HSE Committee	Worker Safety Representative	Advising	Provides EHS related information, inspection findings, etc
Employee’s	Worker Safety Representative	Advising	Communicates EHS related concerns
Worker Safety Representative	Safety Supervisor	Advising/Service Getting	To share department safety related information. To provide assistance when requested
Worker Safety Representative	Frontline Supervision	Advising/Monitoring	Assist with the safe execution of work, share department safety related information
Worker Safety Representative	Superintendent	Advising/Monitoring	Determine course of action for JSA/PHA facilitation, procedure creation, etc
Worker Safety Representative	Department EHS Committee	Prescribing/Advising	Assign EHS related tasks, share department safety related information
Worker Safety Representative	Employee’s	Auditing/Advising	To share department safety related information and audit safe work practices
112
ROLE PROFILE	WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
EXTERNAL			
Initiator	Responder	Authority Level	Comments
Environmental Control	Worker Safety Representative	Advising/Monitoring	To share department health, OEMP, etc related information. To provide assistance when requested
Other Worker Safety Rep.’s	Worker Safety Representative	Advising	To share department safety related information from other departments
Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair	Worker Safety Representative	Prescribing	To share divisional safety information. Take actions as prescribed by the Division Union EHS Co-Chair
Department Head	Worker Safety Representative	Advising/Coordinating	To share department safety related information. To provide assistance when requested
Worker Safety Representative	Environmental Control	Advising/Monitoring	To share health, OEMP, etc related information. To provide assistance when requested
Worker Safety Representative	Other Worker Safety Rep.'s	Advising	To share department safety related information
Worker Safety Representative	Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair	Advising	To share department safety related information
Worker Safety Representative	Department Head	Advising/Coordinating	To share department safety related information. To provide assistance when requested
The six types ofTask Initiating Role Relationships:
•	Service-Getting - responders must, on request, provide authorized services
•	Coordinating - authority to get designated roles to agree to joint action
•	Advising - initiator has authority to present specific information to others (responders)
•	Monitoring - authority to stay informed about the work of others and to persuade them to take certain actions.
•	Auditing - authority to instruct others to STOP doing something and they must obey.
•	Prescribing - authority to instruct other roles to take certain action._______________________________
113
ROLE PROFILE	WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
Other Business Relationships:
Medcan, Contractors, Vendors, Purchasing, General Engineering, Department ofLabor, MFL Occupational Health Clinic
EDUCATION I EXPERIENCE
•	Sufficient work experience and general understanding of all processes within the department or has demonstrated capabilities within another business area
•	Member of a Department Union EHS Committee
•	Has participated in a EHS training program___________________________________________
REQUIRED TO BE COMPETENT IN ROLE: (Knowledge, Skill, Competencies)	
KNOWLEDGE	SKILLS
a. General knowledge of plant protection systems	a. Computer skills (outlook/word/excel/ellipse/ PowerPoint/intranet/intemet, etc.)
b. Working knowledge ofWorkplace Safety & Health Act and all regulations	b. Ability to effectively schedule, priorities and manage tasks with minimal supervision
c. Working knowledge safety systems	c. Effective coaching skills
d. Understanding ofthe Safe Production model	d. Good oral/written/presentation/communication skills
e. Practical knowledge of emergency systems	e. Strong Interpersonal skills
f. General knowledge of other operating departments	
g. Understanding of the training systems	
h. Good team membership practices	
i. Working knowledge of Union/Company organizational structure and roles	
j. Working knowledge ofCBA	
k. Understanding of Auditing systems	
I. General knowledge of the OEMP Monitoring program	
m. Management of Change process	
n. Practical knowledge of PHA & JSA processes	
114
ROLE PROFILE	WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
Competencies REQUIRED FOR THE ROLE (Note: competency levels below the desired level indicated should also be demonstrated in role)		
Competencies	Desired Level	Importance
Concern for Environment, Health and Safety This involves acting in a manner that ensures the health and safety of self and others.	Level 4: Take a Leadership Role •	Take leadership role and accept accountability to ensure the health and safety of the work environment. •	Champion the importance ofhealth and safety, and compels that others comply. •	Take a longer-term perspective in identifying and correcting potential problems	Critical
Influencing Others Is the intention to persuade, convince, influence or impress others in order to have a specific impact on acts or actions. It includes the ability to anticipate and respond to the needs and concerns of others.	Level 4: Calculate the Impact of One's Actions or Words •	Adapt actions to influence a specific audience. •	Take a novel approach to influence a target audience.	Critical
Initiative Involves taking independent action and creating opportunities to improve processes, resolve issues or prevent problems	Level 3: Act I-3 Months Ahead •	Have a short-term action plan (i.e., this quarter) . •	Look at this quarter to create opportunities or to minimize potential problems.	Critical
Information Seeking Is taking action to uncover details and improve one’s understanding of situations or issues.	Level 4: Do Research •	Develop systems to keep informed •	Take steps over a limited period of time to obtain needed in formation or feedback	Critical
Listening, Understanding and Responding Is the ability to actively listen and understand, and then respond appropriately when interacting with individuals and groups	Level 4: Accurate Assessment •	Accurately assess root cause of individual/group actions. •	Demonstrate sensitivity and act to help resolve personal issues/problems	Critical
Teamwork and Co-operation Involves working co-operatively with others, being part of a team, sharing a common set of goals, a commitment to achieving team goals and working together as opposed to working separately or competitively	Level 4: Encourage Others •	Publicly give credit to others. •	Encourage members of the group to contribute	Critical
115
ROLE PROFILE	WORKER SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
| Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
i Role Title:	Worker Safety Representative	
| Department:	Manitoba Operations	
| LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
| Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 29, 2005
Critical Thinking Is the ability to understand, analyze, reason and evaluate information according to recognized standards. Critical thinking is a way of examining unclear, ambiguous, controversial and one-sided issues. It is a way to work through the ‘dust and debris’, get to the central or main issue and examine it realistically. It is what the mind does when one searches for truth	Level 4: Probe deeply into issues to ensure responses are based on truth and logic •	Develop questions that will challenge •	Question opinions, sources of information and use a variety of probing methods.	Very Important
Self Confidence Is a belief in one’s own capability to accomplish a task and select an effective approach to a task or problem	Level 2: Act Independently •	Independently solve problems by taking appropriate action, even when others disagree •	Make decision with a sense of authority; have a “can-do" attitude	Very Important
Achievement Motivation Is a concern for working well or for competing against a standard of excellence. The standard may be one’s own past performance, an objective measure, the performance of others, challenging goals one had set, or even what anyone has ever done	Level 3: Create Own Measures of Excellence and Improve Performance •	Come up with something new to improve performance •	Set a standard for performance which exceeds that set by management	Very Important
Developing Others Involves a genuine intent to foster the longterm learning or developing others. Its focus is on the developmental intent and effect ratherthan on a formal role of training	Level 4: Give Helpful Feedback Give constructive feedback to others, specific to their actions Reassure others after a setback and reinforce their efforts Assess a direct reports competence so as to delegate full responsibility for a task when they are ready	Very Important
116
APPENDIX K
Union Co- Chair Division Environment, Health and Safety Job Description
TASKS
1.	Develop, with the Company Co-Chair, the Division Environment, Health and Safety plans, which would include the following:
-	5 Year Plan,
-	joint training,
-	revisions to WHMIS program, and
-	future Divisional initiatives.
2.	Meet with the Worker Safety Representatives orthe Superintendent of SafeProduction Department as required to do the following:
-	Review and monitor the safety performance of the Manitoba Operations.
- Statistics: First Aid visits, Medical treatments. Lost Time Accidents, etc.
-	Review the status of the Divisional safety plans.
-	Make recommendations with respect to new safety, health and environment initiatives.
-	Ensure that relevant information is forwarded to other Environment, Health and Safety Committees.
-	Develop Division Environment,	Health and Safety promotions.
3.	Promote the joint Environment, Health and Safety programs/initiatives with the Manager of the Human Resources, Environment, Health and Safety Department.
4.	Set the quarterly Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee meeting time and agenda with the Company Co-Chair.
5.	Co-Chair committees jointly established to address major Environment, Health and Safety concerns, such as the Epidemiological Study.
6.	Determine and schedule the training for the Union Environment, Health and Safety Committee members.
7.	Perform safety visits with Management and a representative of the Union (a minimum of one visit per Department per year).
8.	Perform safety inspections with Management and a representative of the Union (a minimum of one inspection per Department per year).
9.	Attend Department Environment, Health and Safety Committee meetings to present Division safety plans, and recommendations, when invited to do so by the Department Committee.
10.	Work with the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment Department andthe applicable Department Environment, Health and Safety Committees to resolve issues that the Department Committees have not been able to resolve.
117
11.	Deal with Union business pertaining to the internal administration and organization of the Division Environment, Health and Safety Committee.
12.	Other duties as assigned by the President of the Union which are consistent with the scope of the above tasks.
118
APPENDIX L
Role Profile - Health and Environment Worker Representative
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 30, 2005
___________________________CONTEXT AND PURPOSE OF THIS ROLE_____________________________
To advance EHS activities in the mines and surface plants, by assisting in the development, implementation and maintenance ofhealth and environment programs designed to protect the stakeholders of the Manitoba Operations. * •
_______________________________________KEY ACCOUNTABILITIES_______________________________________________
This individual will workjointly with the Divisional Union Co-Chair, Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment, Occupational Medicine and the EHS committees to strengthen the application of systems that recognize, evaluate and control adverse workplace exposures to chemical, physical and biological agents and the impact of operations on employees, the public and community of Thompson and the natural environment.____________________
____________________________________ON-GOING ACCOUNTABILITIES_____________________________________________
Environment:, Health and Safety
•	Know and understand all EHS policies, procedures and standards
•	Conduct regular visits to workplaces to inspect, investigate and monitor conditions and practices pertaining to the health of personnel and impact of operations on the natural environment
•	Participate and support the implementation of the EHS management system
Production:
•	Know and understand relevant IH and natural environment legislation such as: Mines Act, WHMIS, Asbestos, Hearing Conservation, Fibrogenic & Silicosis, Environment Act, Metal Mining Effluent Regulation, Hudson Bay & Vale Limited Regulation, etc.
•	Know and understand relevant IH and natural environment SPI's such as: 35-1 OEMP, 35-2 WHMIS, 34-15 Respiratory protection, 34-19 Asbestos, 36-l Hearing Conservation, 35-3 Spill Reporting, 35-4 Ozone Depleting Substances, etc.
•	Know and understand relevant Corporate EHS guidelines
•	Assist Health and Environment with the review and update of relevant SPI’s and programs such as OEMP, WHMIS, spill reporting etc.
•	When necessary assist management to identify resources from within the department JEHS committees to ensure Health and Environment issues are investigated and resolved in a timely manner
•	Provide technical expertise in interpretation oflegislation and company policies and procedures
•	Assist with health hazard, environmental aspect identification and assessment in mines & plants
•	Assess problems, opportunities and develop action and education that clearly defines operational impact, options, actions and accountabilities. Present/publicize as required to the Divisional JHSE committee.
•	Assist with Development ofimplementation plans (including communication and education) for health and environment systems at the request of the Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair/Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment
119
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: August 30, 2005
ROLE PROFILE
HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Assist with Research and find solutions to specific operational concerns Coordinate the annual controlled products inventory
Assist in the preparation of workplace and shipping labels as required under WHMIS/TDG Coordinate the annual audit of the respiratory protection program Coordinate the annual audit of the potable water sampling sites Assist with occupational health or environmental field monitoring
Costs:
None
Quality / Customer:
Consult with JEHS Committees, Employees, Divisional Union EHS Co-chair, Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment regarding environment and health problems, complaints and concerns and work to develop solutions
Assist the Health & Environment department in the investigation of workplace exposures and environmental spills, discuss cause and effect, and assist in determining remedial action
Provide listening and or problem solving advice fi-om an health and environment perspective on operational issues Act as a resource to the Divisional JEHS Committee
Participate in the Health and Environment components of corporate EHS audits of Manitoba Operations People:
Advise employees concerning health and environment precautions, rules and regulations to assure that satisfactory standards are practiced and maintained
Assist the Worker Safety Representatives to understand the exposure monitoring programs, including the context of the system and its intent and importance to the health and safety of all employees.
Work with the lH coordinatorto develop the annual OEMP sampling schedules and training programs Work with the IH coordinator and Occupational Medicine to prepare the annual OEMP report and develop recommendations for workplace initiatives
Work with the Environment Coordinator to develop annual potable water sampling schedule In carrying out responsibilities use tact and diplomacy to inform Supervisors and JEHS Committee members of best practices concerningenvironment and health precautions Develop and nurture relationship with Union & Management member counterparts
Work jointly with the Health & Environment department in identifying and initiating improvement changes as well as developing key performance indicators.
Ensure prompt and timely communication to Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environ-ment/Divisional Union EHS Co-chair of events and items of significance.
Works collaterally with IH and Environment Coordinators on divisional health & environment initiatives, thrusts, audits, etc.
Works collaterally with Corporate Environment and Health Directors on company health & environment initiatives, thrusts, audits, etc.________________________________________________________________
120
Role Holder:	I Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: Sept. 16, 2014
APPENDIX L
Role Profile - Health & Environment Worker Representative
•	Standing member of the Environmental Steering Committee Physical Assets:
•	To utilize the office, tools and equipment that have been assigned
•	Responsible to coordinate the Division controlled products inventory and facilitate the health hazard screening of controlled products
Note: The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the role identified and shall not be constructed as a detailed description of all work requirements that may be inherent in the
Generic Responsibilities
The role is responsible for the following:
Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair is responsible for the following:
■	Informing the Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair regarding progress on tasks, then report immediately when a judgment is made that the output targets cannot be met, or more can be achieved.
■	Informing the Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment of regarding progress on tasks, then report immediately when a judgment is made that the output targets cannot be met, or more can be achieved.
■	Asking the Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair for clarification, when needed, on what is expected of the role.
■	Asking the Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment for clarification, when needed, on what is expected of the role.
The intent of the following is to define key responsibilities for those individuals new to the H&E WR
role or those being developed as future WR's
■	Taking the initiative to improve your work, the overall business, and promote the goals of the Un-ion/Company organization.
■	Working effectively and collaterally with immediate colleagues and others in cross-functional relationships, on tasks within the context of Un-ion/Corporate policy, values, and culture.
Fonnulating and assigning tasks to EHS Committee members.
Providing perfonnance feedback, coaching, and merit recognition.
Ensuring their direct reports are exercising sound leadership practic
Assessment of cuirent role holder’s ability and matching capability with Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair requirements.
role
121
ROLE PROFILE HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
H&E Worker Representative Reporting and TIRR Relationships
Union President
t
Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair
t
H&E Worker Representative
INTERNAL			
Initiator	Responder	Authority Level	Comments
IH Coordinator	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising/Coordinating	To workjointly implementing, and conducting health initiatives.
Environment Coordinator	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising/ Coordinating	To work jointly implementing, and conducting natural environment initiatives.
Divisional HSE Committee	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising	Provide Health & Environment related information
Employee	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising	Communicates Health & Environment related concerns
Health & Environment Worker Representative	IH Coordinator	Advising/ Coordinate	Provide input on employee concerns, provide data from audits
Health & Environment Worker Representative	Environmental Coordinator	Advising/ Coordinate	Provide input on employee concerns, provide data from audits
Health & Environment Worker Representative	Divisional HSE Committee	Advising	Share Health & Environment related information
Health & Environment Worker Representative	Employee	Auditing/Advising	To share Health & Environment related information and audit Health & Environment work practices
122
ROLE PROFILE HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
EXTERNAL			
Initiator	Responder	Authority Level	Comments
JHSE Committees	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising/Monitoring	To share health, 0EMP, environment related information. To provide assistance when requested
Worker Safety Rep.’s	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising/ Coordinating	To share department health & environment related information from all operations
Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Prescribing	To share divisional health and environment information. Take actions as prescribed by the Division Union EHS Co-Chair
Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment	Health & Environment Worker Representative	Advising/Coordinating	To share divisional health and environment related information. To provide assistance when requested
Health & Environment Worker Representative	Worker Safety Rep.’s	Advising/ Coordinating/ Monitoring	To share department environment and health related information
Health & Environment Worker Representative	Divisional Union HSE CoChair	Advising	To share department health and environment related information
Health & Environment Worker Representative	Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment	Advising/Coordinating	To share divisional health and environment related information. To provide assistance when requested
123
ROLE PROFILE HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September l 6, 20 l 4	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
The six types ofTask Initiating Role Relationships:
•	Service-Getting - responders must, on request, provide authorized services
•	Coordinating - authority to get designated roles to agree to joint action
•	Advising - initiator has authority to present specific information to others (responders)
•	Monitoring - authority to stay informed about the work of others and to persuade them to take certain actions.
•	Auditing - authority to instruct others to STOP doing something and they must obey.
•	Prescribing - authority to instruct other roles to take certain action._______________________
Other Business Relationships:
horizon, Contractors, Vendors, Purchasing, General Engineering, Department ofLabor, MFL Occupational Health Clinic
EDUCATION I EXPERIENCE
•	Sufficient work experience and general understanding of all processes within the division
•	Has been a member of a joint EHS committee
•	Has participated in a EHS training program
•	Has been trained or willing to be trained as an environment and health auditor_
REQUIRED TO BE COMPETENT IN ROLE: (Knowledge, Skill, Competencies)	
KNOWLEDGE	SKILLS
e. General knowledge of plant protection systems	a. Computer skills (outlook/word/excel/ellipse/ Power-Point/intranet/intemet, etc.)
f. Working knowledge of Workplace Safety & Health Act and all regulations	b. Ability to effectively schedule, prioritize and manage tasks with minimal supervision
g. Working knowledge of industrial hygiene principles	c. Effective coaching skills
h. Working knowledge ofenvi-ronment & sustainable development concepts and principles	d. Good oral/written/presentation/communication skills
i. Working knowledge ofHSE management system	j. Strong Interpersonal skills
124
ROLE PROFILE HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:	USW President Local #6166	
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
k. Practical knowledge of emergency systems	I. Ability to review and interpret data
m. General knowledge of plant operating departments	n. Ability to work effectively both as a team member or individually
0. Understanding of the training systems	
p. Good team membership practices	
q. Working knowledge of Un-ion/Company organizational structure and roles	
r. Working knowledge ofCBA	
s. Working Knowledge of Auditing systems	
t. General knowledge of the OEMP Monitoring program	
u. Understanding ofManage-ment of Change process	
v. Practical knowledge ofHaz-ard identification, environmental aspect identification, and risk assessment	
125
ROLE PROFILE HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:		Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair	
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative			
Department	Manitoba Operations			
LoR:	USW President Local #6166			
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014		Revision Date: September 16, 2014	
Competencies REQUIRED FOR THE ROLE (Note: competency levels below the desired level indicated should also be demonstrated in role)				
Competencies		Desired Level		Importance
Concern for Environment, Health and Safety This involves acting in a manner that ensures the health and safety of self and others.		Level 4: Take a Leadership Role Take leadership role and accept accountability to ensure the health and safety of the work environment. Champion health, environment and safety, to ensure that others comply with established EHS guidelines. Take a longer-tenn perspective in identifying and correcting potential problems		Critical
Influencing Others Is the intention to persuade, convince, influence or impress others in order to have a specific impact on acts or actions. It includes the ability to anticipate and respond to the needs and concerns of others.		Level 4: Calculate the Impact of One’s Actions or Words Adapt actions to influence a specific audience. Take a novel approach to influence a target audience.		Critical
Initiative Involves taking independent action and creating opportunities to improve processes, resolve issues or prevent problems		Level 3: Act 1-3 Months Ahead Have a short-term action plan (i.e., this quarter). Look at this quarter to create opportunities or to minimize potential problems.		Critical
Information Seeking Is taking action to uncover details and improve one’s understanding of situations or issues. It is concerned with having the best information to apply to work performance to meet intended outcomes.		Level 3:Dig Deeper Ask probing questions to get at the root of a situation, beyond the surface issues presented Contact others not directly involved in a situation to obtain relevant background or experiential information		Critical
Listening, Understanding and Responding Is the ability to actively listen and understand, and then respond appropriately when interacting with individuals and groups		Level 4: Accurate Assessment Accuratelyassessroot cause of individual/group actions. Demonstrate sensitivity and act to help resolve personal issues/problems		Critical
126
ROLE PROFILE HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT WORKER REPRESENTATIVE
Role Holder:	| Leader:		Divisional Union EHS Co-Chair	
Role Title:	Health & Environment Worker Representative			
Department	Manitoba Operations			
LoR:	USW President Local #6166			
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014		Revision Date: Septe mber 16, 2014	
Teamwork and Co-operation Involves working co-operatively with others, being part of a team, sharing a common set of goals, a commitment to achieving team goals and working together as opposed to working separately or competitively		Level 4: Encourage Others Publicly give credit to others. Encourage members of the group to contribute		Critical
Critical Thinking Is the ability to understand, analyze, reason and evaluate information according to recognized standards. Critical thinking is a way of examining unclear, ambiguous, controversial and one-sided issues. It is a way to work through the ‘dust and debris’, get to the central or main issue and examine it realistically. It is what the mind does when one searches for truth		Level 4: Probe deeply into issues to ensure responses are based on truth and logic Develop questions that will challenge Question opinions, sources of information and use a variety of probing methods.		Very Important
Self Confidence Is a belief in one’s own capability to accomplish a task and select an effective approach to a task or problem		Level 2: Act Independently Independently solve problems by taking appropriate action, even when others disagree Make decision with a sense of authority; have a “can-do" attitude		Very Important
Achievement Motivation Is a concern for working well or for competing against a standard of excellence. The standard may be one’s own past performance, an objective measure, the performance of others, challenging goals one had set, or even what anyone has ever done		Level 3: Create Own Measures of Excellence and Improve Performance Come up with something new to improve performance Set a standard for performance which exceeds that set by management		Very Important
Developing Others Involves a genuine intent to foster the longterm learning or developing others. Its focus is on the developmental intent and effect rather than on a formal role of training		Level 4: Give Helpful Feedback Give constructive feedback to others, specific to their actions Reassure others after a setback and reinforce their efforts Assess a direct reports competence so as to delegate full responsibility for a task when they are ready		Very Important
127
APPENDIX M
APPENDIX M
Role Profile - Contracting Out Coordinator
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
Department	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:		
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
_________________________CONTEXT AND PURPOSE OF THIS ROLE
To reduce the amount of contracting out work within the mines and surface plants
KEY ACCOUNTABILITIES
This individual will work jointly with the Divisional Contracting Out Committee and plant management to ensure all work contracted out has been thoroughly reviewed and aligned with the contracting out process
Provides training and guidance to present and fijture Contracting Out Committee members
Investigates opportunities to reduce the contracting out of work
Act as liaison between the Department contracting out representatives and the Workforce Planning Coordinator * •
___________________________________ON-GOING ACCOUNTABILITIES____________________________________________
Health, Safety & Environment:
•	Investigate and list required qualifications for Vale and the Term Labour Pool personnel when challenging a “request for work by others" request or a task typically contracted out
•	Ensure a safety component is built in to the Contracting Out training package
•	Facilitates safety related training as per the Contracting Out training package to present and future Contracting Out Committee members
Production:
•	Create a training package for the purpose of training present and future committee members. Training package must include information on all aspects of contracting out
•	Prepare and provide written or verbal reports for both the Divisional Contracting Out Committee and Executive Steering Committee relevant to contracting out in the plant monthly or more frequently if necessary
•	Prepare and provide written or verbal reports for both the Divisional Contracting Out Committee and Executive Steering Committee relevant to the Term Labour Pool monthly or more frequently if necessary
•	The achievement of other objectives as identified by the Executive Steering Committee or Union President
•	Collect data relevant for reducing the extent and cost of contracting out. Ensure all contracting out issues being reviewed are thoroughly investigated.
•	Chair and facilitate the monthly Contracting Out committee meetings
•	Ensure that a copy of the “Request for work by others” form is generated for all contracts.
•	Jointly establish agendas for monthly Contracting Out Committee and quarterly Executive Steering Committee meetings
128
ROLE PROFILE	CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:		
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: Septe mber 16, 2014
•	Prepare appeals to be presented to the Executive Steering Committee
•	Investigate and promote opportunities for the use ofTerm Labour Pool individuals
•	Assist the Workforce Planning Coordinator in recruitment of individuals for the Term Labour Pool
•	Act as the Union liaison between the Contracting Out Committee and the Term Labour Pool
Costs:
•	Review all current and proposed within scope work requests that involves the outsourcing of work
•	Seek and identify other resources fiom within the division that are capable of performing requested outsourced work
• Monitor work order and project costs that are relevant to the outsourcing of work
•	Create business cases to justify the use of Vale or Term Labour Pool forces versus contract workers where opportunities are identified
•	Collect data relevant for reducing the extent and cost of contracting out.
Quality / Customer:
•	Monitor contracts with the Union Area and Company Area Representative’s or Construction Supervisor or facility representative assigned to a contract to ensure adherence to contract/project scope
•	Prepare a monthly action plan, pre-assign task requests monthly to department Union committee members.
•	Provide listening and or problem solving advice to assist department reps if contracting issues arise
•	Communicate to the workforce through crew meetings, face to face contacts, written bulletin board material, etc. the ongoing results achieved by the Contracting Out Committee. These forms should also be used as open dialogue opportunities for the workforce to provide feedback.
•	Seek to continually improve the contracting out process through the sharing of best practices fi om other departments
•	Workjointly with the Workforce Planning Coordinatorto improve the Term Labour Pool process
People:
•	Facilitate orientation and ongoing training to present and fijture contracting out committee members
•	Facilitate an understanding of engineering processes, contract structure and contract language to contracting out committee members
•	In carrying out responsibilities use tact and diplomacy in communicating with plant personnel and committee members
•	Develop and nurture relationship with Union and Management counterparts and act as a liaison between the Union and Operating Departments.
•	Works collaterally with line organization in the use of the contracting out process to reduce contracting out
•	Provide technical expertise or interpretation on the contracting out process
•	As available, facilitate meetings with Department Representative’s to review contracting out issues
129
ROLE PROFILE	CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:		
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
Physical Assets:
•	To maintain the office, tools and equipment to which they have been assigned
•	Maintain a well-organized filing system
Note: The above statement reflects the general details considered necessary to describe principal functions of the role identified and shall not be constructed as a detailed description of all work requirements that may be inherent in the role
GENERIC RESPONSIBILITIES	
The role holder is responsible for the follow-	Executive Steering Committee is responsible for
jngi		the following:
■ Informing the Union President/Executive	■ Developing a plan to achieve own goals and the goals
Steering Committee regarding progress on tasks and report immediately when ajudgment	of the division.
is made that the output targets cannot be met,	■ Formulating and assigning tasks to Contracting Out
or more can be achieved.	Committee members.
■ Asking the Union President/Executive Steering	■ Providing performance feedback, coaching, and merit
Committee for clarification, when needed, on what is expected ofthe role.	recognition. • Ensuring their direct reports are exercising sound lead-
■	Taking the initiative to improve your work, the overall business, and promote the goals of the Union/Company organization. ■	Working effectively and collaterally with immediate colleagues and others in crossfunctional relationships, on tasks within the context of Union/Coiporate policy, values, and culture.	ership practices.
130
ROLE PROFILE	CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:		
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
Contracting Out Coordinator Reporting and TIRR Relationships
		
	USW President Local #6166	
	t	
	Contracting Out Coordinator	
	t	
	Union Contracting Out Department Reps	
INTERNAL			
Initiator	Responder	Authority Level	Comments
Company Co-Chair	Contracting Out Coordinator	Coordinating/Advising	To share divisional contracting out information
General Engineering	Contracting Out Coordinator	Coordinating/Advising	To share divisional contracting out information
Workforce Planning Coordinator	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising	To share divisional contracting out information. To share information as it pertains to the Term Labour Pool
Executive Steering Committee	Contracting Out Coordinator	Prescribing/Auditing	To assign tasks to deliver on objects of reducing contracting out
Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising	To share safety related information and provide guidance
Contracting Out Coordinator	Company Co-Chair	Coordinating/Advising	To share divisional contracting out information
Contracting Out Coordinator	General Engineering	Service Getting/Advising	To provide contract information
Contracting Out Coordinator	Workforce Planning Coordinator	Advising	To share divisional contracting out information. To share information as it pertains to the Term Labour Pool
131
ROLE PROFILE	CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President |
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	|
Department:	Manitoba Operations	i
LoR:		!
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014 |
Contracting Out Coordinator	Executive Steering Committee	Advising	To share divisional contracting out infonnation
Contracting Out Coordinator	Divisional Union HSE Co-Chair	Advising	To share safety related information
EXTERNAL			
Initiator	Responder	Authority Level	Comments
Department Committee Reps	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising/Coordinating	To share department contracting out infonnation. To provide assistance when requested
Purchasing	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising	To share contracting out infonnation
Accounting	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising	To share contracting out infonnation
Contractors	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising	To share contracting out infonnation
Plant Department Heads	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising/Coordinating	To share department contracting out infonnation. To provide assistance when requested
Department Planners	Contracting Out Coordinator	Advising/Coordinating	To share department contracting out infonnation. To provide assistance when requested
Contracting Out Coordinator	Department Committee Reps	Prescribing/Advising	To share department contracting out data relevant for reducing the extent and cost of contracting out.
Contracting Out Coordinator	Purchasing	Coordinating	To provide infonnation as it pertains to contracting out
132
ROLE PROFILE CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President |
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:		
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014 |
Contracting Out Coordinator	Accounting	Coordinating	To provide information as it pertains to contracting out
Contracting Out Coordinator	Contractors	Advising	To share contracting out information
Contracting Out Coordinator	Plant Department Heads	Advising	To share contracting out information
Contracting Out Coordinator	Department Planners	Service Getting/Advising	To share department contracting out information. To provide assistance when requested
The six types of Task Initiating Role Relationships:
Service-Getting — responders must, on request, provide authorized services
Coordinating - authority to get designated roles to agree to joint action
Advising - initiator has authority to present specific information to others (responders)
Monitoring - authority to stay informed about the work of others and to persuade them to take certain actions.
Auditing - authority to instruct others to STOP doing something and they must obey.
Prescribing - authority to instruct other roles to take certain action.
Other Business Relationships: None
133
ROLE PROFILE	CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Holder:	I Leader:	Union President
Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
Department:	Manitoba Operations	
LoR:		
Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: Septe mber 16, 2014
EDUCATION / EXPERIENCE
• Sufficient work experience and general understanding of the divisional contracting out process
REQUIRED TO BE COMPETENT IN ROLE: (Knowledge, Skill, Competencies)	
KNOWLEDGE	SKILLS
a. General knowledge of plant protection systems	a. Computer skills (Outlook/word/excel/ellipse/Power Point/Corvu)
b. Working knowledge ofWorkplace Safety & Health Act	b. Ability to effectively schedule, set priorities and manage tasks with minimal supervision
c. Working knowledge of safety systems	c. Effective coaching skills
d. General understanding of Accounting practices	d. Good oral/written/presentation/communication skills
e. General understanding ofPurchasing procedures	e. Strong Interpersonal skills
f. General knowledge of other operating departments	
a. General understanding of General Engineering and contract structure and processes	
b. Good team membership practices	
c. Working knowledge ofUnion/Company organizational structure and roles	
d. Working knowledge ofCBA	
e. Working knowledge of the Maintenance Program	
f. Management of Change process	
g. Practical knowledge ofPHNJSA process	
h. General understanding of the Term Labor Pool system	
134
ROLE PROFILE
CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
Role Title:
| Leader:
Union President
Contracting Out Coordinator
j Department:
Manitoba Operations
1 LoR:
I Effective Date:
September 16, 2016
Revision Date: Septe mber 16, 2014
COMPETENCIES REQUIRED FOR THE ROLE (Note: competency levels below the desired level indicated should also be demonstrated in role		
Competency	Desired Level	Importance
Influencing Others Is the intention to persuade, convince, influence or impress others in order to have a specific impact on attitudes, behavior and/or work performance. It includes the ability to anticipate and respond to the needs and concerns of others.	Level 3: Recognize Concerns •	Demonstrate sensitivity and understanding in detecting underlying concerns, interests or emotions in others and use this to develop effective responses •	Look for the “win-win” opportunities with others	Very Important
Initiative Involves taking independent action and creating opportunities to improve processes, resolve issues or prevent problems	Level 3: Act 1-3 Months Ahead •	Have a short-term action plan (i.e., this quarter). •	Look at this quarter to create opportunities or to minimize potential problems.	Critical
Information Seeking ls taking action to uncover details and improve one’s understanding of situations or issues.	Level 3: Dig Deeper •	Ask probingquestions to get at the root of a situation, beyond the surface issues presented •	Contact others not directly involved in a situation to obtain relevant background or experimental information about it	Critical
Self Confidence ls a belief in one’s own capability to accomplish a task and select an effective approach to a task or problem	Level I: Present Self Confidently •	Appear confident •	Work without needing supervision	Important
Teamwork and Co-operation Involves working co-operatively with others, being pait of a team, sharing a common set of goals, a commitment to achieving team goals and working together as opposed to working separately or competitively	Level 6: Resolve Conflicts •	Resolve team conflicts •	Bring conflict within the team out into the open and encourage or facilitate a beneficial resolution	Very Important
Role Holder
135
ROLE PROFILE	CONTRACTING OUT COORDINATOR
| Role Holder:	| Leader:	Union President
| Role Title:	Contracting Out Coordinator	
| Department:	Manitoba Operations	
I LoR:		
| Effective Date:	September 16, 2014	Revision Date: September 16, 2014
Listening, Understanding and Responding Is the ability to actively listen and understand, and then respond appropriately when interacting with individuals and groups	Level 2: Listen Responsively •	Actively seek to understand by getting the facts and pertinent information and reiterating this information to check understanding before drawing conclusions •	Go out of the way with others to invite conversations	Very Important
Achievement Motivation ls a concern for working well or for competing against a standard of excellence. The standard may be one’s own past performance, an objective measure, the performance of others, challenging goals one had set, or even what anyone has ever done	Level 3: Create Own Measures of Excellence and Improve Performance •	Come up with something new to improve performance •	Set a standard for performance which exceeds that set by management	Very Important
Impact and Influence Is the intention to persuade, convince or influence in order to have a specific impact. It includes the ability to anticipate and respond to the needs and concerns of others.	Level I: Take a Single Action to Persuade •	Use direct persuasion in a discussion or presentation •	Appeal to reason by using data or concrete examples to influence others.	Very Important
Problem Solving/Judgment Is the ability to analyze problems systematically, organize information, identify key factors, identify underlying causes and generate solutions.	Level I: Breakdown Problems •	Make a list of items (e.g. a “To Do “ list) •	Break problems into simple lists of tasks or activities	Important
Innovative Thinking Is working to improve performance by taking a novel approach to how work is done, or problems approached within the organization	Level 3: Provide Options for Resolution •	Generate new and varied solutions to problems •	Identify changes which will improve performance	Important
Leadership Is taking a role as leader of a team or other group. Leadership is often, but not always, shown from a position of formal authority	Level I: Provide Routine Management •	State agendas and objectives for meetings •	In meetings, control time and give assignments •	Provide information about what is happening to those affected by a decision	Very Important
136
Appendix N
Joint Executive Steering Committee - Working Together to Build a Long Term Future
Over the course of the last several years and Collective Bargaining Agreements, the Company and Union have established an effective working relationship within the Manitoba Operations. The parties agree that still more can be done to enhance communication between the Company and the Union regarding ongoing and emerging issues and to formalize the manner in which we work together to address such issues.
Joint Executive Steering Committee
There will be a committee known as the “Joint Executive Steering Committee”, which will be co-chaired by the Vice President ofManitoba Operations and the President ofUSW Local 6166.
Additional Company representatives on the Committee will include the General Manager - Mining & Milling; General Manager - Smelter, Refinery & Production Services; and the Manager - Human Resources & HSE. Additional Company representatives may be appointed by the Vice President ofManitoba Operations as required to support the discussions held by the Committee.
In addition to the President ofUSW Local 6166, the Union representatives on the Committee will include the Joint Problem Solving Coordinator and the Conflict Resolution Coordinator, along with up to two (2) additional members ofthe Union Executiveappointed to the Committee by the President ofUSW Local 6166. The President ofUSW Local 6166 may invite additional members of the Union Executive to attend the meetings ofthe Joint Executive Steering Committee as required to support or participate in the discussions held by the committee. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the Joint Executive Steering Committee.
The Joint Executive Steering Committee will meet quarterly, or more often if requested by either party. The purpose ofthe meetings will be to discuss the following items:
■	Key ongoing and emerging issues of concern to either party;
■	The assignment of specific objectives and tasks to key joint committees, including but not necessarily limited to the following:
o Joint Training Committee;
o Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee;
o Joint Contracting Out Committee;
■	Reports on progress in accomplishing those objectives established by the Joint Executive Steering Committee for each ofthe other joint committees;
■	Manitoba Operations business results, successes and challenges;
■	The ongoing transition process
137
Appendix Q
Pension Changes
The Company will amend the existing Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Division ofVale Canada Limited Represented by United Steelworkers referred to in Article 30 and Appendix F of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement (the “Pension Plan”) to provide for a new defined contribution (“DC”) component to the Pension Plan, as described below.
The defined benefit (“DB”) component of the Pension Plan will be closed to new hires effective December 31, 2011. Employees hired on or after January 1, 2012 will participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan.
The DC component of the Pension Plan will provide for Company contributions equal to eight percent (8%) of an employee’s annual regular basic earnings (straight time rate per hour X regular hours worked, plus regular vacation pay) (“Annual Regular Basic Earnings”).
Employees who participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan may choose to make voluntary employee contributions to the DC component of the Pension Plan (“Voluntary Employee Contributions”) ranging, in one percent (1%) increments, from two percent (2%) to six percent (6%) of the employee’s Annual Regular Basic Earnings. Employees who make Voluntary Employee Contributions to the DC component of the Pension Plan will receive a form of matching Company contributions ranging from fifty percent (50%) to one hundred percent (100%) of the employee’s Voluntary Employee Contributions to the DC component of the Pension Plan, based on the better of the employee’s age and years of service, as set out in the following table:
Employee Voluntary	Company Matching Contributions (% of
Contributions	Employee Voluntary Contributions)
Voluntary Contributions 2%, 3%, 4%, 5% or 6%	Under age 40 with less than 15 yrs service = 50%
Age 40 to 44 or 15 to 19 yrs service = 66.7%
Age 45 to 49 or 20 to 24 yrs service = 70%
Age 50 to 54 or 25 to 29 yrs service = 75%
Age 55 to 59 or 30 to 34 yrs service = 80%
Age 60 to 61 or 35 to 36 yrs service = 90%
Age 62+ or 37 or more yrs service = 100%
An employee whose most recent date of hire is before January 1,2012 will be offered the one-time only opportunity to participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan, which opportunity will be provided to such employees on or before December l, 2014. It is understood that employees whose most recent date ofhire is before January l, 2012 may choose to remain in the DB component of the Pension Plan. The following options will be made available on or before December 1, 2014 to employees whose most recent date ofhire is before January 1,2012: •
• participate in the DC component for all service with the Company from the date that the employee’s participation in the DC component begins and retain pension benefits accrued up to that date calculated in accordance with the terms of the DB component;
138
•	participate in the DC component for all service with the Company from the date that the employee’s participation in the DC component begins and transfer to the DC component the lump-sum value of pension benefits accrued up to thatdate under the DB component; or
•	continue to participate in the DB component for all past and future service with the Company.
Employees who participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan will have Company pension contributions continue while away from work and in receipt of benefits from the Workers Compensation Board ofManitoba or the Group Accident and Sickness Insurance Plan.
Employees who participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan will have Company pension contributions continue while on an approved leave of absence for up to a maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks.
Retirees who participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan will be eligible for post-retirement health care benefits on the same basis as retirees who participate in the DB component of the Pension Plan.
Employees whose most recent date of hire is before January I, 2012 and who participate in the DB component of the Pension Plan will be able to voluntarily participate in the Security Fund Plan referred to in a separate agreement between the Company and the Union (the “SFP”) but will not be able to make the Voluntary Employee Contributions referred to above. Employees who participate in the DC component of the Pension Plan will not be able to participate in the SFP but will be able to make the Voluntary Employee Contributions referred to above.
Long Term Disability Plan
The Company will introduce a new Long Term Disability Plan for employees covered by the DC component of the Pension Plan. This Long Term Disability Plan will provide benefits in the same amounts as the Disability Pension benefits for employees under the DB component of the Pension Plan.
139
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
The following Letters of Agreement between the Company and the Union are intended for the purpose of information. They do not form part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and are not subject to grievance or arbitration.
140
Security Fund Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm that the Company will continue in effect until September 15, 2019, the Security Fund Plan for hourly paid employees of the Company's Manitoba Operations, modified as may be required by law.
The Plan stipulates that the Company Matching Contributions will be two percent (2%) of the Participants Base Pay.
It is understood and agreed that the Security Fund Plan shall not be or be deemed to be a part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
141
Article 18 - Written Reprimand
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Article 18 of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement.
It is agreed that a Written Reprimand is distinct and different from a Warning and that a Written Reprimand is a more serious disciplinary action than a Warning.
When as part of a disciplinary program the Company requires an employee to absent himself from his regular work, with pay, this shall not be considered a Suspension within the meaning of Article 18.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
142
Clause 15.09 - Working During Vacation
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Clause 15.09 of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If an employee is permitted to work during the period of a vacation granted to him under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, he shall, for the purpose of Clause 15.09, be deemed not to be working on his regularly scheduled work day on any day during that period.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
143
Summer Employment ofStudents
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confinn the agreement between us respecting summer employment of students.
Every effort will be made to give preference to students having a parent who is an employee.
There are instances where the Company is obliged to give special opportunity to some students for other reasons. One example of this might be a student holding a scholarship under the Vale Scholarship Program for Children of Employees. Another example would be compassionate grounds. There may be other special instances.
However, subject to the special cases that arise, Company policy will continue to be the giving of preference to students whose parent is an employee.
Notwithstanding the definition “probationary employee” in the Collective Agreement, every student shall be deemed to be a “probationary employee” subject to termination at any time prior to the month of October, without such termination being subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
No summer student will be assigned to a job for which the basic wage is Job Step 3 or higher in the case of surface jobs or Job Step 8 or higher in the case of mines jobs.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
144
Apprenticeship Training
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to employees being accepted into apprenticeship training by the Company.
When the Company requires additional apprentices, employees on the apprenticeship training waiting lists will be transferred into Mechanical or Electrical Department apprenticeship training on the basis of Clause 15.06. The list of applicants for apprenticeship training will be changed from a listing by date of formal acceptance to a listing by seniority. However, the Company may give preference to employees or individuals who obtain apprenticeship in-school credits of one year or more from the Apprenticeship Branch of the Department ofLabour.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
145
Steelworker’s Humanity Fund
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that the Company will deduct from the pay of each employee one cent (I0) for each hour worked and forward the total deductions once each month to the Steelworkers' Humanity Fund. If an individual employee should so request in writing no such deduction will be made from his pay.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosedcopy of this letterand returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
146
September 16, 2014
Union Orientation
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to Union participation in the orientation of new employees. A member of the Local Union Executive shall have the opportunity to address new employees for up to one-half (VZ) hour during the course of their introduction to employment. During such one-half (Vz) hour the Union representative will be permitted to show a video-taped message fiom the President of the Local Union. It is understood that this opportunity will not be used to have new employees sign applications for union membership cards.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
147
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations to jointly investigate ways in which to reduce the costs associated with the provision of the health care benefits under the Collective Bargaining Agreement without reducing the existing level ofbenefit coverage.
A “Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee” consisting of two (2) employees appointed by the Union and two (2) individuals appointed by the Company will be established to conduct the investigation. Meetings of the Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee will be held as frequently as required, at mutually agreeable times.
The Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee will make recommendations to the Joint Executive Steering Committee
The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment for time lost shall apply to the Union representatives on the Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
148
Trades Enhancement
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that the Union will participate with the Company in the development and implementation ofa program ofTrades Enhancement.
Recognizing that employees in the Mechanical Department and the Electrical Department have concerns regarding trades enhancement, the Company agrees that during the term of this agreement the scope of the program will include the skills covered in programs recognized by the Manitoba Department of Labour under the Apprenticeship and Trades Qualification Act.
Further, trade boundaries defined by current practice and limited to the skills covered in the above mentioned recognized programs will be established by mutual agreement.
Training will be offered in accordance with the provisions of Clause 22.16 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
149
Steelworker’s Benevolence/Education Fund
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that the Company will deduct from the pay of each employee two cents (2£) for each hour worked and forward the total deductions once each month to the Steelworkers' Benevolence or the USW Education Fund as directed by the local union. If an individual employee should so request in writing no such deduction will be made from his pay.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
150
Literacy and Numeracy Skills
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 l 9 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm our commitment with respect to advertising within the workplace those community resources and programs available to employees wishing to upgrade their literacy and numeracy skills. A number of community organizations offer relevant training programs. The Company will identify these programs and the required contact information and will post this information in the workplace for the information of employees who may wish to avail themselves of these resources and programs.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
151
Vacation and Special Vacation Scheduling - Mines Extended Shift
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union respecting the scheduling of Vacation and Special Vacation for those Mine Department employees working on a current extended shift schedule where the average weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40).
Should the Company introduce into the Mines Departments an alternate extended shift schedule where the average weekly hours over the cycle of the schedule of shifts exceeds forty (40), the parties will meet to develop a method for scheduling vacation and Special Vacation for employees working on such schedules.
lfthe foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning such copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
152
Intradepartmental Force Adjustment - 3 Flowsheets
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Clause 15.08 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
When the Company is reducing the number of employees in a classification or classifications and such reduction is to be considered permanent the employees affected shall be dealt with in a manner as shown in the attached flowchart subject to Clause 15.08 with respect to an incapacitated employee.
If the foregoing is satisf actory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours trnly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
153
INTRADEPARTMENTAL FORCE ADJUSTMENT
Page 1 of 3 Pages
page 2 and page 3) or go to Labour or Mine Beginner
154
INTERDEPARTMENTAL FORCE ADJUSTMENT
Page 2 Of 3 pages
This chart is intended to cover a situation where the job held by an incapacitated employee is eliminated
15.25 job is eliminated.
Assign to ^^a^rtment 99 to await pl^^^t.
Employe is eligible for the equl\lalent of ^v.rely A&S benefits to a maximum d 104
Yes
155
INTRADEPARTMENTAL FORCE ADJUSTMEN1
Page 3 of 3 pages
Situation: Department force adjustment will lead to either of:
a)	Re-sizing of classification (no change in Department size).
b)	Downsizing of Department, resulting in forced transfers and potentially to Division layoffs.
! Senior employee wishes to bump into a position currently filled by an incapacitatedemployee.
Does incapacitated employee^ have physical capability, qualifications and seniority to bump another position? ,
Incapacitated employee chooses from among the options permitted by physical capability. qualifications and seniority.
is
Assign to new position.
I Hold theincapacitated employee in the current s —►! position, senior employee must make another
No
T
Layoff
choice.
156
Programs and Standard Procedure Instructions
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the development of Safety Policies, Programs and Standard Procedure Instructions (SPI) pursuant to Clause 28.04 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The attached flow chart outlines the process to be followed with respect to the development of Safety Policies, Programs and SP!.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
157
Safety Policies, Programs and SPl's
L________
'jj.
Division Steering Committee discussesand gamsan understanding of the proposal
Advance to Division Safety Health and Environment Committee with QQTR format definition of expectations
D1'v1s1on SleenngCommuttee rev1ews results andd1scusses modifications
T
Division Management Approval
I Jointly Supported Implementation
on J
C ompany Developed Policy. Program. SPl
Union Developed Policy. Program. SPl
Agreement toadvance to committees forreview?
Parties decide on independent action
Ideological difference . no hope for resolution
No —--
Division Safet Health and Environment Committee Review
no
158
Clause 7 .03 in day-to-day operations
September 16, 2014
USW Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the application of Clause 7.03 in day-today operations. The attached guidelines and flowchart are intended to provide clarity and guidance to Stewards and members of Management in the distribution of overtime opportunities.
This document does not alter the intent of Clause 7.03 in any manner whatsoever. Any difference arising concerning the assignment of overtime opportunities will be handled under the provisions of Article 20 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Where an overtime opportunity has been improperly assigned to an employee outside of the working group, the qualified employee with the lowest opportunity hours in the working group, who was readily available shall be paid as if he had worked such opportunity and the overtime hours shall be added to his record of accumulated overtime hours.
The purpose of Clause 7 .03 is to ensure that overtime is distributed in a fair and equitable manner. “As evenly as practicable” does not mean that at a particular point in time the record will be even. Over a period of time there will be a leveling off. There should not normally be large discrepancies in opportunity hours. Any discrepancy should be explainable. In the trades, continuity of a job may cause some discrepancy in the record but should not result in large variation in the record.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
159
Overtime Guidelines
1.	Whenever an employee has the opportunity to work overtime in anyjob in which he is qualified, these opportunity hours will be recorded whether worked or refused.
2.	Employees temporarily assigned to a different working group on a day-to-day basis will be considered part of their regular working group for purposes of overtime distribution. For the Mechanical and Electrical Departments “day-to-day” means 5 working days or less. In other departments “day-to-day” means that the length of the temporary assignment to a different working group is unknown or uncertain.
3.	An employee on temporary assignment to a different working group on a day-to-day basis will be the first employee(s) to be considered for overtime opportunities after the regular employees in the work group refuse.
4.	When it becomes necessary to go to another working group for additional overtime coverage the method of distribution shall be the same as for the original working group.
5.	Overtime worked or offered to an employee outside of the regular working group will be recorded in his regular working group’s records.
6.	When an employee joins a new working group, he will be credited with the average number of overtime opportunity hours of the employees in the group.
7.	Distribution of overtime opportunities for trades will be to the employees in the required trade line and work group.
8.	When an employee returns following vacation, no adjustment will be made to his overtime opportunity hours for the vacation period.
9.	Callout hours actually worked are included in overtime records. The canvassing of employees for call-outs does not follow the overtime scheduling process or guidelines.
1 0. Hours worked on a General Holiday which falls on a regularly scheduled working day are not recorded in the record of overtime opportunity hours. Overtime hours worked on a General Holiday are recorded in the record ofovertime opportunity hours.
160
I I. “Availability” depends on the circumstances of when the requirement for overtime is known. If the requirement is known several days in advance the crew that would be on regular days off should be first offered the work. If the requirement is known on the day it is to be worked, the opportunity should be offered to the crew that has just completed their regular shift (otherwise the situation is a call-out).
12.	All temporary promotions should be made to the employees working their regular shift before offering overtime opportunity to any employee.
13.	Long Term and Selective Refusals - Ifan employee indicates that he does not wish to be offered overtime work for a period of time or in specific occupations or jobs, he should be advised that a refusal shall be marked on his record and he will be credited with the appropriate opportunity hours as if he had been asked based on the overtime record for the working group. There would then be no need for an adjustm ent to hisirecord when the employee indicates he is again ready to work overtime.
14.	Employees on selective duty will be offered overtime opportunity if it is in keeping with the individual’s work restrictions.
If the opportunity occurs in the employee’s regular working group, a judgment must be made when the employee returns to full duty whether any adjustment is needed to keep the individual at the same relative position in overtime distribution.
If the opportunity occurs outside of the employee’s regular working group the hours of opportunity will be brought back to the regular working group when the employee returns to regular duty.
I 5. An employee returning to their overtime working group after an absence from work of ten (10) or more working days caused by any reason other than vacation, special vacation or statutory holidays shall be returned to the same relative position they were in when they left the group.
For example, if an employee was in tenth (10th) position in a twenty (20) person working group when the employee left the group for ten (10) or more working days, the employee will be returned to that tenth (10th) position when he returns to the group. The employee will be assigned a split of the overtime hours of the person in the eleventh ( 11"') position and the ninth (9th) position.
If an employee is in first (l ") position (most credited overtime hours) when the employee leaves a given working group for a period of ten (1O) or more working days, he will be returned to that first ( l ") position upon returning to the original working group. The employee returning to the first position will be credited with the number of hours credited to the employee in the second (2nd) position on the list and with half of the difference between the number of hours credited to the employee in the second (2nd) position on the list and those credited to the employee in the third (3rd) position on the list.
161
If an employee is in last position on the list (least credited overtime hours) when the employee leaves a given working group for a period of ten (10) or more working days, he will be returned to that last position upon returning to the original working group. The employee returning to the last position will be credited with the number ofhours credited to the employee in the second-to-last position on the list minus half of the difference between the number of hours credited to the employee in the second-to-last position on the list and those credited to the employee in the third-to-last position on the list.
16.	The record of overtime opportunity hours tracks overtime hours worked, overtime hours refused and callout hours worked. The posted record of overtime opportunity hours shows the sum total of these three categories of overtime opportunity hours. Where the total credited overtime opportunity hours within a particular working group pose a concern for the Union, the Conflict Resolution Coordinator or Joint Problem Solving Coordinator may request of the Department Coordinator a query of the detailed credited overtime opportunity hours in each of these three categories for that working group. Employees on vacation or otherwise not readily available for overtime opportunity canvas are not credited with overtime opportunity hours. When an unsuccessful attempt is made to contact an employee for an overtime opportunity canvas (e.g. phone call not answered), “no contact” will be recorded forthat employee
17.	Nothing in the foregoing overtime guidelines will preclude individual departments or departmental working areas from enacting specific guidelines with respect to the method or sequence with which particular working groups are canvassed for overtime opportunities. Any such arrangements will, however, require the agreement of the area Human Resource Business Partner and the Conflict Resolution Coordinator or Problem Solving Coordinator. Any such arrangements in place as of the date of this agreement will remain unaffected by the implementation of the foregoing overtime guidelines.
162
OVERTIME DISTRIBUTION PROCESS
9908 < 0*88
163
Anti-Harassment Training
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr. Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached between Us regarding workplace violence and harassment awareness and prevention training. The Company and the Union will deliver joint workplace violence and harassment awareness and prevention training to all Manitoba Operations employees, the frequency of which training shall be agreed to by the parties but in any event shall be no less frequent than once during the course of the current collective agreement. In addition, this training will be offered to all Manitoba Operations new hires during their first twelve (12) months of employment with the Company.
This training will consist of a workshop approximately two (2) hours in duration and will employ the training materials currently in use within the Manitoba Operations. These materials will be updated periodically as agreed by the parties.
The individuals identified by the Company and the Union to facilitate this training will participate in a “train the trainer” session, which will be jointly facilitated by one (1) individual designated by the Company and one (l) individual designated by the Union who are experienced in the delivery of the joint workplace violence and harassment awareness and prevention materials.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and re^turning that copy to
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations,
K. Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
164
Work Refusal
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to a work refusal under The Workplace Safety and Health Act.
The parties have a common interest in developing proactive safety attitudes in the workplace, and minimizing communication errors during a work refusal. Therefore, the attached form has been developed to aid in the documentation of a work refusal. In addition, the attached flow chart outlines the process to be followed in the event of a work refusal.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
165
^Yvale
Work Refusal Form
Department:	Shift:	Date:
Under the Workplace Safety & Health Act all Manitoba workers have the right to refuse work, which they believe is unsafe to themselves or their co-workers.
Step 1:	A worker believes that work is unsafe and is refusing under W210 Workplace Safety & Health Act.
What is the work and why is it unsafe?
The worker and the employer shall make an immediate inspection of the area of concern. Worker Inspection Results:
Inspection satisfactory to worker who raised the initial concern? YES (sign off and return to work): NO (Go to Step 2):
Step 2;	Under the Workplace Safety and Health Act, the worker will be accompanied by the worker Co-Chair of
the Department Safety & Health Committee or their designate.
Worker Inspection Results:
Inspection satisfactory to worker who raised the initial concern? YES {sign off and return to work): NO (Go to Step 3):
Step 3:	Under W210 Section 43(4) the employer shall take necessary actions to remedy any dangerous conditions
and communicate to all involved in remedying the dangerous condition of the work refusal.
Is the dangerous condition remedied?	Yes:	No:
If no, move to step 4.
If yes, explain why the condition is no longer dangerous, sign off and return to work:
Step 4;	Under the Workplace Safety and Health Act Section 43(5) the worker may continue to refuse unsafe work.
Is the worker continuing to refuse unsafe work?	Yes:	No:
Ifyes continue to Step 5 Reason for the continued refusal:
Step 5:	Under W210 Section 43(6) the employer shall not assign any other employee to perform the particular
work until the employer has advised the other employee in writing using this form, thefirst workers refusal, the reasons for the refusal, the workers right to refuse dangerous work and where practicable, the first worker advises the alternate worker of the right to refuse and the reasons for the refusal.
Is the equipment/environment/process safe?	Yes:	No:
Has the first worker/Department Union SHE Co-Chair explained
the reasons for their refusal to the assigned employee?	Yes:	No:
Has the employer assigned another employee to do the work?	Yes:	No:
Has the employer assigned the first worker to other duties?	Yes:	No:
Step 6: if no resolve has been achieved, then the matter shall be escalade to the Department Co-Chairs.
Step 7: if no resolve has been achieved at Step 6, then the matter shall be escaladed to the Divisional Co-Chairs. Step 8: if no resolve has been achieved at Step 7, then matter shall be escalated to the Safety and Health Officer.
Employee #	Name:Supervisor:
166
Work Refusal Flow Chart
167
Day of Mourning
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N (S7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to the Day of Mourning.
The Company and the Union have an earnest desire to set an example of their commitment to the issue ofhealth and safety in the workplace. Therefore, in view of April 28 being known throughout Canada as the Day ofMourning for Persons Killed or Injured in the Workplace, employees working on that day shall be permitted to observe a moment of silence during their lunch break. Alternatively, at the request of a majority of the employees affected, the moment of silence may be observed in conjunction with a meeting at which they receive instruction from supervision at the commencement of the shift.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
168
Ergonomic Awareness
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations with respect to the development of a program of Ergonomic Awareness. The Division Steering Committee, established under Clause 28.04, will coordinate the development of a training program to suit the needs in the Manitoba Operations.
Training will be delivered in two phases. The first phase will be a program, not more than eight (8) hours in length, to be delivered to members of the Departmental Environment, Health and Safety Committees. The second phase will consist of a thirty (30) minute presentation to all employees and supervision.
This program will be in place no later than one year after the Collective Bargaining Agreement is in place.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and re^turning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
169
Training Instructors
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 I 9 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Training Instructors.
During the term of the 2002 Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Company will develop the role of Training Instructor.
It is understood and agreed that the development of each role will include;
a)	a role description outlined as per the Company’s Role Description System, and
b)	task assignments (CPQQRT’s) that define specific tasks and expectations, and the measurement of same, and
c)	a selection process based on the Role Description and CPQQRT’s, and
d)	performance reviews as per the Company’s Performance Review System, and
e)	provision for removal from the role where circumstances show that the incumbent cannot meet the accountabilities of the role description and CPQQRT’s.
It is further understood and agreed that the authorities of the roles will not include the authority to issue discipline under the Company’s discipline programs, and reporting relationships and rates of pay will be defined based on expectations of the role. The selection process will involve posting a notice to fill the role(s), and formal assessment of the candidates’ skill, abilities and competencies. The assessment will include an interview and demonstration of skills through appropriate presentations and exercises. The senior candidate meeting the minimum standard established for each of the selection criteria will be assigned to take training to fill the role, and upon successfol completion of the training will be assigned to the role.
The decision of the Company to remove an employee from the role, otherthan where the employee requests such removal, will be subject to review under the grievance procedure. Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 15.08A the employee will be permitted to return to his former occupational classification provided that the removal occurs within the six (6)
170
calendar month period immediately following his assignment to the Training Instructor role.
The Company agrees that the Union will have input into the development of the role description and selection criteria and such input will be given careful consideration and substantial weight by the Company in its decision making process. A Selection Committee comprised of two (2) representatives of the Company and two (2) employees appointed by the Union will be established for the purpose of assessing the candidates for the role ofTraining Instructor.
The Union agrees that the establishment of the role of Training Instructor will not preclude salaried staff or other individuals from performing similar functions. The Union further agrees that there is no prescribed minimum number of Training Instructor positions and that there will be fewer of these positions as the Smelter and Refinery downsize and eventually close.
Employees in the classification ofHourly Training Instructor will not perform contractor orientations.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers, M.
Nychyporuk R. Leslie
171
Health Benefit - Same-Sex Relationship
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting Clause 5.02 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The Company will advise the organizations through which coverage is provided under the health benefit and group life insurance plans of our expectation that employees in a same-sex relationship will be afforded equality of treatment under such plans to the full extent required by law.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
172
Accident and Sickness Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting graduated return to work for employees receiving weekly indemnity benefits under the Accident and Sickness Plan.
During the first year of the new Collective Bargaining Agreement the parties will meet to discuss a method for providing coverage under the Accident and Sickness Plan for employees who are able to return to work on a graduated basis under a “work hardening” program developed in conjunction with the recommendations of a medical doctor.
It is expected that the graduated return to work will promote an earlier return to foll duties. It is understood that the total length of coverage under the Plan will not be extended as a result of the graduated return to work.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
173
Contracting Out Committee
September 16,2014
United Steelworkers of America Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir;
This letter of agreement and the attached flowchart wi II serve to confirm the agreement reached between us with respect to the functioning of the Contracting Out Committee and the Overflow Work Process.
During the first six (6) months of the term of this agreement, the Contracting Out Committee Co-Chairs will cooperate to enhance the effectiveness of the Overflow Work Process. The Co-Chairs of the Contracting Out Committee will report on the progress achieved in enhancing the effectiveness of the Overflow Work Process at a date no later than March 15, 2009. Such report willbe submitted to the members of the Executive Steering Committee.
Several opportunities for the enhancement of the Overflow Work Process were discussed during negotiations. These opportunities may include but will not necessarily be limited to “contract creep” and the development of business cases for the performance of nontraditional work. Such business cases may be used in the future as outlined in point (f) below.
To support this commitment, the parties have agreed to the following:
A.	Access To Information: Members of the Contracting Out Committee require data and relevant information to facilitate their work. This includes a general knowledge of systems and key process elements related to contracting out. As such, they will be provided access to the following:
I.	Contract, tendering, purchasing and accounting processes; and,
II.	relevant information broken down by class of expense, general ledger, project number, standing work order, repair and returns, standing contracts, and monthly Departmental status reports.
B.	Facilities and Equipment: The Company shall endeavor to ensure that the appointed Contracting Out Committee Area Representatives are provided access to a working area and computer terminal. In the event that such arrangement cannot be readily provided, it is understood that the office of the Worker Safety Representative shall be made available.
174
C.	Training: Members of the Contracting Out Committee shall be provided training as may be required on related systems (CORVU, EXCEL, Ellipse) as well as an overview on our Manitoba Operations Accounting structure and contract administration process.
D.	Resourcing for Success: Contracting Out Committee Area Representatives shall be granted up to two (2) shifts per month to support our joint commitment to reduce contracting out. These two (2) shifts per month maximum will include time off to attend monthly Contracting Out Committee meetings. In the event of a dispute with respect to the use of these shifts, the matter shall be referred to the Co-Chairs of the Contracting Out Committee for resolution. On a trial basis for the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, a hill-time Union Co-Chair position will be created, with duties and accountabilities as outlined in Role Profile - Appendix K. This paragraph d) will be subject to quarterly review by the Executive Steering Committee.
E.	The Union and Company Co-Chairs of the Contracting Out Committee will report out on a quarterly basis to the Executive Steering Committee. Such reports will inform the Executive Steering Committee of the significant achievements of and challenges faced by the Contracting Out Committee.
F.	Scope and Accountabilities: It is agreed that in order to achieve the common objectives of reducing contracting out and costs an examination of contracting out beyond the limitations of Clause 3.03 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement may be appropriate. The Contracting Out Committee will examine such contracting out opportunities and make recommendations to the Executive Steering Committee as appropriate, based on these common objectives. The Company will apply careful consideration and substantial weight to any such recommendations.
G.	Contracting out review: Pursuant to Clause 3.03 of the Current Collective Bargaining Agreement, the union may request a meeting in the first quarter of each year to review Annual Capital Development (ACD) project activities awarded or renewed for the current year in each specific Mine department.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter
and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
175
Overflow Work Process Flowchart
1 Wo.. Request
I (Planned 30/eO90 I Day)
Send to —Appropriate—
Sourc"
- Vale -Personnel
Emergency
Work Request
In Scope & Resources— Available
Initiate "R..uestfor Work to be Done by Others" Form . Discuss with Departmental Area Representative
Unsuccessful Sourcing of Vale Personnel
I Appeal Pr^""'' * 1 (Contracting Out 1 Committee Co- I , Chairs) ,

Depafrnental Area RepresentatJVe Confirms Request
I------------------------1
Source Appropriate ! 1 Contractor I Submt: Advice to Union : Area Representative
No Resources
r *	'
1 Area Representative j | Circulates Request to ;
I allotherContraOing ! Out Repreeentatves
No Resources Plant Wide
Excutive
Steering
Commie
Inrtiator Advances WOO;. ! RequesttoPurchasing. ^ Contrart Adm inistration *" or OtherSource I
176
Rest Breaks
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
This will confirm the understanding reached between us respecting the practice of rest breaks.
The Company acknowledges that such breaks, which generally include one (I) such break prior to and after the scheduled lunch period, have been a long established practice across the Thompson operations.
The Company has no intention of discontinuing said practice.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
177
Construction Crew
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached at negotiations with respect to the establishment of a Construction Crew within the Manitoba Operations. The Company and Union agree that the Construction Crew will be established with the following objectives:
•	To capture some elements of miscellaneous “construction” work presently being performed by contractors; and,
•	To do so in a manner that reduces the cost associated with performing this work.
The Company and Union agree to the following commitments with respect to the establishment of the Construction Crew:
•	The Construction Crew will be established within six (6) months of the ratification of the 2008 collective bargaining agreement;
•	The Construction Crew will initially take the form of a stand alone working group within the Central Shops working area of the Mechanical Department;
•	Positions on the Construction Crew within the Central Shops working area of the Mechanical Department will be posted according to Article 15 of the Collective Agreement;
•	The Request Transfer system will continue to govern operations employee movement into the Central Shops working area, as has been the past practice; •
•	The Construction Crew will consist of up to eight (8) employees possessing a range of skills including labour and trades. This skill mix will be determined by the work taken on by the Construction Crew. Trades support required for work initially taken on by the Construction Crew will be drawn from within the Central Shops working area. Further resourcing
178
of the Construction Crew will be guided by the two evaluation processes identified below;
•	During the first six (6) months following ratification of the 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreement, a subcommittee of the Joint Contracting Out Committee will be struck to evaluate the type, scope and volume of work which may be taken on by the Construction Crew upon its implementation. By way of example, this body ofwork may include but will not necessarily be limited to portions of the asbestos abatement, concrete or miscellaneous demolition work being performed throughout the Manitoba Operations;
•	In January of each year during the term of the 2008 Collective Agreement, a subcommittee of the Joint Contracting Out Committee will perform a review of the work performed by the Construction Crew over the past year and work planned within the Manitoba Operations for the coming year which might otherwise be outsourced. This review will be executed for the purpose of determining the appropriateness of increasing or decreasing the size of the Construction Crew workforce. Business cases for the performance of said work, required completion schedules, the availability of skilled labour and the requirements and efficiency of operations will guide this annual evaluation;
•	Subject to the ongoing evaluation of work to be taken on by the Construction Crew, the following diagram illustrates the manner in which the Company intends to initially resource the Supervision, Planning and Trades needs of the Construction Crew:
179
• Nothing in the foregoing commitments will be construed as limiting the Company’s rights under Article 2 of the Collective Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations,
K. Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
180
Tenn Labour Pool
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N lS7
Dear Sir:
We confinn the agreement reached between the Company and the Union with respect to the Term Labour Pool (the "TLP”).
The Company and the Union share the common objective of a successful, continuing operation and are committed to contributing to the on-going viability of the Manitoba Operation by improving efficiencies, creating greater flexibility and reducing costs in order to enhance capital investment opportunities and provide greater employment security.
In order to fulfill this commitment, a TLP will be created and utilized to meet short-tenn workforce requirements as set forth below. The TLP will not be used to fill pennanent full-time vacancies in the bargaining unit.
1.	The TLP shall be managed and administered by the Company and the individuals in the TLP shall be selected by the Company.
2.	Issues in dispute that cannot be resolved by the Contracting Out committee, will be referred to the Executive Steering committee.
3.	The TLP shall be comprised of not more than fifty (50) individuals at any one time, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and the Union, including bargaining unit retirees and other individuals as agreed to by the Company and the Union.
4.	In order to be considered by the Company for the TLP, individuals shall be required to satisfy all Company hiring requirements, including medical requirements.
5.	The Company may assign individuals in the TLP to perfonn work which would otherwise be performed by a contractor or which is typically perfonned
181
by bargaining unit employees in the trades, surface and mines operations. No such assignment shall be for less than one (1) consecutive week or more than six (6) consecutive months at a time, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and the Union.
6.	Individuals in the TLP shall be paid the wage rate set forth in the applicable table in Schedule “B” of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and any entitlement to annual vacations and general holidays shall be as prescribed by The Employment Standards Code (Manitoba).
7.	Individuals in the TLP shall not be covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall not be entitled to any rights or benefits provided under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, including, without limitation, Years of Employment with Pay for pension purposes, mines incentive, profit sharing and the right to have recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures contained in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
8.	Individuals in the TLP shall only be offered daily or weekly overtime with the mutual agreement of the Company and the Union.
9.	Every month, the Company shall remit to the Financial Secretary of the Union one point three percent (1.3%) of the gross wages paid by the Company to individuals in the TLP in the previous month.
1 0. Thirty (30) days after the commencement of the TLP, the Company and the Union shall jointly undertake a comprehensive review of the TLP and may agree to make adjustments or improvements to the TLP as a result of this review.
11. The utilization of the TLP shall commence on a date to be agreed upon by the Company and the Union and shall continue for a period of twelve ( 12) months, unless the Company and the Union agree to terminate this Agreement at an earlier date. Should either party wish to terminate this Agreement upon the expiry of the initial twelve (12) month period and any subsequent twelve (12) month period agreed to by the Company and the Union, that party shall provide thirty (30) days’ written notice to the other party. If no such notice is provided, this Agreement shall automatically be renewed for a further period of twelve ( 12) months.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
182
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
183
National King Miner Contest
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the Company’s desire to support the participation of our Manitoba Operations employees in the annual National King Miner Contest.
The Company while ensuring efficiency of operation is maintained shall attempt, where practicable, to release those Manitoba Operations employees whose work schedules conflict with their participation in the contest events.
Employees who wish to participate in the contest will have the option of working a shift in lieu of a scheduled shift prior to the competition, or arranging coverage for this shift from banked RDO Stat, Regular Vacation or Special Vacation.
Whereby an employee elects to work a shift in lieu of, the time worked on that shift will be paid at straight time.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
184
Layoff- Insurance Benefits
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations that an employee who is laid off due to lack of work for thirty (30) days or less shall continue to be entitled to the insurance benefits referred to in Clause 31.01 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of the lay off.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
185
Family Leave
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement between us respecting the commitment by the Company to observe all obligations as prescribed under the Manitoba Employment Standards Act, Section 59.3- 'Family Leave
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
186
Senior Years Apprenticeship Option (SY AO) program
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
Vale Canada Limited (the Company) and USW Local 6166 (the Union) share a commitment to expand upon the Company’s existing apprenticeship program. This letter summarizes the understanding that our two parties have reached regarding the Company’s participation in the Senior Years Apprenticeship Option (SY AO) program.
The Company and the Union will jointly investigate opportunities to partner with the School District of Mystery Lake and/or other such interested parties, on terms and conditions to be discussed and mutually agreed upon between the Company, the Union and the partner(s). These opportunities will provide work experience for individuals through programs such as the Senior Years Apprenticeship Programs and the Community Partners Programs (Example: Nelson House Training Authorities).
The creation of a Senior Years Apprenticeship Program will not affect the ability ofVale employees to participate in an internal apprenticeship program.
To be certain this letter accurately reflects our understanding, please review the items one ( 1) through seven (8) listed and indicate your understanding and agreement by signing on the signature line below.
1.	SYAO will attempt to generate interest in the trades at an earlier age;
2.	The program will create an opportunity for local young people to start a trades apprenticeship while still in high school;
3.	The program will allow students to acquire elective credits toward their graduation and cumulative hours towards their apprenticeship through part-time, on-the-job training.
4.	To participate, the student must have completed high school Senior 2 and be enrolled in an approved Manitoba Senior 3 or Senior 4 program. The student apprentice will be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) hours of work per week and
187
must maintain acceptable grades as defined by the high school in all courses in which they are enrolled. The duration of employment will be 110 hours for each school credit with multiple credit hours available up to a maximum of eight (8) credit hours over a two-year period.
5.	Through the already established Joint Trades Committee, the Company and Union will evaluate the appropriateness of each SYAO placement prior to being advertised with the local high school.
6.	Student Apprentices will not be deemed as an “employee” under the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). As such, the terms and conditions of the C.B.A. will not be applicable.
7.	The exception being that Student Apprentices will follow Schedule “C” of the C.B.A. for their hourly rate of pay.
8.	While the Company may give preference in hiring to those individuals who successfully complete a Senior Years Apprenticeship Program as part of their course of study, it is understood that the Company is in no way obliged to employ any individual who participates in the Senior Years Apprenticeship Program.
Either party may terminate the program described in the paragraphs above by providing to the other party thirty (30) days’ written notice.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
VALE CANADA LIMITED,
MANITOBA OPERATIONS Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 UNITED STEELWORKERS,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
188
Transfer Out and (flowcharts)
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
We confirm the agreement reached during negotiations respecting the application of Clause 15.06. The attached flowchart is intended to provide clarity with respect to the Request Transfer System.
This document does not alter the intent of Clause 15.06 in any manner whatsoever. Any difference arising out of the interpretation of Clause 15.06 will be handled under the provisions of Article 20 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and reaming that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
189
Transfer Out of a Department • 15.06
Yes
Ye
190
Job Posting (and flowcharts)
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N lS7
Dear Sirs:
This letter of agreement will serve to confirm the agreement reached between us with respect to the job posting process described in Articles 15.07, 15.10, 15.lOA and 15.11 of the Collective Agreement.
The attached flowcharts are meant to clarify the job posting process described in the Agreement. This document does not alter the intent of the aforementioned clauses in any manner whatsoever. Any difference arising with respect to the job posting process will be handled under the provisions of Article 20 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
191
GENERAL JOB POSTING PROCEDURE (Clause 15.10 & 15.11)
Poot"NO APPLICANTS" & Name. Employee N umber& Seior'rty of Assi ned Empltyee !	(? Days)
Post"NO SUCCESSFUL APPLICANTS" & Name. Employee Number & Semiwity of Assigned Employee _____(7 Days)____
Post Name, Employee Number & Seniority of Successful Applicant (7 Days)
J
192
MINES JOB POSTING PROCEDURE (ARTICLE 15.10 & 15.10A)
_ + ..... Post Nara, Employee Number & Seniority of Successful Applicant (7Day )
		Post "NO
		
APPLICANTS” &		APPLICANTS" &
Name, Employee		
Number & Seniority of		
Assigned Employee		Assigned Employee
(7 Days)		(7 Days)

193
MAINTENANCE JOB POSTING PROCEDURE (ARTICLE 15.07)
Post Vacancy (i) i (7 days)
Ipnt Name, Employee I Number & Seniority of 1 H SwessfulAppl^oeaot I (7 Days)
Post N Tie. Emplayse I J Number & Seniority ofl *| S^e»sfuiA»licantI I (? Days)
--•{^ Notify Union
PostNwne, Emp^ee : Y..	Number* SMikrity of
SuccesstulAppi^lCant (7 Days)
194
Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP)
September 16, 2014
USW Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sir:
This letter will serve to confirm the agreement reached through Collective Bargaining with respect to the Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP; formerly EAP).
The Employee and Family Assistance Program is intended to provide services and assistance required by employees and their families such that these issues do not impact employee work performance.
An individual’s employment status will not be jeopardized by his or her use ofthe services available under the EFAP.
All employees and their families should have access to professional services for a range of issues, which may include but not necessarily be limited to:
•	Personal and psychological counseling;
■	Family and marriage counseling;
■	Grief and post-traumatic stress counseling;
■	Suicide prevention counseling;
■	Alcohol addiction counseling and treatment;
•	Substance addiction counseling and treatment;
■	Nutritional counseling;
•	Care ofelderly persons counseling;
•	Financial and debt counseling;
■	Management of the Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM) team and
services.
All EFAP services are provided on a confidential basis except in the case of a mandatory referral (affected employee fails to comply with recommended treatment program, which may result in termination of the employment relationship). It is the role of the EFAP Coordinator to inform the Company of any such non-compliance.
195
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letterand re^mingthat copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R.
Leslie
196
Reduction of Contracting Out
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This letter of agreement will serve to confirm the agreement reached between us with respect to the reduction of contracting out within the Manitoba Operations.
The Company and Union are committed to significantly reducing the amount of work being contracted out and to improving the business competitiveness of the Manitoba Operations. The objective of this initiative is to eliminate the contracting out of work which falls under the following definition:
1.	Work which falls within the bargaining unit as described in Article 3.03 of the current collective agreement; and,
2.	Work for which the required skills, resources, materials, tools and equipment are readily available within the Manitoba Operations; and,
3.	Work which would, if performed by Vale personnel, result in an operating cost savings for the Manitoba Operations.
Work that forms part ofMajorCapital Projects (one (I) million dollars or more) is not covered by this agreement. Work performed in a more cost effective manner by a contractor will remain with the contractor.
It is the mandate of the Contracting Out Committee to work toward the commitment made in this letter. The Co-Chairs of the Contracting Out Committee will report out on a quarterly basis to the Executive Steering Committee.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
197
lA/lBOpen Pit
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This letter of agreement will serve to confirm the agreement reached between us with respect to quarrying activities in the 1 A/l B open pit.
The parties agree that rock quarrying activities in the lA/lB pit will be undertaken by a third party. The parties further recognize that the rock quarrying activities in the l A/IB pit will expose a mineralization zone which may generate ore for processing inthe Manitoba Operations’ Mill, Smelter and Refinery.
The Company and Union agree that should the latter stages of the lA/lB project result in the mining primarily of ore (presently ref erred to as “the plum”) meant for processing within the Manitoba Operations Mill, Smelter and Refinery, Vale personnel will be employed in the drilling and blasting of that material. The project schedule will dictate the date upon which these activities are undertaken.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
198
YEWP’s - Apprenticeship Training Program
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This letter of agreement will serve to confirm the agreement reached between us with respect to Years ofEmployment with Pay (YEWP’s) for active employees in the Company’s apprenticeship training program.
The parties agree that an individual who is an active employee as of September 16, 2008 and who had been laid off for a period of time during which they attended school on a fiill-time basis as part of the Company’s apprenticeship training program will be credited with any partial YEWP lost as a result of that time spent at school and the associated period oflayoff.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
199
Trades Apprenticeship Program
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
The Company and the Union share an ongoing commitment to our Trades Apprenticeship Program. It is our mutual desire to establish a trades workforce at the Company’s Manitoba Operation that is “world class" in terms of skill, ability, performance and sustainability. The Company’s Trades Apprenticeship Program is a critical component inattaining this goal.
We recognize the benefits to both the Company and our existing workforce in providing such trades apprenticeship opportunities. These include meeting our trades workforce requirements in a competitive labour market and providing exciting career advancement opportunities for our existing employees.
The parties further recognize that current employees are concerned that such opportunities could be limited in the future as a result of partnerships with educational institutions, the availability of skilled trades, etc. With respect to this concern, the Company commits to convene the Joint Trades Committee on an annual basis, or more often as required, to review the intake of trades apprentices for eachupcoming year.
The Company retains the right to hire journeyman tradespersons and apprentices in the 3rd year and beyond as required to satisfy the requirements of operations. Yet, the Company supports the principle that candidates from within the existing bargaining unit be given consideration for trades apprenticeship opportunities as well. To this latter end, the Company commits to the selection of two (2) apprentice candidates from within the existing workforce for each one ( 1) 2nd year trades apprentice hired from outside of the bargaining unit. This commitment is subject to the availability, skill and ability of employees to meet the trades selection criteria.
From this date forward, the parties agree to the following:
I.	An employee who is selected by the Company to participate in a Trades Apprenticeship Program shall be paid forty (40) hours at his applicable straight time rate and applicable Hourly Employee Annual Incentive Plan for each full week he attends a recognized Community College on a full- time basis, as approved by the Company, as part ofthe Trades Apprenticeship Program. The employee shall not be entitled to any overtime or other premiums during each week that are result oftheir efforts to complete educational requirements. In the event an em-
200
ployee is offered an opportunity to work for the Company outside of their regular school commitment, they shall be paid their applicable overtime rate and shift premiums.
2.	The Company shall be responsible for the payment of associated tuition fees;
3.	An employee who is required by the Company to attend a college or trades school located outside of the Mystery Lake Government District as part of the Trades Apprenticeship Program shall be provided a weekly allowance oftwo hundred dollars ($200.00) for each full calendar week that the employee is required to be outside of the Mystery Lake Government District to attend the college or trade school, which allowance shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis for any such period less than a full calendar week.
4.	Attendance at such training will be considered as ‘time worked’ for the calculation of “Years of
Employment With Pay” as prescribed under the terms of the Manitoba Pension Plan;
5.	In recognition ofthe commitment outlined in I, 2 and 3 above, an employee, with less than eleven
( 11) years of service, electing to participate in the Trades Apprenticeship Program shall be obliged to sign a Return Service Agreement. That agreement signed between the employee and the Company will include the following understandings:
A.	Upon completion of the course of study for the educational leave which was granted, and the associated journeyperson trade ticket level being achieved, the employee would commit to work for the Company for a period of four (4) years.
B.	If the employee fails to meet the above commitment, for all or a portion of that term, then he\she would be obliged to pay the Company all or a portion ofthe costs associated with such Apprenticeship Training.
C.	Those associated costs shall include the base wages, allowances and other educational monies paid by the Company.
D.	The funds to be repaid to the Company shall be equal to the percentage of the term of employment. For example if seventy five percent (75%) of the four (4) yearterm of employment is not completed, then the employee would repay seventy five percent (75%) ofthat sum outlined in subparagraph 5.C above.
E.	If, during his employment with the Company, the employee does not, for reasons unacceptable to the Company, complete the course ofstudy for the educational leave which was granted or achieve the associated journeyperson trade ticket level, then the Company may require the employee to pay the Company all, or a portion of, the costs associated with his Apprenticeship Training. By way of clarification, this is intended to deter those individuals who otherwise might elect to quit either the course of study or their employment with the Company or to not achieve the journeyperson trade ticket level associated with the course of study. It is not meant to be applied under such circumstances as an employee’s inability to succeed at the training, or an apprentice confi'onted with a critical personal matter.
6.	A. An employee whose participation in the Trades Apprenticeship Program is terminated as a direct result of a force adjustment or the suspension or termination by the Company of the Trades Apprenticeship Program will be transferred to Operations or may elect voluntary
201
layoff under the terms of Clause 15.19 of the Collective Agreement. In either event, subject to subparagraph 6.C below, such employee will be relieved ofhis then current repayment obligations under the Return Service Agreement.
B.	Should such an employee accept an opportunity fiom the Company to re-enter the Trades Apprenticeship Program, such employee shall sign a new Return Service Agreement with the Company which shall include the understandings referred to in paragraph 5 above except that, for certainty, the employee’s obligation under the Return Service Agreement to pay the Company all or a portion of the costs associated with his Apprenticeship Training will be based on the costs associated with his Apprenticeship Training following his re-entry into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
C.	Should such an employee refuse an opportunity fiom the Company to re-enter the Trades Apprenticeship Program and then subsequently successfiilly apply to re-enter the Trades Apprenticeship Program, such employee shall sign a new Return Service Agreement which shall include the understandings referred to in paragraph 5 above and shall include the understanding that the employee’s obligation under the Return Service Agreement to pay the Company all or a portion of the costs associated with his Apprenticeship Training will be based on the costs associated with his Apprenticeship Training prior to the termination ofhis participation in the Trades Apprenticeship Program and following his re-entry into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
202
Bereavement Leave During Vacation
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our agreement with respect to bereavement leave.
If a death in an employee’s immediate family occurs while the employee is on regular or special vacation, the employee will be allowed to extend his vacation for an additional three (3) consecutive calendardays.
“Immediate family” for this purpose shall mean spouse, son, daughter, father or mother.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
203
Joint Occupational Health Study Program
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached between the parties to continue the Joint Occupational Health Study Program for the Manitoba Operations.
The Divisional Co-Chairs of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee, the Health and Environment Worker Representative, the Manager, Human Resources/Safety Health and Environment and the Chief Medical Officer for Vale Canada Limited shall meet for the purposes of identifying potential occupational health issues for study and establishing guidelines with respect to such studies.
The Company shall pay the cost of all necessary external resources associated with any such occupational health studies up to a maximum amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in each year for the next three (3) years. If less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) is spent on necessary external resources in the first or second of the next three years, the difference between the maximum amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) and the amount spent in the year shall be available to pay for such expenses in the immediately following year. For the purpose of this agreement, a year shall commence on September 16 and end on September 15.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
204
Medical Treatment Access Support Plan
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirmthe agreement reached between us with respect to the Medical Treatment Access Support Plan (hereafter referred to as “The Plan”).
The Plan is intended to provide financial assistance for individuals who experience financial hardship because of expenses associated with an emergency or unexpected catastrophic medical event within their immediate family, and who are not eligible for coverage under other plans.
Each calendar year the Company will allocate a maximum of $150,000 for reimbursement of eligible and accepted claims. Such monies shall not carry over from one year to the next.
The Plan will be administered by the “Support Plan Committee”. The Committee shall be comprised of two representatives of the Company, one of whom shall be the Manager of Human Resources, Safety, Health and Environment, and two representatives of the Local Union, one of whom shall be the Union President. The Committee will meet as necessary.
All matters relating to the administration, interpretation, overall operation and application of The Plan shall be the Support Plan Committee’s responsibility. Any decisions of the Support Plan Committee are fi nal and binding.
The Plan has been discussed and agreed to in concept. There is additional work required to finalize details of The Plan text, definitions, administrative details and related forms and other materials. The Committee will finalize outstanding Plan details and implement The Plan by January 1, 2009.
Either party may elect to terminate The Plan at any time as they deem necessary or appropriate. Although such an outcome is not expected, either party making such election shall provide one hundred and twenty ( 120) days’ written notice of such discontinuance.
205
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
206
Birchtree Ore and Rockfill Haulage
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This letter of agreement will serve to confirm the agreement reached between us with respect to Birchtree ore and rockfill haulage.
During the first six (6) months of the term of this agreement, the Contracting Out Committee Co-Chairs and any other committee members or resources that may be required willjointly examine all costs and expenses pertaining to ore and rockfill haulage, with the objective of determining whether there is a business case for the performance of this work by Vale employees.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
207
Joint Outcomes Presentation
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confinn our commitment to jointly develop and deliver a presentation on the outcomes of2014 collective agreement negotiations. This presentation will be jointly delivered to the Manitoba Operations Managers at a time and place to be reasonably detennined by the Company. This presentation will also be jointly delivered to the Steward body and Executive of US W Local 6166 at a time and place to be reasonably determined by USW Local 6166.
The Company and the Union will endeavor to jointly develop as much of this presentation as possible prior to September 15,2014.
The Company and the Union will each nominate prior toSeptember 15,2014one (1) representative to deliver this presentation. These two (2) representatives will jointly deliver this presentation to the above referenced two (2) audiences on or before October 15, 2014.
The purpose of this presentation will be to educate the above referenced two (2) audiences on any substantive changes made to the Collective Bargaining Agreement in the 2014 collective agreement negotiations.
Either party may elect to opt out of developing and delivering this presentation at any time by providing written notice of such decision to the other party prior to October 15, 2014.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the fonn of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and retting that copy to
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
208
Hoistman “Trainee Job”
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson,
R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
We confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union with respect to the award ofHoistman “traineejob” pursuant to clause 23.03 of the 2011 Collective Bargaining Agreement.
•	Such trainee job shall be posted for seven (7) calendar days
•	Such trainee job shall be awarded fourteen (14) days from the date of posting.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returningthat copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
209
Joint Harassment and Workplace Violence Prevention policy
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
A mutually satisfactory Collective Bargaining Agreement having been entered into between us, this will confirm our commitment to meet within the first six months following ratification of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement for the purpose of jointly reviewing our current Manitoba Operations Joint Harassment and Workplace Violence Prevention policy and procedures and developing a revised policy and procedures that are consistent with the requirements of The Workplace Safety and Health Act (Manitoba) and the Regulations thereunder.
The Company and Union will each nominate two (2) representatives to work on this review and revision. The group nominated to work on this review and revision will use the current Manitoba Operations policy and procedure, the Vale Canada policy, the Steelworker’s Statement on Sexual Harassment, The Human Rights Code (Manitoba), The Workplace Safety and Health Act (Manitoba) and the Regulations thereunder and other such source or reference material as they see fit to use in reviewing the existing Manitoba Operations policy and procedures and developing a revised policy and procedures that are consistent with the requirements of The Workplace Safety and Health Act (Manitoba) and the Regulations thereunder. The working group will submit a revised policy and procedures to the Manitoba Operations Safety, Health and Environment SPI approval committee for approval and adoption across Manitoba Operations.
Either party may elect to opt out of participating in this exercise at any time by providing written notice ofsuch decision to the other party.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
210
Pipe Kipper
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba
R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
It is understood that if the Pipe Kipper ultramafic project delivers an acceptable business case and proceeds through all associated environmental, regulatory, First Nations and otherprocesses, that:
•	All development, clearing, stripping, construction and site preparation work will be tendered to outside contractors.
•	At that point in time when Pipe Kipper and Concentrator (if indeed the latter is built) commence operations to mine and mill nickel ore, any such production work shall be undertaken by employees represented by the United Steelworkers, Local 6166.
There is no guarantee or commitment that a business case will be reached for this project. Even in the event that one is established, the associated consultation, approval and construction phase would likely take several years beyond the terms of the current Collective Agreementjust negotiated between the parties.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
211
September 16, 2014
Defined Contribution (DC) Plan
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
During this set of negotiations, given the introduction of a new Defined Contribution (DC) component to the Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Division of Vale Canada Limited Represented by United Steelworkers (the Pension Plan), the parties discussed that employees whose most recent date of hire is before January 1, 2012 will be given an opportunity on or before December I, 2014 to choose how they want their pension benefits treated.
This letter will confirm the understanding between the parties that the Company will provide employees whose most recent date of hire is before January 1, 2012 with access to information and tools to make an informed choice, which will include:
•	Written communication materials
•	Personalized decision modelling tool
•	Employee information sessions
•	DB/DC choice
•	DC investment information for members who elect to participate in the DC component
•	Access to a pension helpline
The Company commits that the deadline for employees to make a decision will be at least eight (8) weeks after the Company has made the above referenced information and tools available such that employees will have sufficient time to attend employee educations sessions and to access independent financial advice so that each can make an informed choice for the option that best suits his or her personal circumstances. An employee’s decision shall be final and shall not be changed after the deadline.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
212
Preferential Hiring
September 16, 2014 United Steelworkers
Local 6166	#
19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sir:
We confirm that we are prepared to agree to the following respecting assistance to employees in the event of layoffs resulting from a closure of a major mine or plant or the permanent closure of the Manitoba Operations.
A. Preferential hiring of hourly rated employees permanently laid off at the Manitoba Operations - The following is subject to Vale Canada Limited being able to make, in a manner and at a cost that is satisfactory to Vale Canada Limited, all necessary amendments to Collective Agreements and pension and other benefits plans that may exist at its Sudbury Operation, Port Colbome Operation, Voisey’s Bay Operation and Long Harbour Operation.
Where there is a requirement to hire hourly rated employees at the Sudbury Operation, Port Colbome Operation, Voisey’s Bay Operation or Long Harbour Operation and all the hiring criteria, including, but not limited to, any requirements of any applicable Impacts and Benefits Agreements, governmental agreements and adjacency related policies, of the hiring location have been complied with, preference in hiring will be given to hourly rated employees who were laid off within the previous 24 month period due to a closure of a major mine or plant or the permanent closure of the Manitoba Operations, subject to the following conditions:
To be eligible for preferential hiring, a laid off employee must have been laid off within the previous 24 month period due to a closure of a major mine or plant or the permanent closure of the Manitoba Operations and must make application and satisfy all preemployment requirements of the hiring location, which may include but will not necessarily be limited to education, skill and experience and medical requirements. Where, in the opinion of the Company, the factors described above are for all intents and purposes equal between two (2) or more laid off employees, preference in hiring shall be given to the laid off employee with the greatest seniority.
The Company’s decision regarding employment of a laid off employee shall not be subject to review under the grievance or arbitration procedures at the hiring location.
Where a laid off employee is hired pursuant to this Letter of Agreement, service at the Manitoba Operations at the date of lay off will be credited at the hiring location for the purpose ofdetermining the duration of annual vacation to which the employee is entitled. For greater clarity, no laid off employee shall have his or her service at the Manitoba Operations credited at the hiring location for any other purpose, including but not limited to
213
the right to bid on timing of annual vacation or any other matters in which rights or benefits are conferred on the basis of seniority. The seniority of the employee so hired will be calculated based on that employee’s most recent date ofhire at the hiring location. Group benefits, including without limitation, health, medical and life insurance, will be in accordance with such benefits offered at the hiring location. For pension purposes, the following will apply:
Employees who participated in the defined benefit component of the Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Division of Vale Canada Limited Represented by United Steelworkers (“MPP”) on the date of lay off:	Choice, where applicable, of either having (i) the employee’s number of Years of Employment with Pay (YEWP) under the terms ofthe MPP as at the date of lay off recognized under the terms ofthe applicable defined benefit plan, if any, available at the hiring location, or (ii) service at the Manitoba Operations at the date of lay off credited at the hiring location for the purpose of determining the eligible level of Company contribution to correspond to the employee’s voluntary contribution under the terms of the applicable defined contribution plan, if any, available at the hiring location.
Employees who participated in the defined contribution component of the MPP on the date oflay off:	Service at the Manitoba Operations at the date of lay off credited at the hiring location for the purpose of determining the eligible level of Company contribution to correspond to the employee’s voluntary contribution under the terms of the applicable defined contribution plan, if any, available at the hiring location.
B. Support for Laid Off Employees - An “Employment Transition Committee” consisting of one ( 1) employee appointed by the Union and one ( 1) individual appointed by the Company will be established to expedite a process to provide employment counseling for affected employees. The committee will coordinate the delivery of all applicable government services and programs designed to assist affected employees, government services and programs designed to assist affected employees, in such areas as resume writing, counseling and financial management.
The Employment Transition Committee will make recommendations to the Joint Problem Solving Committee. Such recommendations may include, but would not be limited to matters of: •
•	Consultation with employees and their spouses
•	Consultation with USW District 3 Representatives
•	Consultation with USW International Representatives
•	Consultation with municipal, provincial and federal governments
•	Relocation Assistance
•	Recall Rights
•	Pension Transfer
214
Meetings of the Employment Transition Committee will be held as often as required at mutually agreeable times. The provisions of Clause 19.04 with respect to payment of time lost shall apply to the Union representative on the Committee.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
215
Apprentice Miners
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, Manitoba R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached between us regarding the deletion from the Collective Agreement of “Article 23B - Apprentice Miners” and the “Miner Apprenticeship” training wage scale formerly included in Schedule “C”.
Miner TQ is no longer a recognized trade in the Province of Manitoba under The Apprenticeship and Tradesmen's Qualifications Act.
Any employee currently working in the classification ofMiner TQ will continue to receive the premium associated with that classification, which premium shall be considered part of his basic rate ofpay. As Miner TQ is no longer a recognized trade in the Province ofMani-toba, no new employees will be eligible to qualify for this classification after the date of ratification ofthis Collective Agreement.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers, M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie M. Nychyporuk
216
Articles 1 7 and 19
September 16, 2014
USW Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our agreement with respect to Articles 17 and 19 of the Collective Agreement.
The Company and the Union will meet without prejudice during the transition process relating to the closure of the Smelter and Refinery to determine the extent to which the numbers ofleaves, leave days, leave hours, employees who may be on leave, Grievance Committeemen and Union Stewards referred to in Articles 17 and 19 may be reduced. Such reductions will recognize the shrinking footprint of the Manitoba Operations while continuing to facilitate the effective performance of the roles of the Union representatives. Such determinations will be made by no later than the sixtieth day following the closure of the Smelter and Refinery.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 USW Local 6166 M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
217
Call-Outs
September 16, 2014
USW Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Drive Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm our agreement with respect to call-outs.
When an employee has responded to a call-out and is present on Company property when an emergency (as defined in Article 28C.Ol) develops or occurs concurrent with his response to the initial call-out or prior to the employee leaving Company property, the employee may be assigned by the Company to respond to such emergency without such assignment constituting a second call-out.
This clarification is in no way intended to encourage the assignment of previously scheduled non-emergency work to an employee who has attended work in response to a callout or is attending to an emergency situation which developed concurrent with or immediately following the initial call-out.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day of September, 2014 USW Local 6166 M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
218
Definition Diamond Drilling and ACD
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Dear Sirs:
This will confirm the agreement reached between the Company and the Union regarding definition diamond drilling and underground capital development.
The parties agree that during the term of the 2014 Collective Agreement, the newly formed Executive Steering Committee will assign to the Joint Contracting Out Committee the task of reviewing the business case associated with the performance of definition diamond drilling and underground capital development work by bargaining unit employees. The provisions of Clause 3.03 and the existing Letters of Agreement on Contracting Out continue to be in effect and will guide the discussions on this subject. If the Company is satisfied a positive business case exists for the performance of definition diamond drilling or underground capital development work, it will determine the location and timing of pilot projects in these areas.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance at the end of the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations Kirk Regular
Accepted this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
219
Transition Process
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr. Thompson, MB R8N IS7
Transition Process
Subject to completion of satisfactory terms within an Environmental Performance Agreement with Environment Canada, the Company intends to operate the Thompson Smelter & Refinery until such time as the Concentrate Loadout Project is complete, which is expected to be in the second half of 2018. This is a notable extension to the operational life of the Smelter and Refinery which was previously announced to close in 2015. The extended operation of these f acilities will have a significant and positive impact on the prospects for long-term job security for those Manitoba Operations employees employed with the Company on or before September 16, 2014.
The change to the intended closure date for the Smelter and Refinery also necessitates several adjustments to the previously established transition process for the transfer and training of impacted Smelter and Refinery employees.
The Company and the Union jointly acknowledge the Company’s need to operate as efficiently as possible during the transition period leading up to the closure of the Smelter and Refinery, while systematically transferring to the Mines and Mill departments those employees whose positions are impacted by the impending closure of the Smelter and Refinery.
In order to address those challenges, the Company and the Union hereby agree to the implementation by the Company of a transfer and training process (the ‘Transition Process”) on the terms and conditions set forth below:
I.	For the purposes of this Agreement, the following phrases have the following meanings:
(a)	“Release Date” means the anticipated release date from the Smelter or Refinery or such other Departments and working areas that shall be reduced as a consequence of the transition to a mining and milling operation for all employees employed within such areas at September 16, 2014. The Release Date is subject to change based on the ability of the employee’s De-
220
partment or working area to release the employee and/or the ability of another Department or working area to receive the employee and/or the availability of an eligible qualified backfill;
(b)	“Master Release Schedule" means the list developed by the Company of impacted employees, listed in order of seniority, which indicates the Release Date for employees employed within the Smelter and Refinery or such other Departments and working areas that shall be reduced as a consequence of the transition to a mining and milling operation as at September 16, 2014;
(c)	“Request Transfer List” means the list of employees who have filed with the Company a written request to transfer from one department to another in accordance with Clause 15.06 of the Collective Agreement;
(d)	“Transfer” means a transfer at the earliest opportunity, with the earliest opportunity being determined by the Company based on the requirements of the Smelter or Refinery, from whichever the employee is employed in at that time, the availability of an eligible qualified employee to backfill the employee’s position and the receiving department’s ability to receive employees and being subject to the application of the Request Transfer List as set out in paragraph 4 of this Agreement;
(e)	“Critical Skill Job Employee” means an employee who is determined by the Company to be a critical skill job employee as at September 16, 2014;
(e)	“Current Smelter and Refinery Employee” means an employee that is employed within the Smelter or Refinery as at September 16, 2014, excluding Critical Skill Job Employees;
(f)	“Forced Transfer List” means the Forced Transfer List referred to in Clause 15.04 of the Collective Agreement.
2.	The Transition Process f'orCritical Skill Job Employees will be as follows:
(a)	the Company will refer to the Master Release Schedule to determine the Release Date for Critical Skill Job Employees;
(b)	in order of seniority, the Company will provide to Critical Skill Job Employees the following two options:
(i)	a Transfer to the Mines or Mill, based on the requirements of the business; or
221
(ii)	to remain in their current position until the Company determines the employee is no longer required and to Transfer to the Mines or Mill at that time;
(c)	it is understood that where a Critical Skill Job Employee has opted for a Transfer and an eligible qualified employee is not available to backfill the Critical Skill Job Employee’s position, a Transfer will not be granted to the Critical Skill Job Employee until an eligible qualified employee becomes available.
(d)	Critical Skill Job Employees who opt for a Transfer will, upon release fiom the Smelter or Refinery, transfer to the Mines or Mill and receive the applicable orientation package. Upon successful completion of the applicable orientation package, these employees will become eligible to bid on trainee job vacancies in their respective departments. Upon successful completion of trainee jobs or if the employee is deemed qualified by the Company, such Critical Skill Job Employees may apply for position vacancies for which they are qualified. All vacancies, including trainee vacancies, will be awarded in accordance with Clauses 15.02 and 15.10 of the Collective Agreement;
(e)	a Critical Skill Job Employee may apply to participate in the Trades Apprenticeship Program as set forth in the Trades Apprenticeship Program Letter of Agreement. Upon making such an election, the employee shall no longer be deemed to be a Critical Skill Job Employee in which case a Transfer shall be effected in accordance with paragraph 3(h)(ii) below if the employee is inanapprentice position orin accordance with the process set forth in paragraphs 3(a) through 3(g) below ifthe employee is not in an apprentice position or has not been admitted into the Trades Apprenticeship Program.
(t) a Critical Skill Job Employee may, subject to the requirements of the business, request to transfer in accordance with Clause 15.06 in which case the employee will be included on the Request Transfer List. Upon being transferred to a new Department pursuant to Clause 15.06 the employee shall no longer be deemed to be a Critical Skill Job Employee in which case the Transfer shall be affected in accordance with paragraph 4 below;
(g)	for clarity, if at any time a Critical Skill Job Employee vacates his or her position for any reason, such employee shall no longer be eligible to participate in the Critical Skill Job Employee transfer process set forth herein.
(h)	Critical Skill Job Employees who remain employed in the Smelter or Refinery in their Critical Skill Job will be offered by the Company within six (6) months of the expected closure date of the Smelter and Refinery a job posting in a Mine Department. The Company will determine the number
222
of postings which will be made available in each occupational classification. The total number of these postings will be equal to the number of Critical Skill Job Employees remaining as Critical Skill Job Employees in the six (6) months prior to closure of the Smelter and Refinery. These job postings will be awarded among the Critical Skill Job Employees in order of qualification, seniority and pref erence, with the giving of preference according to seniority being subject to the ability, knowledge, training and skill of such employees. For clarity, a senior employee shall not be forced to Transfer into a lower job classification by virtue of being qualified in a lowerjob classification.
3.	The Transition Process for Current Smelter and Refinery Employees will be as follows:
(a)	the Company will refer to the Master Release Schedule to determine the Release Date forCurrent Smelter and Refinery employees;
(b)	in order of seniority, the Company will provide to Current Smelter and Refinery Employees the following two options:
(i)	a Transfer to the Mines or Mill, based on the requirements of the business; or
(ii)	to remain in their current position until the Company determines the employee is no longer required and to Transfer at that time;
(c)	if an insufficient number ofCurrent Smelter and Refinery Employees have opted for a Transfer, as determined by the Company, the Company reserves the right to Transfer Smelter and Refinery employees, including Current Smelter and Refinery Employees, in reverse order of seniority;
(d)	it is understood that where a Current Smelter and Refinery Employee has opted for a Transfer and an eligible qualified employee is not available to backfill the Current Smelter and Refinery Employee’s position, a Transfer will not be granted to the Current Smelter and Refinery Employee until an eligible qualified employee becomes available;
(e)	upon release from the Smelter or Refinery, Current Smelter and Refinery Employees (other than those referred to in paragraph 2(h) below) will transfer to the Mines or Mill, and will receive the applicable orientation package. Upon successful completion of the applicable orientation package, these Current Smelter and Refinery Employees will become eligible to bid on trainee job vacancies in their respective departments;
223
0 upon successful completion of trainee jobs or if deemed qualified by the Company, Current Smelter and Refinery Employees may apply for position vacancies for which they are qualified;
(g)	all vacancies, including trainee vacancies, will be awarded in accordance with Clauses 15.02 and 15.10 ofthe Collective Agreement; and
(h)	without restricting the generality of the foregoing, the following shall apply to Employees employed in the Mechanical and Electrical Departments:
(i)	employees employed in the position of Mason, Leader Trade Qualified; Bricklayer, Trade Qualified; Mason, Leader; Mason; or Mason Intermediate, shall first be eligible for Transfer to the Construction Crew or Mines Underground Construction Crews, failing which Clause 15.19 shall apply. The Company will determine the number of vacancies available on the Construction Crew or within the Construction function in each Mine Department upon closure of the Smelter. These vacancies will be awarded among employees in the occupational classifications identified above in order of qualification, seniority and preference, with the giving of preference according to seniority being subject to the ability, knowledge, training and skill of such employees. For clarity, a senior employee shall not be forced to Transfer into a lower job classification by virtue of being qualified in a lower job classification;
(ii)	employees holding a Trade Qualified tradesman designation as listed in Clause 23A.02 of the Collective Agreement or apprentices:
1)	first, shall be retained, based on the Trade Qualification held at the time of the Release Date, within the Maintenance Department and shall be transferred in accordance with the Intradepartmental Force Adjustment Flowchart to the Mine, Mill or other departmental working area where maintenance activities of the same Trade Qualification are required as determined by the Company; or
2)	second, if the Company has no requirement for the Trade Qualification held at the Release Date, shall be subject to the application of Clause 15.04 and Clause 15.19;
with preference in respect to the above sequence given to Trade Qualified employees before apprentices.
(iii)	employees who do not hold a Trade Qualified tradesman designation per Article 23A.02 or who are not apprentices shall be subject to Transfer to the Mine or Mill and assignment to the Department that is
224
applicable to such transfer in accordance with Clause 15.04, failing which Clause 15.19 shall apply.
4.	The Master Release Schedule and the Request Transfer List will be administered concurrently, in order of seniority, for Current Smelter and Refinery Employees. Once all Current Smelter and Refinery Employees are transferred, consideration may be given to employees on the Request Transfer List whose employment commenced with the Company after September 16, 2014.
5.	The volume of work conducted within the Transportation Department and Warehouse work area shall be substantially reduced as a consequence of the closure of the Smelter and Refinery. Accordingly, the parties jointly acknowledge that employees working within the aforementioned Department and work area at the Release Date shall be transferred within their existing Department or work area, as applicable, in accordance with the Intradepartmental Force Adjustment Flowchart and if no such vacancies exist such employees shall be subject to transfer in accordance with Clause 15.04. Any Transfers or force adjustments within the above Department or work area and any Force Transfer List shall be integrated according to seniority with the Master Release Schedule and the Request Transfer List.
6.	Subject to paragraph 7, an employee who has been transferred via a Request Transfer or a Transfer in accordance with the Transfer Process set out herein shall not request a subsequent transfer to the Smelter or Refinery or other surface job.
7.	Employees who were formerly employed within the Smelter or Refinery prior to September 16, 2014 who elected to transfer out of the Smelter and Refinery on account of its anticipated closure in 2015 shall no later than December 3 I, 2014 be given one opportunity to declare whether they wish to re-transfer back to the Smelter or Refinery. The Company shall retain discretion as to the timing of affecting such re-transfer, the process for implementing such re-transfer and the number of employees who may re-transfer.
8.	Where an employee is Transferred after the Release Date as a result of the Transition Process to work in an occupational job classification carrying a lower rate of pay than the occupational classification held at the Release Date, the three-month wage protection provisions of Clause 8.07 shall apply.
9.	The Company shall have the sole discretion to determine the length of training time required to qualify for an occupation.
10.	An employee employed as of the Release Date who files a request to transfer pursuant to Clause 15.06 and subsequently declines a requested transfer opportunity shall be removed from the Request Transfer List f or the duration of the Transition Process. 11
11.	No bargaining unit member shall be laid off as a direct result of the Company transferring a salaried employee into the bargaining unit.
225
12.	Employees laid off as a result of the Transition Process, excluding those employees who elect voluntary layoff under Clause 15.19, shall be eligible for preferential hiring consideration and support for laid off employees in accordance with the “Preferential Hiring” Letter of Agreement.
13.	Any concerns the Union may have with respect to the application of the provisions of this Agreement will be discussed between the officers of the Union and the Senior Site Executives and the Senior Site Human Resources Representative of the Company or their designates.
14.	The Company and the Union acknowledge and agree that the Company retains sole and exclusive discretion over the determination ofCritical Skill Job Employees, the Release Date and the Master Release Schedule and that the determination of Critical Skill Job Employees, the Release Date or the Master Release Schedule shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration. For greater clarity, a Current Smelter and Refinery Employee shall have the right to initiate a grievance in respect to compliance with the Transfer Process detailed in paragraph 3 above and may submit such grievance to arbitration in accordance with the Collective Agreement. However, no such grievance shall pertain to the timing of the Release Date, the employee’s inclusion on the Master Release Schedule, or the determination that the Employee is not a Critical Skill Job Employee as the Company retains exclusive and sole discretion to make such determinations.
15.	The Collective Agreement will continue to apply to the transfer and training of impacted Smelter and Refinery employees except to the extent modified by this Agreement and the Company will, to the extent determined practicable by the Company and except to the extent modified by this Agreement, endeavour to give preference according to seniority. Where there is a conflict between the Collective Agreement and this Agreement, this Agreement shall apply.
16.	The Company reserves its management rights in respect to the operation of the Smelter and Refinery and nothing in this Agreement shall require the Company to continue the operation of these facilities longer than as determined by the Company in its sole discretion.
17.	It is mutually agreed that this Agreement shall terminate on September 15,2019. Agreed to the 15th day of September, 2014 at the City ofThompson.
FOR THE UNION:	FOR THE COMPANY:
M. Nychyporuk
M. Scott
R. Leslie
K. Regular
226
RETIREMENT INCENTIVE
Presented to the Union on September l l, 201 4
September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166 19 Elizabeth Dr.
Thompson, MB R8N 1S7
Retirement Incentive Bonus for Employees with 30 or more YEWPS As of January I,
2018
Dear Sir:
Subject to the Company determining that a surplus number ofhourly employees will be working in Manitoba Operations in 2018, the Company will pay a special one-time retirement incentive bonus of$10,000.00, less deductions required by law, to an employee who:
1.	as of January 1,2018, has thirty (30) or more YEWPS as defined in the Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Operations; and
2.	in the thirty (30) days after January 1,2018, advises the Company that he elects to retire from his employment with the Company and take his/her pension;
it being understood that the Company shall determine the date on which the employee’s retirement shall take effect, which shall notbe later than October 1, 2018, until such date the employee shall continue to be actively employed by the Company, and the employee shall commence receipt ofhis/her pension on the first of the month following the effective date of the employee’s retirement.
Employees in receipt of this one-time retirement incentive bonus may request that all or a part of the retirement incentive bonus be paid as a retirement allowance and any allowable portion be transferred into an RRSP, subject to the employee providing to the Company satisfactory verification that such transfer is permissible at law.
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations
227
M.Scott K. Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers,
M. Nychyporuk R.
Leslie
228
Retirement Incentive
Presented to the Union on September 11,2014 September 16, 2014
United Steelworkers Local 6166
19 Elizabeth Dr. Thompson, MB R8N I S7
Retirement Incentive Bonus and PensionBridge for Employees with between 28.0 and 29.9 YEWPS as ofJanuary 1,2018
Dear Sir:
Subject to the Company determining that a surplus number ofhourly employees will be working in Manitoba Operations in 2018, the Company shall make a special one-time amendment to the terms of the Manitoba Pension Plan, f ormally known as the Pension Plan for Hourly-Paid Employees in the Manitoba Division ofVale Canada Limited Represented by the United Steelworkers (“MPP”), as follows:
An employee who:
as of January I, 2018, has between twenty eight (28) and twenty nine decimal nine (29.9) YEWPS (as defined in the MPP); and
in the thirty days (30) days after January 1,2018, advises the Company that he elects to retire from his employment with the Company and take his/her pension; shall be eligible for a 30 Year Early Service Retirement pension, as described in the MPP (hereinafter known as the “Pension Bridge”). It being understood that the Company shall determine the date on which the employee’s retirement shall take effect, which shall not be later than October I, 2018, until such date the employee shall continue to be actively employed by the Company, and the employee shall commence receipt ofhis/her pension on the first of the month following the effective date of the employee’s retirement. For certainty, in the event that the employee has achieved thirty (30) YEWPS on or before the effective date ofhis/her retirement, the Pension Bridge shall not apply.
In the month in which the employee’s retirement becomes effective, as determined by the Company, an employee will receive a special one-time retirement incentive bonus of $10,000.00, less deductions required by law. Employees in receipt of this one-time retirement incentive bonus may request that all or a part of the retirement incentive bonus be paid as a retirement allowance and any allowable portion be transferred into an RRSP, subject to the employee providing to the Company satisfactory verification that such transfer is permissible at law. For certainty, an employee who satisfies the conditions referred to in I and 2 above and who has achieved thirty (30) YEWPS on or before the effective date of his/her retirement will be entitled to this special one-time retirement incentive bonus.
229
If the foregoing is satisfactory to you, we will be obliged if you will so indicate by executing the form of acceptance appearing at the end of the enclosed copy of this letter and returning that copy to us.
Yours truly,
Vale Canada Limited Manitoba Operations
M.Scott
K. Regular
ACCEPTED this 16th day ofSeptember, 2014 United Steelworkers, M. Nychyporuk R. Leslie
230
1AJ1B open pit 4 Hour Minimum Accident and Sickness Plan Ambulance/Hospital Plan Anti-Harassment Training Apprentice Miners Apprentices
Apprenticeship Training Wage Scale Approved Regular Vacation Schedule Arbitration
Article 18-Written Reprimand Banking of Overtime basic rate
Benefit Plan Cost Review Committee Bereavement Leave Bereavement Leave During Vacation Birchtree ore and rockfill haulage bulletin boards Call-Out
Change in RDO or Shift
Clause 15.09 - Working During Vacation
Clause 28.04B
Co-Chairs
Collar to Collar
Company Required Medicals
Compassionate Leave
Conflict Resolution Coordinator
Construction Crew
Contracting Out
Contracting Out Committee - Area Rep
Contracting Out Coordinator
Cost ofLiving Allowance
CWS Committee
CWS Trades Tests
Day of Mourning
Defined Contribution
Department Environment, Health and Safety Committees
Departmental Working Areas
Departments
Development ofSafety Policies, Programs and Standard F Discharge and Discipline Discharge and Disciplining Distribution
Distribution of Overtime Duration of Agreement Educational Leave Employee
Employee and Family Assistance Program Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP) Employee Assistance Program Entitlement
Environmental SteeringCommittee Ergonomic Awareness Extended Shift Schedules Family Leave General
General Holiday - Notice to Employees General Holidays General Holidays Not Worked General Holidays Worked Giving of Preference
204 15 179 89 170 222 61, 194 83 34 58
148 20
9
143 209 209 213
76 15 20
149 54 73
15 71 23 106 184
II, 12 88 I38
77
23
24
174
144
85
86 9, 81
Instructions (SP1)	163
53
53
166
165
79
66
9, 73, 201 79 201 I08
98,99, I00, 102 7!
175
16 192
40, 57, I66
39 37
18
19
40
231
Grievance Procedure	56
Grievance, Committeemen, Union Stewards and Full Time Union Positions	54
Group Dental Plan	93
Group Optical Plan	95
Group Prescription Plan	91
Health and Environment Worker Representative	122
Health Benefit - Same-Sex Relationship	178
Heavy Duty Mechanic	66
Hoistman “traineejob	215
HolidayWork Prefence	40
Holidays Not Worked	37
Holidays Worked	37
Home Study	65
Hourly Employee Annual Incentive Pay	206
Hourly Employee Annual Incentive Plan	!03
Hours ofWork	14,	75
Incentive Bonus Committee	27
Insurance Benefits	77
Job Posting	45, 197
Joint Executive Steering Committee	143
Joint Harassment and Workplace Violence Prevention	216
Joint Outcomes Presentation	214
Joint Placement Committee	108
Joint Problem Solving Coordinator	108
JPS Coordinator	56
Jury Duty	22
Layof'- Insurance Benefits	191
LayofOver 30 Days	47
Leave of Absence	52
Length ofVacation	29
Literacy and Numeracy Skills	157
Lunches on Overtime	16
Management Rights	1O
Masculine and Feminine	IO
Maternity Leave	6 7
Medical Treatment Access Support Plan	2 11
Mines 1ncentive Bonus	27
Mines Incentive Bonus Calculation	28
Miscellaneous Provisions	75,	76
National King Miner Contest	190
No Discrimination	13
No Discrimination or Harassment	13
No Strike No Lockouts	69
Notice ofChange	25
Notice ofOEMP Monitoring	73
Overtime	17
Overtime Distribution	19
Overtime Rates	16
Partial Vacation List	33
Pay	97
Pension	97
Pension Changes	144
Pension Plan	97
Pension Plan and Security Fund Plan	76
Pennanent Assignment to Lower Classification	231
Pipe Kipper	217
Placement Committee	72
preferential hiring	219
probationary employee	IO
Probationary Employee	40
Promotions and Demotions	44
Public Office Leave	68
232
Reduction of Contracting Out	203
Regular Vacations	29
Rest Breaks	183
Right to Refuse Unsafe Work	73
Rights	216,220
Safety, Health and Environment	72,120, 121
Schedule "B" - Standard Hourly Wage Scale	82
Schedule "D" - Dept. S, H & E Committees	85
Schedule "G”- Contracting Out Committee	88
Schedule “A" - Departments	81
Schedule “C" - Apprentice Training Wage Scale	83
Schedule "E" - Dept. Working Areas	86
Schedule "F" Worker Safety Representative	87
Security Fund Plan	145
Senior Years Apprenticeship Option (SY AO) program	193
Seniority	10,40
Seniority - Demotions	44
Seniority - Giving of Preference	40
Seniority - Job Posting - Mechanical and Electrical Departments	42
Seniority - Lay Off, Temporary	48
Seniority - Layoff over 30 days	47
Seniority - Loss of Seniority	49
Seniority - Mine Department Vacancy	47
Seniority - Probationary Employee Rights	40
Seniority - Promotions & Mech. & Elect. Dept. Temp. Reassigned	44
Seniority - Recall	48
Seniority - Reserved Job	51
Seniority - Severance Provisions	48
Seniority - Sick Leave	51
Seniority - Transfers out of a Department	40
Seniority Ranking	50
Serious Accident or Incident	70
Settlement ofDifferences	24
Sever XE "Seniority - Severance Provisions” ance Provisions	48
Shift Schedule Committee.	17
Shift Work	14
Special Vacation - Lenght ofSpecial Vacation	35
Special Vacation - Time of Special Vacation Granted	36
Special Vacation Entitlement	37
Special Vacation Pay	35
Special Vacations	36
Special Vacations - Payout Week	35
Stage Two	57
Standard Hourly Wage Scale	82
Study Courses	60
Summary of Injuries	71
Summer Employment ofStudents	150
Technological Change	24
Technological Change Committee	27
Temporary Staff Employee	13
Tenn Labour Pool	187
Tennination of Employment	51
Time Of Special Vacation Granted	36
Time ofVacation	32
Trade Qualified	65
Trades	60,62. 194,206
Trades Apprenticeship Program	206
Trades Enhancement	62
Trades Upgrades/Committee	62
Training During Working Hours	63
Training Instructors	176
Transfer Out	195
233
Transfers	40
Transportation to and/or from call-out	15
Union Activities	76
Union Co- Chair Division Environment, Health and Safety	120
Union Co-Chair Division - E, H & S - Duties	73
Union dues	13
Union Orientation	153
Union Recognition	JO
Union Security	13
Vacation - Definitions	29
Vacation - Length ofVacation	30
Vacation - Optional Leave without Pay	34
Vacation - Partial Vacation List	33
Vacation - Retiree Vacation Pay	34
Vacation-Time ofVacation	34
Vacation -Work Hour Definition	35
Vacation Pay	31
Wage - Shift Premium	9
Wage -Sunday Premium	9
Wage Inequality	21
Wages	20
Work Refusal	171
Worker Safety Representative	110
Worker Safety Representative - Work Locations	87
Years ofService	24
234
2014
FEBRUARY-
JANUARY						
_ 5 L	M	1 T	IP«T	T	r_r	S |
			l	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17 ;	18
19 .	20	21	22	23	24 :	25
26	27	28	29	30	31 j		|
MARCH 1						
s j	M	j T	Tw)	T '	iff	S	|
						1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28 i	29
30	31					
L	. ?!_1 J_ _Lt_Ll J
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	i 15
16	17	18	; 19 i	20	, 21	22
! 23 ,	24 !	25	, 26 i	27	: 28	r i
1 APRIL ]						
! S	[		T	J	T	rn	
r		1	2	3	1 4	' 5 1
6	7 ,	8	9 ;	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	: 26
27	28	29	30			
WAY						
!' S	1 M 1	UL:		J3	; ' F.	
			7__	L	1 '	2	
4	; 5 '	1 6	- 7 '	8 -	9	
11	12	13	' 14 .	15	16	: 17
18	19	20	■ 21	22	23	^ 24
25	26	27	28	29	30	! 31
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	;	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	i	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	i	27
28	29	:	30	;
NOVEMBER
S [ M | '% :[• W [ T ] F ( S | 1
2	3	4	^ 5	6	7	'	8
9	10	11	12	13	14115
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	:	29
30
31
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	;	25
;1I2'3I4'5|6 78	9	10	.	11	12	13
14	15	16	'	17	'	18	19	!	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31	:
235
2015
FEBRUARY
; S ]	M	i T	! w i	T		s !
				1	2	3
4		6	7		9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23 j	24
25 '	26	; 27	: 28	29	jJLl	31
HP-"			MARCH			--a
l_l_L 1	M 2	-Lt 3	j !	T	HMT 6	s ' 7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 SSliiS	30	31			agjSgygi	mm
Wmm ! S 1	M	T?	jw)	M T	H 1	!■ S | 2
3	4	5	6	7	8 ;	9
10	1 1	■ 12	13	14	15 '	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
15
22
M ! T
2	3
9	10
16	17
23	24
12
19
26
20 21 27	:	28
12
19
26
13
20
27
14
21
28
15
22
29
16
23
30
18
25
14	15	16
21	22	23
28	29	30
10
17
24
12
19
26
13
20
27
S	j M	1 M 1	W	j T	1 F j	1 s :	S		1 T	M LA.
			1	2	: 3 ;	4				1
5	6	7	8	9	10 ,	1 1	2	3	4	5 6 7 8
12	. 13	, 14	15	16	■ 17 :	, 18	9	10 ;	11	12 13 14 15
19	20	; 21	22	! 23	24 -1	25	16	17 '	18	19 20 21 22
26	27	28	29	30	31 '		23	24	25	26 27 28 29
13
14
31
30
31
SEPTEMBER						
' s |	M	m	Z]	>T	in.	s :
		i	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	1 1 ;	12
13	14	15	16	17	18 .	19
20	21	22	23	24	25 '	26
27	28	29	30 ,			
m	M	m		m		?
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
1	2	3
A 5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
12	3-45
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	2 3	24	25	2 6
27	28	29	30	31
236
2016
s	M	T	W |	T	" 1	S	S	! M	T	w	T	L F	i s
					1	2		1			4	5	6
3	4	5	6	7	6 ,	9	7	8		10	11	12	13
10	11	12	13	14	15 '	16	14	15	16	17	18	19	' 20
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28	29					
13
20
27
9	10
14	15	16	17
21	22	23	24
28	29	30	31
12
19
26
15
22
29
9	10	11
16	17	18
23	24	25
30	31
19
26
14
21
28
■ S	; M j		W	T l	F 5 i
					1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8 9
10	11	12	13	14	15 16
17	18	19	20	21	22 23
24	25	26	27	28	29 30
S	i m i	T i	w	t r	F ! S 5
			1	2	3 4
5	6	7	8	9	10 11
12	13	14	15	16	17 18
19	20	21	22	23	24 25
26	' 27	28	29	30	
s j	M	_I_L	W j	T |	F :	1 $ ,	_L 1	_M__T.	x | YI !	_T !	f F _	_ L±J
					1	2		1	2 3	4	5	6
3	4	5	6	7	a	9	7	8	9 10	11	12	13
10	11	12	13	14	15	1 16	14	15 '	16 17	18	19	20
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	21	22	23 24	25	26	27
24	25	26	27	28	29	30	28	29	30 31			
31												
		SEPTEMBER							OCTOBER			
s 1	M |	T j	W |	TT	F	_ *.:	m-	TT	_T_..Lw j_		F	
				i	2	3						■ 1 ,
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4 5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	9	10	11 12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	16	17	18 19	20	21	22
25	26	27	28	29	30		23	24	25 26	27	28	29
							; 30 ;	31 .				
		NOVEMBER				■			DECEMBER			
S j	M (	T |	W j		F ]	S	rTT		T j W |	T	F	1 s !
		1	2	3	4	5				1	2	3
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	4	5	6 7	8	9	10
13	14	15	16 .	17	18 !	19	11	12	13 14	15	16	17
20	21	22	23	24	25 :	26 :	18 |	19	20 21	22	23	24 :
27	28	29	30				25	26	27 28	29	30	31
237
15
22
29
12
19
26
16
23
30
13
20
27
14
21
28
15	16
22	23
29	30
10
17
24
31
11 18 25
12
19
26
13
20
27
2017
10
17
24
31
14
21
28
14
21
28
11 18 25
15
22
29
12
19
26
13
20
27
14	15
21	22
28
16
23
30
10
17
24
11
18
25
10
17
24
11 18 25
5	6	7
12	13	14
19	20	21
26	27	2	8
15
22
29
13
20
27
21
28
15	16
22	23
29	30
T	1 F	• s
1	2	3
8	9	10
15	16	17
22	23	24
29	30	
M T	iSSBlSiil ' F : S '	
3	4	5
10	I I	12
17	18	19
24	25	26
: s	! M	T	| W |	T !	F	1 * ;	: S *	M	' T	; W ;	T	F	S
					1	2	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
3	4	5	6	7	8	9	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
10	1 1	12	13	14	15	16	15	16	17	1 8	19	20	21
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
M	25	26	V	20	22	■ 30	29	30	■ 31				
MSB!!				3S§	IglsSSa	jBfsMI		Jj	r:-~T		-	;Hllg	
s	: M !	T	! W '	T i	F	I s	S •	M	• T	' w	T	F	S
			i	2	3	4						1	2
5	6	7	8	9	10	11 .	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	: 15	16	17	18	10	II	12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23	24	25	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30			24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31
31
238
2018
l 2	3	4	5,6
7	8	9	10	.11.12,13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
1	2	3
4		6	7	8	9	10
1 1	12 '	13	14	15	16	TV7 "
1 8	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
BAY '						
! s	j « I	T	1 w |		F	IT
		1	2	3	4	: 5
6	7			10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	i 19 ,
20	21	22	23	24	25	! 26
27	28	29	30	31		
; s	! M [	T		T 1	F	| s !
1		3	4	5	6	7
6	9	10	1 1	12	13	14
15	16	17	1 8	19	20	21
22	23	24	25 :	26 :	27	i 28
29	30	31				
m ■■ s	m	m T		T I 	L .	■ F	B5 S i ;
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	1 1	12	13	14	15
16	17	1 8	, 19	20	21	: 22
23	24	25	26	27	28	\ 29 ■
30						
NOVEMBER 1						
, s	JL*_L	T	1 W 1	T }	F	| s |
				1	2	1 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
1 1	12	13	14	15	16	17
1 8	19	20	21	22 :	23	I 24 ,
25	26	27	28	29	30	
H	m	■ T	H	■ T 1	e 2	m 3
4 ,	5 ;	6	: 7 j	8	L 9	. 10
1 1	12	13	14	15	16	! 17
1 8	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26 BH	27	28	Hi		BBB
fsj	H	B T	T” T	■ T	} F	
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16 ;	17	: 18 j	19	1 20	! 21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
Ik-- '' : ■ . • JUNE ' . 1						
jsT	ZI	T		T	1 F	J	s J
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
; 10	1 1	12	13 ;	14	15	16
17	18 '	19	20 !	21	' 22	! 23 1
24	25 m	26	27	28	29	30
[sl	_*„1	H T	1 w i	m T	SB	'
			i	2	3	
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
1 19 !	20	21	, 22	23	, 24	i 25
26	27	28	29	30	' 31	! '
OCTOBER I						
! S 1		T	ZwT	T	t	F_	
	i ;	2	: 3 ■	4	; 5	, 6
7	8	9	10	1 1	. 12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21 ■	22	23	24 |	25	26	27
28 ,	29	30	' 31 :		—	
iWM i S f	m M i	■ T	TTf	a T	TT	m
2	3	4	5	6	7	! 1 1 8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17 ;	18	19 i	20	■ 21	i 22
23 '	24	25	26 ■	27	28	29
30	31					
239
2019
JANUARY
$	[m] T | W [ T [ F [ S
		1			4 ; 5
6	7	8	9	10	11 12
13	14	15	16	17	18, 19
20	21	22	23	24	25 ! 26
, 27	28	29	30 ;	31	
MARCH					
: s	1 M	I T		T	! F i s !
					1 2
3	” 4	5	6	7	8 9
10	1 1	12	13	14	15 16
. 17	18	19	20	21	22 : 2 3
24	25	; 26	; 27	28	29 30
31	'■
			1	2	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	1
12	13	14 '	15	16 :	1 7	18 :
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31		
; S	-M .	T i	wj	T j		S
		2	3	4	5	6
: 7		9	10	1 1	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31			
: s	M	T j W i		T |	F	s ;
' 1		3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	1 1	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30					
! s	M	T j	w ;	T ;	F	s :
					l	2
3		5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
FEBRUARY
S	j « j	T	| W j	i T 1	F	
					1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	1 1	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	, 25 ;	26	27	, 28 ,		
			APRIL			
S	j M i	T	j W ;	1 T 1	F	1 s
	1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	1 1	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30				
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	'	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
6	78	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
240
VALE
UNITtD tTIHWORKIM
Vale Canada Ltd. - Manitoba Operations
Joint Workplace Harassment, Discrimination & Violence Prevention Policy
Our Commitment to a Safe and Respectful Work Environment
Vale Canada Ltd. is committed to providing a safe and respectful work environment for aH employees, customers, suppliers, contractors and other members of our community and visitors to our work locations. No one. whether a manager, an employee. a contractor, or a member of the public, should be subjected to harassment at any Vale Canada Ltd. location, for any reason. at any time.
This commitment is aligned with our organizational values. and will be adhered to at all times
Harassment is Against t e Law
The Manitoba Human Rights Code. protects us from harassment. The Criminal Code protects us from physical and sexual assault All persons have a right to live and work without being harassed and have a right to do something about it if they are harassed
The procedures associated with this policy outline the actions any person may undertake if they experience harassment at work or if they become aware of a harassing situation.
Vale Canada Ltd. commits to treat all c^^plaints of harassment seriously. whether they are made informally or formally. We undertake to act on all complaints and ensure that they are resolved quickly. confidentially and fairly
This policy is effective immediately on the date indicated below. Changes to this policy may only be made by joint approval of the Vice President of the Vale Canada Ltd Manitoba Operations and the President of the United Steelworkers Local 6166.
Lovro Paullc Vice President Vale Canada Ltd. Manitoba Operations

Murray Nychypomk '
President
USW Local 6166